CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 461 TH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 19, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 461 TH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 19, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 19, 1974, between KINGDOM OF
THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements oi the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Guidelines for Procurement" means the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972,
as revised in October 1972.
(b)   "Project Area for Part A" means the following combined net irrigable
areas: the entire command area of 9,100 ha in the Lam Phra Plerng Project, an
area of 16,000 ha, commanded by the right bank canal, and an area of 2,200 ha
commanded by the left bank canal of the Lam      Pao Project, and an area of
14,700 ha commanded by the left bank canal of the Nam Pong Project.
(c)   "RID" means the Royal frrigation Department within the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various cu-rencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of tne reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, and in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1984, and ending January 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, engineering,


﻿5
economic and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in (i) the preparation of final
designs  and   contract  documents, supervision    of construction, establishing
maintenance procedures, organizing extension services, and in the implementation
of Project works, (ii) the detailed preparation of other irrigation works in the second
stages of the Lam Pao and Nam Pong projects and in areas served by The Lam
Takhong reservoir, and (iii) engineering of rural development works in selected
provinces of Northeast Thailand, the Borrower shall employ engineering and
agricultural consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ or cause to be employed contractors acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower sl.:
(a)   employ three Project Engineers acceptable to the Association for Lam
Phra Plerng, Lam Pao and Nam Pong irrigation schemes, respectively, to be
responsible for supervision of all construction and the implementation of
improvements in the operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems:
(b)   employ three Project Extension Officers acceptable to the Association
for the Lam Phra Plerng, Lain Pao, and Nan Pong irrigation schemes, respectively,
to be responsible for the agricultural extension aspects of the Project;
(c)   appoint the Deputy Director General, Operations and Maint'enance of
RID to serve as Project Director (Irrigation);
(d)   appoint a senior officer of RID acceptable to the Association to serve
as Project Manager (Irrigation);
(e)   appoint a senior officer of the Department of Agricultural Extension
acceptable to the Association to serve as Project Director (Extension);
(f)   appoint a Project Coordinator acceptable to the Association within
the office of the Under-Secretary of State for Agriculture and Cooperatives,
(g)   constitute three coordination committees for the Lam Phra Plerng, Lam
Pao and Nam Pong irrigation schemes respectively.


﻿6
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)   appoint the Director General of its Department of Agriculture to serve
as Project Director;
(b)   appoint a Pioneer Project Coordinator acceptable to the Association
within the Department of Agriculture.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall designate an agency of the Ministry of
Interior acceptable to the Association to carry out Part C of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of
the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly


﻿7
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure
that title deeds to farmers in the Project Area for Part A shall be promptly issued.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that its Rural Roads Program is
implemented so as to improve village access roads in the Project Area for Part
A.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall operate and maintain the Lam Phra Plerng,
Lam Pao and Ubolratna reservoirs and the Nong Wai diversion dam, and main
canals as well as the irrigation and drainage networks, roads and all the facilities
constructed under the Project in accordance with standards acceptable to the
Association and shall provide promptly as needed such funds for that purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause all accounts for Part A of the Project
including expenditures and receipts related to operations, maintenance and
extension to be consolidated under the Project Coordinator referred to in Section
3.04(f) to this Agreement and all similar accounts for Part B to be consolidated
under the Pioneer Project Coordinator referred to in Section 3.05(b) to this
Agreement; (ii) have such accounts and financial statements related thereto for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the
Association for its review as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by such
auditors, of such scope and in such detail, as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
such accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿8
Section 4.02. In accordance with its policy of recovering all operational and
maintenance costs and a reasonable proportion of investment costs from the
beneficiaries of irrigation projects, the Borrower shall:
(a)   promptly carry out a cost recovery study for Part A of the Project
and on the basis of such study, prepare within two years of the date of this
Agreement, or such other time limit as the Borrower and the Association shall
agree, appropriate levels of charges and collection procedures;
(b)   review the proposals of such study with the Association; and
(c)   impose and commence to collect such charges, in the Project Area
for Part A, within two years after completion of the Project or such other time
limit as the Borrower and the Association shall agree.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its Bank for Agriculture and
Agricultural Cooperatives to provide adequate staff in the Project Area for Part
A and to make available such funds, both short-term and long-term, as shall be
needed to adequately meet the credit requirements of the farmers served by the
Project.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the As,ociation shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance   of   their  respective  obligations  under  this  Agreement, the
administration, operations, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿9
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them        of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.0 1. The principal of, aitd service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Develcpment Crdit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and


﻿10
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The Borrower shall have employed the Consultants for Part A of the
Project referred to in Section 3.02 to this Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower shall have complied with the provisions of Sections 3.04,
3.05 and 3.06 to this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely the conditions
referred to in Section 8.01(a) and (b) to this Agreement.
Section 8.03. The date May 20, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02
and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2, Thailand


﻿11
Cable address:
MINANCE
Bangkok
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
 in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Anand Panyarachun
Authorized Representatihe
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Director, Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Part A of the Project
I.         Civil Works                  2,400,000           50% of total
expenditures
II.        Consulting Serv-              1,600,000          100% of foreign
ices (including                                  expenditures
mapping)
III.       Vehicles and                   700,000
Equipment
(a)  Directly                                    100% of foreign
Imported                                    expenditures
(b)  Manufactured                                100% of total
Locally                                     expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c)  Imported but                                65% of total
Procured Lo-                                expenditures
cally
Part B of the Project
IV.        Civil Works                    170,000           50% of total
expenditures
V.         Technical                      300,000            100% of foreign
Assistance and                                   expenditures
training
VI.        Vehicles and                   550,000
Equipment
(a)  Directly                                    100% of foreign
Imported                                    expenditures
(b)  Manufactured                                100% of total
Locally                                     expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c)  Imported but                                65% of total
Procured Lo-                                expenditures
cally


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Part C of the Project
VII.       Consulting Serv-              300,000           100% of foreign
ices                                            expenditures
VIII.      Unallocated                   980,000
TOTAL        7,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term  "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term  "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
0I


﻿14
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in ai-v way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Categories I and
IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for agricultural and rural
development in Northeast Thailand and consists of the following three main
components:
Part A:     Irrigation Improvement
(To be carried out by the Royal Irrigation Department in cooperation with
the Department of Agricultural Extension) consists of:
(i)         construction of additional control structures, and modifications
to  existing  structures to  ensure  efficient water control
throughout the existing main canals and laterals;
(ii)        enlargement of main canals and laterals at Lam Phra Plerng to
increase the capacity of the system by about 40%;
(iii)       construction of approximately 330 km    of canal service roads
to make the systems accessible to operating personnel and
agricultural supporting services;
(iv)        rehabilitation of about 900 km of existing tertiary canals and
construction of approximately 350 km of new tertiary canals
and about 560 km of drains;
(v)         establishment  of efficient procedures for     operating  and
maintaining the irrigation systems to ensure timely and adequate
deliveries of irrigation water;
(vi)        strengthening of agricultural extension services and establishment
of extension centers and agricultural demonstration areas;
(vii)       provision of consulting services to assist the Government in
project implementation and in the training of operating
personnel and extension workers;
(viii)      provision of consulting services for detailed preparation of the
second stages of the Lam Pao and Nam Pong projects and for
irrigation development in areas served by the existing Lam
Takhong reservoir; and


﻿16
(ix)        preparation of topographic maps based on up-to-date aerial
photography for the sub-projects, the second stages of Lam Pao
and Nam Pong, and the service area of the Lam Takhong project.
Part B:     Rainfed Rice
(To be carried out by the Department of Agriulture in cooperation with
the Department of Agricultural Extension) consists of:
(i)         provision of farm equipment, research equipment and vehicles
to Ubon, Phi Mai, Khon Kaen, Chumphae, Sakhon Nakhon and
Surin stations;
(ii)        provision of seed processing equipment to Ubon and Phi Mai
stations;
(iii)       establishment of training facilities for extension workers, rural
credit agents and farmers at Ubon and Phi Mai stations;
(iv)        land development at Ubon station;
(v)         establishment of outgrower schemes in the vicinity of Ubon and
Phi Mai stations;
(vi)        establishment of a revolving fund of B/250,000 per outgrower
scheme for the purchase of outgrowers' production, with the
funds to be administered by the Bank for Agriculture and
Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC);
(vii)       expansion of rice breeding facilities at Khon Kaen station;
(viii)      provision of vehicles to the extension services in the provinces
of Ubon Ratchatani and Nakhon Ratchasima;
(ix)        technical assistance in project implementation; and
(x)         provision of overseas training for project staff.
Part C:     Rural Development
(To be carried out by the Ministry of Interior) consists of:


﻿17
provision of consulting services to assist the Government in the
engineering of rural development works including roads and village water
supply in provinces of Northeast Thailand to be selected by the Ministry
of Interior in consultation with the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.
0


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for vehicles and equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more and with respect to any contract for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿19
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works, vehicles and equipment,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement
or included in the foregoing sub-paragraphs of this Schedule, the Association may
accept (i) that off-the-shelf items costing less than $5,000 equivalent each may
be procured in accordance with the Borrower's usual procurement procedures,
provided, however, that the aggregate cost of such items does not exceed $50,000
equivalent for Part A and $100,000 for Part B; and (ii) that, pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines for Procurement, the construction
works under Parts A and B of the Project may be subject to contracting procedures
acceptable to the Association.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
I.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the
evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For goods included in the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference
to goods manufactured in Thailand in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿20
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Thailand if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Thailand equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B:   bids offering goods manufactured in Thailand other
than bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes in goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


