Docent of
The World Bank
FOR OFtflaAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-4936-BEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF
SDR 14.1 MILLION TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 4, 1989
This document bas a restrted distribution and may be used by recipients ouly in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its conteots may Dot otherwise be disclosed without World Baok authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -    CFA Franc (CFAF>
US$1           -    CFAF 300
CFAF 1         z    US$ .0033
CFAF 1 million -    US$3,333
FISCAL YEAR
January 1     -    December 31
GLOSSARY O? ACRONYMS
AVS       Village Health Agents
BCB       Banque Commerciale du Bénin
BBD       Banque Béninoise pour le Développement
BCB       Banque Commerciale du Bénin
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CAA       Caisse d'Autonome d'Amortissement
CCS       Communal Health Center
CEP       Provincial Hospital Center
CNUB      National University Hospital Center
CNEEP     National Committee for the Evaluation and Supervision of
Health Sector Programs
CPB       Central Pharmaceutical Procurement Board
CSD       District Health Center
DAFA      Division of Financial and Administrative Affairs
DANA      Directorate of Food and Applied Nutrition
DEP       Division of Research and Planning
DPH       Pharmaceutical Directorate
DPS       Provincial Health Directorate
DRH       Human Resources Division
EPI       Expanded Program >f Immunization
EPS       Health Education Division
FP        Family Planning
GAPOB     Groupement d'Achat des Pharmaciens d'Officines du Bénin
MCH       Maternal and Child Ueaith
MIS       Management Information System
MSP       Ministry of Public Health
ONPB      Office National de la Pharmacie du Bénin
PCB       Project Coordination Bureau
PCMC      Program Coordinating and Monitoring Committee
PHARMAPRO Pharmacie Nationale d'Approvisionnement
PEC       Primary Health Care
PI        Pharmaceutical Inspectorate
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
SAF       Special African Facility
SAL       Structural Adjustment Lending
SAP       Structural Adjustment Program
SOPHABE   Societé Pharmaceutique du Bénin
SPA       Special Program of Assistance
STD       Sexually Transmitted Diseases
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UNICEF    United Nation's Children Fund
uvS       Village Health Posts
WHO       Vorld Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL UME ONLY
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
REALTE SERVICES DEVELOPI4ENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUtMfARY
Borrover          s    People's Republic of Benin
Beneficiar:    Ministry of Public Bealth
Amount                  IDA: US$18.6 million equivalent
Co-financing: Swiss; US$11.3 million equivalent
Gover..ment and Beneficiaries: US$2.1 million equivalent
Terms:            2    Standard
Proiect
Description       s    The key objective of the project is to support a
comprehensive package of national health policy reforms
that would strengthen on a sustainable basis the
Government's capacity to respond to basic needs of the
population. The project vould support the policy reforms
through a combination of quick disbursing funds and
program investments that will help the Government to
improve the efficiency of the country's health care
system and expand service delivery in rural areas.
Specifically, the project vill support the Government
in: (a) strengthening the institutional capabilities of
the Ministry of Public Health (MSP) for the planning,
programming and management of human and financial
resources; (b) improving sector financial resource
mobilization, allocation and management; (c) improving
the quality of primary health care delivery at the
centrl,  provincial  and  local  levels  through  the
rehabilitation   of   vital   infrastructure,    the
institutionalization of family planning, maternal and
child care services, including ambulatory emergency
services for high-risk pregnancies, and AIDS prevention;
(d) developing small pilot programs of hygiene and
sanitation  in  urban  and  peri-urban  areas  for
disadvantaged communities, with emphasis on community-
based initiatives; and (e) improving manpower and human
resottrces development.
Benefits                The population of Benin, especially in rural areas,
would benefit immediately through the availability of
essential drugs and other operating funds, the lack of
which has paralyzed the health delivery system in past
years. The sensitization of communities during project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the perfonmance
of theit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonization.



il
preparation has led them to become involved in the repair
of community-based infrastructure and to mobilize funds
for facility rehabilitation. The pilot initiatives in
urban areas would improve the Government's outreach of
disadvantaged communities.   The restructuring of the
referral system would improve health care and redace
internal inefficiencies, thereby improving the quality
of services, increasing attendance rates, and lowering
the levels of morbidity and mortality. The quality of
services would be improved as staff receive in-service
training, regular remuneration, improved equipment and
supplies, and better supervision. Under the project,
family planning services would become readily available
to urban and rural populations, laying a f irm foundation
for future fertility regulation. Pinally, the project
programs would attack Benin's most life-threatening
diseases -- childhood communicable diseases, malaria,
traumas, respiratory infections, STDIAIDS--leading to
greater  productivity  and  thereby  improving  the
sustainability, credibility and efficiency of the
Government's structural adjustment program.
Risks                    The major risk is that the Government may not carryout
the crucial refozms outlined  in  the Action  Plan,
particularly reorganizing MSP, restructuring the hospital
management system and the pharmaceutical sub-sector, and
decentralizing  decision-making.       During  project
preparation, a broad-based consensus on major sector
constraints vas reached, and interest groups to sustain
commitment to the reforms at all levels vere associated
vith the proposed programs. MSP broadened participation
in project preparation to include the Ministries of Plan,
Finance, Labor, Rural Development, ant Information and
instituted a program budgeting system to ensure better
use of operatirg resources.   A program monitoring
mechanism (CNEEP) has been established vithin MSP to
monitor  progress  and  address  key  issues  during
implementation. A second risk, the relative inexperience
of MSP in project execution, vould be mitigated by both
short-term and long duration in-service training and the
selective use of local and international technical
assistance  in  program  management.    Local  health
committees, drawn from beneficia:'es and local health
personnel,  vould  receive  trair:.ng  in  finance  and
management to enable them to p1a, an active role in
program implementation. A third risk is continuation
of uncoordinated donor investment in the health sector
in Benin.   MSP has intensified sector dialogue vith
donors active in the field. The Government's new sector
policy and strategy, as vell as its guidelines for future
investments in the sector, vould enhance its ability to
effectively coordinate external aid.



iti
Estimated                The quick-disbursing component (US$1O.0 million
Disbursements:           equivalent) would be disbursed li three tranches at
credit effectivenesa and at the beginning of project year
two and three, respectively. Tranche releases vould be
triggered  following  a  tranche  review  based  on
implementation of the agreed upon measures. Disbursement
of the investment components would be linked to tranche
and yearly review mechanisme. Rehabilitation of health
facilities vill be implemented ln three phases linked
to specific conditionality.
Summary of Prolect Costs and Financing
Estimated Project Costs                    Local        Foreign     Total
-(US$ million)--
1.  Quick-Disbursing Funds                                10.0       10.0
2.  Civil Works                                  5.7       5.6       11.3
3. Office Furniture, Vehicles,
Equipment and Materials                   0.3        2.1        2.4
4.  Pilot Programs                               0.4        -         0.4
5. Consultant Services, Fellowship
and Training                              1.7        2.7        4.4
6.  PPF                                          0.1       0.6        0.7
7. Contingencies: Physical                      0.7        0.8        1.5
Price                         1.0       0.3         1.3
Total:                 9.9       22.1       32.0
Financinx Plan
Local    Foreign      Total      Percentage
Goveriment of Benin and
Beneficiaries                      2.1        -             2.1           7
Swiss Development Cooperation        5.0       6.3           11.3          35
IDA                                  2.8      15.8           18.6          58



Iv
Estimated Disbursements
Proiect Years
1        2       3       4      5        6      7    8
------------------------US$ million-------------------
IDA                           5.7     4.6     4.7       1.4    1.0    0.7     0.3    0.2
Sviss Development             0.6     2.8     3.2      2.8    1.1    0.6      0.2    -
Cooperation
GovernmentlBeneficiaries      0.2     0.3     0.4       0.4    0.4    0.2     0.1    0.1
Cumulative                    6.5    14.2    22.5     27.1   29.6   31.1    31.7   32.0
Amouit of the     Swiss Contribution      Z of Ependitures
Credit             Allocated             to be Financed
Allocated         (Expressed la
(ExDressed in SDR)       Swiss Francs)
(1) Civil vorks and
equipping under
Part C.4 of the
Project
(i) phase 1                680,000           4,480,000               1001 of foreign
(b) phase 2                760,000           4,800,000               expenditures and 90Z
<c) phase 3                530,000           3,680,000               of local expenditures
(2) Rehabilitation of         220,000              -0-                  1002
lSP Priority Services
(3) Furniture, equipment    1,460,000           1,280,000               0OOS
materials and vehicles,
except for Part C.4 of
the Project
(4)  Consultants' and         700,000           2,000,000               1002
architects' services,
fellowships and train-
ing abroad
(5)   Local Training          600,000 ,                                  502
(6)  Goods imported duriUg  7,600,000                                    100Z of foreign
the execution of the                                                 expendtures
Program
(7)  Refunding of Project     530,000               -0-
Preparation Advances
(8)  Unallocated            1.020.000           1.760.000
T(TALs            14,100,000          18,000,000



v
Co-flnancing:           The SWis8 Development Cooperation would co-finance this
project in the amount of US$11.3 million equivalent, or
351 of total co0t.
IMa: IBRD 21276



1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I. THE ECONOMY
A.  Background      .......* .......     ..,. l
B.  Medium-Term Prospects and Government Strategy ..........2
C.   Specific Reforme and Measures Under the Structural
Adjustment Prograa
Public Finance    .     ............................ 2
Public Employment and Pay ....... ............... 3
Recurrent Cost Funding. .....        . 3.   ... ...3
Public Administration        . .       ............. . .4
Investment Planning ...... ................ 4
Public Enterprise Reform .... ................ ... 4
Banking System Reform .......................... .
Trade Policy Reform and Deregulation .................5
External Capital Requirements and Financing
Sources         .    .     .... ...... .  ......... 6
Macroeconomic Impact of the Program .6
PART Il. THE POPULATION, HEALTE AND NUTRITION SECTOR
A. Health, Nutrition and Demographic Profile .............. 7
B. Health Delivery System 8............................ 8
C.   Health Financing
Total Expendi'ture ............
Invlestment ......................., 9
Reurrent Expenditure ........................... 9
Co8t Recovery .............  ...........  ......9
D.  Past Realth Policy ... .. ... ..     .   .......      .10
E.   Key Sectoral Constraints
Inadequate Management and Organization .............. 10
Financial Constraints and Disparities in
Resource Allocation ............................. 11
Veak Health Delivery Systei ........................ 12
Poor Manpower Performance and Inadequate lumnn
Resources Development ............................ 13
PART III. TEE SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A.   Overall Objective of Health Sector Reform .............14
B.   Reforma to Improve Delivezy of the Basie Realth
Services .......................1
Maternal and Child Care and Family Planning
(McHeFP) ......................1S
Primary Health Care (PIC) and Immunization (EPI).... 15
Information Education and Communication (IEC) ......15



2
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Health
Facilities ..... ................................... 16
Government's Essential Druge Policy ............ ......16
The Pharmaceutical Sub-Sector............,.........16
C.   Reforms to Improve Management and Organization ........ 17
D.   Reforms in Sector Financing Policy and Procedures
Program Budgeting      ....................... * ........... 18
Domestic Resource Mobilization ...................... 19
Sector Investment Reform              .. 20
E.   Manpover and Human Resources Development .............. 21
F.   Rationale for IDA Involvement            .      .      . 21
PART IV.  THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.   Origin, Objectives and Description .................... 21
E.   Action Plan ........................................... 22
C.   Description of Quick-Disbursing Component      ..      . 25
D.   Description of Investment Elements
Improvement of Sector Management and Organization ..... 26
Strengthbning of MSP ...... . .. ............... 4426
Decentralization of Management Functions    . .4... 27
Sector Investment and Financing ....................... 27
Investment Planning and Management     .........      . 27
Recurrent Cost Financing    .       ................... 27
Improvements in the Health Delivery Sytem ............. 28
Essential Drugs Program ...............................  28
Establishemnt of an Early Varning System for the
Surveillance and Management of High Risk
Pregnacies .............................. 28
Pilot Development Projecta for the Urban and
Peri-Urban Poor .............. .......44*.......... 28
Physical Infrastructure  ..........,...... .*.. .29
Maintenance Program ...                        ......... 29
Support for IEC Program           ....... . .29
Manpover and Human Resources Development       .      . 30
Strengthening of DRE......... *           ... 30
In-Service Training .     ..............44........444 .......... 30
E.   Financing and Implementation Arrangements
Financing ....................................30
Management of Swiss Dev6lopment Cooperation Funds ..... 31
Disbursements ....................       ............... . 31
Procurement ...................................... . 32
Accouat.   ............................................. 33
Audits .......4..........      ... .................... 34



3
F.  Management, Coordination and Evaluation
Management and Coordination ......................... 35
Monitoring and Evaluation ... ...................... S
G.  Project Benefits and Risks
Benefits .................................. . 36
Risks ..................................................... 36
PART V.  BANR OPERATIONS AND COLLABORATION iITH IMF AND
OTRER DONORS
Aid Coordination    .     .......... ............. . 37
Relationship vith IMF ............................... . 37
PART VI.  RECOMMENDATION ..    ............................... ..... 38
ANNEXES
Aunes 1    Basic Data
Annex 2-1  Statistical Profile of the Sector
Annex 2-2  Comparative Health Data
Anne'! 2-3  Organigram of the Ministry of Public Health
Aunex 2-4  Recurrent Budgetary Expenditures in Health Services, 1982-87
Annex 2-5  Benin: 1989-93 Current Expenditure Health Sector Needs
Annex 2-6  Benint Additional Recurrent Allocation Needs for the Education
Sector
Annez 2-7  The Social Fund
Aunex 3-1  Investment Program
Annex 4-1   Statement of Health Sector Policy
Annex 4-2  Medium-Term Action Plan (1989-92)
Annex 4-3  Technical Assistance Program
Annex 4-4  Pellowship Program
Annez 4-5  Training - Seminars, Workshops and Internships
Aunex 4-6  Summary of Accounts by Year
Annex 4-7  Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
Annez 4-8  Financing Plan by Project Component
Annez 4-9  Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Annex 4-10  Project Cost Smnnary
Annex 4-11 Program Coordination and Monitoring Committee
Annex 5    Bank Group Operations in Benin



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCILATION
Report and Recommendation of the President
to the Executive Directors
on a Proposed Development Credit of SDR 14.1 million
to the People's Republic of Benin for a
Health Services Development Project
----------------------------------------------------
1.             I submit the folloving report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 14.1 million (US$18.6 million equivalent) on
stindard !lDA terms tu the People's Republic of Benin to support the proposed
Health Services Development Project. Total project cost is US$ 32.0 million
equivalent, of which US$11.3 million equivalent would be co-financed by the
Swiss Development Cooperation.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4686-BEN) vas distributed
to the Executive Directors in March 1984. The report which follows is based
on the conclusions and recommendations of that memorandum and the findings
of recent economic missions, including one that appraised the Government's
Structural Adjustment Program in July 1988. Updated country data is at Annex
1,
A. Backaround
3.       Benin, vith a population of 4 million and a 1987 per capita income
of US$340, is one of Africa's least developed couatries. Agriculture is the
mainstay of the economy, employing three-fourths of the active population
and accouating directly for 402 of GDP and about 50Z of foreign exchange
earnings. The main cash crope are palm cil and cotton. A tertiary sector,
dominated by trade and transit activities vith neighboring countries, is the
second largest activity. The industrial sector is underdeveloped, consisting
of import substitution and agricultural processing activities, limestone
mining, and very limited oil extraction.
4.       Benin"s centrally planned ecouomic system, adopted during the 19709,
led to nationalization of foreign-owned businesses and expansion of
government control over major sectors of the economy. Agriculture, mostly
subsistence, has remained untouched by these policies. During the period
1977-82, the Beninese econcmy performed vell on most accounts, achieving an
average real grovth of 5 percent, vith internal and external financial
stability due in part to buoyant investment activity under the Pirst State
Plan (1977-80), and in part to strong re-export trade with neighboring Niger
and Nigeria, which vere experiencing uranium and oil export booms. This
growth vithered after 1983 when Niger's uranium and Nigeria's cil booms
ended, along with Benin's omn construction activity. Betveen 1983 and 1987,
real GDP growth averaged les. than 1Z, vhile the population increased at 32
per annum, and the public finances and balance of payments registered
deficits averaging 9 and 7 percent of GDP respectively. During 1985-87, the
country's debt servicing ratio rose to 38Z (from 3S lu 1979> and by the end



2
of 1987, external debt arrears had reached CPF 101 billion.   With the
ecouomic system unable to adjust to nev financial and economic crises, the
banking system ant many sectors of the econ  y ground to a halt.
5.       Emergency measures initiated by the Goverrment during the 1985-87
period of rapidly deteriorating fiscal and economic conditions included
substantive changes ln investment programming and project selection,
tailoring of expenditures to available resources, pricing adjustments in
agriculture and utilities, and public enterprise reform. These measures have
proved insufficient because of the lack of a medium-term economic framework.
Hence, faced with a continuing deterioration of the country's economy and
finances,  the Government decided to launch a compreh.ensive Structural
Adjustment Program which aims to fundamentally reorient macroeconomic policy
and restore economlc growth.
B. Medium-term Prospects and Government Strategy
6.         The medium-term issues facing Benin are twofold.  A first set of
issues relates to the effecte of exogenous factors such as the weak export
market price prospects for Benin's main cash crops (palm oil and cotton), the
depreciation of the US dollar vis-a-vis the CFA franc, and the slump in
regional trade opportunities. This means that Benin must rely on internal
productivity gains to increase the international competitiveness of its
products.  Second, there are issues arising from the largely unsuccessful
dominant role played by the public sector in the economy for more than a
decade, and the distortions created by past policies vhich must be addressed
to create a more suitable environment for private initiative.
7.       Vith the assistance of the Bank and the IMO, Benin has prepared a
program of economic and financial reforms to be implemented over the period
1989-91 with  reflects  a radical re-c ientation of economic management
policies in favour of the private sector.   The main objective of the
Government's Structural Adjustment Program is to raise the real GDP growth
rate over the medium term to 3 percent per annum vithin a viable
macroeconomic framework. The program encompasses the reform of the current
budget and general public sector management; reinforcement of the quality of
investment planning and programming; the deepening and expansion of the
ongoing public enterprîse sector reform; the restructuring of the banking
sector; and reform of trade policy and deregulation of markets.   These
reforms are to be accompanied by measures to aid the poor and minimize the
negative sorlal impact during the adjustment process, while preparing the
transition t.. enable the lover income groups to participate in the benefits
of growth.
C.  Specific Reforms and Measures Under the Structural Adiustment Proram
8.       Public Finance.  The key objective is to restore the viability of
public sector finances as the essential ingredient ln restoring macroeconomic
balance and improve resource allocation by (i) strengthening resource
mobilization; (ii) reducing and restructuring current expenditure and taking
eteps to contain its subsequent grovth; (iii) improving the funding of
supplies and materials, especially for maintenance, agricultural extension
services,  education and health.   As regards resource mobilization,  the
Beninese tax system yielde revenues equal to 10-11 percent of GDP. although



3
ln times of brisk re-export trade, thie ratio has gone as high as 16-17
percent.  The system ls complex and some of its provisions discriminate
againet local industry and investment.  The tax system vill therefore be
refosmed to improve its administration, improve its yield from 10 to 13
percent of GDP by 1991, while at the same time to eliminate its disiacentive
effecto on local industry and investment.
9.       Public Em>lovment and Pay.  Reductions in the public service vage
bill vere initiated ln 1987 and have continued in 1988 when housing
allovances for civil servants and the military vere abolished. These actions
achieved a saving of about CFAP 2 billion, thus reducing the vage bill by
about 10 percent in 1988.   Under the SAL, the Goverament vould seek to
achieve further reductions in the vage bill and contain its subsequent grovth
through a program of voluntary separation from the civil service and the
rigorous application of the regulations on retirement.   The program of
voluntary  separation  from  the  civil  service  has  been  prepared.
Implementation begun in December 1988.  The program takes into consideration
that Benin's private sector is very small and that leavers vishing to enter
gainful employaent must be aided technically and financially. The Governuent
aims at reducing the size of the civil service to 41,000, compared to the
current 47,000, and to reduce the vage bill to CFAP 37 billion by 1991. It
is expected that some 2,000 civil servants vould retire during this period,
and that some 4,000 vould participate in the voluntary departure program.
The cost of the voluntary departure program has been estimated at atout CFAF
8.0 billion. With ILO and UNIDO assistance, a program will be undertaken to
aid the private sector and promote its development; this is expected to
generate employment for higher education graduates that the public sector
cannot absorb.
10.            Recurrent Cost Fundina.   As the public service vage bill
increased prior to the 1987-88 reduction measures, essential non-wage
operating budget allocations decreased, adversely affecting the efficiency
of key sectors in the economy.   The deterioration of the road transport
network has had a negative impact on production.   The delivery of basic
health and education services has been seriously impaired by a lack of
minimum operating budgets. Efforts to redress the situation began in 1986-
87 in the context of an IDA-financed Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation
and Second Vater Supply projects vith specific measures to improve the
allocation and efficiency of available resources.   In the case of road
maintenance, a Road Fund vas set up to ensure adequate resource allocation
for priority programs. During 1989-91, the fund vill cover 100 percent of
all routine maintenance coste, 30 percent of periodic maintenance of earth
roads, and 10 percent of periodic maintenance of paved roads. In the areas
of utilities, the consumption of public servants, formerly paid by the
budget, vill nov be paid from fixed allowances included ln the salaries of
beneficiaries.   A program budgeting system instituted in the health and
education sectors has allowed the responsible ministries to determine minimum
non-wage current expenditure requirements for the period 1989-91.
Nevertheless, general expenditure cuts necessitated by the public finance
difficulties vould make it impossible to fund, from national resources, the
level of non-wage expenditures judged adequate for the health and edu;;ation
sectors during 1989-91. The Government has, as an emergency measure, set up
a Social Fund into vhich the contribution of external donors vould be
channeled and earmarked for the support of these sectors and for priority



4
programs during the 1989-91 period.   The measures to reduce the public
finance imbalances under the Structural Adjustment Program, including cost
recovery measures in the healtb sector would begin to gradually generate the
internal resources that are needed. They would substantially finance non-wage
recurrent expenditure by 1992.
11.            Public Administration. The Governrent is also determined to
reform the public administration apparatus ia order to modernize and adapt
it to its new roles as provider of core public sector services and promoter
of private sector-led growth and development. To this end, it has outlined
a reform program comprised of (i) defining a profile of the civil service in
terms of the size, distribution, skills, grades and vage levels of the
Ministries and other public sector agencies; (ii) revieving existing civil
service management texts and identifying provisions that need changing to
make the civil service structure easier to manage; Uiil) analyzing t)
structure of the Administration and Ministries and preparing reviseu
organizational charts where necessary; and (iv) proposing new staffing plans
by size, functions and skills, accompanied by proposals for in-depth reform.
The firet two tasks vere accomplished la November 1988 and the remainder are
ongoing.
12.            Investment Planning.   Investment planning and programming
procedures adopted in 1986 have improved the annual investment program. The
Government intende to increase the efficiency of resource allocation by
keeping the general framevork and the projects consistent with the
macroeconomic outlook and objectives of the SAL. Accordingly, a three-year
rolling investment plan (1989-91) with specific provisions for 1989 has been
discussed and agreed vith IDA. The 1989 provisions vere adopted in December
1988. Provisions regarding the content and the level of investment each year
would be agreed vith IDA i November for adoption in December. The criteria
for selection of the project portfolio vould focus on the adoption of
internal rates of return for projects amenable to such analysis, and the
application of least cost criteria for projects in the social sectors.
13.            Public EnterDrise Reform.   The public enterprise reform
program, initiated by the Government in 1986 with IDA support (Credit 1748-
BEN), aims at improving the institutional. legal and operational framework
of the public enterprises, as well as liberali:ing their pricing decisions
and rationalizing management in each sector.   Progress has heen made in
several fronts. In February 1988, a new law defining Governmentlenterprise
relationships was adopted to give greater autonomy to enterprise managers in
return for greater accountability. Twelve enterprises have been dissolved
and are under liquidation. Restructuring efforts are also on-going in the
Cotonou Port Authority, the Benin Water and Electricity Company, and the Port
Maintenance Authority, and are contemplated for the Postal and Coimmuications
Company. Under the SAL, the reduction of the sector's financial losses and
the increase of its contribution to growth is expected to be achieved through
the mixture of divestiture and restructuring efforts. Two more enterprises
have been identified as candidates for liquidation, 7 for privatization, with
10 other enterprises under review for possible rehabilitation. Diagnostic
studies are being carried out for six other enterprises. The expenditure
plans of all public enterprises vill continue te be monitored annually, under
a system of performance indicators to be used by each supervisory ministry.



5
No new enterprises vill be created, except vhere accepting a minority share
in  a new  enterprise vould permit privati:ation  of an  existing  one.
Guidelines on this measure vere adopted in the second half of 1988 and put
in place in January 1989.
14.            Banking System Reform.  After the failure of local banks to
continue to operate on a normal basis at the end of 1988, the Goverrment
decided to undertake actions involving the two banks which remain in
operation, the Benin Commercial Bank (BCB) and Benin's Development Bank
(BBD), while continuing to pursue the establisbment of a new private bank in
Benin. A new provisional management of these banks headed by a team of
foreign experts is expected to oversee a minimum of banking transactions, the
recovery of claims, the auditing of individual accounts and reinbursement of
depositors, and generally overseeing the liquidation process. The Government
vill assume the banking system's net liabilities of about CFAF 150 billion,
of which CFAF 64 billion constitutes debts to the BCEAO, CFAF 18 billion
represent short and medium-term external debts, and CFAF 69 billion are debts
to the private sector and public enterprises in the form of time and demand
deposits. Agreement has been reached with BCEA0 on the consolidation of CFAE
37 billion of its claims and on a timetable for the repayment of the
remainder. The Government also expects to consolidate the claims of other
external creditors on terms at least as favorable as those accorded by the
BCEA0. The Governaent vill reimburse small depositors, after the completion
of an audit nov underway, and portions of deposits made by enterprises, vith
priority to private enterprises in good standing with the Treasury and
enterprises being restructured. The budgetary costs of the above program
have been estimated at CFAF 10-12 billion annually for the 1989-91 period.
These estimates will be revised after agreement has been reached on
consolidation terms for claims from private sector depositors not reimbursed
immediately, and detailed plans for operating BCB in the interim, the details
of which vill be worked out by end-May 1989. The Government continues to
seek the establisbment of one or more new commercial banks in Benin, under
private ownership or vith majority private participation, vith the aim of
arriving at an agreement with possible private sector partners by mid-1989.
The new bank would be expected to begin operations in the third quarter of
1989.
15.            Trade  Policv  Reform  and Dereaulation.    The  regulatory
framework and the tariff structure developed over the last decade have, among
other things discouraged private sector activity in the industrial sector.
In order to reduce industrial sector losses and strengthen its contribution
to growth in a rationalized policy framework, the Government plans to reform
relevant trade policies in a two-step approach. The first step, taken in
July 1988, involved removing QRs and prohibitions on all imports and
replacing them with tariffs.   In the second step,  the Government is
concurrently evaluating the framework of industrial tariff protection and
import taxation in a study launched in November 1988, vith a view to devising
measures to rationalize the   -ucture of industrial incentives.  An action
plan vill be agreed with the Bank in the second half of 1989. In the area
of exports, the Government has taken measures to promote the development of
food crops, in particular by the liberalization of the marketing, both for
the domestic market and for exports. The Government also plans to further
liberalize trade by abolishing import licensing for the bulk of Benin's
imports. To introduce greater flexibility into the business environment and



6
facilitate the functioning of markets, the Government intendt to revise
business registration, licensing and reporting requirements and abolish price
controls except for a few essential items; amend the labor laws to allow
greater flexibility ln the hiring and firing of workers; and revise and
simplify the Investaent Code. The actions required to introduce these changes
vere discussed with IDA in July 1988. The appropriate legal instruments for
their implementation are under preparation and vill be introduced by
September 1989.
16.            External Capital Requirements and Financlnz Sources.   The
above adjustment program assumes that the appropriate supply response vill
be forthcoming and that the external financial resources vill be available
to cover the economy's import requirements, permit a reduction of net foreign
liabilities, eliminate external arrears and fund emergency social programs.
Gross capital requirements are expected to be US$ 916 million for the period
1989-91 of which disbursements f rom the existing pipeline and new commitments
would provide US$ 248 million. An additional US$ 306 million is expected to
come from debt relief, assuming that Paris Club eligible arrears and new
scheduled payments vill be rescheduled in line with the Toronto initiative.
Taking into account IDA's SAL of US$ 45 million, and the IMF's SAF resources
of US$ 30 million, the remaining gap of US$ 287 million is expected to be
covered by exceptional financing under the SPA auspices. The table below
details grosa financing requirements.
Gross Financinf Reauirements
(US$ millions)
1989        1990      1991        1989-91
Gross Financing Requirements   508.0          222.0      186.0       916.0 1/
To be met bys
Project Loans                 68.0          83.0       97.0       248.0
Debt Relief                  274.0          26.0        6.0       306.0
IDA SAL                       45.0             -          -        45.0
IMH  SAF                       9.0          12.0        9.0        50.0
GAP                          112.r         101.0       74.0       287.0 21
li   Current accouant deficit,  plus  external arrears,  amortization and
reduction in banking system's net foreign liabilities leas capital grants.
21 Includes US$10 million under the Social Fund.
17.            Macroeconomic  Impact  of  the  Program.          The  present
macroeconomic disequilibrium is evident in the high aggregate consumption and
the consequent poor savings effort. This reflects mainly the imbalances in
the public sector and has its counterpart in a veak external current accouat
balance.    The  program  aims  at  achieving  a  reduction  of  Goverument
consumption.   It is expected that, as a result of the reduction in real
Government consumption during 1988-89, and its leveling off thereafter,
public savings equal to 1 percent of GDP vould emerge in 1990 and increase
steadily afterwards. By curbing the role of the public sector and shifting



7
resources into the tradeable sector, the program would enable exporte to grov
at 5 percent per annum in real terms. As a result, in spite of slightly
higher importe, especially of capital linked vith the higher investment/GDP
ratio (from 12 Zin 1988, to 13 Z in 1991), the external current accountlGDP
ratio should improve from a deficit (before grants) of 9.6 Xin 1988, to 8 Z
in 1991.   The measures aimed at reducing the public finance iabalances,
including mobilizing additional internal resources and eliminating public
enterprise financial losses, together vith restored confidence resulting from
the rehabilitation of the banking system, should result in an improvement of
the public sector deficit (from 5.8Z of GDP in 1989, to 2.3Z in 1991); in an
improvement of savings; and the gradual narrowing of the savings-investment
gap. The relatively cautious expectation for the response of exporte takes
into accouat the low competitiveness of Beninese manufactured goods owing to
the higher coet structure, and the gradual leveling-off of crude oil
production by 1991, providing new discoveries are not made.
PART II - THE POPULATION. HEALTE AND NUTRITION SECTOR
A. Health. Nutrition and DemopraDhic Profile
18.            The health status of the population of Benin is among the
poorest  in  Africa.    Infectious  and  parasitic  diseases,  traumas  and
nutritional disorders account for the high levels of morbidity and mortality.
Death rates are high, especially among vomen and children (the infant
mortality rate is 115, against an average of 106 for sub-Saharan Africa).
Although comprehensive data on levels of maternal mortality are not
available, hospital data indicate that over half of all maternal deathe are
due to hemorrhage and only a third of all deliveries are supervised by
trained personnel. High maternal mortality inflicte serious damage on family
velfare, maternal morbidity and high fertility contribute jointly to the poor
health statue of vomen and children. Hospital and health service records
indicate that malaria, measles, and diarrheal and respiratory diseases are
the main causes of morbidity and mortality.
19.            Daily per capita caloric supply (942) is close to minimum
requirements, but seasonal food shortages occur vhich substantially reduce
the calorie intake of some population groupe. Comprehensive data on the
prevalence of malnutrition are not available; however, health statistice
indicate that childhood diseases are often accompanied by, or are secondary
to, malnutrition.
20.            Fertility is high in Benin and the total fertility rate has
remained around 7 Z during the past decade.   This factor, coupled vith
moderate declines in mortality has raised the annual population growth rate
to 3.4Z.  The population has more than doubled in the past two decades to 4.5
million. This consistently high growth rate explains the young age structure
of the population (about half are below age 15) which imposes a serious
dependency burden on the working population. Life expectancy at birth is
around 46 years and this reflects the poor health statue of the population.
Annex 2-1 shows the statistical profile of the sector, and Annez 2-2 gives
comparative health data.



8
B. Health DeliverY System
21.            The public  sector dominates Benin's health care system,
accouating for 832 of all physicians, 94Z of nurses, and 962 of midwives in
the  country.    A  small  number  of  missionary  groups,  non-government
organisations (NGO's) and private practitioners provide the balance of health
care. In addition, traditional medicine is ridely practiced and used by the
entire population, but its structure, resource and activities are not
doecumented.     Combined,   the   public   and   private   sector   health
personnellpopulation ratios are reasonable (one physician per 17,010
population,  one paramedic per 1,660).   Rovever,  the highly urbanized
Atlantique Province retains 34Z of all doctors, 19 of 23 pharmacists In the
couatry, 40Z of all qualified midvives, and 402 of nurses to serve 3S2 of
Benain's total population. Fifty percent of medical personnel is based ln
provincial hospitals. Preventive health care covers major commmnicable and
endemic diseases (tuberculosis, leprosy, trypanosomiasis, and bilharzia), but
the programs are underdeveloped. Training of medical, nursing and midwifery
staff, as vell as training for other diagnostic and support staff is carried
out in Cotonou. There is no comprehensive in-service training program, and
continuing education opportunities are ouly available through specialized
courses overseas or occasional courses run by the Government and supported
by external donors.
22.            The Ministry of Public Bealth (MSP) is responsible for all
aspects of public health care and family planning.  The Minister is assisted
by a Director General (DGM), who coordinates all MSP activities and
supervises ten central technical directorates and six provincial health
directorates.  There is a health committee at each provincial, district,
communal and village level which is responsible for promoting commuaity
participation in health. Annex 2-3 shows the organizational chart of the
lSP.  There are five levels of public health care facilities which form a
pyramid of referral services: the National University Bospital Center (CNUU)
in Cotonou, four provincial hospital centers (ClP), 83 District Health
Centers (CSD1, 244 Communal Health Centers (CCS), and 292 village health
poste. The latter two provide a coverage ratio of 472 and 11Z respectively.
The CCS is the first effective point of entry into the system for the
majority of the population.
23.            The MSP's Directorate of Pharmacy (DPH) regulates government
policy on pharmaceuticals and controls the quality of all imported drugs and
materials. ONPB, a government drug import and distribution monopoly, has
been liquidated. PHARMAPRO, an arm of the DPH responsible for procurement
and distribution of druge and supplies to public health facilities, has
become inoperative. Only the Armed Forces and the CNHU are able to import
a quantity of druge for their own use. Essential druge are therefore not
available in many facilities, particularly at the CSD and CCS levels. This
le due to the severe financial and managerial constraints of the
pharmaceutical sub-sector.   At present, druge in the sector are largely
supplied by a network of private distributors and by external donors.
C.       Health Financing
24.            Total Ex>enditure.   Although data are incomplete, it is
estimated that total expenditure (private and public) for health care la



9
lenin averages over CFAF 9 million per annum (US$ 31 million), equivalent to
2.02 of GNP. The public sector services dominate the health care system,
accounting for about two-thirds of total expenditures; public sector
expenditures for health during 1982-86 averaged CIFA 6.7 billion (US$ 23
million) of which CFAF 4.4 billion (US$ 15 million) vas utilized for
recurrent expenditures. More recently, the country's financial crisis has
caused the Goverument to reduce public expenditure. In the health sector,
this has signified the virtual elimination of non-wage recurrent expenditure.
Private expenditures are estimated at about CFAF 3 billion (us$ 10.3 million)
and largely comprise the purchase of materials and equipment of private
facilities in Cotonou, private consultancy charges to physicians, and brand
drugs which are sold by private pharmacies and in the informal market.
Additional expenses to traditional healers are substantial but not
documented.
25.            Investment.   During the period 1982-1986, annual capital
investment averaged CFAF 2.3 billion (US$ 8 million), most of which vas
directed tovard hospital and clinic construction. As a result of increasing
fiscal constraints, the Government's contribution to investments in the
sector declined from a high of nearly CFAF 1.2 billion (US$ 4.1 million) in
1982 to  zero  in 1986.   Consequently,  during this period almost all
investments in the sector (about CFAF 13 billion) h&ve been financed from
external sources.
26.            Recurrent Expenditure.  Total recurrent budget expenditure
declined in real terms during 1982-87 (Annez 2-4). During the 1980's, MSP's
recurrent budget expenditures have averaged CFA? 3.1 billion (US$ 10.5
million) per annum, and direct subsidies to CNHU for drugs and supplies, as
vell as for medical evacuations, have amounted to CFAF 400 million (US$ 1.4
million). Nevertheless, salary payments have increased on a sustained basis
and currently consume more than 80Z of MSP's recurrent budget expenditure
(para 9), while non-vage recurrent expenditure has decreased sharply. The
decrease in non-wage recurrent budget expenditures has been partially offset
by increased financing from foreign donors.  During this period, foreign
assistance to cover recurrent costs is estimated to have amounted to CFAF 900
million (US$ 3.1 million) per annum, principally from France, Switzerland,
Belgium, Federal Republic of Germany, VH0, USSR and the People's Republic of
China.  Nevertheless, the decrease in resources for non-wage recurrent costs
has led to drastic cuts in the availability of essential drugs and medical
supplies. Furthermore, health infrastructure, particularly in rural areas,
has deteriorated and in many cases lacks a functioning electrical and water
supply.
27.            Cost Recoverv. Cost-recovery measures have been initiated for
all levels of the health care system. Donor-supported health projects have
built up considerable experience in cost recovery.   Nevertheless, these
programs have been managed in isolation from the rest of the public health
care system, resulting in substantial differences in approach by different
donors, the lack of a uniform accounting system, and a limited supply of
essential drugs. Vithin a limited scale, however, some of these programs have
been quite successful.   Fees established by primary health centers have



10
8enerated revenues ranging from 80 to 150S of the cost of essential drugs,
which the centers have utilized for the replacement of essential druge, and
tie financing of selected non-wage recurrent expenditures.
D. Past Bealth Policv
28.            During the early 1960s the Government initiated a policy to
develop a comprehensive primary health care program through a decentralized
management system. Designed to meet priority basic health care needs and
to integra:e existing traditional health care into the health care system,
this policy called for an expansion of the number of health care facilities,
management and technical training for health workers, and the mobilization
of community involvement. However, the program developed between 1962 and
1980 vas overly ambitious. The high cost of physical implementation absorbed
too much of the available health resources and MSP's attention, and the
systems established to manage the decentralized health care system were
inadequate.    Moreover,  the  program's  partial  implementation  deviated
significantly from the original objectives, giving greater emphasis to
hospital curative care. The objective of establishing a system to meet the
essential needs of the larger part of the population, particularly the poor,
has not been met, and the present budgetary constraints only aggravate this
situation. Like most West African, French-Speaking countries, the Government
has also pursued a pro-natalist population policy.   Consequently,  no
appropriate and effective programs vere developed to deal with the increasing
population growth rate resulting from moderate declines in mortality.  The
major constraints faced by the sector at present are examined below.
E. Key Sectoral Constraints
(a)   Inadequate Management and Organization
29.            MSP's   organizational   structure   is   over-centralized,
managerially weak and, as currently organized, unable to manage the technical
and financial aspects of the health care program.   Weak management has
resulted in a lack of clarity in identifying sectoral needs and in developing
sector policy and strategy.   Limited central management capabilities in
strategic planning and management are exacerbated by the lack of a management
information system (MIS); this in turn has led to poor analysis of sectoral
needs and priorities.   Changes in the Minister's cabinet each time a
ministerial change occurs have resulted in a lack of commitment to stated
health policy objectives as well as poor continuity in program development
and evaluation. The multiplicity of directorates in the central ministry not
only diffuses managerial responsibilities, but also retains at the central
level techbical personnel and other resources that are badly needed for
health delivery functions in the field (e.g., 13t of nursing personnel are
at MSP's headquarters). This concentration of resources, coupled vith the
poor definition of functions and responsibilities, and a lack of technical
comp'ytence in program management have led to inefficiencies throughout the
system.   Program implementation mas also hampered by the inadequacy and
inappropriateness of training programs and the low priority given to some
categories of personnel -- e.g., nurses, midwives and diagnostic personnel.



30.            Recent efforts to decentralize the management and decision-
making process and to strengthen community participation have been hampered
by budgetary constraints.   Although Management Committees were set up,
decision-making power ie still centralized, resulting in a limited and
ineffective  role  for these committees.   Veaknesses  in the provincial
management system have resulted in poor supervision and in inadequate flow
of information to and from the periphery.   Regional sad district-level
program managers lack the management skills to effectively supervise health
delivery activities. In the absence of a comprehensive in-service training
program, staff skills have not been upgraded to respond to new
responsibilities.
31.            Heretofore,  MSP's weak management  and organization have
prevented it from establishing priorities,  programming and efficiently
implementing health programs. Furthermore, it has limited its capacity to
adapt to the present context of groving financial austerity. In particular,
MSP has been unable to streamline and coordinate sector investments - mostly
financed from external sources - and to assess their recurrent coste. Nor
has it been able to optimize current expenditure allocations, and design and
effect improvements in the system for enhanced delivery of services to the
population.    The management  constraint  has particularly  affected  the
institutions and services charged with the procurement and distribution of
essential drugs, which are fundamental to the delivery of health services.
It remains a key problem that needs to be gradually overcome.
(b)   Financial Constraints and DisDarities in Resource Allocation
32.            Expenditure for public health care is inadequate to meet
sectoral needs, is allocated in a manner inconsistent with the Government's
stated policy of giving priority to primary health care, and is inefficiently
managed. Due to fiscal constraints, expenditure for the sector has remained
vell below the stated investment and current budget allocations and is
insufficient to enable the public health care system to adequately deliver
services (para 23).  Moreover, a bias in the allocation of resources has
severely affected system efficiency and equity. The financial constraint
problem is further compounded by MSP's financial department not having an
efficient financial management system, nor adequately trained staff to handle
sector finances.
33.            A chronic shortage of non-salary operating funds is a major
cause of inefficiencies and poor performance in the health delivery system.
Acute shortages of drugs, medical equipment, basic supplies, and fuel and
lack of maintenance of infrastructure and vehicles, make it virtually
impossible for health personnel to function effectively and also greatly
handicaps  efforts  to  institute  a  cost-recovery  program.    Although
approximately one-third of the MSP operating budget has been allocated for
non-salary operating costs since 1982, the Ministry's actual expenditures
have increasingly fallen short of the total approved budget, vhile actual
expenditure on salaries has exceeded budgetary allocations. During the three-
year period 1985 to 1987, non-vage expenditure represented, respectively,
132, 17Z and 16Z of MSP's total recurrent expenditure. The limited non-
salary operating funde have also gone predominantly to hospitals; for
example,  602 of PH&EMA)RO's annual budget has been allocated to supply
hospitals and other services at the provincial level, and the urban hospital



12
sub-sector receives approximately 75Z of MSP's eecurrent budget, reducing
even further tbe level of resources available for primary health care.
Urban-rural disparities in resource allocation are major snd have increased
over  the  years.    In  1988,  hovever,  the  situation  became  critical.
Disbursements for non-wage operating expenditures have been l.mited to office
operational expenditure for the Central Ministry and to hospital food for
urban centers. The payment of staff salaries has been irregular with unpaid
arrears covering three to four months.   It is clear that, under the
circumstances, the provision of health services by the public sector to the
majority of the population, has deteriorated and the incidence of major
tropical comunicable diseases hae been on the increase, thereby sloving dovn
and even reveruing declines in case fatality rates achieved during the 1970s.
This situation must not be allowed to persist.
34.            Sector investments have been financed mainly from external
resources (para 2!), vith little regard for recurrent cost and manpower
implications.   Investment choices are based almost exclusively on doner
preferences and do not always take into account the Government 's capacity to
support ongoing commitments, especially during periods of economic dovnturns
and financial austerity. Poreign investments have been uncoordinated and
have often led to geographical disparities in the type and distribution of
health care facilities and services. This lack of donor coordination stems
frem lack of adequate planning sad clearly defined sector policy sad program
objectives. There is urgent need to adopt a medium-term investment plan
foeused   on   redressing   geographical   disparities,    rehabilitating
ifrastructure, and concentrating resources on primary health care.
(c) Weak Health Delivery Svstem
35.            Performance of the health sector, particularly below the
provincial level, is hampered by a number of problemst a veak snd over-
centralized management system; dilapidated infrastructure and acute shortages
of drugs, supplies, equipment and fuel at service delivery points; and the
concentratioi of staff in central and provincial health facilities.
Underlying problems such as inadequate staff supervision, poor coammunications
and absence of an efficient logistical support system contribute to the poor
quality of health care. As a result of these deficiencies there is a low
utilization rate at the primary level, while some hospital units are over-
subscribed because they function largely as out-patient consultation centers
for common illlesses.
36.            Excessive  centralization  and  veak  technical  management
capabilities have resulted in poor definition of personnel functions and of
the roles of the various levels of the referral system. There is a veak link
between hospitals and health units (CSD, CCS), both vith respect to the
patient referral system and the supervision and support of personnel. In
the absence of an efficient reporting system sud a regular flow of
information to and from the periphery, health needs and priorities have not
been clearly defined.
37.            The system for the supply of essential drugs and medical
materials to public health facilities has broken down. PRAIMAPRO suffered
f rom the Goverument s inability to provide sufficient funding and from a lack
of efficient drug management that ensures transportation and storage.



13
PHARMAPRO accumulated debts on the order of CFAF 1.1 billion (US$ 3.5
million), and vas unable to purchase drugs in recent years because suppliera
had  suspended  shipments.    The  drug  shortage was  exacerbated by the
liquidation in 1987 of the ONPB, vhich maintained a nationwide coumercial
network  of  drug  depots.    More  recently,  the  Government  considered
participating in a mised enterprise (PHARMA-BENIN), but opted to concentrate
its efforts on a joint venture vith donors active to set up a usera
cooperative (Centrale d'Achat), changed vith procuring and distributing
essential generic drugs  for public sector facilities.   PHARMAPRO vas
disbanded and a committee set up vithin t.he MSP to inatitute short-term
measures.
38.            Health  infrastructure,  particularly  in  rural  areas,  is
dilapidated and in many cases lacks a functioning electrical and vater supply
system. In some areas, the lack of CCS facilities makes it necessary for
the population to seek health care at centers located long distances from
their homes.   Equipment is either poorly maintained or not available.
Patients are frequently referred to the next level for simple tests and
procedures. Lack of fuel and consumable medical supplies has reduced some
centers to the point of closure, resulting in a breakdown in the delivery of
services in many areas below the provincial hospital level and vith the
subsequent overcrovding of these facilities.
<4)   Poor 4ani>ower Performance and Inadecuate H.nan Resources
Developeent
39.            MSP has not been able to identify priorities and plan for its
human resource needs. While the main thrust of the Goverrment's program is
primary health care, this is not reflected in the distribution of personnel
or the type of training offered at the various institutions in Cotonou.  The
expansion of physician training vas not based on any human resources
development plan and has led to an excess of doctors relative to other
categories of technical personnel. Both medical and nursing education have
traditionally emphasized hospital-based criais intervention and curative
care, and course vork in specialized topics such as family planning and
sexuslly transmitted diseases is still limited.   Curricula are outdated,
pedagogical materials and equipment limited, and teaching staff often ill-
equipped to teach subjecta that vould prepare students to deal effectively
vith the major health problems, particularly as these manifest themselves in
the field.   Consequently, physicians and paramedical personnel are ill-
equipped to deal vith the basic public health, family planning and related
specialized functions they vill encounter after training. Furthermore, there
is a paucity of skills in the administrative, managerial and fincncial
aspects of health care which further undermines the efficiency of the health
delivery system.
40.            In the absence of a comprehensive career structure, the
functions and responsibilities of different categories of personnel are ill-
defined, and there is a diffusion of staff profiles that adversely affecta
human resources utilization  in the  sector.   Vith disparities  in the
geographical distribution of personnel and the concentration of the more
qualified staff In the urban centers (para 21), lover-level personnel
assigned to rural areas are often expected to perform tasks for which they
do not possess the techuical competence.



14
41.             The poor performace and motivation of personnel are due in
part to low remuneration and intermittent delays in the payment of salaries.
The lack of in-service training is also a major factor in poor job
performance.   Staff support, supervision, and performance evaluation are
neglected at all levels.
PART III - THE SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
42.            The poor performance of the health care system in ternms of
meeting the needs of the population, aggravated by a vorsening of the
country's financial situation, induced the Government to rethink its approach
in 1987 and to adopt a new health policy. The objectives and the content of
the new policy and the reforms necessary to implement it are embodied in a
Government Statement of Health Sector Policy and an Action Plan (see drafts
at Annexes 4-1 and 2), the substance of which is discussed below.
A. Overall Oblective of Health Sector Reforn
43.            The comprehensive reform of the health  sector that the
Goverument proposes to undertake is an intrinsic part of the Government's
Structural Adjustment Progranm. It addresses the sector's main constraints
and gives the highest priority to improving the basic health services,
especially in rural areas. The system's poor performance (paras 35-38), one
of the key issues in the sector, is a major factor in the couatry's high
levels of morbidity and mortality (para 18); it will also have a serious
impact on the implementation of the Government's population policy, the
success of vhich u±timately depends on effective family planning and
development of maternal and child care programs.   Hence, the primary
objective of sectoral reform le to improve the quality and coverage of the
basic services that deal with the prevention and treatment of the country's
major infectious and parasitic diseases, traumas and nutritional disorders.
This entails addressing the other key issues --deficiencies in sector
management and organization, financing and allocation of resources, and
mapower development--as reforme in these areas are essential to lmproving
the efficiency and capabilities of all the various units comprising the
health delivery system.
44.            The reform package, in line with the Structural Adjustment
Program's objective to promote private sector involvement in the economy
(para 6), proposes to create a sector policy environment more conducive to
the participation of that sector and of NGO's and beneficiaries in the
provision of health care. The reforms are also expected to contribute to
greater public understanding and acceptance of the need for a national
population policy. Moreover, the reforms to be undertaken in the health
sector will enhance the Government's credibility during the structural
adjustment process and will enable it to achieve improvement in the country' s
health status even during the austerity imposed by the economic and financial
crises.
B. Reforas to Imorove Deliver, of the Basic Realth Services
45.            The Government has defined its priority programs and has
prepared an operational document for carrying out the sector reform program.



15
The operational document, which is complementary to the Statement of Health
Policy vas transmitted to the Bank in early March 1989.   It clearly
establishes measurable indicators for achieving the already defined
objectives and the criteria for integrating the priority programs at the
regional and district levels, and vould serve as a basis for the adoption of
specific targetv to be achieved each year.  Line functions for hospital,
district and communal health centers have been defined. The key reforms to
be carried out in the health delivery system are summarized below.
46.            Maternal and Child Care and Famil  Planning (MCRIPP.   In
recent years, improved knowledge of the size and dynamics of Benints
population as vell as a groving recognition of the adverse health, economic
and social problems of rapid population growth, have led the Government to
initiate a population policy. The Government is receiving technical support
from the UNFPA and the Futures Gromtp to develop a population policy.  The
policy objectives and quantitative targets vill be revieved annually. As the
core program of health care, the Gover.ment proposes to develop a national
M4CEHFP program based on the eight primary health care programs adopted in the
Alma Ata strategy.  This program, to be set up in rural and urban areas,
e.ivisages early detection and management of high-risk pregnancies,
intensification of rctivities to raise the levels of pre- and post-natal
care, improvement of 4elivery care, and the setting up of provincial teams
trained and equipped to deal with the various pregnancy complications that
account for nearly all maternal deaths in Benin. The MCRIFP program vill
promote breast feeding, educate couples on maternal and child nutrition,
provide comprehensive under-five child care, advise couples on fertility
regulation, and provide services for family planning and birth spacing. The
program vill also establish standard guidelines for MCHIFP care and provide
training abroad for at least one midwife for each of the 11 districts where
the program vill be developed during its initial phase. In collaboration
vith  the provincial directorate,  the midvives upon  return from their
training, will organize annual seminars in MCHIFP for CCS level midvives and
for village birth attendants. Specialized local training vill be organized
for six provincial teams to manage the government's new early varning system
for high risk pregnancies and complicated deliveries.
47.            Primary Realth Care  (PHC) and  Immunization  (EPI).   The
Government proposes to address the constraints to good quality primary health
care  through  the  folloving  measuress       rehabilitation  of  existing
infrastructure, development of cost recovery and essential drugs programs,
a  maupover  development  program,  a  health  education  program,  and
decentralization of program management.   The Government has established
standard diagnostic and treatment procedures for the 15 most prevalent
diseases and is testing these procedures at facilities receiving Swiss,
German, Dutch and Chinese support. With financial and technical assistance
from VNICEF, the Govertment launched a national PRCIEPI program in 1987 that
incorporates these measures.   Its expansion and sustainability require
institutional support and the upgrading of existing CCS and CSD facilities.
48.            Information Education and Communication (IEC). The Government
has identified the folloving IEC needs of the health delivery system:
creating greater public avareness of the uses and availability of modern
preventive and curative services; mobilizing coemunity participation in
personal and conmmunity health promotion, cost recovery, and early recourse



16
to basic care; educating the population on essential drugs and prophylactic
programs; and developing a new attitude among individuals and familles
concerning preventive behavior in the areas of ORT, malaria, STD/AIDS, famlly
planning, nutrition, personal hygiene, vater, and vaste disposal.   The
Govcrument has  also  identified priority target groupe  (policy-makers,
coummuity leaders, village elders, school teachers, cooperative societies,
vomen'e organizations, traditional healers, etc.) that could contribute to
improved health care if they vere better informed and motivated.  MSP's
Health Education Division (IEC), vith UNDP technical assistance, is
developing a comprehensive health education program for meeting these IEC
needs.
49.            Rehabilitation  and  Maintenance  of  Health  Facilities.
Rehabilitation of existing health facilities is a precondition for improving
the quality, efficiency and availability of the basic health services
provided in rural areas. The number requiring rehabilitation is very high
and the Government has been receiving donor support in rehabilitating the
facilities in some districts.   It proposes to expand this work to li
districts in three provinces -- Atacora, Mono and Atlantique--where the
infrastructure has suffered the most from past neglect and lack of
maintenance. Maternity units of provincial hospitals and isolated CSD's vill
also be rehabilitated and re-equipped to handle complicated deliveries. In
reviewing the vork carried out thus far vith donor assistance, the Government
identified a number of adjustments to be made in future rehabilitation. The
criteria for selecting the facilities scheduled for rehabilitation under the
medium-term plan included the state of disrepair, size of the population in
the catchment area, degree of isolation from good quality health services,
availability of personnel, and the absence of other donor support.   The
amount of rehabilitation to be carried out is tailored to the type and level
of services provided by the health units and to projected estimates of their
patient case load. Consistent with the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program, which established a freeze on public sector hiring. the staffing of
these facilities vould be achieved through the redeployment of existing MSP
staff. Emphasis is being placed on revitalization of local committees to
coordinate the rehabilitation program in each district.
50.            Government's Essential Dru2s Policv.  The Government proposes
to introduce an essential drugs program as a means to reduce the prevailing
high cost of basic treatment due to the very high prices charged for branded
drugs.   This policy is based on the selection of a limited number of
essential generic drugs considered to be sufficient for dealing effectively
with at least 90 percent of the curative and prophylactic needs of the
majority of the population.   The Government has promulgated an initial
essential generic drugs list, and a committee i8 preparing prescription
guidelines for implementing this policy in 1989 in conjunction vith the coet
recovery program (para 58).
51.            The Pharmaceutical Sub-Sector.  To ensure adequate and timely
supply of essential drugs and medical supplies to all health facilities at
prices the communities can afford, the Goverrment proposes to improva the
procurement and distribution of essential generic drugs through the setting
up of a Centrale d'Achat.   The Centrale d'Achat vill be set up with the
support of donors funding health care projects in Benin. Under the Action
Plan, the Government has set up an interim committee for procuring and



17
distributing drugs end is strengthening the MSP's DPB to enable lt to
adequately coordinate and supervise the pharmaceutical sub-sector. The
interim Committee vill review and approve procurement sad distribution
requests of essential drugs by health services. These activities vill be
taken over by the Centrale d'Achat wheu it becomes operational. Technical
staff of PRAIMAPRO vere reassigned to service delivery functions when that
organ vas disbanded in 1988. Private sector operations in pharmaceuticals
vill be facilitated through appropriate legislation and regulations. and an
improved tax and pricing system.
C. Reforms to Imwrove Manaaement and Orgaaization
52.            Essential to the effective  implementation of the policy
reforms are the creation of coordination and monitoring mechanisms. At the
national level, a Ruman Resources Subcomittee vill oversee sectoral reforma
and ensure their coherence vith macro-economic policy reforms.   At the
technical level, an interministerial Program Coordination and Monitoring
Committee (CNEEP) established in November 1988 vill coordinate, monitor and
supervise the implementation of the health sector reform program. The CNEEP
is chaired by the Minister of Public Health. It includes as members the
Ministers of Plan and Finance as Vice-Presidents, the Directors of Studies
snd Planning of the Ministries of Public Realth and Education as Secretaries,
representatives of the Ministries of Finance (Budget), Justice, Defense,
Transport and Equipment, Labor, and Rural Development and the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (the Government's agency charged vith diabursement and
repayment of external and internal debt).   It viil  be assisted by a
secretariat composed of the central and provincial directors of MSP and one
representative each from the Ministries of Finance and Plan. The CNEEP vill
oversee expenditure in the sector, and in particular the utilization of
resources from the Social Fund for non-wage recurrent expenditure, to ensure
that such expenditure is consistent vith sector strategy and operational
objectives. The CNEEP vill meet on a quarterly basis and vill review the
investment program twice a year, vith a particular emphasis on the solution
of issues related to foreign-financed programs.
53.            The reforms proposed for overcoming the deficiencies in sector
management and organizational structure (paras 29-31) represent the first
major step by the Goverrment to improve its sector management capacity and
decentralize decision-making. Under the Action Plan, the Goverument proposes
toi (a) further develop and strengthen strategic plaaning, programaing and
administrative procedures vithin MSP; (b) reorganize and streamline functions
of the Ministry's central units; (c) strengthen the supervision, training and
program management functions of provincial units; and (d) strengthen the
technical management functions of the central Ministry units responsible for
the development of priority programs (CR IFP, PRC, EPI, STDIAIDS, IEC and
nutrition). This vill be accomplished through staff training, reorganization
and streamlining of vork procedures, redefinition of functions and staff
profiles, and redeployment of excess personnel to field assignments.   To
provide an empirical base for policy and management decision-making, an
integrated MIS vill be developed. The Government also proposes to strengthen
the Provincial Realth Directorates (DPS) through staff training, institution
of supervision and program management procedures, staff redeployment f rom the



18
central Ministry, and revitalization of the local health cormittees.  To
facilitate the execution of these reforme, the Government proposes to
rehabilitate the existing offices of MSP.
D. Reforma in Sector Financina Policy and Procedures
54.            Proaram budaetina.  In the conteit of the SAL program, the
Government set out to determine the minimum level of current expenditure that
vould be necessary to appropriately deliver essential services to the
population, taking into accouant Benin's severe resource constraints on the
one hand, and the need to generate additional internal resources on the
other. A system of prcgram budgeting vas adopted. For the health sector,
this process vas initiated with the identification by MSP of the 1989-91
current expenditure needs.  Tue new program budgeting procedure links budget
financing to MSP's priority programs and operations, eliminates undesignated
funding, which in the past has caused resource vaste, incorporates in the
budget ongoing foreign donor assistance programs for vaccines and essential
drugs, and provides for the gradual direct utilization by health services of
new resources generated by the implementation of cost recovery. The MSP's
budget vould reflect receipts generated by the cost recovery system as a
financing item. The new procedure ensures that the budget preparation and
review processes focus on both vages and operating cost requirements of each
program. Thie Ministry of Finance vill be able to review the MSP budget
proposal on the basis of quantifiable program targets fixed for each year.
55.            The new procedure has enabled the Government te determine the
level of allocations that are needed to deliver basic services in healtb and
education. The 1989 current allocation needs for the health sector of US$
11.86 million include US$ 3.63 million for non-wage recurrent costs. This
represents almost a 202 increase over 1988 estimated levels of about US$10
million; the vage bill remaining fundamentally the same, vith the bulk of the
increase going to non-vage operating recurrent expenditure.   A  large
proportion of non-wage recurrent costs is dedicated to the procurement of
essential drugs and vaccines for purposes of instituting the cost recovery
program in several provinces (US$ 1.63 million). Some increases are provided
for fuel and maintenance of vehicles, and communications, vhile other
expenditure, such as hospital catering and dietary services, remains at the
level of past years (US$0.67 million). Further increases are needed in 1990
and 1991. Total current allocation health sector needs vould be on the order
of US$ 14.79 million in 1990, and US$ 16.03 million in 1991. These figures
take into accouant the need to replace retiring medical and para-medical
personnel as vell as the hiring of selected staff when the need has been
fully demonstrated, representing a 52 increase per annum in the vage bill;
the need to institute the cost recoverv program at a national level,
representing an increase of about 852 in the procurewent of essential druga
and vaccines; the introduction of an infrastructure maintenance program (US$
0.53, and US$ 0.87 million for 1990 and 1991, respectively) and small
increases for replacement and maintenance of vehicles.  Other expenditure
vould remain at 1989 levels (Annex 2-6).
56.            Under the Structural Adjustment Program, the Government aime
at achieving a viable public finance position by 1992.   lu 1989, this
required a substantial reduction of the current budget. The overall vage
bill vas reduced from CFAF 42 billion (US$140 million) in 1988, to CFAF 37.5



19
billion <US$125 million).  Total non-wage current expenditure vas reduced
from CFAF 21.6 billion (US$ 72 million) in 1988, to CFA? 15.6 billion (US$
52 million). For the health sector, this has signified the approval of a
budget level (CFAF 3.1 billion, or about US$10.3 million) that la vell below
the mininum levels required to deliver essential services (para 54 above).
While the vage bill remained at 1988 levels, approved non-wage recurrent
allocations of CFAF 700 million (US$2.3 million) vould not enable the NSP to
procure the essential drugs that are needed to introduce a uniform system of
cost recovery, and to prevent the further deterioration of infrastructures
and equipment.
57.            Consistent vith its comnitment to protect the delivery of
social services even during a period of severe fiscal constraints, the
Government requested, ln the context of the conference which confirmed
Benin's eligibility for SPA financing, the assistance of the international
donor community for the creation of a Social Fund into vhich resourcss vould
be channeled and earmarked to finance non-wage recurrent expenditure for
health, education and other priority social programs. The creation of the
fund is to be considered an emergency action to be implemented over three
years (1989-91). The measures to reduce the public finance imbalances under
the Structural Adjustment Program, and the cost recovery program to be
instituted in hospitals and health facilities beginning in September, 1989,
vill gradually contribute to the financing of non-wage recurrent expenditure.
Beginning in 1992, non-vage recurrent expenditures are expected to be
financed principally by fiscal resources and by internal resources generated
by the cost recovery program in the health sector (Annex 2-6).
58.            Thus, the MSP's current expenditure levels as envisaged in
paragraph 55 above vould be financed from fiscal resources, the above-
mentioned Social Fund, receipts from cost recovery, and to a lesser extent,
by other external sources in the context of ongoing programs. To ensure
financing under the Social Fund, a review of health sector needs and actual
expenditure over the previous year vould take place each year in the context
of the presentation of the MSP's budget to the Ministries of Finarce and
Plan. The process vould also ensure that expendituee for the sector remains
at not less than 6 percent of the national current budget, and non-wage
current expenditure at not less than 40 percent of the health budget after
resources from the Social Fund are no longer available.
59.            Domestic Resource Mobilization.  Given the shortfall in the
recurrent budget, and in order to expand the coverage, efficiency and
sustainability of adequate health care in tlue country, the Government
proposes to encourage the participation of the private sector and NGO's in
the provision, distribution and sale of drugs, and the opening of private
clinics. The necessary legal and operational framevork vill be promulgated
to permit the participation of the private sector and NGO's in these
activities.
60.            The Goverrment proposes to expand the cost recovery programa
initiated in recent years in projects funded by external donors. Its policy
objective is to institute a national cost recovery program to increasingly
generate domestic resources in health centers and hospitals that could be
used to finance non-wage recurrent costs.   L±nked to the Government's
essential druge program, it vill lead to reduced unit costs of treatment and



20
ensure the financing of recurrent expenditure on a sustainable basis. When
fully operational nationvide, the cost recovery program should generate
enough resources to guarantee the finaucing by local communities of non-
salaried operating costs. As a firet step to further developing the cost
recovery program, the Government has promulgated a decree authorizing health
facilities to retain funds generated by cost recovery. The composition and
functions of community health management committees vill be defined by
Ministerial arrete to enable the committees to monitor cost recovery.
Studies have been carried out to provide an empirical basis for fixing levels
of fees and for defining prescription procedures at the different facilities.
Accounting and financing control procedures are being developed for
utilization by hospitals and district health centers.
61.             The national cost recovery program vill be implemented in two
phases.   The first phase, to be initiated in late 1989, involves three
provinces (Mono, Atacora and Atlantique). First phase targets vould ensure
that user fees are sufficient to cover certain non-wage recurrent costs
(drugs,  preventive  maintenance,   fuel  costs,   and  other  incidental
expenditure).   The first phase of the program,  and the cost recovery
initiatives funded by other donors vill be evaluated in early 1990 to provide
the basis for the generalization of the system nationvide in late 1990. It
is expected that the cost recovery system vould begin to generate revenues
in 1990.  Revenue estimates of US$ 1.30 million for 1990 and of US$ 2.7
million fo; 1991 are vell belov the expenditure levels for essential drugs,
as it is recognized that until the financial system is in place and is
adequately managed and supervised, some losses are likely to be incurred.
Beginning in 1992, estimated revenues generated by cost recovery are expected
to reach US$ 5 million, equivalent to roughly 1402 of expenditure in
essential drugs (Annex 2-6).
62.            Sector Investment Reform.   To improve  its  capacity for
coordinating future investments in the health sector and to ensure that
investments by the Government, donors and the private sector are tailored to
achieving greater equity in health care delivery, the Goverament proposes,
as part of its general criteria for investments under the SAP, to pursue a
health sector investment policy that gives highest priority to the
rehabilitation of existing facilities and the upgrading of rural health
centers.   MSP's Directorate of Studies and Planning has carried out an
inventory of existing facilities to assess the level and amount of
rehabilitation  needed.    Criteria  for  selecting  the  facilities  to be
rehabilitated and the functions and average size of facilities at the various
levels of health care have been identified (para 49). MSP has also carried
out an inventory of current and projected donor investments in the sector
(Annex 3-1) and initiated perioCic meetings vith donors to exchange
information and seek their collaboration in maintaining a realistic program
of investments. The Action Plan calls for the preparation of a three-year
rolling investment plan that conforms to the folloving principless (a) the
total investment package vill be defined in light of recurrent costs and
personnel availability; (b) sector investment priorities viLl correspond to
the priority programs identified in the Statement of Health Sector Policy;
(c) investment programs will give priority to rehabilitation and maintenance
of existing infrastructure and facilities; (d) new projects vill adhere
strictly to the strategy for the health sector and the objectives of the SAL;
and (e) the evaluation by the Government of the MSP's investment programs



21
vill be carried out on the basis of soundness and sustainability. The three-
year rolling investment plan (1989-91) and the 1989 lnvestment allocation,
reviewed with IDA, vas prepared folloving these criteria.   It vill be
reviewed and modified annually vith IDA, incorporated ln the investment
portfolio and ceilings established under the SAL and SAF, and presented to
donors vishing to assist Benin in developing its health care system.
E. Manwover and Human Resources Develotment.
63.            Poor manpover performance (paras 39-41) is a major constraint
to improved delivery of health services. The Government proposes to address
this issue by upgrading the technical skills of health personnel, especially
at the PHC level, and training staff in areas of expertise currently lacking.
It vill tackle the problem of inadequate skills vithin an overall policy to
redeploy personnel in an effort to reduce the urban-rural disparities in
health care (para 53), provide primary health facilities (CSD and CCS) vith
a minimum of qualified personnel, and reduce technical personnel at the
central level to permit their reassignment to the periphery. To prepare and
implement the redeployment plan, the MSP has created a Redeployment
Committee. It is charged vith the implementation of the redeployment program
and it vill ensure that the program is consistent with the public
administration reform being carried out under the SAP.  The redeployment
program places emphasis on staff motivation through in-service training,
transportation support for personnel posted to rural areas, and a guarantee
of regular remuneration.
F.       Rationale for IDA Involvement
64.            Under the Government's structural adjustment program, IDA is
providing assistance to enable the Government to implement macroeconomic
policy reforme that vould result in real GDP growth over the medium-term
(para 7). In line vith its SAP objective, the Government's health sector
reform program encompasses actions vhich, when implemented, vould lay a solid
foundation for a sustainable health care system.  In the medium-term, it
vould effectively tackle problems of high morbidity and mortality. In recent
years, hovever, donor assistance has been uncoordinated and key sector policy
strategy organization and management issues have not been addressed. Through
its sector dialogue vith the Government, IDA has provided effective support
in refining sector policy objectives, operational strategies and in defining
institutional arrangements for implementing the sector reforms outlined
above. These reforme are in line vith IDA's country and sector strategy to
improve the efficiency of resource allocations, strengthen public sector
management capabilities and ensure the availability of good quality and
affordable curative and preventive health care to the majority of the
population.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Oriain, Obiectives and Description
65.            In November 1987, the Government and IDA agreed on the need
to define a comprehensive and coherent sector policy and setrategy vith
clearly identified priorities and objectives and measures to be undertaken
over the medium term.  The Government's efforts vere supported by donors



22
active in the health sector ln Benin and by IDA-financed technical assistance
under a PPF (para 84). This collaboration culminated in the preparation of
a draft Statement of Health Sector Policy (Annex 4-1) and a medium-term
Action Plan for sector reforme (Annex 4-2> in April 1988, as vell as ln a
three-year investment program (1989-91). The project vas jointly appraised
in June 1988 by IDA and the Swiss Development Cooperation, which vill co-
finance the project. A post-appraisal mission visited Benin in November 1988
to work out further project details. Negotiations took place in Washington
from March 6 to March 9, 1989.  The Beninese Delegation vas headed by the
Minister of Public Health.
66.            The key objective of the project is to support a comprehensive
package of national health policy reformas that vould strengthen on a
sustainable basis the Government's capacity to respond to the essential needs
of the population, notably through improved quality and coverage of basic
preventive and curative services, vith au special emphasis on rural health
facilities.  As described in the Government's Statemeut of Health Sector
Policy (Annez 4-1), this vould be accomplished through improved organization
and management of the health system, improved mobilization and a more
efficient allocation of sector financial resources, improved utilization of
human resources, and increased participation of local communities and
bereficiaries.
67.            The project vould support the policy reform package through
a combination of quick-disbursing funds to be provided in tranches during
the first three years of the project and financing of investment elements to
be implemented over an eight-year period. Consistent vith its objective, the
project vould be largely driven by the Action Plan, and disbursements vould
be conditional upon progress on its key actions.  Such progress vould be
assessed during annual reviews.
B. Action Plan
68.           The Action Plan (Annex 4-2) summarizes all important decisions
and measures required for the successful implementation in the medium term
of the new policy and strategy described in the Government's Statement of
Health Sector Policy. The Action Plan provides the Government and IDA vith
specified performance indicators to be monitored during the eight years of
the project. The most critical (shown in Table 1 below) would be monitored
as conditions of tranche release during the firet three years of the project.
Progress on the adoption of several measures vas reviewed during
negotiations. Specifically, the MSP presented to IDA its service delivery
objectives which vill serve as a basis for the adoption of quantitative
targets to be achieved every year of the project (para 45), and to confirm
the level and distribution of non-wage recurrent expenditure needs for 1989



23
rTus. 1. Tr_uh Uiemm  C.mlUl,c
t. i«fttlvmem   (Cmitlloa                C*adlloe for m<                             CdlI    for lblr
Namuore                        for firal Tramée 1.5...fr                 Tramée NaSmamo                            Tramée Naimesu
54.1I4 CDfl 8s8TS
Iabuuurm  IP Mdi r*-           Plio  fer rtr«urlinrlm.    .             O omrilpicmf etfuml eoma of                   f o progr c_
dm.Im  sem"_om.                                                          mite of MP Md   filc                     d.lo It et geronmi la
of lmg *Waf gomf i S.                    ouuord"es, alal ru.lrmuo-lualm
Ae.lmtt sff ta bond ki     umite         Ssliefausq  proureme cm i.-
of iUP oE. mUN      . M. 9«fmf   of permu t la auccd-
Ti/DA. cm. PjW. D,A.                      *M  aItU r_mctaoiam  gl_.
Nwlrlflon. Imfrmaruwtwre Mmd
Encouralle private moletr                                                Aioption of r  .lmiorw  frasu-
parliclpallom.                                                           work el fuoles Orivate »etuor te meil
drues Mmd opsra te Saluai.
fagmd Centl Recoemry           Iletoduullom of coet recov.ry                        etialo    Sf na  rscfverg     NlImwaide lgmmtîo.  f
la projector"s Mmd auOheriamliom         eyuesm la projeort armas. prugaa-         ce" l ecomry progrua.
of hoeg jOuisumd bemith <mater. te      t15cm of pragra for mallonui.
relaga tutm recevery proumed  for        tm  estlom f esireoaery.
f Smnaimg Opuraling empmese. amr.
duclica of fimusulmi nmomgmemen and
m<eoualine moyat" le hmilu mccouate
end cmîrel  selb rucoveryreom.
IMpres  monler inmestmma                                                  rpawraloeo f tbreeym proille,g          Pruparellea of a  hrmes-jeur
immestmomb, pimm fur beslU   eue         rei ig l lenvmetemml plan fer
for 1990-1m.                              Meb. leth meauer fer 1191-
19».
ilmmru adequCi of reumrruml, Sslebtiabmmm  Sf lb. toclis  Putti.         Agremmen cm reaurrua ai loulioe»         Aereeeaoen cmorurront et loclioe»
budgsl.ry eliocetion for                                                 for lm9  flini" mage eapmdilure          for 1991 fialmge       mogeemuil-
Siumlb meuler.                                                           levoeS et ou more th"m CMA  9.0           ure levoeiet Mt molw. Oh"
bi  ilion mmd mn-mage epmpedlture        (FAFS7?   hi SIlon mmd amo-sag
ab mél Sem  lhmm CPA  1.0 blitlien.      eapemdlturm  et moltmm loé mà  (PAIF
2.86big Sam.
Ssalefoirtiom allb tb. SueSe et         glaleforliom  allb  bMe levai of
empemdlluru lim Ihm proventou            oumpedîure ;â, Me previoue
ymar, imuludimu Oh. aiIlquallon          gesr. 1motudla  IMe aS iocblome,
umdet Ohm Socils P%uai.                  omder Me. golacia  Pai.



24
Actions to b- Teken Prior
te Effâchivanm (coqndittit            Conditton for Second                   Cndtlote for Thtrd
I_ar,                        for pirct Tnche Rel«»)                 Tr,ncha R.kaa.                         Tranh  ReIbt
nDOe SNIoe IeIVER
bwrov, eulv  of _ntil                                               EnallIh_nt CF noe-prafit
drues to bointh tac; liti en.                   tn.itOiuon for «e
pronureti dl-tributlon nad
et"    nagebnt of ph»r_e
tiesl.
Adoption of a rfu.letory fr a-         A performnce rovtea on ftir
ark to *tahliah a referanc. Iiat      yer'- opraUtot of _»tbl
et eaenal du  ad na  Moni              dr&ga prore-
druga foruaary.



25
(paras 55 and 58). In addition, the folloving have been adopteds (i) the
quantitative targets to be achieved during the first year of the project
(para 44) based on the operational document discussed above; (il) the three
year investment plan already discussed vith IDA, and the level and
composition of investment in 1989 (Annez 3-1>; and (iii) the list of
essential generic drugs and promulgation of the legal framework for the
essential druge program (para 50).
C. Description of the Quick-Disbursina Component.
69.            The quick-disbursing component is varranted given Benin'8
difficult balance of payments situation and outlook, and is closely linked
to the Government's Structural Adjustment Program. In this context, current
budget cuts required to improve the public finance situation as part of the
SAP would have resulted in a serious underfunding of basic services to the
population as a whole.  In 1989, the health and education non-wage current
budgets, and priority programs, namely the UNICEF nutrition and sanitation
programa have been severely underfunded. Given the priority granted to these
sectors and priority programs in the context of the Structural Adjustment
Program, the Government requested emergency assistance for the period 1989-
91. A Social Fund vas established into which counterpart funds generated by
the emergency assistance vould be reserved to finance core activities for
health and education,  and other social programs.   The objectives and
procedures for the operation of the Social Fund are described in Annex 2-7.
IDA would participate in the financing of the Social Fund vith a quick-
disbursing component of US$ 10 million equivalent.
70.            The US$ 10 million quick-disoursing component vould finance
general imports subject to a negative list.   An equivalent amount of
counterpart funds vould be deposited in the Social Fund and earmarked to
finance non-wage current expenditure for health, education and the UNICEF
nutrition and sanitation programs.  Indicative allocations of the US$ 10
million counterpart funds generated by the quick-disbursing component are
presented in Annez 2-5. These funds would be provided during the period when
measures to ensure the viability of the public finances are being implemented
by the Government under the SAP and the cost-recovery program in hospitals
and health centers nationvide is being developed. Beginning in 1992, the
sustainability of increased expenditure would be assured by increased
revenues resulting from these measures.   It is expected that the cost
recovery program in the health sector vill begin to finance some non-wage
recurrent espenditure in a number of provinces beginning in the second year
of the project. Substantial financing of non-vage current expenditure for
health through cost recovery is not expected to be achieved until the fourth
year of the project (Annez 2-6).
71.            The quick-disbursing component would be released in three
tranches equivalent to US$ 3.3 million, US$ 3.5 million and US$ 3.2 million,
respectively.   Tranche release would be contingent on the  successful
implementation of major actions of the health sector reform.  The conditions
of credit effectivenese would include agreement vith IDA on the NSP's plans
to restructure the central and provincial units and redeploy health
personnel; the appointment of the Directors of MSP's key unite; the adoption
of legal, administrative and financial measures needed to execute the first
phase of the cost recovery program and the opening of the Social Fund Account



26
at ECEAO.    Substantial progress has been made  towards meeting these
conditions of effectiveness. Most key personnel of MSP have been already
appointed, and hospitals and health facilities have been authorized to retain
cost-recovery proceeds for purposes of financing recurrent coste.  It i8
expected that all conditions would be met vell vithin the period of 90 days
established for effectiveness. Second tranche release would follow a tranche
review and vould be based on the implementation of MSP's restructuring and
redeployment plans; all measures necessary to put in operation the national
cost recovery plan; the creation of a user-oriented non-profit institution
for the proecurement and distribution of essential drugs (Centrale d'Achat);
agreement on the content and level of the investment and recurrent budgets
for 1990; review of the level and composition of actual expenditures for
1989, including an audit of the Social Fund; and promulgation of legislation
and operating procedures to permit the participation of the private sector
in the distribution and sale of druge and the opening of private clinics.
Third tranche release would take place after review of evidence of the
initiation of the national cost recovery program; agreement on the content
and level of both the investment and recurrent budgets for 1991, and review
of the level of actual expenditure for 1990, including an audit of the Social
Fund; and the carrying out of a performance audit of the Centrale d'Achat.
D. Description of Investment Elements
(a)   ImDrovement of Sector Management and Organization
72.            To improve sector management and organizational efficiency,
the project vould support Government's efforts to (a) strengthen MSP's
planning, programming and administrative capabilities; and (b) decentralize
management functions to the provincial level.
73.            Strenathenina  of MSP.    The  project vould  support  the
restructuring of MSP to strengthen its institutional capacity and streamline
its functions, limiting them to policy development, program coordination,
human resources development planning, resource mobilization, and aid
coordination. Specifically, the following measures vould be undertakens (a)
development and strengthening of planning, programming and administrative
procedures in MSP; (b) reorganization and streamlining of functions of the
central units; (c) strengthening of technical management functions of the
central units responsible for the development of priority programs; and (d)
the creation of the strategic project and program coordination committee
(CNEEP). The central units vould be reorganized and a redefinition of staff
profiles and functions undertaken, as well as re-deployment of personnel to
service delivery assignments in the field (para 53).  Staff training and
special study tours would be undertaken to improve the planning and technical
capacity of personnel. An MIS would be developed to provide data for policy
and management decisions.   Technical assistance would be provided for a
number of these activities. A sumuary of the technical assistance program
is at Annex 4-3.
74.            To enable MSP to carry out these reforma, the project vould
finance minor rehabilitation works of the MSP's central infrastructure,
improved office technology, including a computer system and office equipment;
short-term on-the-job training of central MSP staff; study tours and long-
term training for key staff (5 years); 95 man-months of specialist services



27
and 18 man-months of local consultant services to enable MSP to carry out the
tasks defined above; and local training seminars and workshops. A sumary
of the fellowship program is at Annex 4-4.
75.            Decentralization of Management Functions.   To qupport the
Government's policy to decentralize program management and supervisory
functions, the project would strengthen the Provincial Health Directorates
of Atacora, Mono and Atlantique to enable them to fulfill their new
responsibilities under the decentralized system. Specific measures include:
(a) specialized training in strategic planning and management for provincial
directors and their district medical officers; (b) support to institute a
supervisory system for each DPS; (c) participation in project launch
workshops to develop the work program for the firet project year in each
province, district and commune; and (d) institution of regular in-service
training programs.  The project would finance technical workshops and in-
service training in program planning, management and health services delivery
and office equipment, materials, vehicles and maintenance.
(b) Sector Investment and Financing
76.            To address investment constraints (para 33) and improve sector
financing, investments would complement the quick-disbursement component and
would support the Government's efforts to (a) implement the first phase of
the priority investment program outlined in its policy statement; (b) ensure
adequate funding for recurrent expenditures; and (c) improve MSP's financial
management and accounting procedures.
77.            Investment Planning and Management.  To ensure that future
investments in the health sector are consistent with the Government's stated
priorities and are the least cost solutions in light of the sector's
financial constraints, the project would provide assistance to the DEP for
preparation of the three-year rolling investment plan (para 62). NSP has
already defined norms for health facilities and reduced investment targets
for the medium-term. Through technical assistance, the project would help
to develop and institutionalize the process of investment planning, improve
evaluation skills of MSP staff, and support the establishment of an inventory
of current projects. Under the project, the Government would prepare and
review annually with IDA the three-year rolling investment plan and its
recurrent cost implications. This system vould allow the DEP to monitor and
coordinate aid flows in the sector and vould also facilitate recurrent cost
budgeting. The project would finance three man-months of specialist services
to develop  the process  of investment programming  (Annex 4-3);  office
equipment and materials, including a micro-computer for DEP; and training for
staff.
78.            Financial Planning. An improved work program budgetlng system
vas developed during project preparation to ensure that the budget review
process focuses on non-salary operating costs and vages (para 54). During
project implementation this system would be retained and revieved annually
to ensure that budget estimates incorporate non-salary operating cost
requirements and that existing imbalances in resource allocation are
corrected in favor of priority programs. Support vould be provided to MSP
to set up a financial management and accountlng system for all levels of the
health system, expand and improve the cost-recovery program, and assist in



28
developing a decentralized accouating and financial control system. Periodic
auditing of NSP accounts would also be instituted.
(c)  Improvements in the Health Deliver, System
79.            Essential Druas Proaram.  The scarcity of essential drugs is
a major constraint to good quality health care. The Government has taken
steps to redrese this situation by raising the level of funding for essential
drugs in MSP's budget estimates.   The project would provide support to
develop and institute an essential drugs program;   MSP would define a
reference list of essential drugs and develop a national druge formulary for
each level of the health system and the project vould finance its publication
and distribution.   A series of seminars vould be conducted for medical
officers and other field personnel on the use and management of essential
drugs. The project vould finance per diem and logistical support for these
seminars and the publication and distribution of the formulary.
80.            Establishment of an Earlv Varnina System for the Surveillance
and Manaaiement of Hiah Risk Preanancies. The current high rate of maternal
mortality (over 600 per 10,000 live births) and the low level of deliveries
that occur vithout proper supervision by trained health personnel (342)
contribute to the low health status of the population.  Solutions to these
problems  require the development of a system that detecte high  risk
pregnancies at an early stage and provides adequate prenatal, delivery and
post natal care, including dissemination of family planning information to
the couples concerned. The Government proposes to implement the Action Plan
and recommendations of the Francophone Regional Conference on Safe Notherhood
held in Niamey from January 30 to February 3, 1989 by setting up, vithin each
of its six provinces, an early warning system for the surveillance and
management of high risk pregnancies. The system will develop physiological
norms that fit each coemunity's profile, define regional profiles for high
risk pregnancies, train provincial teams (physicians, midvives and nurses)
to manage the system, re-equip provincial hospitals and isolated district
health centers vith basic surgical and obstetric operating facilities and
organize ambulatory services  in each province to care for high risk
pregnancies and complicated deliveries. The system vill also be provided
vith radio communication equipment, and satellite community health centers
will be equipped vith basic tools for antenatal care and motorcycles for
outreach and IEC activities.   Provincial managers of the system vill
undertake study tours and carry out operational studies to lmprove the
efficiency of the system. NGO participation in the development of the system
vill focus primarily on comuanity sensitization campaigns, and expert
services will be provided for training workshops and in the design of staff
in-service training modules.  The cost of establishmaet of the system is
estimated at US$1.5 million equivalent, incluiding the equipping of operating
and obstetric rooms in provincial hospitals, the purchase and equipping of
ambulances (1 for each province), motorcycles for satellite rural centers,
commnications equipment and the training of personnel.
81.            Pilot Develoment Prolecte for the Urban and Peri-Urban Poor.
The project vill include two pilot programs, each costing US$200,000 designed
to provide assistance to disadvantaged commu4ities in Cotonou, Porto Novo,
Abome, Natitingou and Parakou.  The first one vill be managed by the MSP's
Division of Hygiene and Sanitation.   It vould aim at providing basic



29
enviroumental hygiene and sanitation services (latrines, potable water and
drainage) vith the active participation of these communities.  The second
pilot initiative, managed by the CUEEP, would finance a number of actions ln
these same comunmities. Funding iA individual grants of US$10,000 equivalent
would be provided for t'e strengthening of culturally relevant traditional
comuwnity organizations for promoting developmental actions, including
hygiene education, safe motherhood, family planning, nutrition, self-help and
mutual credit for women's producer associations. These special actions vould
be based on existing structures and would be implemented with support from
NGOs. Proposals for such initiatives vould be submitted to the CNEEP for
approval. CNEP vould ensure adequate geographic coverage and variety in the
type of grassroots organizations supported. The CNEEP would review progress
of each activity, and IDA and the CNUP vould undertake each year a
comprehensive review of the programs. An additional US$ 200,000 is provided
for preparatory work, training and for studies designed to measure the
effects of the pilot operations on the general vell-being, on income levels
of the commanities involved and on the replicability of the pilot projects
on a larger scale.
82.            Physical Infrastructure.   Consistent vith the Government's
statement of Bealth Sector Policy, the project vould support the
rehabilitation of il district-level facilities (CSDs) and 77 communal-level
facilities (CCSs) in the three provinces, and provide equipment for these
facilities. Staff housing for district-level personnel would be provided to
facilitate MSP's redeployment efforts. At the provincial level, the project
vould improve office accommodations and drug storage facilities to enable the
Provincial Health Directorates to effectively assume their new management
responsibilities (para 53), and to facilitate decentralization of the
essential drug management system.  The infrastructure development program
vill be carried out ln three phases of US$ 4.9 million, US$ 5.3 million, and
US$ 4.0 million respectively. These amounts include architectural design,
civil works and supervision of construction vorks and medical equipment,
office furniture and supplies.  Disbursement of each successive phase of
civil works will be contingent on a satisfactory review of previous
rehabilitation. In the case of infrastructure renovation works, key health
personnel vould have been assigned to the centers to organize community
participation prior to the start-up of works.
83.            Maintenance Proara .  AfDB assistance is being provided to
help MSP design and implement a preventive maintenance program for physical
infrastructure and technical equipment.  In support of this program, the
project would finance training fellowships, materials, and logistical support
to enable MSP to maintain facilities and equipment at functional levels until
the system set up by AfDB becomes fully operational. The project vould
finance two one-year training fellowships and three short-term fellovships
CAnnez 4-4); materials for these trainees; and a vehicle and tools for
preventive maintenance.
84.            Sui,ort for IEC Proaram.   UNDP  is providing technical
assistance to develop a comprehensive health education program. IDA support
for this program focuses on integrating health education efforts vith ongoing
preventive  health  programs  and  is  based  on  UNDP's  recommendations.
Discussions on this component vere conducted with HSP's Health Education
Division (IUC) and the UNDP during post-appraisal. The project would also



30
strengtheu MSP's capacity to develop and manage the integrated MCEIPP,
STD/AIDS and EPI programe and support these in the project zone (training
efforts are discussed below). The project would provide US$ 200,000 for the
IEC program.
(d)  Manvower and Human Resources Develoiment
85.            StrenQtheninR  of DUR.    To  improve  the utilization and
efficiency  of MSP's  staff  resources,  the  project  vould  support  the
strengtheuing of the Human Resources Division (DRH) and its efforts to
develop staff redeployment and in-service training programs.  During the
firet year of the project, DHR vould conduct a survey of field personnel and
current tasks by staff category and complete detailed job descriptions and
staff profiles for health facilities.   DRE would also prepare a staff
redeployment  program  designed  to  redresa  current  geographical  and
hierarchical inequities in the distribution of medical and paramedical
personnel, as vell as to satisfy the decentralization objectives for the
sector. Personnel files for the three provinces and later for the entire
country vould be developed and computerized. Implementation of staff re-
deployment vould begin in year two of the project. Future staff needs vould
determine the future intake of health training institutions. The project
vould finances four man-months of international specialist services to assist
DRH in the design and implementation of the personnel management system and
the staff redeployment program; nine man-months of training overseas in
personnel management and computer application; office furniture, equipment
(including a computer) and a vehicle; and local training.  The technical
assistance, training and fellowships to be provided for DRH are shown in
Annexes 4-3 and 4-4.
86.            In-Service Trainint. As part of MSP's program to upgrade the
technical skills of staff (para 63), the project vould support the design and
implementation of local in-service training efforts in order to improve the
quality of primary health care and coimmuity outreach activities. The
training of instructors and the in-service training program would begin in
year one of the project. In addition to training for primary-level staff,
formal specialized technical training would be provMded at CEPs for a limited
number of staff from the project zone. The project would finances five man-
months of international specialist services and two man-months of national
specialist services to assist DRE  in the design and implementation of the
program and the training of trainers; and selected associated costs,
including books, journals, and supplies. Annex 4-5 gives a sumnary of all
training activities under the project.
E. Financins and ImDlementation Arrangements
87.            Flnancint.  Total project costs would be US$ 32.0 million
equivalent, excluding taxes. The quick-disbursing component would amount to
US$ 10.0 million equivalent and would be financed by IDA. The investment
program (US$ 22.0 million equivalent) would be financed jointly over a period
of eight years (1989-97), by the Swiss Development Cooperation, (US$ 11.3
million equivalent), IDA (US$ 8.6 million equivalent), the Governmeut and
beneficiaries  (US$ 2.1 million equivalent).   A  summary cost table is



31
presented below. Detalls on project costs and financlng are given ln Ate
4-6 through 4-10.
Total Proiect Cost
(In millions of US$ equivalent)
Foreiou       Local       Total
1. Quick Disbursing Funde               10.0          -          10.0
2. Investment Coste
Civil Works and Technical           5.5         5.6        11.1
Equilpment
Phase I                         2.0         2.1         4.1
Phase Il                       2.0          2.0         4.0
Phase III                       1.5         1.5         3.0
Rehabilitation of MSP's
Priority Services            0.1          0.3         0.4
Materials, Vehicles, Furniture
and Other Equipment                2.1         0.3         2.4
Pilot Projecto                       -          0.4         0.4
Technical Assistance, Training,    2.7          1.7         4.4
Fellowships
Project Preparation Facility        0.6         0.1          0.7
3. Contingencies
Physical                            0.8         0.7         1.5
Price                               0.3         1.0         1.3
Total Project Costs                     22.1          9.9         32.0
88.            Management of Swiss DeveloDment Cooperation Funds.   The
Goverrment of Benin has obtained from the Goveroment of the Sviss
Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable contribution of US$ 11.25
million equivalent to assist in the financing of the proposed project. The
Swiss Development Cooperation will open a Swiss contribution account at the
Swiss National Bank in the name of the Government of Benin. Disbursement of
the Swiss contribution vould be in accordance vith the IDA credit agreement
for the proposed project.
89.            Disbursements.   Although the IDA investment component is
programmed to be executed over a siz-year period, an eight-year disbursement
schedule has been provided to take luto account the disbursement pattern of
investment projects ln the region.  The quick-disbursing compouent (US$ 10
million equivalent) vould be disbursed over three years (paras 69-71). The
quick-disbursing component vould reimburse 1002 of the foreign exchange cost
of general Importe subject to a negative list, vith retroactive financing
provided on the basis of evidence of importe paid for between January 1989
and signing of the Credit Agreement. Conditions of tranche release are shown
on Table 1. Bcth private and public sector imports would be eligible. The
Ninistry of Finance vould be charged with the presentation of reimbursement
applications and of all supporting documentation to the Association as to the



32
nature and origin of the goods, invoices, import certificates and evidence
of payment for the quick-disbursing component. Counterpart funds generated
by the quick-disbursing component vould be utilized to finance health and
education non-wage recurrent expenditure items, and the UNICEF nutrition and
sanitation programs, ia accordance vith indicative allocations (Annex 2-5).
Expenditures under US$10.000 equivalent vould not be eligible for financing
out of credit proceeds. Disbursements for the first phase of civil vorks
(rehabilitation) vould be linked to first tranche release conditions.
Diebursements for the second and third phases of the civil vorks vould, in
addition, be contingent on successful implementation of priority health care
programs in the districts where health facilities vere previously
rehabilitated (para 49).   Reimbursement applications for the investment
portion of the credit vould be sent to IDA in fully documented packages of
at least US$ 50,000 equivalent, except for expenses related to project
administration and miscellaneous operating costs and contracts of legs than
US$ 10,000 equivalent. These expenses would be reimbursed against certified
statements of expenditure, for which documentation vould be retained for
review by project auditors and by IDA during periodic missions. The project
is expected to be completed by March 31, 1997.
90.            Procurement.   Uider the quick-disbursing component of the
project, both publie and private imports vould be eligible for IDA financing.
Large value contracts exceeding US$ 1 million vill be carried out folloving
standard public sector procedures which have been reviewed and are acceptable
to IDA.   Private sector purchases valued below US$1 million vill follov
established commercial practice and whenever possible quotations from
equitable supporters from at least two countries may be sought.  All goods
and services financed under the investment project vould be procured in
accordance vith IDA's guidelines. Civil vorks contracts for renovation and
construction of health centers and pharmaceutical varehouses would be avarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance vith
the IDA's guidelines for procurement. A preference of 7.52 vould be granted
to local firms participating in ICB for civil vorks. Contracts for furniture
and equipment, vehicles, materials and drugs vould be avarded in accordance
vith ICB procedures acceptable to IDA. Exceptions to ICB vould be for (a)
contracte vith a value of less than US$ 150,000 equivalent, which vould be
avarded folloving local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance vith
procedures acceptable to IDA; and (b) small-value items and civil vorks
costing less than US$ 30,000 equivalent per contract, which vould be procured
folloving prudent local shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. The aggregate
amounts of these two exceptions are not expected to exceed the equivalent of
US$l.9 million and US$ 0.7 million, respectively. Procurement arrangements
are summarized in Table 2 below.
91.            Items vould be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage
competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement.   Review of tender
documents by IDA prior to avard vould be required for all civil vorks
contracts. Review of tender documents by IDA vould also be required for
contracte for furniture and equipment, vehicles, materials, and drugs costing
more than US$ 50,000 equivalent each.



33
Table 2. Procurement Cateaories
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Nethod
_________________________________________
Catexory of Expenditure           ICa      LCB        Other      Cost
Quick-Disbursing Funde                               10.0a/      10.0
(10.0)      (10.0)
Civil Works                     10.1      1.3                    11.4
(2.4)    (0.5)                  (2.9)
Furniture, Equipment &           0.4      0.4                     0.8
Materials                    (0.2)    (0.2)                  (0.4)
MedicalITechnical               2.5                               2.5
Equipment                  (1.5S                             (1.5)
Vehicles                        0.7        0.2                    0.9
(0.3)                            (0.3)
Pilot Initiatives                          0.2         0.2         0.4
(0.2)      (0.2)       (0.4)
Consultant and Architectural                           2.7b        2.7
Services                                          (1.1)       (1.1)
FellowvhipsITraining                                  2.6         2.6
(1.4)       (1.4)
PPF                                                   0.7         0.7
(0.7)       (0.7)
Total                      13.7      2.1       16.2         32.0
(4.4)    (0.9)     (13.3)      (18.6)
ai Fast disbursing component.
bi Procurement of consultant services would be in accordance vit IDA
guidelines.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA.
92.            Accounts. à Proaram Svecial Account managed by the Ministry
of Finance (CAA) and maintained in the Cotonou Branch of the Central Bank
for West African Countries (BCEAO) vould finance the goods imported under the
US$ 10 million quick-disbursing component of the project in accordance with
disbursement procedures described in paragraph 89 above.   An advance
equivalent to 50Z of the amount to be disbursed under the firet tranche vould
be withdravn from the IDA Credit Account and deposited in the Program Special
Account. Counterioart funds generated by the quick-disbursing component of
the IDA credit and of other donors in the context of the SPA emergency
financing vould be maintained by the Ministry of Finance In an account



34
entitled *the Social Fundt, also at the Cotonou Branch of BCEAO, for the
purpose of financing non-wage current expenditure items in health, education,
nutrition and sanitation over the period 1989-91, including essential drugs
for the health sector, primary school materials, maintenance of school
infrastructure, vehicle fuels and lubricants for the education sector, and
the unfinanced portion of the UNICEF programs (Annez 2-5). The scope of the
Social Fund and its operating procedures are described inÀ Annex 2-7. The
Ministry of Finance would manage the Social Fund on the recommendations for
approval of expenditure by the National Adjustment Committe.   The Ministry
of Finance vould submit to IDA on a quarterly basis detailed reports on the
utilization of the amounts deposited in the Social Fund. The Social Fund
vould be audited on an annual basis (para 94).
93.            Two Special Accounts (the IDA Special Account and the Swiss
Snecial Account) would be maintained in BCEAO to finance the goods and
services required for the investment component of the project.   These
accounts vould be managed by the Ministry of Public Health under the direct
responsibility of the Project Coordinator. An amount of US$ 0.4 million
equivalent vould be advanced from the IDA Credit Account and deposited in the
IDA Special Account at credit effectiveness. The IDA Special Account vould
cover foreign and local expenditures to be incurred over a four-month period
and would be reimbursed by IDA upon receipt and approval of applications for
reimbursement. The equivalent of US$ 0.4 million would be disbursed f rom the
Sviss Contribution Account and deposited in the Swiss Special Account to
cover foreign investment expenditures only. Eligible expenditures vould be
reimbursed in accordance vith IDA procedures. To ensure the Government's
contributions to project investment expenditures, the Government would
establish a Prolect Account in CFAP in a local commercial bank. An initial
amount of CFAF 75 million vill be deposited in the Project Account,
representing about four months of project investment expenditure.   The
account vould be replenished on a quarterly basis. Fulfilling conditions
precedent to the first disbursement of the Sviss Contribution, and the
opening of the Social Fund Account and the Project Account vould be
conditions of Credit Effectiveness.
94.            Audits.  PCB and DPSs would  establish and maintain accounts
in accordance with acceptable accounting practices for alL project
expenditures. During negotiations, the Goverament gave assurances that it
vould furnish to IDA, vithin six months of the close of each fiscal year,
separate audits of the IDA Special Account, the Social Fund, the Project
Account, and accounts in the three provinces for revenue collected through
cost recovery. Audits of the revenue collected through the cost recovery
vill be carried out when the system is implemented at a national level. The
audits vould be conducted by independent auditors to be appointed on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA. Certified copies of the accounts and the
auditor's report would be forvarded to IDA for review. In the case of the
audit of the Social Fund, its review by IDA vill be a condition of second and
third tranche release.   Quarterly reports on the progress  of project
implementation vould be submitted to IDA by CNEEP. A project completion
report prepared by CNEEP would be submitted vithin six months of the closing
date of the IDA credit.



35
F. ManaRement. Coordination and Evaluation
95.            Management and Coordination.  Overall responsibility for the
preparation and implementation of the Health Services Development Project
has been given to MSP. A national project preparation team set up vithin
lSP with technical support from the Ministries of Finance, Plan, and Labor,
worked with field staff and consultants to carry out studies, organize
workshops and prepare the Government's project request. Project preparation
has been supported by PPF funds totalling US$ 700,000 equivalent. MSP vould
integrate project implementation into its existing services. Each central
and provincial ministry unit responsible for specific program development
would be strengthened and equipped to coordinate and supervise lmplementation
of its specific program. To ensure efficient and effective coordination and
monitoring of policy reform and of project implementation, a Program
Coordinating and Monitoring Committee (CNEEP) has been created (para 52).
CNEEP's responsibilities are to periodically review all aspects of
implementation of the Action Plan and to resolve any bottlenecks in project
implementation. CNEEP would liaise with the National Adjustment Committee
to obtain the timely approval of the necessary financing for qualified
expenditure under the Social Fund. CNEEP vould be assisted by a small Project
Coordination Bureau (PCB) placed under the Director General of the Ministry
to carry out day-to-day project coordination activities, prepare draft vork
plans and budgets, supervise procurement of goods and consultant services,
proceas withdrawal applications and monitor disbursements. The PCB, made up
of permanent personnel of MSP, includes a full-time project coordinator
(tecbnical), a deputy coordinator (administration and finance). a pharmacist,
an architectural technician, a local consultant accountant and two support
staff. During negotiations the Government provided assurances that the CNEEP
vould remain in operation and that the PCB vill remain fully staffed during
the life of the project.
96.            Monitoring and Evaluation.  To ensure frequent coordination
and full involvement of concerned staff and units vithin MSP during project
implementation, CNZEP would undertake a thorough review of progress in
project implementation as part of its quarterly meetings. Project management
and IDA supervision missions vould work together to ensure   flexible
execution of the project so that recommendations of the CNEEP reviews and the
annual Action Plan reviews can be incorporated into future activities.
Supervision missions vould give special attention to the functioning of
priority health care facilities in rural areas and would integrate procedures
for assessing beneficiaries' evaluation of program impact. CNE8P would be
responsible for preparing a detailed project completion report.
97.            Mechanisms  for  beneficiaries'   involvement  in  project
implementation, monitoring and evaluation vere developed during project
preparation.   Local health  codmittees  are being  trained  for project
implementation and monitoring.  They will be responsible for undertaking
periodic revievs of tariff levels in their respective facilities; assessing
the adequacy of operating inputs for care in their districts; approving
facility-level budget estimates; and organizing protection and preventive
maintenance for health center facilities.  These ccmmittees vill participate
regularly in periodic progress reviews and thereby provide information on
beneficiaries' assessment of progress achieved. Annual reviews would assess
increased use of the health services, and improved statistical reporting



36
vould provide information on the Impact of tho improved services on the
countryls health statue.
G. Proiect Benefits and Risks
98.            Benefits.   The population of Benin,  especially ln rural
areas, vould benefit through the improved coverage and quality of services,
including better access to lover-cost essential drugs. The pilot initiatives
in urban areas vould improve the Government's outreach to disadvantaged
communities. The restructuring of the referral system vould reduce internal
$nefficiencies in the system. Hospital care vould improve through regular
drug supply and improved management and accountability. The population vould
have access to better-quality services at all levels and this in turn vould
lncrease attendance rates.  The quality of services vould improve as staff
receive in-service training, regular remuneration, improved equipment and
supplies, and better supervision. A lasting benefit of the project vould be
the setting up of sustainable essential drugs and cost recovery programs.
Through the project, preventive health care and family planning services
vould become readily available to urban and rural populations, laying a firm
foundation for improved health status and future fertility regulation.
Increased private sector involvement vould mobilize additional domestic
resources for health care.   Perhaps most importantly, MSP's ability to
formulate health policy and manage sector fiancial and human resources vould
be lmproved.
99.            Risks.  The major risk ln this project is that the Government
may not carry out crucial reforme outlined ln the Action Plan, particularly
reform measures for reorganizing MSP, restructuring management systems and
the pharmaceutical sub-sector, and decentralising decision-making. This risk
is minlmized during project preparation when great effort vas expended on
building a broad-based consensus on the need for addressing the major sector
constraints, identify$ng appropriate strategies for addressing these
constraints, and mobilizlng community-based groups that vould sustain
coDmitment  to  the  reforma.    MSP  broadened  participation  lu  project
preparation by involving the Ministries of Plan, Finance, Labor, Rural
Development, and Information in program design. In addition, CNEEP vould
monitor program implementation, and take steps to eliminate any obstacles or
bottlenecks that may hamper the achievement of major project outcomes. A
second risk -- MSP's relative inexperience in project implementation -- vould
be mitigated by short-term in-service tralning and the selective use of local
and international technical assistance in program management. The roles of
local health comittees dravw from benef$ciaries have been clearly defined,
and they vould be given appropriate training in finance and organizational
management through a series of project-launch vorkshops. A third risk is the
continuation of uncoordinated donor investment in health ln Benin. Through
IDA's encouragement, NSP has developed sector dialogue with donors currently
active ln the sector.  The Ministry has articulated the Government's new
policy objectives and strategy and provided guidelines for future investments
ln the sector vhich provide a framevork for aid coordination. Through the
proposed credit, IDA vould encourage and strengthen MSP's ability to
effectively carry out such coordination.



37
PART V - MAXK OPERATIONS AND COLLABORATION VITE IHF AND OTHER DONORS
100.           Aid Coordination.  Benin enjoys a highly diversified flow of
foreign aid. At present, aid finances about 902 of the annual investment
program. Among the main donors are OECD bilateral partuers, especially
France and Germany, the European Conmmnity and the UN system, although
regional aid institutions --- the African Development Bank and Fund, the Vest
African Development Bank and the Arab aid agencies -- have a groving
presence.
101.           IDA has f inanced 16 credits to Benin for a total of US$196
million.   The IDA credits have been largely for infrastructure,  rural
development, and education. Annex 5 shows the statua of operations in Benin.
The diversification of the country's aid sources provides IDA vith aid
coordination opportunities and also poses challenges.  In all the sectors
where IDA has been active, it has coordinated its inputs vith those of other
partners to ensure technical quality and coherence. In continuation of this
aid coordination effort, IDA is in contact vith bilateral and multilateral
donors desirous of co-financing Benin's adjustment effort. IDA vill assist
the UNDP in organizing a donors' conference in late 1989 to mobilize
financing for the medium-term public investment program that Benin will adopt
in the context of the adjustment program.
102.           Given its debt service ratio over the next few years (average
of 30Z during 1989-91) and its determination to carry out a program of
structural adjustment, Benin qualifies for aid under the Special Program of
Assistance (SPA) for debt-distressed countries.
103.           Relationshio with IMF.  Over the past few years, aside from
the annual Article IV Consultations, Benin requested and received several
staff visita to pursue a dialogue directed toward a stabilization program.
The country also benefited from three technical assistance missions that
reviewed the fiscal system and estimated public finance arrears.  In the
policy discussions, however, although a close vorking relationship vas
forged, concrete progress was slow until 1988. The preparation of a sound
current budget for 1988 and of the macroeconomic policy statement marked a
turning point in the policy dialogue. An IMF mission visited Cotonou in July
1988 to begin preparatory work for a SAF program to be adopted in parallel
vith the Bank's SAL.  The mission vorked in close collaboration vith the
Bank's SAL appraisal team.  A joint Bank-IMF mission visited Cotonou in
February-March 1989 to negotiate the first year's SAF based on the PFP.



38
PART VI - REUCOMMENDATION
104.           I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recomend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber Conable
President
Attacbmentss
Washington
May 4, 1989



39                         ANmz  1
B NN
UtALT? AND POPULATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total Surface Area                                               113,000 km2
Total Population (1988)                                          4.5 m
Population De"sity per Xm2                                       30.0
Average Annual Population Growth Rate (1986-2000)                3.42
Total Fertility Rate (1986)                                      6.5
Crude Birth Rate per 1000 population (1986)                      49
Crude Death Rate per 1000 population (1986)                      17
Child Death Rate per 1000 age 1-4 (1986)                         19
Infant Mortality Rate (1986)                                     115
Maternal Mortality Rate (per 100.000 live births) (1986)         500
Expectation of Life at Birth (1986)                              56 years
Urban population as Z of total population (1986)                 35S
Adult Literacy Ratet MaleiFemale (1986)                          37116
P:=Iary School Enrollment Rate (1984)                            64
Age Structure:
0-14                                                    48.92
15-64                                                   43.92
65-over                                                 7.22
Percentage of Married Voman of Child Bearing Age Using
M4odern Contraceptives                                         62
Population per Physician (1986)                                  13,500
Population per Nurse (1986)                                      2,700
Daily calorie supply per capita as a
percentage of requirement (1986)                               94
Gross National Product Per Capita (1988)                         US$300
Sources: Vorld Bank Development Report



40                            AIG'U 2-1
BENIN
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPI4ENT PROJECT
STATISTICAL PROFILE FOR THE HEALTH SECTOR
PUBLIC SECTOP. FACILITIES
TYmE OF FACILIT!                                      P R O V IN CE S                           T L
Quuem  Atlantique   Ikno      Zou      Borgou   Atacora
National Hospital (CNHU)              -         1         -         -         -         -         1
CHP                                             -         -         1         1                   4
CSD                                   16        il        12        15        14        14        83
ccs                                   35        37        26        54        47        45       244
Isolated aternity or                  4         3         -         8         8         4         27
diapensary
-        1.        -         -         -         -         1
Psychiatric Center
1        1         -         -         -         -         2
Pneumo-Physiolony Center
Leprosy Centers                       -         1         1         2         1         2         7
School clinics                        15        3         -         3         -         -         21
2PRIVATE SECTOR FACILITIES
lIOSPITALS                             -        6         1         -         3         2         12
KATIITIES                              7        21        -         -         -         2         30
IEICAL CLINICS                        4         19        -         _         _         -         23
DOAL CLINICS                          -         4                   -         -         -         4
INFuomRIES                            5         10        4         4         4         4         31
OPIrfUODLOGICAL CLINICS                -        2         -         -         -         -         2
Sources Service de Statistique et de docamNntatiou DEP1HSP.



ANNEX 2-2
41
*S          *e
loi   moi                       
par C,l*.        UeO..        Aduli      us Xan       CI        ta drtélllag  te homsth    "Iadu    stada bw
aulorle appfp   Pusuleil..      *liar.~,tila ou  li   dit            a"   _         e _ie _ 0              .lim 
e  * et      m   of  èali     robt       Priaasp   s u                                   D Qt 116.m   batb
r.iarsoi    ftuula             l.fl    Oda <1<sd Wl4   -_                         -        <n(i...     paao
sus            sus           1ua         1964        sus         rie         *.1          sua         so
tlll2s                              6Fu/i          40/...        14      8t 0 1          fi ao                    5r          5
6.01.         «4                       88          8/            64          19          10          40     <o                8
SftfiuePn,o              67             a              /                                 8           40            a
Ibrundi                O9        2                 a/            40     4                86          4a     #                  2
Ceormi Af;... Rp.        9             4a          /w                        27          SOI         ...          8.
Cai                   w  n                          40/M         a 8             n                    ...     2       8       7
Eeihica                  94            18           .1/* ..      83      *    8      «               46       »
ws.                     78 2 es/48                                          s .  Tia  »                Ia                    78
Culmea         8         50                    2    240/7        81     .    ..          1 7          ..2         ..
Ka.a                     87            20          70/40         W           1           US           ...         10.
;ibrls                  10e8 w                     47/1          7           fi»         90 *                      8
wo&ue.                  11"             1          7n4/62        1           25          f           do           ...          2
l»tami                  lu             ...         am            a            a          a1           0 
mai;                    MI             20          2             ...          a          1            8            a
I@aalog .                a              9          am            8a          a0          18           0           1           US
Nigen                   97            1a             19/0                    f 2                     40              
R=a"                    87              a                        C2                                  217          24
1uiffli                 0              a           wvso                      n           42          ...           0
Siama toe               es                         mm            48          48                                   or ...  7   fi
smauhls                                               o          a           aT                                   27           2
sud                              a            u"      n    0           m     !    O            a     J     lis          20
Tna                     C0             14          96/6          or          2 2                     76           a6          74
Te ~~~~~~97                      O     1     am    1       2                                   SI           a           ...
Ugatida                 100             7          70/45         a                       n                                      . . 21
zle                     9              80          "t/4a        lu           fi                       fi           4
blla                    8              4               n         nOD          U          47          78           42
£lgas                   ..             48          88/87         94          *           60           0           22
Cmnasre.                60            42           68            507         10          80           .
Con.                    5              40          75                        7            1           ...
C*t. d'Ivoire           102            45           m1           7?           U          S           8            17
Cab.                     4                         70/8n ...                 ..
L Iu                    100            17                        lu£         S4 »                                 45 2
smitlan                                a 1                       a.         2f                        0            2          2f
MN;5t                   C2             J0          l4pl          n           21          l           40            2
Tunisi                  1a                           141        1au          a           7           90    11#                60
Zibsabwe                 4             2n            1/7                                     7#                    4          49
UPPU-flE aEOU
Suth Afi o..s                                                                                        1.8 8.        ../  7
uL mmi i wzun PORLAUTIO
Ce" v*rd.               ...            ...                                   ..... .........
Ca.. .. ...                            ...                       ...         ...         ...
Djbti                                                                                    .. ..         .... ... ..
lqateoil C .. C...                                     . ...  ...     .....  . ..  ..
C"ba                    ...            ...                                                            ..          .. 
Oubeaa4lu"              1              ...          4/17          .                      #            .           19
Sa loa T Prieclip       ...            ...         784           ...         ...          .           .
Ssaaland                                           l0a                       ...         ...                      ...          ...



42                                  AlNNE   2-3
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
MIMIISTRY OF PUBLIC REATH*
'~~~~n:lv  e
N. I    A   (Ktt *0N  ?AI          TII
| :-.wzC £om  Du NtNt5t 
.    I          --  --NITM   -ea aXgAaC s| :c OAl   N   suica o 1        sa:   Tgo.la
U1Wt £li<aa<su . D lE .  t*I=.    l  . A t .~I tei Ot.  o    . DS3. *t.   e
T104m Sm'Z   ot s O      t            09 It- t L&      OU  Dts   »        CO tLw #*no
Vtéllà~~~~~~~~~~~~u                        C.U oct lu _-oxrA lS i. fl' t 
Ct IMrz  IrW               etf  U  SCOLsIRE  W.    REt?  ttO    tU
tuS  %PU W   M-              $&"l.Wt .    om- tFA t  t oc 
*sopCTL  u       bn to             e         U. d                   L'oo ai    t t iuibe
Aprovtded  foiiovingi poa  apr  isai.     a   o    n
~~~~~~pomm  ci _ uw
ttr ^ rtswlét01  1_  Ct  O" tA                               mnveo 0't   w
O-!e
|H05FXtK ~~~~~~~~~IlJ De "Me (|UrV.
*The NSP i8 c-urrently beinRt reorganized. Updated organizationai chart vili be
-oprovidet fOI10ving post appraisal.



.!'é-~~~, fslX[E 
i w   'i   i  |I |     EX
R~~~~ '                RIt .      |        
j   iii11   3   i R u 8 1  ii§
8 .       *             e  f    e         
a-z~                 F  F       ' 



44                            ANNEX 2-5
THE SOCIAL PUFM - ESTIMATED INDICATIVE ALLOCATIONS 1989-91
(In US$ millions equivalent)
SectorlProaram                       1989        1990       1991
Health
1.  Essential Drugs                  1.30        2.50        1.20
Education
2. School Materials for
Primary Schools                1.70           -          -
3.  Maintenance of School             -          0.35         0.50
Infrastructure
4. Vehicle Fuels and Lubricants      0.10        0.10        0.10
Nutrition
S.  UNICEF Nutrition Program         0.20        0.20         0.35
Sanitation
6. UNICEF Rural Vater Supply         -           0.35         0.85
and Sanitation
7.  Jnallocated                      -             -         0.20
TOTAL                    3.30          3.50        3.20



45
ANNEX 2-6
BENIN - 1989-93 CURRENT EXPENDITURE HEALTH SECTOR NEEDS
(In millions of US Dollars Equivalent)
1989     1990     1991      1992   '993
Total                                11.86    14.79    16.03    17.30  17.80
Personnel and Personnel Related
Allocation                            8.23      8.66     9.06     9.30   9.60
Non-Wage Current Allocations          3.63      6.13     6.97     8.00   8.20
Office Operation, electricity
and vater                            .2S       .35      .35      .40    .40
Studies and documentation              .01       .01      .01       .02    .02
Communications                         .15       .20      .20       .30    .30
Uniforme                                .03      .03      .03       .04    .04
Essential Drugs and medical
material                            1.63      3.00     3.50     3.60   3.80
Fuel and Lubricants                    .25       .45      .45       .55    .55
Vehicle Purchases                       .30      .50      .50       .60    .60
Vehicle Maintenance                     .30      .35      .35       .45    .45
Infrastructure and Equipment
Maintenance:                          --       .53      .87     1.00   1.00
Hospitals                             --       .32      .52      .60    .60
Rural Facilities                      --       .21      .35      .40    .40
Hospital Catering and Dietary
Services                             .67       .67      .67      .85    .85
Scholarship and Training               .04       .04      .04      .04    .04
Financina of non-waae Recurrent
E=Denditure:
Government  Budgets                   2.33     2.33       3.07    3.10   3.20
Government Resources            1.46     1.46       1.87    1.90   2.00
Foreign Bilateral and
Multilateral Programe          .87      .87       1.20    1.20   1.20
Beneficiaries (Cost Recovery)          .00     1.30       2.70    4.90   S.00
Quick-Disbursing Component            1.30       2.50     1.20
(Social Fund)



ANNEX 2-7
46
The Social Fund
1.        The Social Fund vili be established at the Cotonou branch of the
Central Bank for West African Countries for the period 1989-91.
2.        It vill be made up from counterpart funds of special external
assistance provided tos
(a) maintain non-wage recurrent expenditure for health and
education at levels which are judged necessary to ensure the
delivery of basic services to the population.
(b) finance priority programs in the social sectors, including
nutrition, vater and sanitation, labour intensive urban vorks,
economic development vith specific emphasis on vomen, and
redeployment of civil servants.
3.        The Social Fund vill be managed by the Ministry of Finance.
Specifically, the Ministry villi
(a) immediately upon the availability of external financing for
the purposes described in para. 2, deposit equivalent amount(s)
into the Social Fund.
(b) ensure that the resources deposited in the Social Fund are
utilized for the purposes lntended.
(c) mn recommendation by the National Adjustment Comission,
approve the utilization of resources available in the Fund for
non-wage recurrent expenditure in health and education and for
the unfinanced portion of other priority social programs.  In
the specific case of the health sector, the Interministerial
Program Coordination Coumittee created to follow on health
sector reform, vill submit to the National Adjustment Commission
the necessary health requests. A representative of the Ministry
of Primary Education, andtor of the Ministries responsible for
other social programs vill submit requeste tothe National
Adjustment Commission fo the approval of qualified expenditures
for education and training, and other eligible sector
activities.
(d) ensure that not less than 502 of the couaterpart funds
deposited lu the Social Fund from the IDA quick-disbursing
component will be utilized for the health sector, in accordance
vith the allocation table described in the Credit Agreement of
the Health Services Development Project. Such allocation table
vill be revised on an annual basis through an exchange of
letters.



47                             ANNEX 2-7
(e) agree with each individual donor on the need, if any, for
specific allocation of the counterpart fundo deposited in the
Social Fund resulting from the donors special assistance.
(f) prepare detailed quarterly reports of the use of the Social
Fand and submit them to all participating external donors.
(g) have the Social Fund audited each year by qualified
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and furnish the audit
report not later than six months of the close of each fiscal
year to all participating external donors.



Tx   0 |              §§ §              3~~~R§R§ I
I   ~-          -   -   -  -   -  -   -  -   --   -   -  -   -    -   -  -   -   -  -   -      --
.4    lb                                                        o             °88          I.s 
il     *1     --        -  -  -   -  -   -   -  -   -  --    -         -   -  -   -  -   -   -  -
1  g  |        R  §.g.   #o.g  jggg      g   
il 8'1t         8I}t3|*  ;  0 e8
i 1                                                            o           l}  8  8      3j       8
jf    leg 18 }d   b }|                         8    g                
_____ ____________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I  _____________
|~ ~~ l  t          ||e[     i  lS |       B    i           i        I      I        



49
ANUEX 4-1
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
STATEMENT OF HEALTE SECTOR POLICY
I.        Introduction
1.        Infectious and parasitic diseases, endomo-epidemic conditions
and nutritional deficiencies accouat for prevailing high levels of
morbidity and mortality in the People's Republic of Benin. The main causes
of morbidity are malaria, measles, and diarrheic and respiratory diseases.
The infant mortality rate is 115 per thousand, with a neonatal mortality
rate of 49 per thousand. Life expectancy at birth is around 56 years.
2.        A decade after independence, Benen's health care system vas
geared to meeting the needs of the urban population, to the detriment of
the needs of population in rural areas. Recognizing that good quality
health care services were essential for the country's social and economic
development, the Government defined a health sector policy designed to
provide basic care to the whole population.
3.        Since 1972, primary health care has been accorded greater
priority in health policy statements. The general objectives of public
health policy have been to liuk activities at the central, regional and
local levels and provide a decentralized health care system designed in
principle to meet the needs of the whole population doun to village level.
This policy gives priority to preventive medicine and associates modern
vith traditional medicine.
4.        Between 1972 and 1980, the Government set up a number of
district and communal health centers. Village health vorkers received
training to enable them to respond better to the needs of the local
population. Current budget outlays for the sector represented 10percent
of the Government's total current budget.
5.        Since 1981, the deterioration in the country's economy and the
shrinkage of domestic resources have forced the Goverument to cut back
allocations to the health sector. Current budget outlays for the sector
nov represent 6 percent of the Goverzment's total current budget.
Furthermore, priority had been given to capital spending in the directly
productive sectors, particularly through large-scale agricultural and agro-
industrial projects receiving external financ$ng.
6.        In addition, weak manaZement of the health services system led
to a proliferation of $solated, uncoordinated programs, financed by
external grants and by loans. Problems are being encouatered ln executing
them, however, owing to the lack of local couuterpart funds.



50
ANNEX 4-1
7.        Confronted with these difficulties, the Government reviewed its
policy for the sector, presenting the main results of this effort in two
papers, *Health Planning for the People's Republic of Benin, 1982-1991' and
*Operating Strategy, 1985-1989.' These documents called for a substantial
expansion of health infrastructure, which vas to include the setting up of
village health units and the training of a new type of health vorker
elected by the community. The proposed strategy involved the development
of 14 programs:
(i) Personnel development through systematic planning of basic and
advanced training programs;
(ii)  Development of essential activities to combat the major endemic
diseases in the context of prevention and health promotion;
(iii)  Inclusion of primary health care instruction in training
programs;
<iv)  Fostering participation by the population in health action;
(v) Provision of safe drinking vater and sanitation services;
(vi)  Supply of essential pharmaceutical products;
(viil Incorporation of health action in social and economic
development projects;
<viii) Investigation into ways of increasing motivation at all levels;
(ix) Launching of a health information and education campaign;
Cx) Increased rationalization of resource management;
(xi)  Construction of nov health facilities;
(xii)  Remodeling and rebabilitation of existing facilities;
(xiii) Upgrading of technical equipment and logistical resources;
(xiv)  Real decentralization of all services concentrated in the
central Ministry.
Given Benin's deteriorating economic situation, however, the
Government vas imable to finance the programs listed here.
8.        In 1985, it became obvious that the seriousness of the crisis
vas going to require realignment of the Government's economic policy, in
the interests of achieving greater economic growth through resource
allocation that vould take fuller account of the country's comparative
advantages and through more judicious balancing of the roles of government
and the private sector. To this end, the Government decided to institute a
medium-term macro-economic adjustment program to be implemented over the
period 1989-91.



51
ANNEX 4-1
9.         The main objective of this Structural Adjustment Program ls to
raise the real CDP grovth rate over the medium term to about 3 percent
annually vithin a viable macroeconomic framework.   The program encompases
the reform of the current budget and general public sector management;
reinforcement of the quality of investment planning and programuing;
deepening and amplifying the ongoing public enterprise sector reforms
restructuring of the banking system; aud reform of trade policy and
dereLulation of markets.  These reforme are to be accompanied by measures
to minimize the negative social impact of adjustment, vhile preparing the
transition to enable the lover income groupe to participate in the benefits
of growth. Consistent vith this approach, the Government has undertaken
the reform of the health sector in support of which it has requested the
technical and financial cooperation of the International Development
Association.
II.       Health Sector Develoiment Policv
10.       The Health Sector Developement Policy is an intrinsic part of
the Government's Structural Adjustment Program.  Its primary objective is
to improve health indicators, the present climate of austerity
notvithstanding. Accordingly, policy goals are to maintain achievements to
date in the health field and to promote expansion of primary health care
coverage throughout the national territory.
11.       The sector strategy is designed to lay down a solid foundation
on vhich to develop an integrated health services system and to ensure
efficient linkages between central, regional and local level services. Its
impact le to be measurable in terms of the capacity of the system to
respond to the needs of the population. Vith this in mind, the Governnent
has identified what it regards as priority programes
(i)    Preventive measures (including vaccinations, maternal and infant
care, and famuly planning) and the health information, education
and communication campaign;
(ii)    Strengthening of curative services, including measures to put in
place an essential drug program;
(iii)    Rehabilitation of existing physical infrastructure; and
(iv)    Prevention of sexually transmitted diseases and AIDS.
12.       To achieve these objectives, the Government undertakes to carry
out a package of specific actions over the period 1988-92 that vill consist
ofs (a) reforme in system organization; (b) improved system management at
all levels; (c) mobilization of additional resources through greater
private sector and NGO participation, a cost recovery system and more
effective internal resource allocation; and (d) rationalization of the
investment budget and borroving policy.



52
ANUEX 4-1
III.     Priority Programs
13.       The Government has prepared a document outliing its operational
strategy and specifying quantitative targets to be reached during the
medium-term. These targets vill be reviewed on an annual basis and revised
accordingly. The operating document focuses on the follovingt
(i) Benin's demographic epidemiological situation.
(ii) Sector resources (infrastructure, human, financial).
(iii)New Policy orientation and norms for public and private sector
operations.
(iv) Short and medium term objectives with quantitative targets for
all priority programa.
(v)  Definition of a criteria for staff redeployment to achieve a
more equitable distribution of personnel among the provinces.
14.       To launch its sector development program, the Governsent has
accorded priority to the rehabilitation of existing health facilities.
Decisions affecting the expansion of existing facilities and the
construction of new facilities, nov or in the future, vill be based on the
folloving criteriat
-    Available financial resources;
-    Target population (size, location);
-    Interest and villinguess of local government and communities in
contributing (financially or with materials/labor) to initial
building operations and routine maintenance;
-   Availability of qualified personnel to cover operating
requirementes;
-   Distance from other health services;
-   Norms for capacity of facilitiesa  Provincial Hospitals, 120
beds; District Health Centers vith operating room (OR), 40 beds;
District Health Centers vithout OR 24 beds, Community Health
Centers 12 beds.
IV.       System Orsanization and Nanasement
The Roles of the State. the Private Sector and
Beneficiaries
15.       In order to develop an efficient health care system and to
ensure its sustainability in the long term, the Government requires the
complemeutary role of the State, the private sector and beneficiarles. It
proposes to encourage and promote private sector and beneficiary



53
ANNEX 4-1
participation in sector operations. To achieve this, the Government vill
implement the specific measures outlined below.
16.       Like the majority of developing countries, Benin has felt the
impact of a financial and economic crisis that has reduced the Government's
capacity to finance the country's development. In the interests of
preserving achievements s0 far in the health field, however, the Government
proposes to take measures to increase the allocation and improve the
efficiency of the health system and the mobilization of sector resources.
17.       ln order to increase both health care coverage and the efficacy
of curative and preventive services, the Government has decided to foster
greater participation by NGOs and the private sector, especially in primary
health care, in the supply, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical drugs,
and in the opening of private clinics. It vill introduce legislation and
regulations that define the scope for participation by NGOs and private
sector operations in these areas. Legislative and regulatory texte
governing the opening of private clinics vill be available in draft by June
30, 1989 and promulgated by November 30, 1989. Plans for specific action
in connection vith the supply, distribution and sale of drugs and other
pharmaceutical products are outlined below in the sections dealing vith the
pharmaceutical sub-sector and cost recovery.
Cost Recovery Policv
18.       For some years, the Government of Benin has been experimenting
vith ways to make hospitals, district and commal health centers
financially self-supporting. Hospital fees have been set at levels
calculated to generate enough revenue to cover non-wage operating costs.
In 1987, expermments in recovering the costs of essential generic drugs
began at district and communal health centers vith financial and technical
assistance from the Federal lepublic of Germany, Switzerland and UNICEF.
These schemes are based on initial donation of stocks of essential drugs,
vhich are then sold to the public at acceptable prices. The revenue
generated constitutes the vorking capital needed for restocking, while
profits are used to help finance health center operating costs. These
experiences have proven valuable, but have been managed in isolation from
the rest of the public health care system, varying in approach from donor
to donor, and lacking a uniform accounting system.
19.       In the light of these experiences, the Government has decided to
incorporate cost recovery as part of all hospital services and the
essential drugs program throughout the country. Implementation of the plan
vill be preceded bys (i) fixing of the charges to be levied by hospitals
and of the margin on drug purchase prices to be applied by hospitals,
district health centers and communal health complexes; (ii) development of
an appropriate accouuting system and its adoption by all hospitals,
district and communal health centers; and (iii) issue of an
interministerial order by the Minister of Public Health and the Hinister of
Finance authorizing these facilities to retain the proceeds of their
operations for the purchase of essential drugs and defrayal of other non
vage expenses. Decree No. 88-444 of November 18, 1988 and its arrlté
d'application' No. 67SIMSPIMF of February 27, 1989, define the financial
responsibilities of health facilities and the procedures for managing their



54
ANNEX 4-1
funds. A decree fixing the tariffs for clinical consultations, treatment,
hospitalization in public sector services, shall be promulgated before May
30 1989.  By September 15, 1989, the cost recovery system vill be
lntroduced in the provinces of Atacora, Mono, and Atlantique, covering the
folloving districts: Ouake, Copargo, Djougou, Lalo, Toviklln, Klonekamné,
Dogbo, Bopa, Toffo, Allada, and Zè. All cost recovery programs In
operation vill be evaluated by September 15, 1990 so that they can be
introduced in all health facillties in Benin by December 31, 1990.
Pharmaceutical Sub-Sector
20.       The development of a rational and efficient pharmaceutical sub-
sector is an essential component of the health delivery system. Since
major difficulties have been encountered here, the Government is determined
to make the sector more efficient and is therefore committed to the actions
nov outlined belov.
21.       A program ls to be introduced for the supply of essential
generic drugs to all public health facilities. For this purpose, a legal
and administrative framework vill be set up in order to ensure the supply
of affordable essential drugs to all parts of the country. The necessary
body of regulations vill specify procedures for import; manufacture;
distribution at all levels- quality control; program administration; and
the participation of NGO's and the private sector in the program.
Appropriate legislation will be drafted by July 31, 1989 and promulgated by
the folloving April 1990. A national commission to draw up a list of
essential drugs and review it each year has been established (Ministerial
order No. 280IMSP/DGMIDPH of January 27, 1989).
22.       Goverrment services in charge of supply and distribution of
essential drugs lack management capability and resources. At the central
level, the Direction des pharmacies (DPH) is expected to carry out Benin's
pharmaceutical policy, but its powers and responsibilities as specified in
the pertinent regulations are inconsistent vith its mode of organization.
DPH's role should be to coordinate, inform, and supervise. The Pharmacie
d'Approvisionnement (PHARMAPRO), directly under the responsibility of the
Direction des pharmacies, has been responsible for the supply and
distribution of drugs and medical supplies to all public health
facilities. In recent years, its financial position has deteriorated oving
to lack of resources, poor management and groving arrears to suppliers.
This led suppliers to discontinue honoring drug orders from the NSP.
Consequently, the MSP has been unable to maintain adequate supply of drugs
to facilities and this has had a devastating effect on quality of services
nation-vide. The gravity of the situation of the situation calls for
short-term action to assure supplies of essential drugs and medium-term
action to establish a viable and sustainable supply system.
23.       The Government has explored several ways to set up a better
system including its possible participation in a joint venture vith private
businesses in establishing PHARMA-BENIN, offering as its share the
infrastructure of the liquidated state monopoly ONPB. After further
reflections and detailed review of the legal and economic implications of
the venture, the Government has opted to concentrate its efforts, jointly
vith donors active in health to set up a Centrale d'Achats. The new



55
APNMM 4-1
Centrale dAchats vill procure and distribute essential generic druge for
public health facilities in Benin.
24.       The Governmeut recognizes that private sector operations in
pharmaceuticals are currently hampered, among other things, by existing,
rigid tax, import levy, and pricing systema. To remove these constraints,
the Governwent proposes to undertake the folloring stepss
-    Dissolution of PHARMAPRO (MNnisterial Order No. 637INSPIDGMIDPH
of Pebruary 24, 1989).
-    Creation of a drug procurement and distribution comittee for
supplying essential drugs to public health facilities
(Ministerial Order No. 616/NSP/DGM/DPH of February 1989).
-    Elaboration by the above mentioned committee by April
30, 1989 of procurement procedures it vill utilize to
purchase essential drugs for health facilities until
the Centrale d'Achats is set up and is fully
operational.
-    By June 30, 1989, promulgate legielation and operating
procedures for the Centrale d'Achats.
-    By September 30, 1989, initiate operations of the Centrale
d'Achats.
-    Reviewing, within the context of the couatry's Structural
Adjustment Program, the taxation system applicable to both
essential generic drugs and brand-name drugs, and sale prices.
-    Monitor annually the efficiency of existing procurement and
distribution systems with a view to refining and improving the
system.
National Poi>ulation Policy
25.       Data from the national census demographic surveys carried out in
1961 and 1982 show that fertility in Benin has constantly remained high
over that period, vith the total fertility rate staying around 7.
Moreover, mortality statistics revealed high rates of maternal, infant and
child mortality. In order to improve this situation, the Government is
supporting a family planning program to encourage couples to space births
and provide family health education to single people. The Benin National
Comuittee for the Promotion of Family and by a Family Velfare Project
vithin MSP have been responsible for developing this program. Hovever, its
achievement bave been limited and the Government has recognized the need to
set up an appropriate national framework for developing the program
further. Under its sector reform program, family planning activities vill
be expanded and an IEC program vill be developed to educate families to
take advantage of services provided under tie family planning program. The
Ministry of Planning is currently in the process of drafting a national
population policy, the text of vhich vill after review by various bodies in



56
ANNEX 4-1
Benin, be presented to the Council of Ministry by September 1989. The
policy vlll be officially adopted by the following April 30, 1990.
Manasement of the Health Care System
26.       As a step toward greater efticiency ln the management of the
health care system, the Goverament, through the Ministry of Public Health,
conducted a study in early 1988 vhich identified the need for flexible
management.  It recomuended radical reorganization of the Ministry,
beginning vith redefinition of its key functions, namelys planning and
programming, coordination of sector policies, supervision and follow-up of
priority programs, and evaluation and mobilization of financial
resources. The study alseo recommended greater decentralization of the
system, accompanied by measures to rationalize its deployment of human
resources and thereby promote provision of services at the local level.
The Government has initiated this reorganization by appointing provincial
health directors, vith responsibility for the management, supervision,
coordination and evaluation of programs in their provinces.
27.       The Government undertakes to continue the restructuring of the
Ministry of Public Health.  Consistent vith the program for the reform of
the public administration being undertaken under the Government's
structural adjustment program, a detailed survey of health sector staff has
been carried out and forms the empirical basis for the staff redeployment
program. It vill provide the framework for basic, formal and in-service
training and new staff profiles, and corresponding salary scales. Concrete
proposals for the reorganization of the Ministry have been elaborated and
an action plan for its implementation has been defined. These proposals
shall be adopted before June 30, 1989 and implemented before September 30,
1989. The MSP appointed the heads of key units in MSP in December, 1988.
The functions and staff profiles of all central units of the MSP vill be
defined by May 30, 1989. In addition, by June 30, 1989, the Goverrment
vill formulate a plan for deploying staff more equitably across provinces
and districts ln the interests of decentralizing the health care system
further. It vill be adopted by the. Government by June 30, 1989 and put
into effect by the folloving September 30, 1989.  The MSP has defined
criteria for staff redeployment and select a committee to reviev the
criteria and finalize redeployment proposals.
28.       To improve program coordination and enhance decision-making vith
MSP, the Government has set up a high-level program coordination and
monitoring mechanism in the department (Decree No. 881427 of October 28,
1988). The Program Coordination and Monitoring Committee (CNEE) will
oversee the effective implementation of sector reforma contained in the
Action Plan; vill periodically reviev the progress, coordinate external
donor assistance, identify and modify objectives and targets of the Plan.
The CNEEP is chaired by the Minister of Public Health; its bureau comprises
a first Vice-President: Minister of Plan and Statistics or Director General
of the Ministry; a second Vice-President: Minister of Finance or Director
General of the Ministry; a rapporteur, Director of Research and Planning in
MSP; a second rapporteur, Director of Research and Planning in the Ministry
of Secondary and Higher Education.  The members of the CNEEP are: the
Ministers of Plan and Statistics or Director of Plan, the Minister of
Finance or Director of Budget and the Director General of the Caisse



57
ANNU 4-1
Autonome d'Amortisseme4t; the Minester of Justice or Director of
Legislation; the Iinister of Defe4se or the Director of Military Health
Services; the XiUister of Labor and Social Affaire or Director of Social
Affairs; the Minister of Vorks and Transport or the Director of Urban
Planning and Housing; the Minister of Information and Comeunications or c.
Director of Information and Propaganda and the Minister of Rural
Development and Cooperatives or the Director of Applied Nutrition and the
Director of Cooperatives.   It vill be assisted by a Secretariat composed
of the Central and Provincial Services Directors of the MSP and one
representative each from the Ministries of Finance sad Plan. The CNEEP vill
meet on a quarterly basis and vill reviev the investment program twice a
year. In the context of its monitoring functions, the CNEEP will prepare
quarterly progress reports which vill be submitted to the sub-coumittee for
human resources of the. National Adjustment Comittee.
V.        Sector Finaucins
More Effective Resource Allocation vithin the Sectors
Nobilization of Suoilementarv Resources.
29.       The deterioration in Benin's finacial position has made it
increasingly difficult for the Government to finance operating costs of the
health care system. This has resulted in the substantial reduction In
nonvage current expenditure. In particular, the following activities have
been cut to the absolute minimum: pharmaceutical supplies, equipment,
medical supplies, fuel, ln-service training, supervision and hospital
catering and sanitation. This situation has contributed to the
deterioration of existing health services.
30.       The Government is seeking to remedy this state of affairs
through a susttsned increase in budget allocations for non-vage operating
expenses, snd undertakes to prepare annual recurrent allocations based on a
realistic program budgeting system.
S1.       The Ministry of Public Health has prepared its 1989 current
budget based on the new program budgeting systea which takes into account:
(i)    Present and projected user attendance rates at communal health
centers, district health centers, and provincial hospitals;
(ii)    Drug and medical supplies requirememts for different levels of
services;
tiii)    Staffing levels based on norme and availability;
(iv)    Levels of financing projects and services by foreign donors;
(v)    Separate budget requeste from each health facility.
32.       The above criteria viii be revieved annually and used in draving
up the Mfristry of Public 8ealth current budget for subsequent years.  The
folloving additioual considerations vill be taken into accounts



58
ANNEX 4-1
-    Yearly quantitative objectives regarding the integration of
priority programs at each level of health service and indicators
to measure success in achieving them;
-    Management capability at each level and by type of service.
33.       The new budget programming exercise undertaken by the Ministry
of Public Health has enabled it to determine its recurrent allocation needs
for the period 1989-1991. The 1989 current allocation needs for the health
sector of CFAF 3.56 billion (US$11.86 million) include CFAF 1.1 billion
(US$ 3.63 million) for non-wage recurrent costs. They represent roughly a
20 percent increase over 1988 estimated levels of about CFAP 3 billion; the
vage bill remaining fundamentally the same, vith the increase going to non-
vage operating recurrent expenditure. A large proportion of non-wage
recurrent costs is dedicated to the procurement of essential drugs and
vaccines for purposes of instituting the cost recovery program in three
provinces (CFAF 489 million, or US$ 1.63 million). Some increases are
provided for fuel and maintenance of vehicles, and communications, while
other expenditure, such as hospital catering and dietary services remains
at the levels of past years (CFAF 200 million, or US$ 0.67 million).
Further resource increases are needed in 1990 and 1991. Total current
allocation health sector needs would amount of CFAP 4.4 billion in 1990,
and CFAF 4.8 billion in 1991. These figures take into accouat the need to
replace retiring medical and para-medical personnel as vell as the hiring
of selected staff when the need has been fully demonstrated, representing a
5 percent increase per annum in the vage bill- the need to institute the
cost recovery program at a national level, representing an increase of 84
percent in the procurement of essential drugs and vaccines in 1990; the
introductioi of an infrastructure maintenance program and small increases
for fuel and vehicle maintenance. Other expenditure vould remain at 1989
levels. These expenditure levels vill be confirmed during preparation of
the Ninistry of Public Health recurrent budget which vill be presented to
the Ministry of Finance in September of each year.
34.       The current Government's financial situation does not permit it
to finance the health care costs of the system. The 1989 approved budget
has allocated CFAP 700 million for non-wage recurrent expenditure, which is
clearly insufficient to cover the minimum non-wage recurrent cost needs
mentioned in para 33. To finance essential expenditure, it han enlisted
the assistance of the international donor community through the creation of
a Social Fund. The Social Fund vould be in existence for a period of three
years (1989-1991). Counterpart funds generated by external assistance for
this purposes vould be deposited in the Social Fund and earmarked to
finance non-wage recurrent expenditure for health and education, and other
priority social programs. During this period, the Government vould
institute a system of cost recovery designed to gradually undertake the
financing of non-wage recurrent expenditure of the health sector (paras 17-
18). The Social Fund vill be created by August 15, 1989, as a special
account at the Cotonou Branch of the BCEAO. As regards health expenditure,
the CNEEP vill submit requests for the approval of financing under the
Social Fund to the National Adjustment Commission.
35. Actual health non-wage recurrent expenditure for the year vould be
reviewed each year by July 30. By September 30 of each year, the MSP vill



59
ANNEX 4-1
prepare a recurrent budget which is consistent with the program budgeting
system described above, and vould maintain the MSP's recurrent budget
proposals in 1990 at not more than CFAF 2.6 billion for personnel
expenditure, and not less than CFAF 1.8 billion for non-vasge recurrent
expenditure. In 1991, recurrent expenditure levels for personnel vould be
maintained at about CFAF 2.7 billion, and non-wage recurrent expenditure at
not less than CFAF 2.3 billion.
36.       Beginning in 1992, the Government vould undertake to maintain
recurrent expenditure at not less than 6Z of its national recurrent budget,
and non-wage recurrent expenditure at not less than 402 of the recurrent
budget. The Government vill strengthen the cost recovery measures
discussed in para. 18 above to enable beneficiaries to participate in the
financing of health care. It vill extend the system nationwide by
September 15, 1990. Folloving the establisbment of the cost recovery
system nationvide, non-wage budgetary allocations vill take into accouat
revenue generated through cost recovery measures.
Investment Budaet and The Government Borrovin, Policv
37.       Under existing financial constraints, the Government's
investment program vill be limited to priority projects which have clear
objectives for improving the health of the majority of the population.
Vithin the context of structural adjustment, the Government has
incorporated these priorities in its public investment program. Beginning
in 1989, the programming and yearly budgeting of capital expenditure in the
sector vill coeply vith the folloving principless
-    The total health investment package to be included in the
national investment program vill be defined in light of
recurrent cost requirements;
_    The content of the health sector investment plan vill be decided
in light of the priority programs for the sector and their
sustainability over the longer term; preference vill be given to
the rehabilitation of existing facilities. Properly monitored
feasibility studies demonstrating their economic and social cost
effectiveness.
-    Priority vill be given to maintenance of physical infrastructure
and equipment.
-    New projects vlll adhere strictly to the strategy for the
sector and comply vith the objectives of the Structural
Adjustment Program.
38.       A three-year rolling plan (1989-91), complying with the
principles and criteria indicated above has been formulated and submitted
to the National Adjustment Committee for final approval vithin the context
of the overall public investment program. Each annual health sector
investment budget vill be reviewed and approved by November each year.
39.       The Government vill restrict borroving commitments and financial
cooperation in the health sector to those projects approved in the context



60
AUNEX 4-1
of the overall public investment program and the structural adjustment
program.
.



BENIN - EAL.TH SERVICES DEVELOPMW   PROJECt
ACTION PLAN                                            ANNEX 4-2
PROPOSED REFORUS/               PROPOSED ACTIONS maER                     EADUNE f
iSSUES                       OOVERNENT mEiDU                    MEASURES NDER                     REFORN PROO¢A4 IN                   REFORVS/UEASURE
TERM  OBJECTrVES               SECTOR REFORV PROGRAV              iEALTN SECTOR POL1CY                       ACTIONS
REVISE SECTOR           Dfilailon of mactor pollcy       Pene alilon of a mHllh Sector                                         Don.
POUCY AND               end stratlwgy.                   Pol ly Statlolt.
SIRAEGY
Prepara lon of Operelonenl Str.i                                      Do»
Docmnt.
DEFINITION OF iHn       R l Mrlt  prvalte sector end   Pretion of r.ulFtery tr_ae-  Promulgation of logleinleon end   Novemer   , 1909.
ROMES OF Tif STATE      NuO participation ln h ealh      merl for prlvtY   end NCO mctlvity  rogulemtion d.dIning condilIons
PRIVATE SECTOR AND      cre                              ln h.elh                           for p.rtllcpatlon.
NMGOS
RESOURCE MOBIUZATION   Enm u dequat. furding for r.- MIntli NEF recurront expondl-   Creailon of à Social Fund *Ith            Cr.mtion of thit Social Fund
AND              current expenditur.              tunre et  bout CFAF 4 bil Iion     external remourcoe to provide      by Augua C a, 199.
IMPROVED ALLOCATION                                      la 1989, Includiug non-wage        furdlmg nomded la exce«   of
recurroeu  expeodîtur. *e not     approved 19 budget.
les: tin CFAF 1.  bili.on
ReviOW of actuel annuel  xpendl-  Ju. of «cl yoar.
ture  «aCh yr under the
Social Fund.
Malutain NSP reeurront *xpandl-   Confirmation of reurreon            September of *Ch ymer.
ture et about CFAF 4.4 billIon     expenditurn  _med  for 190
a                                                                 end CFAF 6.0 bllto0n for 1990 end  end 199I  through prparaelonio
end NO, r pectively snd non-   of annuel budget lu acerdance
age" expeodîtur. .e not lma        *Ith progre budgeting
tehon CFAF 1.8 bilIlon end CFAF    procedure.
2.a bllllon, r.mpectlivly.
Malntaln non-wage rmeurrent        Allocation r.vised under           Septomber of asch yaar.
budoet expenditures et bot         mubeaqueut revim mcl ch
lemoathen 40X of total current    yar therafter. Revis, end
budget for hél1th boginnln ln lu  mlifsclilon wlih actual expenditure
1902   Ineorporat. recel pt         he pr vIous ymer.
gen.rnted by coot recovery xe
f 1inac nig  t b  of budget.
Enmure thet budget mîloca-         Approve qunrt.rly dieburmw-        Ogonlg.
thonu  are méd  aval lable to     monti barnd on coltmemnte
lUSP tlrough eynO m of             méde.
budget ry fol lo-up.



ANNEX 4-2
PROPOSED REFORMS/                PROPOSED ACTIONS UNDER                    DMDLD  FOR
ISSUES                          OVERUT MIEDU                        EASURES UNDER                     REFORN PROGIRA N                      REFOUS/IIEAWSU
TERN OBJECTNES                  SECTOR REFORI PROGRA                HEALTH SECTOR POLCY                         ACTINS
Mobilize additonal rpeoures.       Establish cout récovery            - Promulgation of en essentiel       Don.
sy t_ *t national leval             drues liet.
- Prepnartion mnd publication        Scptmber 16, 1909.
of prescription puida lnes on
-    1 druga.
lption of Logielative        May 80, lm
Texte on the Fé Structure of
Public Hoalth Facilit;.
Retructuring of phbamc.utilel   Restructure Institutlonal             - Establishment of à coIttea for  Don.
sub-s_ctor.                        tr_mmork.                            the purchése mnd *upply et drugs.
- Disband PARURO.                    Don.
- Legl tr_m ork crati ng             Junc 30, 1989.
Centrale d'Achate.
- Initiol operation of Centrale      Septemer 30, l99.
d'fichote.
- Firt yer of operation              September 30, 1990.
p*rHormnco revi  .
Improve rsource efficlency in    Set up botter accountiung            uhltate coat recovery                Septumber 16, 190.
héalth sector.                     mnd financlal control systom.      activities lin the province of
Atecors, Mono, end Atlaitique,
covorling distrlcte of Ouake,
Copargo, DJougou, Lalo,
Tovikfln, Klouekamne, Dogbo,
Bopa, Toffo, Allads und Zl.
Adoption of legiseltwve              Soptember 16, 1989
textes on cot recovery,
iuncudino dofuinltion of
financial responsibilities
mnd mènage mt procedurs.
Revis. functioning of coat           Soptmmbar 15, 1990.
recovery actlvitie.
Extenslon of cost recovery           December 11  1990.
amesure ménagemsnt systen
applled ln *il of health
facltti  lin BSnin.
Participation of NMO, pr;vate      Def Ine ftramork for partl-        Dratt logislitîon end                 Jue 0, 1909.
*ector in service dolivery mund    cipation of NGO, private           reguletion definuing cofndi-
héélth promotion.                  *ector.                            tions for partielpetion of
NCO  end privato ector.
Govornumnt to encourag.
private *ector p*rticipation
ln supply, distributlon  und
sale of druga, mnd opening of
private cluilce.



A.NNEX 4-2
PROPOSED REFORMS/                PROP06ED ACTIONS UNDER                    DEAPUNE FOR
TSSUES                OOVNMENWUST HEDDUti                NEMSURES UNDER                     REFORM  PROORA  lIN                  REFORUS"IEASUk
TMR  OBJECTIVES               SECTOR R£FOR  PROORAN               HEALTH SECTOR POUCY                         ACTIONS
Promulgation of above                Nove.l_r 80, l00.
logitlotion.
STRUOOTENEINO OF    St.rsnth.n  prrao for         Df initlen of operetional          Definition of *ector pr;orlty        Cover_t to provlde adequet
PRIORITY PRORAO S  prvetive to*   viti.b          prograo targetu.                   progrme  nd content of curatve       budgt.ary support. staff ski Ile
includtng vsacination,                                           services.                            to b  uopWrsdd.
*at.rnel end child cars,
faetly planning, EC,
nutrition snd control of
ST/ATDS.
Instituts lmpr.vod maternel  Devolopsent of en sorly w&rning    Equip provincial obstetric unit.,   Revis. annuelly.
héalth referral syst..        surveillance end management        purchas. end equip ambulances for
sycte  et* provincial level for    management of caes, train stff.
high rilk pregnanels.
Definltion of National             Adoption of National Populetion      Texte of folicy Document avellabl
Population Policy.                 Polley.                              Septmber 19M. Promulgation
April o0, lm0.
Dvolvopoent of    ref resher       DssIn ref resher course prograi      Initiate during yesr on. end
course proor..                     to mest service dol ivery nede.      revlse annually thoerafter.
Carry out annual reviess  of       Ongoing annuel ly.                   December 1, *ach yser. 
continuous Imple.entation
of progras.
Strenpthsn progras for        Develop national progre. for       Prepare legal end administratlv      July 31  1989.
curative srvice, lncluding  essentiel dreugs.                    fra ork to cover pharmaceutical
the dévolope»nt of an *sen-                                      procurment, distribution and
tIol drugs progra.                                               stock managoment.
Set up essentiel 8eneri drug        September 16, 109.
procurament  yst.m.
Introduce stove logisietion end      April a0, 1990.
procedurs.
Rhabbilitte *xlistng rural  Rshabilt.titon norma and             Rnovation, extension end r-          R abhll t.tlon to b. tfn nei..d
heeth intrasructure.          standards defIn«d by Covrn  n.  equipement of exis6tng faliltls.   by IDA end the Sie, Devolo_psent
Provision of stff training.          Coop a6tion in hbroo pha_e during
199-96 psrlod.
Devolop progrsm t0 prvent ox                   -                 Counlty hbélth eduation (tEC)    Annuel progréo bsginning 1«9.
tremltted disasées - STD*/AIDS.                                 end patient survel  lance end
fol low-up.



ANNEX 4-2
PROPsw  RFUMS/                   PROPOSED ACTINS UOER                        OEULNE FOR
SSUES                  GOVEN T MEUN                       MEASURES UNRU                       REFi PROMRU IN                        REFORM/MEASJfS
TEM  OBJECTVES                SECTOR REFORM  PROAN iiEALWM SECTOR POLUCY                                        ACTOM
Set up efficient ielth        - Oofinl  hoirerchiel orgnslta-     Set up hospitel rcferral car.         Se up hoapital managbment end
roferral syt*   to  *tr.ng      tion of services.                 syst..                                accouating aystt  by September 19.
th"n curatlve care.           - Osflu. tunetion ed rspone-
lbl  Itles of fncilIties at
differont levIs.
b prov  envlronantal          In tituto plJot project  la         Approval of projecta by CNEEP.        Annuel rvlow.
halth  ud *anltation.         diaadvatoged urban end *  I-urbnn
arme nocludins s*lf-i lp projoct.
MANAGEMENT OF       l prove m_u.n munt of          R.tructurlng of th. MinIatry of   Corryout dstal.ld survoy of dil-
HEAULTF  CARm       h.Ith cér. syste. by           Publie HnIth'o central end          tribution, Iuoludlng staff log
SYSTEt              str bmlning end ration-        regional unit.                      levels for ech  service, bole
alixation of proeodurus                                           triluing end profnsslonal
snd resource utillation.                                         qualifications end wage  goo.
Proparo plan for rostructuring
Minitry of Public Health.
Seis lupl.sntation of retruc-         September 30, 199.
turing m_aur.s.
Achlèvo  à mor, equitabl-     St ff red.ploymont.                 Propare plan for redsploymnt           lune 30, 1989.
dltribution of tchbnical                                         of stoff.
personnel ovsr th. country.                                                                                                                c
Df inition of functiona end           May 80, 1e9u.
reponuibiliti« of Ministry'o
central services provincial
dTrectorstes ef halth.
Adoption of Plan.                     Juno 80, 190.
8egin implem_ntation Plon.            Septmber 80, 1989.
Coordination end monitor-     Adequste coordination end           Creation of sub-committtoe on         Rovios  functionino of CNEEP annuaily
Ing of rsfom am srer,           onitoring of refora »saur«,       human resources aval able  ithliin    over life of project, qunrterly revier
heItb Iutorventions und       health activities to ensure         th. National Adjustment Coemlttee.  by CNEEP of pregrama.
on Impact of sItuation on     proper exacution of progr».
hemlth statu.
DNVESUENT 8UOCET   Ration liaation of invett-    Thr»-Year Rolling Plon (1989-91)  Preçaration 0f Thrae-Yeur Rolling    Three year plon wi1 continue to b.
AND           mat expenditures end           onnual progra_aino end budgstig   Plan obich ceply with folloInig        révlsed lu _ccordance to principles
beIeI_G POLICY   lIpro   nit of Its ff i-          of capital expe_dIturxs.            principles snd critsris:              snd crlterls.  Annuel luvestsont
ciency.                                                                                                 rvisws lu Septeber each ymer.
- Givt priority to rehabilita-
tion of exlsting fscilitie.
- Oef iue total IIv aua t
packg., lu llght of recurrent
comts avl labllity.
- Give priority to rural health
faci lit h4.



ANNEX 4-2
PUOPOSED REFNS/                PROPOSS  ACTInS UNER                    OEAD        F
lu                    @OVUSENM   MEDnU                 UtISUSS  UNDER                   REFIM POOM  IN                       5     0M_o.r
TM   BJECMES                 SECTOR REFORU PROA                 MEOL1  SECTOR POUCY
- Rodle loetm otf hetlh
etoor 1ov.s*mb pflm  to
laludo  pelortty pr.asr.
- Ene th" mm pr.jnc corre-
PO" vith SAI. frm.rk.
- Agi rwbllltaTlon I. toko
morm  «*   laplTclboa
;eu    i Fcou.
'n



66                                               ANNEX 4-3
les TamlM
bux#AEN: ne  USISTMfl
TAICUTS
r.fiiu sMd evutslt.             aBI                                  O
of NIly«  blala  I
-  .a,lioe sd                Ctlon  cm                    4                2        *
et  ussuusl m   ftsoct.m
_q aouna
- pragsîàio  Mud essiatim.        cm2   2
of r.d*aiom.su p.our,.
- Pr.sssUo OF Cap=                 OI 0
0fw r.Ir,Itue                      Wa                   lms
Prerulk of »Siu*1_ 0                                     4                 a
&fratralfer prosis o
40~~~e spD   aa
_PM-  sy__l*_82sb
BSRID8. Ct 180t  P
blmi
- rev1oef aabio.si          AJP4                            4
-46eti.n e al--unDvil
_ £s uie 0ft_i                   SAAR                                           a2
a" suer,t spR
'mreCru.   mrow9 
pro.b.e.IscuIed                    gr                     S            a
_TAL#                                                 M4        .0       a   a    1   O J
-  o                                                             ---d----i e9 



67                                                   ANNEX 4-4
TA MORT
Cet/ewrAIvt0          c_tr                                             a41          O         a 2   a   4   0   O
- Pecore. U, ._,so.                 OSP         R Pur. a Io    s                   27
- Floau.ell  uu...u0                O08         1 Pur. a 10 gleo            20          10  10
H~~ REOURM
-Waaa..SI bye..    ~ ~ ~ l  SPura. sOmmetAs ~~27                 O      9
- C.ua0 lrululag                                I Pur. x S   _mtA            O           8
op  fmOu
EICAIL E l21W
- Sioedicel ..gle.                  Dm          1 sPl_dlcal e.ulo..r        24    12  U2
-C;il .clesr                       ODmA         I Civil ui#or               24    12   U
- TraI-il  T      dchaia.           Dm         a Pier». a a                                  »
es8ufrL CftCS
- Hts eusi op ..atl                 mI          a Pr. a0 mm"                 a           O
-  hrmaegllu   Imupartes       l     WH         2 Pes. a 9 cagots           1l
-Computer tlraing                   WH          1 Pop. a 8 Matha                         à
llTIUOWt. uAfl0
- (tu le 1 . darml           va                                             24          24
- 1Nideui,#to                       Suriel.     Il Pare. a O imam           W8               la  24  24
FglloewMpe (leoel):
- ME le  ury                        WH          S Pur. 8 1  imat            72               es  as
- 11SF la uens_thileu               mm          I Pursr. a 1  mats          72               8   as
- IDE in Aadl. ielDm                            a Puri. a à maeth           OS                    8
PROj:r _vAcN
- Feaseu            t                           1IPu  s P mon. "  
-Computer training                 EP          8Poe    1 amati                     8
TOLs                                                                       n412    72  07120l 8n    24   0 0
_      _         _   _ _- - 



ANNEX 4-5
68
-' nu - -w, _ t.O UG
nner  P
- Prepram1oe Md laara                  00F         1SF Srtafwofà                 100m       K          30
la W  N0 a due
- PrrQW.too of m                       GI          OPSI  * CU Ilad              m9          x               no  0
08,0f .awleiaoluia
_t~~~~~~~~~~c 40 GII aD
Il P.,.. a a dya0
au          45 Pea. a  a. e »
- Dace.,.                                                                        480 Itl  00  £0fl                              £0  10Hfllo X10
I,~~~~~~~~~c1~~~~~~~~ Mo~~~o                                                                             
extum ~       ~         ~        t lc
NEWAL  -ulë
- Waae.laa£ico0f prootus              DIF          Mr.Coe.o  Staf                          x                     sa
Il Piero. a à due.
oeseffIAL OM
- Psa et d_l    f__tlay                m           cm Md OU M"da                  d         X                00
CM0. OUN.afebdo                                  1*eee1s. aadue
- ioa of dam0 f.rlacy                     Io. eu. cm suif
CmO. 0?, ccll Peauaai                            la Cm a S Por. à a day.         m                        440
cosr A«BevY
- 0l.a.almalo0f ejetm.              DAFiOF        CM. OU. «sMde                                             do  do
<Dtoetre                                         et Piero. a S a.
a leamé.iaatleoaf Austm.i           flmjP         Acoeouaata                     £                          60   00
IMPOOATIO.   XAI)    
- (to be "elaio  feyadm P)0Ndle                                                  lm0                        no    O
m0 Pe*.  a Sday*
- 10/F  semalars                OPS/CU  Nidavieas  lEidaw.ajTrd. Write ste.      m0                                  no00 m09    no
10 pes  Sdasv ail diet.
:- Froati om   Dt.> I)W                             la Fea, a 14 day.             284       K                    UR
fProUboI. Otite.. Aide)           Ln1Uim         SI Pore,. a 14 dupe            lu4       K                    14
-Pr.oSIaon (Mi Rue.)               WIxv/CP        £4 Por*. u14 à. aU 01.f.    918                                   918
- ftretalong CCl noe".               psf5100      10 Fera.: a d. a 7 *e.         770                            14  lu4 1ut 14 lu4
a 1 dieta.
-  rabOia. of vil lag  aOmeut       CPS/S         10 Pore.x 1 d. a 7 orne.       770                            lu4  14 184 lu4 14
a I die"e.
TUFALS                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~10019         0 1lm  1819 837  190 lm0 19
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~                                                     -         -r



POOdE 0! oSWIoPmIE    usS SVICAS 0< SUte
Ssuw* *comts bv vaac
Oam  Coat~
à              a                    g         s      total       t     lm
I. 11*1118 CIVIL
si1   mmaS oSUiBiITaiTI                  -         -1.206.400    52,420                       I  .2580    SI. 5   840.06
111<1PM uass  eturaî,ou                                      -   AU8.41S                        Ut- 41,15  11.1   438.240
fuis1 UUIlctICU L                             64.061    SA.518i   45.81 us-    17.440  00.0   #O& 442
Séb-v.tal T581*0 Cilit                IS&0   1,201.441  I. . la, ?    41. 115        -        -    M.50280   MA. 1.008116, 8
S. UhiLiE                               8. 40     1.001t    2.002          -                        11.402  61. 6     1.06M
0. EOiliPMt                            93.231     4.32m     1. 4-                             -   100.531   01.6    61.1111
luicLIs                            850.0m     25.985      m.2                                   Us'- 0858    11.8   218.01m
IUPomAtiOu                           8.14                                                        &  - - -  .14  00.8A    1.114
E401901181 TEIQCIUI                121.114     1.160       851        est         .             131.188  00.6   124.208
IOA500iE  OMM8*                     23.28          -      5,321         -         -        -     26.00 m 00.6    25.020
léà-Total EOOIPIUIU                   si082      8818       12.00m51                               mi. 81,14   M1.4   431.00
C.Assîsîian raCaIUto
181181  1mnu1ihuoh*m               180428      16420    44,611    25.02m    4.811      4.01t   101, 101  100. 0    M9. 101
RUP!0S Ui?oflh                       2,520  .  1. 000       120                                   S, -  80*    &.0     0.
$*-Totai MSSISIAMI  TIlhIOUI          140.94M    00.21M    45.0 M      5.a20    4.821    4.821   302.141   Y 38.    M0.1M
FI Imms  vami.îw
A L ilefum                          24.56 M    l 8.51    11.511     J1.Sil        -               50910.0o  m     05,00m
LOCAL£                                         2.6"O      8.10                   -         -8800S »       0.0         O
lé-Total OMM05  TECIUUOO               m45       10.011     163851    11.511                        i 1.88 su 91.2    Otto6
a. F0601110  LOCAL£                   131,500    M.8,15100     O 137.50  11.4    131.50  8,500      825.000M    0.0      O
mm0£05 pouS la 0111809               25.0 m       .11-,  toi83.08 M 100.0.   85.038
1. 1810  Et RSSAI0<SIENMT                 -    82.851    03.851                                  185.114  il. 1    60.114
.8. 180456 PRU84*110 fACILIIT         201.20 M                                -                    201.200  ai. 1    186.000
Total IUwIStIWU COlIS                  1.308.445  1,5S0.t44  1.591.M8  1.119,052   142,321   142,821 5.811.844  SI.?  3.088.04
il. RoEUMa ui ss
518000 ODOOtEIO                      800.00m  1.0eu. 000    %O0.00 M                         -  .000000U  100.06 3. 000. 000
total SteCOuET CUlIS                     90000  t. 050.000   000,000                               3    .000.000  tu0.0 3.000.0ou
total MIELIUE COSYS                    2.208,445 2.620.144  2.551.M0  1. t10. 052   *42.321   142.321 8.011.044  08. 1 6.038.014
pwMuoal Contiogaoelas                   08.004   131,805    125.691    01.803      241       248   445,17i  il. 5   25& M0
Plo-ie Contingsoilaa                   14.90m    18.622    M8. sc      086.0 les  -l        -261   200.018  1é. 2    52.652
Total 800CT6 COlTS                     2.400.044  2,830>.011 2.188.9012  1.201.110  142.404   142.M0  0.601.438  BS.I 8.341.227                                                           .
..lS*3  st03885n sS.S,tasft 8.tSSlassss 3ats0*80  :000*38it f0*hhOtil  anges *08ts33**S
FoO*ton ExCIMa10                     1 .085,5   I.052.014  l.821,I25   511.903    4.004    4.108  8.841.221   0.0         O 
q,tl ai. lmI *665



I001 miS 'WS Itg*
w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... .... .............. ................ .................................. ..... ......... ,............ n........ . ..... .... ..  
canta            .0v enu a..£.0 s'1  08      a  $»on £.æ8.88 '     .1 8 ,08.88   *0» ,que              .        . .. 1,1.
-  -      0t 005t   t  oel  u e0            -i         - a           008   000.0O il                           IUM U rou   falot
.............  -------  ..........  ....... ....... .      ..... .... .... ------.  ....... ..............................
-         -         eeoet lo           000*5    -      - i            -              ooeXlt00 O" loi0            3h0800    US
1110  3    11llOB    '11
U9'0 01   LOI 'Il           10   010X .88   0      tl'      ICXII         es01818 6    0*n0                 SISOI AlU3llSlIAUI 80101
-    58        000          t    ;69                                      001  iss             £111I20i 6r0110id3    130   1'
*      o  itt         i      to      ;      ;          ° t-   -      001  000                15181   0si1 ami mi    oiî
-              018~~~g      O    ut1       O     O          008ce         6à   C0                     51111MI15 VI4M        UU0 I 
-         ous<    *              s    oU't   Ci    *tél           -   -         o9   ou                          310l01»1 msîw   i
-          t8       88t          I    £08       0        6ut  e tuo                  . os  Ot 0  l     e8  181i0      l_0   Il'0lf
........ ......... ...... ...   ...... ........ .......... . ........   .... ........  . .. . ... ..........
-  *8    -            O    bc        -                 o ;   81s Et  os  1tg                                      59
et             888               u  I I    888 O       O    6os1   on01                                         1305 miisi1001l'0
-          SI       I001 el         s  uî    e         e         oC  eno       oc   0*0              ISîllsO11 naSISSS 1os   °l -
R                                                                                        O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    &IL  -  0    0 o  o                          181V03101111 S3d
M0*iami 33881S810 
90#41 *   1808        £         £00   O     O          60S  la01     60    "0 IJJGWidIIO3 881.1-9bS
es ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ .......  --------..  . .... ......... ..... . ........ ... ............  ..... ...... .. ...
*    0*        10*~~4      8,   010        0     O          os  tu8       os   00                       300*031  UGInIO60a
i;~~~~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ g1                                                           68e          O    198'    ;        -            0008       000                                   3 na 15011 mi0l5"11
ez t9t           0    sse                         e  Cs et      e os     l                       llé 3f*iiv      -<
bit  U       Ie                      0      O          OS SU         Os   tu                                   *131M
t    vit      0 ss              ose  es ngt  ore  fait                    3Fl3n       ulJil
-         0*8       Cte'8        t    th        0  o             es Oa         os 6   U                                   sI      U
-         8501.    *000          *0   S0m   8   O      £O0       90 U 0         et   880                    8I ItSIAuU  50101.1t 0
-     tO,     008           en   08  0t      0C  el 888                   60X   888                     1110£OIIUtIWS
***........  .......  .......... ....... ............ .  *........... .... .... ,  .....  .......... ...... .............--
SK       $#           4   m9                           es tts   01  i s                            1W3"tllm sli
088      tu8          a    t00       O      10         -   -         9808*                          N1081WitiiiWu
-  8411  *00 0m   008.8 s                   L          0it   0*88    18   On0.            UOiWltliOWu3U 3SU   381191
*  8808    00*8          SI~~t   006*    O    tu         0£       l 000   68    088           U011iiUUitu   ISWSI 38311
-         081.1    818'C         PI   00*    0         tU8       0£  0*IS    Os   *811                  *10513 ilw     l ION 031
11503 UU.lIU   *1
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......  sssgt......... aæl...  .. .....  ..$s. 
1 <0031   14031  XJO    3   1W's I                       Z     el l    3
IlOOS              8,~~~~1,11  SIbeWI13Ii3U3      111501      9011130S1
n lllm   -   1101n310       U      311
îim% 3N  S331*n sue 13^u3         A30  30 1P0
00930a é300183



990401£  DI DIWU 9ENt  DItS 511V162  OE SUTE
ftiéitn  Plan by Projeot Coçnts
Wlm
lulut  tUBASt                              OWIUIO   ou
ttEtEI"£4T                                 EiT   eu
ISCIaTIh         C000 IUTIIII SUISSE  huUICIhitS                 total
touaI  2           _ o                _t I               _tuai    I       torai  - f w. £aoh  Tausl       Tamr
4. 001 à La 05TIII Et
té 9l94 DES asESS
... .___........ __... _......
ItlFORCEMlIT  ET4
ET     Nt *1I0U                               t,012,159   63           400.5EO   25        188,488  12    t.599,202       5       912.049          8, 113
7909100 O ItlIEStISSEMMI
O c      MISuTIN DIS POO4BTS                       53.123   49            39.323   38         15,600  14        108.,45    O          6,23            39,3S2           -
llBFtRL M£
0151i904S   MMIIJ S                              226.E33   49           t49.933   33         8,200  t8         459.,U       t       243.484         210,3             -
E4TMEIIBU ET lISim                              . 266.393   50           2Ma393   4t          52.000  IO        US3. t       2       402.401         134.319           -
OIIE mUTS ESSESTIALS                              310,095   40           211, 95   34       tO4. 395  Il        632, l       2       3t9, 10         312.424           -
RMIITOMEUBUT DI
P?EuWBiI£*n  MIS  WITS                            tS3.194   49            51,194    tS       104,000  33        314,38       1       10 t,441        212.941           -
Swb-lotel »Ppf A La CEITIM  ET          ------.,---- _-.-           ...... _. . _  . .    _......... ... . ...  ... __........  ___....  ..... ......_. ._._. _  ............  -------
LoloTtêl MSI A L4 t01110 ET
La RPTIU DIS ttEsRF         S                      2,022.297   55         1.0833008   30        s4s.677  Is    3,651.012    Il    2,048.48S           1.M2.1               -
a.  1AI AUX SERVICES DE 0SE
oeiTI VIS Et 710*TN       VIvES
UVIJS70UUT  DE
IUfoRfhlUM E0UCU 10*
et COUICA*T?                                      11.280   49             14.460   24          3. 200  2?       308,919      I       1411,           100.000 -ou
UBFOUCIIBT  DIS
7nR*US SUhlif                                     163.110   49            ss 910   20         83,200  25        333.939      I       184.008         1 933 *
etilfollIIEit OE
Pl_mB P1                                          I1.62M    48            21.t2       s      104.000  43        243.2s1      1        34,293 M81
116110 ET
SAIUSSt i                                         E07,819  too                  -    -                -         EOt.8t19    2        314.2at         2M3.313           -
SYSTI      E 9 05101                               1,,2 19 ,1    49          643. t5    20      624.000  25    2.48.631I    à           s93. 11       1.49,150             -
------ ----  .......... .. . .....-----   -   ...... .. . ..    ....  ....... ....  ... --*..........     . P-*6. ......-
S*-TotaI OS*U   AUX SE1TIS1   De UR
0110110S tT PuiitAlltIvS                           5.7,SI031   33         9,988.038   sa    1139M4I5   9   I1.245,s44   54    8.20M.920               9,03S.o,E            -
C. S_T1  61 81111it80E                                10,oo. 000  100                                     -   -   1. .000. OU     3     10.000.000
ro  MIMRTIOC   ou n0tT                               215.221   49           180,309   41         41.916  10        431.505      I       343,012          04.494
E    _Ieo      t  nF                                    6ss. 6SE  t1                   -    -             -   -        BO. aS      2       50,000           130, m            -
..  ,,.........,. .... .......  -- - - - -- - -- ............. ......------.....- :--  ------ ----* ------  ------------. -----
total Ott _wont                                         18.846.2ts   5         11.t2s1.445   3M    2.127.128   *   32.024.,88  100   21, 11142             t0.s861.33           -
.s ... asa   S    *n8...  s.......... ...     02.*s .... a . *8 . a  *8 3  3... *..a.   3. a  .....  s.    2*832 *8033
.... ...          w**   * .................................................... *  o*9*^.......................... ............. ....................... ............. ....................* ***o>*v............................."
*pi 21. 190 10-.56



REPOUL lOUE OU SENINI
PROIET DE OEVELOPPKIT DES SERVICES  £E SANtE
SUINIRI ACCUts COSI SUAt~
(FaRnCS CFA 1                                    (USU                                   Total
----------------------------------------- -------- ----   --- - ----- ---- .......       BaS
Local          foraign          Total           Local       foreign      Total       Euchahg      Couts
8    t t            #    : 3 : Ot....... ....  ....   ... #:s....... .....
I.  NVaESIN       COSItS
IER PHASE REHABILITATION               560,935.140    S98.380.211   I. II31s.l    1,s6s.784   1.,94.601   3.US4,3S                   52        13
lIEUE PHASE REHMABIilAtIto              609.942,954    648.962.,14  1.218.905,901    2,033.143   2.163,210   4.196.353               52        14
IIIENE PHASE REHA8ILITAIION            407. 166.000    436.249.286    843.411.286    1.3%7,220   1.454.164   2.811.384               52        10
RENABOLITATION NSP                       60,08.000       96, 132. 0     156. 220,000      200,293      320,440      520,733          62         2
fRAIS ARCHtITECTUREL                     70.961.252     106.441t878    177,403,129        236.s38      314,806      591,344          60         2
Smà-Total TRAVAUX CIVIL                  1,709,093.348  1,86, 166.329  3.w95.2s9,67s    s.696,978   6.287,220   11.984.199               52       41
8. mlitLIER                                  4.408.000       7.084.286       11,492,286        14,693       23.614       38.308          62         o
C. UTERIAL                                  38580. 000    s6.971,429    100,531,429           128.s33     208.675       335, 005         62         1
O. EQUIPERENT
VEtICLES                                109,U90.000    273,971s.000    383565.000         36S,300      913.250   1.27A8sso            7l        4
INfOmATlQuE                                 S00 000       7, 714 286      8514.286          2.6S7       25.714       28. n3         9s          o
ERUIPEtET TECHNIQUE                      12.890.000    124.296.429    137 186.429          42,967      414,321      457,28U          91         2
EGUIPENENT SUREAU                         2.6U.000       2s.920.000      28.608.000         8,9s0       86.400       95,360           il        o
,- -    -   --    -- - - -- - -   -- -- -- -- -  -- -- -- -     -----------    -----------    .............    . ......
Sii-Totai EQUIPENENT                       125.969e000    431,S05.714    557,713.714         4t9.893   1.439.686   1,859,579             77        S
E. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
EXPERTS INTERNATIONAUX                                  297. 107. 143    297, 107. 143           -     990.357      990.357          100        3
EXPERTS NATIONAUX                         5.040,000                -      s.040.000         18.800            -       M6,800           -        o
-------------. . --------------.   -------------. .. .. .  -----------....-----------....----........-. ---------......-----.
Sub-Total ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE               5.040. 00     29t. 1071143    302, 147.1 43       16,8 M     990,157    ,o007.017           98         3
F  SOURSE TECHNIQUE
A L ETRANGER                                      -      65,089,286    6S,089,28U                -     216.964      216.984         100          I 1
LOCALE                                    6,300.000                -      6S300.000        21,000             -      21,000                     o
,- - - --    -   -- - - -- - -    --- -- --- --  ----------     -- -- -- -   -- -- -- -  ................. .......  -.................  ..........
S6-Total BOURSE TECHNIQUE                    6,300.000      65.089.286      71,389.286         21,000     216.964      237,964           90         1
G. FORIION LOCALE                          82s.000.000                -    82s.000.000    2.750.000              -   2.7S0.000            -         9
H. SURSE POUR LA GESTION                              -     31.035.714      3s,035.714                     116.786      116,788         100         o
I. tlENTG £ ET ASSANESSEtENtT              80o000.000    8.714.286    165.104,286          266,667      28,714      162,381          52         2
d. PROIECT PREPARATION FACILITT             39,200.000    168000.000    207,200,000           130.667      560,000       690,687         ai         2
,-------     --------     --------               -------     ------     -------   .......   ....  ..  .....................    -------
Total IIIVESTIENT COSTS                     2.833.569.346  3.038.074.186  s.871.s43.s32    9,445.231  10.126.914  09.572,146                62        8t
Il. RECURRENT COSTS
, ..............
SUPPORT 810GETAIRE                                  -  3, 000. 000. 000  3. 000. 000.000           -  10. 000. 000   10.o00.o00        100       34
,- ------          --------         ----------   ----------       ------     --------   .......  .    .  ....... . .........    .............
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                    -  3. 000. 000. 000  3. 000. 000. 000         -  10. 000. 000  10, 000. 000       100        34
Total  SASELINE COSTS                        2,833.569.346  6.038.074.186  8,871.643,532    9.445,231 20. 126.914  29.5s2. 145               U        100
Physical Contnmgeci.a                       189. 2733.s     216.501 624    445,77t.433         630.913    8s,.00o   1,48S6918            s1         s
Prtce Conttrecantes                         237.36s.s8s      52.65t.626    290,017.606         791,220      17,S0os     966.725           la         3
,. c. .......... .......... ...  . .. .c ... . .U... ...... ... ... ... .    9... ...... ....... . a...  ... un.
Total PROdECI EosTs                          3.280. 209.035  8, 347, 227, 438  9. 607. 436.471   *o0,867.363  21. H7, U2S  32. 024.78 tss    U         0
,.,:r#:*el,stl m   t,t:ea:1:n.  ,::f:::  t:.,::  .t:t;tst :::::::::::  :::S:::::::   33ttt2,S,  s**SS:
April 20, 0989 10:56



REPIISLtQUE CU SEttIt
PROtJEt DE DEVELOP fEttNT DES SERVICES DE SANI1E
PROJECt COSt SUMAIRT
IFRAtCS CfA I                                  (s$)                              1 Total
-----------------------'''   -'--  -'-''''-  -----------------------------S  oir h
Local         foregfn          Total          Local       Foreign     Total      Ewuchnp    Coite
*::ss=w:æ:s:; ..........................  =, .......  ,,....-"sWss:................ ,.a.......... ...
A. APPUI A LA GESTION Et
LA REPART ION OES RESSOURCES
RENFORCEMENt GESTION
Et ADtNiNSTiAttON                           190.337,929    244,965.750    435,303.679       634,460      816.553   1.451,012          56        5
RENFORCErENT DE
PROGRAE D INVEStISSE4Ettt
Et COROIltTION DES PRODEtS                    11.491.000     18.931,071     30.422.071        38.303       63.104     101.407          62        0
RENfORCEMENt DES
RESSOURCES NUNANIMES                         62,678.000      67.009,288    129.687,286       208.927      223.364     432,291          52        t
REIfORCEMENt DE
ENTRETIEN ET MAINTENANICE                    38.770.000      11t,567,857    150.337.857      129.233      371,893     501.126          74        2
RENFORCEMENT DES
REOICANENTS ESSENTIALS                       89.815.857      S6,t156.786    175.972.643      299,386      287.189     586,575          49        2
RENFOREMET DE
PRO6RAUNE DE
RECOUTREMET CES COUTS                        63 439, 000     27. U36.786    9t, 275. 786     211,4S3       92.789     304,253          30
,- - - -- - -   -- - - -- - -  -- - - - - -    ----------- .. -- - - - -   -- - - - -  ---------.. ..... ........ 
Sià-totaI APPUI A LA GESTION Et
tA REPARTION DES RESSOURCES                    456.531.786    556.467.536  1.012.999.321    1,521.773   1.8t4.892   3.37.6,64             55       il
8. APPUI aUit SERVICES DE UASE
CURATIVES Et PREVENTATIVES
RENASILITATION DES
INfRAStRUCTURES                           1.831.301.060  1,770,763,615  3,402.064.675    5,437.670   5.902,545  11.340.216             52       38
RENfORCEtEItI DE
NliftRMTION. EOUCATtON
ET tCliWAtiNCAlOn                            48, 00.000      41.571.429       9. 571.429     180,000      136,571     29S,57t          4e         1
REittoRCEMENT DES
PROGRAMMES S514/Pf                           50,610.000      45,846.429     96.456.429       168.700      152,821     321.521          48 
REN1FORCEMENT DE OE
PROGRME  PEV                                  62.270,000      9,032.143      71,302,143      207,567       30.107     237.674          13        t                                                       W
FttoIEtE ET
ASSAIUESSEMET                                80 S000. .O 8S. 714. 286    165 714. 286        266. 6s7     285,714     552.381          52        2
SYSTEME O ALERTE                               438.00. 000    264. 642. 857    702 642. 857    I.460.000     882. 143   2.342. 143        38        a
Sik-Total APPUI aux SERhOES DE BASE
CURATIVES Et PREVEttATIVES                   2,310,181,060  2,217.570.758  4.527,751818    7.700.604   7.391,903  15.032,506             49       si
C. SUPPORT BDUETAIRE                                         -  3, M. 000, 000  3, 000o 000O 000          -  10.000. 00  10,000.000         100        34
A. PPUI 4t BUREAU
COORINAT ION Dtf PROJET                         27.656.500      96.035.893    123. 692,393       92,1S8      320.120     412.308          78         I
E. REMURSEmfE11T PPF                                39,200, 000    168,000, 000    207.200.000      130. 667    580,000     690. 667         Si         2
Total BASELINE COStS                               2.833. 569.346  6.038. 074. 186  8.81. 643,532    9, 445,231  20. 126,914  29.572.1 45     6        100
Physical ConEtrmgocicet                           189,273.809    256.501,624    445.775.433       630,913      855.005   1,485.918          58        S
Price Coettngonclet                               237.365.880     526151.626    290.017.506        791 220     175.S05     966. 25          la         3
lotes PROJECT COStS                                3,260.209.035  6.347.227.436  9.60;.436.471   ;0.86&.363  21.157.425  32.024.788            66       otf
April 21. 1989  10:58



74
ANNEX 4-11
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Program Coordination and Monitoring Committee
(Comité National de Suivi d'Execution et d'Evaluation des Programmes)
Date established   : October 28, 1988, Decree No. 88-427.
Chairman            s Minister of Public Health
lst Vice Chairman  : Minister of Plan and Statistics or hie
Representative (Director General of the
Ministry)
2nd Vice Chairman  : Minister of Finance or his Representative
(Director General of the Ministry)
3rd Vice Chairman  : Minister of Primary Education or his
Representative (Director General of the
Ministry)
4th Vice Chairman  : Minister of MEMS or his Representative
(Director General of the Ministry)
Secretariat         : Director of Studies and Planning MSP,
Central Directors of MSP, Regional Directors
of MSP, One Representative Each of the
Ministries of Plan and Finance.
Members
Director of Plan, Ministry of Plan
Director of Budget Ministry of Finance
Director General of Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
Director of Legislation, Ministry of Justice
Director of the Health Services, Ministry of Defense
and Armed Forces
Director of Primary Education, Ministry of Primary
Education
Director of MEMs, MEMS
Director of Social Affaire, Ministry of Labor and Social
Affairs
Director of Urbanization and Housing, Ministry of Equipment
and Transport
Director of Information and Propagander, Ministry of
Information and Communications
Director of Fisheries, Ministry of Rural Development and
Cooperatives
Directors of Central Directorates of MSP



75                       ANNEX 4-11
Directors of Provincial Directorates of MSP
Coordinators of Health Projects Funded by External Donors
FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIESt
- Oversee effective implementation of sector reforms
contained in the Action Plan to ensure coherence and
consistency with overall policy goals, and introduce
flexibility in program implementation;
- Review periodically all aspects of the Plan with a view to
modifying or strengthening mechanisms and strategies put in place
to achieve the objectives of sector reforms;
- Oversee utilization of resources from the Social Fund for non-
vage recurrent cost financing.
- Undertake periodic assessment of beneficiaries' participation and
attitude towards health care programs;
- Assess the impact of programs and revise evaluation
indicators on a yearly basis;
- Coordinate external aid to the sector ensuring that it
fits sector priorities and contributes to greater
equity in resource allocation;
- Monitor bystematically various aspects and stages of the reform
program with a view to resolving constraints to
implementation schedules;
- Prepare quarterly progress reports to be submitted to the
National Adjustment Committee; and
- Recommend further reform measures likely to enhance the
effectiveness of the health care system.
INTERNAL REGULATIONS OF CNEEP:
The CNEEP will define and follow a timetable for its operations
which ensures that the committee meets at least once every quarter. To
enable the CNEEP to focus on monitoring service delivery as well as sector
organization, the MIS to be set up vithin MSP will be used by CNEEP as a
monitoring tool.
During the life of the Health Services Development Project, funded
by IDA and the Swiss Development Cooperation, the CNEEP will maintain
regular correspondence with the two donors and report periodically on
progress achieved.
For the 1989-91 period of the existence of the Social Fund, the
CNEEP will oversee the levels of funding of the Social Fund as well as the
utilization of these resources. To discharge its responsibilities, the



76                       ANNEX 4-11
CNEEP vill call specific meetings to review expenditure plans of th%,
Ministry of Public Health, the 24inistries of Education, and of other
Ministries as required.



77
StATUS OF UIX 6ROII UPERATINS 1I BERIN, PEOPLES REPU0LIC
lPIRO2S - SUIRY STAtEIEIT OF LOANS AID AI CREDITS
ILOA DATA AS OF 2/30/89 - MIS DATA AS OF 041041/9)
lbount in US$ million
1les, cncellations)
Loin or   Fiscal                                                                                      Undis- Closing
Credit No.  tear    orrouar                          PuOrpos                      nk           IDA     bursed   Date
Credits
18 Creditsis) closed                                                                        110.83
CO9970-?EI    80    lEàI, PEUPLES REPU0LIC           DFCJSIE                                 10.00       4.03  06/30199(R)
C11270-ME1  199    0ENlN, PEOPLES REPUBLIC          RIRAL DEVT./CûTTON I                   20.00        1.60  12/31/88(R)
C12460-BEI  1982    0ENIN, PEOPLES REPUBLIC          EDUCATION il                            14.00       1.09  0613018/9R)
C13140-lEl  1983    0EN, PEUPLES REPUDLIC            RURAL uEVT Il <ZOU)                    20.00        6.36  12/31199
CF0240-DE    1904  1OElilN  PEOPLES REPU8LIC        FORESTRY                                  2.80        .78  06/30190
C15030-8E1  1904    SENIII PEOPLES REPUBLIC          OIL Il DEV PRWECT                      18.00       15.66  06/30I899R>
C15050-tSO   1994      uIN, PEOPLES REPUN IC        FORESTRY                                2.60         .68  06/30190
CtS300-BEU  1995 l   EIIN, PEUPLES REPtIC            TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    5.00        4.84  03/31/91
C11271-DEN  1986    0ENIN, PE RPLES RIPU0L1C         RURL DEVT.1COTTO1N 1                     1.90        .23  12131198
C17210-0EN  1986    BENIN, PEUPLES REPUBLIC          MATER Il                               10.00       10.28  12131/93
C17480-SEN  1987    BENIN, PEQPLES REP11LIC          PUBLIC ENTERPRISES                      15.00      14.79  06/30195
C1-070-BEN  1987   BEUIN, PEUPLES REP11LIC           TRAMSP.INFMST.                         19.50       18.04  03131/95
C18770-E1N  1988   0ENIN, PEUPLES REPt18LIC         8QRG6l RD.II                            21.00       15.71  12131/92
C196EIN  1989    SERIN, PEUPLES REP110LIC            TELECON1UNICATIONS                     16.00       16.52  12131/93
TOTAL nuber Credits    14 il                                                                 175.80      110.61
TOTAL#"                                                                     294.63
of uhbich repaid                                                           12.96
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                                    201.68
Aimant sold              10.21
of uhich repaid
TOTAL mndiubursed 1/                                                                   110.61
NOTES:
m Not yet iffictive
t mot ytsqe
Tot                  Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
IR) indicutes  lorualy revised Closing Date.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayaents are historical valu, all others are sarket value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closin; dates are based upon the Loan Ceparteent offical data and are not taken
fras the Task Budget file.
1/   Doees not  include Cr.  1507  BEN.



BU U R KI  N AIF A S O   /     X       vN   G   E   R
<1.-S                                                         r R
L1                                                            *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       Nw
2 (                                                     1;A K,. j                O RV*ICS DEVELOPMNr
T   0   GRO                                                     i ' 
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fow WM   _ mo d by I
URKINl F `St OI g I  /
AWPt                                                    s - G  o  gr-    .
Db i t CO ,
L_S~~~~~~       ~       ~ ~~~ ~~~ 1 G5  E    RP _ 
sG inoet             1 and *2t                                       lkf
G- frlhRo0-s    }    lZ   O  U  o  + s pwoif b P+
=2l Ra   Oan g  g   >   {           +   MJ_y 1101pitOf
ff *   i irtt    t4~ 1   ( stgd S              ^   5BENIN
t f A 1> s 1_Zs $ D J * V Fbiift .^pnb (l>ltb Pr}~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~HAT  SRV AMô\ICES DE VELObPMN
I.2                                             r                       4 <X)A   r



