Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17963-BEN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2031-BEN)
May 28, 1998
Human Development III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
The CFAF is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF I to CFAF 100 following the January 12, 1994
devaluation of the CFAF from a ratio of FF I to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.
1990   US$ = 240 FCFA                   1994   US$ = 470 FCFA
1991   US$ = 240 FCFA                   1995   US$ = 490 FCFA
1992   US$ = 250 FCFA                   1996   US$ = 550 FCFA
1993   US$ = 270 FCFA                   1997   USS = 590 FCFA
SDR I = US$1.34442 (February 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES                      FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Metric System                          January I - December 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS    Acquired Immune-Deficiency Syndrome
CAA      Caisse Autonome dA'mortissement
CAME   Centrale d'Achat des M&dicaments Essentiels (Central Procurement Agency for Essential Generic
Drugs)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
BCP      Bureau de Coordination du Projet (Project Coordination Office)
CDEEP   Com ite Dpartemental d'Etudes, Evaluations et Programmes (Departmental Committee for Health
Sector Program Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation)
CNEEP   Comite National d'Etudes, Evaluations et Programmes (National Committee for Health Sector Program
Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation)
COGEC  Comites de gestion au niveau de la commune (health management committees at the level of the
commune)
COGES  Comites de gestion au niveau de la sous-prefecture (health management committees at the level of the
subprefecture)
DA       Direction de I 'administration (Directorate of Administration)
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DDS      Direction Departementale de la Sante
DPCE    Direction de la planifcation, de la coordination et des itudes (Directorate of Planning, Coordination and
Evaluation)
DPP      Direction de la programmation et de la prospective (Directorate of Planning and Forecasting)
DRH      Direction des ressources humaines (Human Resources Division)
DSAF    Direction des services administratifs etfinanciers (Directorate of Administrative and Financial Services)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Agency
IEC      Information, Education and Communication
MCH/FP  Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
MOH      Ministry of Health, Social Protection and Women's Affairs
NGO      Non Governmental Organization
PDSS    Projet de Developpement des Services de Sante (Health Services Development Project)
PSP      Projet Sante et Population (Population and Health Project)
PTD      Plan triennal de developpement (Three-Year rolling Development Plan)
WDR      World Development Report
.Vice President:             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director:                    Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:              Helena Ribe
Task Team Leader:            Denise Vaillancourt



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...................................................................I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................................................................I
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................................................................1
I. INTRODUCTION ...................................................................1I
A. MACROECONOMIC SETTING ....................................................................I
B. THE BANK'S ROLE IN THE COUNTRY AND IN THE SECTOR ........................................................2
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................................................2
A. ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................................................2
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS ....................................................................2
C. SPECIAL COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS ...................................................................3
D. THE RISKS ...................................................................4
E. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .........................                     ..........................................5
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS .................................................................... 6
A. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY .................................................6
B. SUMMARY OF COSTS ....................................................................8
C  FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS ....................................................................8
D. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ....................................................................8
E. ANALYSIS OF KEYFACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION .....................................................9
F. ASSESSMENT OF THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE ...................................................................          10
G. ASSESSMENT OF THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE ................................................................ 11
TV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS ANI KEY LESSONS LEAPNJED ...... ...... 12
A. FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTA TION EXPERIENCE ........................................................ 12
B. SUSTAINABILITYAND FUTURE OPERATIONS ...................................................................           15
C. LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR IN BENIN .................................................. 16
PART II:  STATISTICAL TABLES ...................................................................                       18
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...................................................................                    19
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS ...................................................................                      20
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ...................................................................                         20
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ............................................. 21
TABLE 5A: KEY INPUT INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION ............................... 22
TABLE SB: OVERALL EVALUATION FRAMEWORK AND OUTCOME INDICATORS ............................................. 28
TABLE 5C: PROBLEMS RELATED TO THE QUALITY OF INFRASTRUCTURES/LESSONS LEARNED ........................ 32
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT ...................................................................           34
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS ...................................................................                            35
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING ...................................................................                        35
TABLE 8: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ...............................................                                   35
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...............................................                                     36
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ...............................................                  39
TABLE I1: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ................................................ 39
TABLE 12A: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS ...............................................                                   40
TABLE 12B: BANK RESOURCES - SUPERVISION MISSIONS ...............................................                       41
APPENDICES:
A. ICR mission's Aide Mimoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
.C. Map IBRD No. 21276
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorzation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2031-BEN)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health Services
Development Project in Benin, for which Credit 2031-BEN, in the amount of SDR 14.1 million
(US$18.6 million equivalent in 1990) was approved on June 6, 1989, and made effective on
January 10, 1990. The Credit was closed on its original closing date of September 30, 1997.
Final disbursement took place on March 13, 1998, at which time a balance of SDR 3.56 million
(US$4.79 million equivalent) was canceled.
2.    The ICR was prepared by a team led by Ms. Denise Vaillancourt (Task Team Leader,
AFTH3) and composed of: Hugues Agossou (Financial Analyst, AFMBJ), Johanne Angers
(Operations Analyst, AFTH3), Ousmane Diagana (Principal Operations Officer, AFMBJ),
Rougui Diallo (Program Officer, AFMNE), Celine Gavach (Team Assistant, AFTH3), Belkis
Giorgis (Consultant/Family Health Specialist), Fernand Piotte (Consultant/Management
Specialist), Jacqtes Waechter (Consultant/Architect) and Rama Zime (Disbursement Analyst,
AFMBJ). The report was reviewed by Mmes/Messrs. Helena Ribe (Sector Manager, AFTH3)
and Jerome Chevallier (Acting Director, AFC13, and Manager, AFTS3), as well as key members
of the Benin Country team and health advisers. This report also benefited from the advice and
perspectives of Michael Azefor, Resident Representative in Benin, and former task manager for
this Project, as well as those of Mr. Jean-Robert Moret, Resident Representative of the Swiss
Cooperation, which cofinanced the project.
3.    Preparation of this ICR was initiated during the Bank's supervision mission of December
1997. In addition to its analysis of documents in the project file and interviews with the former
task team leader and other members of previous teams, this ICR draws heavily on extensive
independent field visits carried out by the task team. This ICR also draws heavily on the
products and outcomes of the evaluation process carried out by Government, most notably the
final evaluation workshop, which took place in Bohicon on April 28-30, 1998. This workshop
was attended by representatives of all major stakeholders of the project, including policy-makers,
managers and service providers from all levels of MOH, independent consultants responsible for
evaluating different aspects of the project, and representatives of the beneficiary populations.
The Borrower's contributions to this ICR consist of: the production of internal and external
evaluation reports, the organization of the final evaluation workshop, the review and discussion
of the Bank's final evaluation Aide-Memoire, and submission to the Bank of its own chapter of
the ICR document.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2031-BEN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
MACROECONOMIC SETTING AND BANK'S ROLE IN THE SECTOR
1.    With a population of 5 million and a GNP per capita of US$380, Benin has an
economy that relies on agriculture and transit trade to neighboring countries, especially
Nigeria. Agriculture accounts for 40 percent of the GDP and 80 percent of all exports;
and its constitutes the main economic activity for 75 percent of the labor force. Transit
trade, the other main economic activity of Benin, operates primarily in the informal sector
and benefits significantly from the mismanagement of Nigeria's economy. During the
last seven years, the priorities of the Government's reform program, supported under
SAL III, have been to: address past macroeconomic and structural imbalances in the
economy, reduce the role of the State in productive sectors and set the basis for
sustainable and equitable development over the long term. Thanks to successful
implementation of the SAL and productive dialogue with myriad national partners, the
growth that was negative in 1989 has become positive since 1990, attaining an average of
5 percent between 1992 and 1997.
2.    Benin social indicators are very poor. Life expectancy is 50 years and infant
mortality is high. Total fertility is also high (6 children/woman) and maternal mortality is
estimated to be above 600 per 100,000 deliveries. Malnutrition is prevalent and literacy
rates are low, especially for girls. Less than 50 percent of the population has access to
potable water and environmental sanitation remains a serious health problem. Over one
third of the population lives below the poverty line.
3.    The Health Services Development Project (PDSS) (Credit 2031 -BEN) marked the
beginning of the Bank's involvement in Benin's health sector and was designed to
support implementation of Government's health policy and sector strategy for the period
1989-93, particularly with regard to sector adjustment and reform. The Health and
Population Project (PSP) (Credit 2734-BEN), designed to consolidate reforms and to
build on and sustain accomplishments initiated under PDSS, became effective on July 17,
1996.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
4.    Original Project Objectives. The general objective of the project was to support
a comprehensive package of national health policy reforms that would strengthen on a
sustainable basis the Government's capacity to respond to the essential health needs of
the population, notably through improved quality and coverage of basic preventive and



- ii -
curative services, with a special emphasis on rural health facilities. This would be
accomplished through improved mobilization and a more efficient allocation of sector
financial resources, improved utilization of human resources and increased participation
of local communities and beneficiaries.
5.    Project Components. The project was designed to support sector policy reform
through two main components. A quick disbursing component would be released in
three tranches during the first three years of the project upon Government undertaking of
key sector reform decisions and measures contained in their Action Plan. This balance-
of-payments support was destined for the health and education sectors; and Government
counterpart financing would be used to establish a social fund in order to fill critical gaps
in social sector recurrent financing to protect these sectors from the negative impact of
structural adjustment. The investment component consisted of a four subcomponents,
designed to underpin sector reform measures in the following areas: (a) sector
management and organization; (b) sector investment planning and financial management
and accounting; (c) health services delivery system; and (d) manpower and human
resources development.
6.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements.. Upon satisfaction of conditions of
effectiveness (itemized in para. 6 of the main text) the credit was declared effective on
January 10, 1990. The three tranches under the quick-disbursing component were
released, respectively, on effectiveness, January 21 and 31, 1992, and July 11, 1995, on
fulfillment of conditions laid out in paras. 7 and 8 of the main text. On October 4, 1989,
prior to credit effectiveness, the DCA was amendled to change from a condition of
effectiveness to a condition of disbursement the requirement that the Borrower introduce
a financial management and accounting system at all levels of the Borrower's health
sector, designed to handle accounting and control of cost recovery for health services.
7.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project objectives were -- and remain --
consistent with the Bank's and Benin's strategy for economic development and for health
sector development. They aimed at health sector reform as an intrinsic part of the
Structural Adjustment Program and addressed main systemic constraints that severely
inhibited MOH's ability to fulfill its mandate. Project objectives encompassed both the
short and medium-term priorities of the sector through a combination of quick-disbursing
and investment components. They were appropriately holistic, encompassing and
building on the comparative advantages of the various governmental and non-
governmental actors. Objectives were also holistic in that they were conceived in full
consideration of the constraints and opportunities of the macroeconomic and cross-cutting
sectoral issues, and they addressed the full complenment of inter-related systemic issues
constraining good health sector performance. In short, project objectives were well
conceived, innovative and fully responsive to sector issues and priorities.



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
8.    Assessment of Project's Outcome and Sustainability. Overall, the PDSS can
be considered an important success, having played a pivotal role in nurturing and
supporting sector reform. Among its many sector reform achievements, itemized in para.
13 of the main text, are: the adoption and implementation nationwide of cost recovery
and organized community participation in sector financing and management; the
establishment of an independent system for the procurement of essential generic drugs,
which ensures the constant availability and affordability of essential generic drugs at all
levels of the health system; the establishment of mechanism for facilitating the
participation of national and international partners in health in the planning, coordination
and evaluation of sector activity; and the establishment and utilization of tools and
processes for the strengthening and decentralization of strategic sector management.
9.    Benin's health indicators have improved over the life of the project (para 16 of
main text). While these improvements surely cannot be attributed to PDSS alone, it is
likely that a number of notable results achieved under PDSS, have contributed and will
continue to contribute to improved health. Beneficiaries are now actively involved in
strategic sector management and in rendering health services accountable to the
populations they are meant to serve. Drugs are now readily available in all public health
facilities at an affordable price. Cost recovery has exceeded expectations, allowing most
health facilities to cover 100 percent of the costs of their drugs, as well as other essential
operating costs. Health infrastructure has been rehabilitated and extended thus improving
geographical coverage. Key health programs and services have been strengthened, most
notably vaccination coverage and other maternal and child health services. The project
fell short of its objectives with regard to human resources management and civil works
(para. 17).
10.   Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements. At appraisal, the total cost of
the project in May 1989 prices was estimated at US$32 million equivalent (net of taxes
and duties) with a foreign exchange component of US$22.1 million equivalent (69
percent). Actual total project cost was US$24.5 million equivalent, of which US$17.1
million equivalent was in foreign exchange. The main reason for the difference between
planned vs. actual costs is the fact that two of the three phases of civil works were not
implemented. Actual financing of this project was somewhat different than planned.
Actual (vs. planned) contributions are as follows: IDA: US$14.8 (vs. US$18.6) million
equivalent; Swiss Cooperation: US$9.0 (vs. US$11.3) million equivalent; and the
Government of Benin and beneficiary contributions: US$0.7 (vs. US$2.1) million
equivalent.
11.  Implementation Schedule. The project was prepared over a period of 3 years,
with the first identification mission taking place in 1986, and the Board Presentation and
signature of the Development Credit Agreement taking place on June 6, 1989 and June
26, 1989, respectively. The credit became effective on January 10, 1990 and closed
seven and one half years later on its original closing date of September 30, 1997.



-iv -
Disbursements against commitments under the project were made until March 6, 1998.
An outstanding balance of SDR 3.56 million (US$4.79 million equivalent) was canceled
effective March 13, 1998.
12.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation.  The two most significant factors
affecting project implementation were: (a) reluctance to embrace reforms and (b) massive
turnover of virtually all key actors in MOH that significantly diminished institutional
memory. Pharmaceutical reforms posed a threat to entrenched interests and strong
historical links with a small network of suppliers. Lack of support was also attributable
to unfamiliarity and lack of confidence in generic drugs, in the early stages of the reform,
on the part of service providers and patients alike. Resistance to the idea of granting
financial and managerial autonomy to the CAME, as well as to the idea of involving
COGES/COGEC in the management of this entity was the reason for long delays in
approving its permanent legal status.  The foundations and rationale for reforms
associated with improved strategic sector management and sector organization were not
well understood, and challenged the status quo. Resistance to decentralization was the
result of the lack of understanding of actors at all levels of the systems of the new roles
and responsibilities of managers, the fear on the part of actors in the periphery that
increased responsibility would not be accompanied by sufficient resources and other
support, and the fear on the part of central level staff that they would lose considerable
control over activities and resources. Once COGES/COGEC began demonstrating their
capacity for holding MOH decision-makers and service providers accountable to the
population, resistance by MOH to the idea of co-management has grown.
13.   The preparation and aftermath of the 1996 Presidential elections also had
considerable impact on project implementation. Virtually all key actors inside and
outside the MOH were indisposed to focus on sector reform and other project activities
during the 6 months leading up to this event. Following the election, a sweeping turnover
of staff ensued at all levels of the system. The new team had little knowledge or
experience in sector reform, in general, and in PDSS design and implementation,
specifically; and little importance was placed on retaining and utilizing the institutional
memory and capacity developed during the course of project development and
implementation.
14.   Assessment of the Bank's and the Borrower's Performance. The Bank's
performance during project development was highly satisfactory. Despite the fact that
the PDSS was developed well before the Sector Investment Approach (SIP) was
articulated in the Bank, the design of this project embraces the main principles of SIP.
The dialogue was well focused on the priority health needs and demands of Benin's
population and on the chronic systemic issues that severely constrained MOH
performance. It was also well linked with the macroeconomic and cross-sectoral issues
and dialogue. Bank performance during project implementation was satisfactory overall,
although it is acknowledged that the Bank might have been more proactive in addressing
and two issues in the earlier years of the project's life: civil works implementation; and
project financial management and accounting. The Bank was diligent in monitoring and



backstopping Government on the implementation of reform measures and holding them
accountable to their commitments to reform. The sector dialogue thus was deepened and
broadened in light of implementation experience. Considerable Bank efforts were
devoted to convincing new actors in MOH of the rationale for the sector reforms and to
eliciting their commitment to implement them, in accordance with the DCA. The Bank
also devoted much time and effort in the field, which allowed them to. have a real sense of
the impact of sector reform and of PDSS and to glean the perspectives- of service
providers and clients.
15.   The Borrower's performance during project development was excellent. The high
quality of project design and the extent of ownership of the project objectives and its
underlying reforms were attributable in large part to the quality of the technical team
within MOH responsible for project development. The Action Plan of reform measures,
on which PDSS was based, benefited from strong political leadership and commitment to
its realization at the highest levels of Government and from the willingness of
Government at the highest levels to take risks. The Borrower's performance during
project implementation was mixed. Despite pockets of resistance to sector reforms, the
Borrower's decisions and actions culminated in the achievement of many reform
measures in a difficult environment and in improved access and quality of health services.
It must also be noted, however, that the Borrower's performance was weak with regard to
the following aspects of project implementation: (a) the non-respect of key covenants of
the DCA; (b) reluctance to implement, and in some cases resistance to, key reform
measures that underpinned PDSS; (c) poor planning, management and evaluation of
training supported under the project; and (d) massive turnover of experienced, skilled
staff, with no apparent effort to exploit institutional memory. Weak performance of the
project coordinating unit was evident in: (a) inadequate project financial management and
accounting practices; (b) poor management/oversight of civil works; (c) overly
centralized organization/working style; and (d) inadequate procurement capacity.
FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
16.   Project implementation permitted the achievement of many significant outcomes
as outlined in Chapter III.A. of this report. However, implementation was constrained
considerably by a number of major issues, each of which is developed more fully in the
main text of the report. These findings were fully acknowledged by Government during
the evaluation process and provided the basis for the identification of many of the
lessons, compiled jointly by the Bank and the Borrower, to be applied for improved
performance in future operations. These findings include: (a) inadequate understanding
of/adherence to key covenants in the DCA; (b) weak project financial management and
accountability, which led to reimbursement by Government to IDA and to the Swiss
Cooperation US$1.2 million equivalent for ineligible and/or unjustified expenditures; (c)
lack of respect of disbursement procedures; (d) inadequate management and
implementation of civil works, which led to cost and calendar overruns, marginal quality
of works, and the completion of only the first of three phases under the project; (e)
underfinancing of recurrent costs, despite adequate provision for their financing by



- vi -
Government through DCA conditionality, which provi(des for increases in salary and non-
salary recurrent budgets over the life of the preject; and (f) overly centralized
management and implementation of PDSS.
SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
17.   Enlightened perspectives and concrete recommendations emanating from the final
evaluation workshop have acknowledged fully the fragility of reform achievements made
under PDSS and the need for great commitment (at the policy level, as well as on the part
of implementors of national health policy and straLtegy) to their consolidation and
sustainability. Among the most salient of recommendations are: the need to further
develop skills and revitalize mechanisms for improved strategic sector management and
coordination and the need to decentralize these functions; the need to underpin gains
made in the pharmaceutical sector through a number of actions; the need to improve
partnerships in health, including MOH's capacity to elicit and manage them. The value
added of the non-governmental sector in health system performance has been amply
demonstrated during project implementation. The roles and contributions of these
partners will be crucial in consolidating and sustaining sector reform. The fruits of the
participatory evaluation process include a validation of the Government's Letter of Sector
Development Strategy, on which PSP is based, whose major objectives are: (a) to
improve the quality and access of basic health services; (b) to improve strategic sector
management and management of resources; and (c) to strengthen partnerships in health,
particularly with civil society.
18.  It became very clear during the evaluation process that the consolidation and
sustainability of achievements made under PDSS -- particularly with regard to sector
reform -- will be highly dependent on the leadership and commitment of Government at
the highest levels and on the full appreciation and ownership of these reforms on the part
of all actors within MOH. There are still considerable pockets of resistance for the
various reforms (para. 21).  Decentralization and strengthened partnerships with
governmental (CNEEP/CDEEP) and non-governmental (COGES/COGEC, CAME)
actors, created and supported under PDSS, will be both the means and the end in this
regard.
LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR IN BENIN
19.   Section F. of this report validates the principles of the SIP approach to project
development and their effectiveness in eliciting a productive and constructive dialogue
and partnership with Government in addressing difEicult sector issues by innovative
means and in encouraging greater coherence and coordination in the various programs
and interventions of all partners in health. Section G. of this report underlines the
importance of strong leadership, ownership, vision and risk-taking of policymakers and
managers, both within and outside of MOH, in conceiving and implementing sector
reform. This section also points to the cruciality of assigning a top-notch team, with the
skills and experience necessary, to undertake quality wvork in needs assessment, problem



- vii -
analysis and project design and development.  The Bank's and the Borrower's
performance also illustrate the value of consulting and involving the managers and
service providers in the periphery, as well as the population, in needs assessment and
project design. Such a process builds ownership and capacity at the local level, both of
which are essential to successful reforn implementation. The design of PDSS should be
a guide for future operations in the sector in this and other regions, in that it defined in a
holistic fashion all systemic constraints to sector performance and addressed them
through dialogue and interventions at the macroeconomic/cross-sectoral level, as well as
within the sector.
20.   Among the most salient of lessons of project implementation are: (a) the need for
all actors in project implementation to master the contents of the DCA and to follow it
rigorously to ensure its full implementation, especially in an environment where there is
massive turnover of managers and key technical staff; (b) the importance of a viable
system for project financial management and accountability and the need to ensure
adequate accounting expertise throughout the life of the project; (c) the importance of
mastering procurement and disbursement procedures for smooth and accelerated
implementation and disbursement; (d) the wisdom of subcontracting out responsibilities
to the non-governmental sector where they clearly have the comparative advantage,
illustrated by the cases of civil works implementation and drug procurement; (e) the
necessity of monitoring very rigorously the recurrent costs financing of the project,
including the clarity and adequacy of financing sources, as well as the financial
sustainability of project interventions; and (f) the wisdom of decentralizing project
management and implementation so that key actors and beneficiaries will have the
opportunity to enhance project impact by virtue of their knowledge of local needs and
issues, commitment and experience.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
HEALTH SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2031-BEN)
PART I:    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.   INTRODUCTION
A. MACROECONOMIC SETTING
1.    With a population of 5 million and a GNP per capita of US$380, Benin has an
economy that relies on agriculture and transit trade to neighboring countries, especially
Nigeria. Agriculture accounts for 40 percent of the GDP and 80 percent of all exports;
and ft constitutes the main economic activity for 75 percent of the labor force. Transit
trade is the other main economic activity of Benin. Operating primarily in the informal
sector, it consists essentially of import and re-export of foodstuff and textile products.
The mismanagement of Nigeria's economy over a long period of time has offered Benin a
relative wind-fall from cross border trade. This wind-fall remains precarious, however,
since any reforms initiated in Nigeria reduce hidden subsidies in Benin's imports.
Industrial production is still limited to basic needs (soap, oil, drinks, cement, textiles,
etc.) and accounts for only 14 percent of GNP. During the last seven years, the priorities
of the Government's reform program, supported under SAL III, have been to: address
past macroeconomic and structural imbalances in the economy, reduce the role of the
State in productive sectors and set the basis for sustainable and equitable development
over the long term. During this period, the Bank has maintained intense policy and
strategic dialogue with the Government, NGOs, civil society, unions and donors, which
has focused on development options and priorities that needed to put the Benin economy
on a sustainable growth path and institutional reform to intensify efforts to reduce
poverty. As a result, the growth that was negative in 1989 has become positive since
1990, attaining an average of 5 percent between 1992 and 1997.
2.    Benin's social indicators are very poor. Life expectancy is 50 years and infant
mortality is high. Total fertility is also high (6 children/woman) and maternal mortality is
estimated to be above 600 per 100,000 deliveries. Malnutrition is prevalent, especially
among children, pregnant women and the elderly. Literacy rates are low, as are school
enrollment rates -- especially for girls. Less than 50 percent of the population has access
to potable water and environmental sanitation remains a serious health problem. While
poverty alleviation has been a slogan of successive governments, only in recent years has
there been concrete effort to define an appropriate strategy and put in place an effective
program in this country where over one third of the population lives below the poverty
line. A poverty assessment was completed in 1995 and a special conference on basic
needs was organized in 1997 to help Government coordinate and streamline its poverty
reduction strategy and programs.



-2 -
B.    THE BANK'S ROLE IN THE COUNTRY AND IN THE SECTOR
3.    The Health Services Development Project (PDSS) (Credit 2031-BEN) marked the
beginning of the Bank's involvement in Benin's health sector and was designed to
support implementation of Government's health policy and sector strategy for the period
1989-93, particularly with regard to sector adjustmnent and reform. The Health and
Population Project (PSP) (Credit 2734-BEN) becamre effective on July 17, 1996 and is
currently under implementation. This project was designed to consolidate reforms and to
build on and sustain accomplishments initiated under the first project. It aims to further
strengthen capacity of structures for improved sector imanagement, which the first project
helped to create; and it also aims to complement stupport programmed under the first:
while PDSS was designed to rehabilitate primary health care services at the bottom of the
health pyramid, PSP encompasses the rehabilitation of referral services, whose
backstopping of primary health care activities is essential to ensuring the quality and
efficiency of priority services.
II.   PROJECT OBJEiCTIVES
A.   ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The general objective of the project was to support a comprehensive package of
national health policy reforms that would strengthen on a sustainable basis the
Government's capacity to respond to the essential health needs of the population, notably
through improved quality and coverage of basic preventive and curative services, with a
special emphasis on rural health facilities. As described in the Government's Statement
of Health Sector Policy, annexed to the Memorandum of the President, this would be
accomplished through improved mobilization and a more efficient allocation of sector
financial resources, improved utilization of human resources and increased participation
of local communities and beneficiaries.
B.   PROJECT COMPiDNENTS
5.    The project was designed to support sector policy reform through two main
components. A quick-disbursing component would be released in three tranches during
the first three years of the project upon Government undertaking of key sector reform
decisions and measures contained in their Action Plan. This balance-of-payments support
was destined for the health and education sectors; and Government counterpart financing
would be used to establish a social fund in order to fill critical gaps in social sector
recurrent financing to protect these sectors from the negative impact of structural
adjustment. The investment component consisted of a number of subcomponents that
would underpin sector reform measures. The first sulbcomponent aimed at improvements
to sector management and organization through interventions to strengthen MOH's
capacity in strategic sector management (planning and programming) and to decentralize



-3 -
management functions to the provincial level. Interventions to address weaknesses in
MOH's sector investment planning and financial management and accounting were
included under a second subcomponent.  Under the third subcomponent aimed at
improvements in the health delivery system, the following support was programmed with
a view to increasing the quality and access of basic health services: essential drugs
program establishment and support; strengthening of priority health services (MCH/FP
with an emphasis on prevention), pilot community-based development projects for the
urban and peri-urban poor, physical infrastructure, preventive maintenance of
infrastructure, and information, education and communication (IEC) activities. The last
subcomponent was designed to support manpower and human resources development,
including interventions to strengthen the Human Resources Division (DRH) of MOH and
the design and implementation of local in-service training.
C.   SPECIAL COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
6.    Special covenants or agreements were included to help promote achievement of
project objectives (Table 9). Conditions of effectiveness were as follows: (a) all
conditions precedent to the first disbursement of the Swiss Contribution, with the
exception of the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b) the Borrower has opened the Project account and paid into it an initial amount of 75
million CFAF, as required by Section 3.04 (b) and (c), respectively of the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA); (c) the Borrower has established the Social Fund as- required
by Section 3.05 (a) of the DCA; (d) the Borrower has: (i) prepared a plan, acceptable to
the Association, for the restructuring of MSP's central and provincial units and
redeployment of part of MSP's staff to health service delivery in the field; and (ii)
appointed heads of all priority services; (e) the Borrower has introduced a financial
management and accounting system at all levels of the Borrower's health sector, designed
to handle accounting and control of cost recovery for health care services; (f) the
Borrower has adopted a cost recovery system for health care services and drugs,
acceptable to the Association, in the Project Area and has allowed hospitals, district and
communal health facilities to retain the revenues resulting from such cost recovery; and
(g) the Borrower has (i) assigned responsibility for drug procurement to MSP's
Pharmaceutical Directorate; and (ii) completed a training course of said Directorate's
staff in drug procurement procedures. The credit was declared effective on January 10,
1990 upon satisfaction of all of these conditions, except (e) which was subsequently made
a condition of disbursement (para. 9).
7.   In addition, a number of key reform measures were undertaken by Government to
satisfy conditions for release of the tranches of the quick-disbursing component. The first
tranche amounting to US$3.3 million equivalent, was released on credit effectiveness. A
second tranche of US$3.5 million equivalent was released on January 21 and 31, 1992,
upon Government fulfillment of, inter alia, the following conditions: (a) restructuring of
MOH and redeployment of its staff in accordance with the Borrower's restructuring plan
referred to in Section 6.01 (d)(i) of the DCA; (b) adoption of a framework regulating the
sale of drugs and the operation of clinics by the private sector; (c) evaluation of the



-4 -
Borrower's cost recovery measures for health services in the Project Area referred to in
Section 6.01 (f) of the DCA, including, inter alia, a review of price levels of drugs and
health care services and the ability of consumers to pay for said drugs and services; (d)
adoption of a program -for nationwide implementation of cost recovery measures for
drugs and health services, acceptable to the Association; (e) establishment of a non-profit
institution, in a form acceptable to the Association, for the non-exclusive procurement,
distribution and stock management of pharmaceutical products in the Borrower's
territory; (f) agreement between the Borrower and the Association on a three-year rolling
investment plan for the health sector covering the years 1990 to 1992 and a recurrent
budget for the year 1990, both in accordance with Section 3.07 of the DCA; and (g)
completion of a performance review of the regulatory framework establishing the
Borrower's reference list of essential drugs and a national drugs formulary.
8.    A third and last tranche of US$3.2 million equivalent was released on July 11,
1995, upon Government fulfillment of, inter alia, the following conditions: (a) agreement
between the Borrower and the Association on a three-year rolling investment plan for the
health sector covering the years 1991 to 1993 and a recurrent budget for the year 1991,
both in accordance with Section 3.07 of the DCA; (b) completion of a performance
review of: (i) the non-profit drug procurement institution to be established under the
project and discussion of said review between the Borrower and the Association; (ii) the
nationwide implementation of the cost recovery programn; and (iii) the regulatory
framework establishing the Borrower's reference list of essential drugs and national drugs
formulary; and (c) redeployment of MOH staff in accordance with the Borrower's
restructuring plan referred to in Section 6.01 (d)(i) of the DCA. An undisbursed balance
of US$185,000 under this quick-disbursing component was included in the balance of the
credit that was ultimately canceled.
9.    Agreed Changes and Amendments. No substantial changes were introduced to
the project description during the life of the project. On October 4, 1989, prior to credit
effectiveness, the DCA was amended to introduce, inter alia, an additional condition of
disbursement for Categories 1, 3, 5, and 7 that required the Borrower to introduce a
financial management and accounting system at all levels of the Borrower's health sector,
designed to handle accounting and control of cost recovery for health care services. This
had previously been a condition of effectiveness (para. 6).
D.   THE RISKS
10.   The President's Report identified three main risks. The major risk envisaged was
that Government may not carry out crucial reforms outlined in the Action Plan,
particularly reorganization of MOH and restructuring its management systems, reform of
the pharmaceutical subsector, and decentralization of decision-making. During project
preparation great effort was expended on building a broad-based consensus of key
stakeholders and beneficiaries on the major aspects of sector reform and on involving
them in program design. In addition, CNEEP was envisaged to play a key role in
eliminating obstacles to achieving program objectives through the monitoring of program



-5 -
implementation. A second risk -- MSP's relative inexperience in project implementation
-- was envisaged to be mitigated by short-term in-service training and the selective use of
local and international technical assistance in program management. Capacities of local
health committees were strengthened through the their involvement in project
development, the clear definition of their roles and responsibilities and appropriate
training.  The third risk identified was the continuation of uncoordinated donor
investment in health in Benin. Through IDA's encouragement, MOH developed sector
dialogue with donors to the health sector and also articulated the Government's new
policy objectives and strategy and provided a framework for aid coordination. Project
activities also supported capacity building in aid coordination. All in all the assessment
of these risks were pertinent and steps taken to mitigate these risks appropriate and
somewhat effective. One risk that may have been underestimated was the very weak
capacity of MOH to manage and implement the civil works component.
E.   EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.   The project objectives were -- and remain -- consistent with the Bank's and
Benin's strategy for economic development and for health sector development. Project
objectives aimed at the comprehensive reform of the health sector that the Government
proposed to undertake as an intrinsic part of the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program. They addressed the sector's main systemic constraints that severely inhibited
MOH ability to fulfill its mandate; and they gave the highest priority to improving basic
health services to respond to the most pressing needs and demands of the beneficiary
populations. Project objectives encompassed both the short-term and medium-term
priorities of the health sector.  Objectives of the quick-disbursing component
accommodated: (a) sorely needed balance-of-payment support to the health and education
sectors; (b) the filling of critical gaps in the recurrent financing needs of these two sectors
against a backdrop of structural adjustment; (c) and the undertaking by Government of
key decisions and measures that would address and resolve key systemic issues through
sector adjustment and reform. The objectives of the investment component of the project
complemented those of the quick-disbursing component: they aimed to support and
underpin reform implementation.
12.   Project objectives were appropriately holistic. They sought to mobilize and
strengthen the contributions of all key actors in the sector -- MOH at all levels of the
system, with an emphasis on: decentralized managers and service providers; other sectors
that have an impact on health; civil society through COGES/COGEC and the private not-
for profit sector, including the CAME. Objectives were also holistic in that they were
conceived in full consideration of the constraints and opportunities of the macroeconomic
and cross-cutting sectoral issues (appropriate allocation and use of public budget for
health sector; civil service reform and recruitment) and with strong links to the Bank's
dialogue and operations in this regard. Finally, they were holistic in that they addressed
the full complement of systemic issues, which are intimately interrelated and which need
to be addressed and corrected together in order to have a positive impact on MOH



performance and effectiveness. All in all, project objectives were extremely well
conceived, innovative and fully responsive to sector issues and priorities.
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPEIIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY
13.   Overall, the PDSS can be considered an important success, having played a
pivotal role in nurturing and supporting sector reform. Among its most notable reform
achievements are: (a) the reorganization of MOH and the creation of three new
Directorates and their corresponding units at the departmental level: the Directorate of
Planning, Coordination and Evaluation (DPCE), which has since become the Directorate
of Planning and Forecasting (DPP), the Directorate of Administrative and Financial
Services (DSAF), which has since became the Directorate of Administration (DA); and
the Directorate of Family Health (DSF); (b) the adoption and implementation nationwide
of cost recovery and community participation andi the creation of health management
committees at the level of the commune (COGEC) and at the level of the subprefecture
(COGES) which renders communities co-managers of activities carried out by health
facilities; (c) the establishment of an independent system for the procurement of essential
generic drugs by the creation of a Central Procurement Agency for Essential Generic
Drugs (CAME), which ensures the constant availability and affordabililty of essential
generic drugs and medical consumables at all levels of the health system; (d) the
establishment of mechanisms for facilitating the participation of other development
sectors having an impact on health and of other partners in health in the planning,
coordination and evaluation of sector activity through the establishment of the National
Committee for Health Sector Program Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation
(CNEEP) and the Departmental Committee for Health Sector Program Implementation,
Monitoring and Evaluation (CDEEP); and (e) the establishment and utilization of tools
and processes for the preparation of a Three-Year rolling Development Plan (PTD) and
for the decentralization of strategic sector management.
14.   The quick-disbursing component provided the framework and incentive for
achieving the above-mentioned sector reforms, by means of conditionality associated
with the release of balance of payment funds in three tranches. In addition, the social
fund, established with Government counterpart funding of this component, succeeded in
filling critical gaps in financing of the health and education sectors with a view to
protecting them from the negative impact of structural adjustment. This fund supported,
among other things: the purchase of textbooks, construction of housing for essential
health personnel as a means of attracting and keeping them in underserved areas, and a
subsidy to the CAME after the devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994. This support to
CAME enabled the implementation of Government's decision to maintain the selling
price of drugs to the population immediately after the devaluation so as not to jeopardize
cost recovery in its early stages and to allow sufficient time for gradual price increases,
which would be necessary in order for CAME to achieve financial viability. The



-7-
investment component of the project underpinned and supported sector reform through
the financing of critical sector inputs to enhance sector efficiency and to improve the
quality and access of health services, particularly in the rural areas.
15.   Together, the quick-disbursing and investment components have achieved
significant results. Strategic sector management has greatly improved. Capacity in
policy formulation, planning, programming and coordination has been developed, with
tangible results: the sector is now framed by a coherent sector policy and strategy and
planning is done more routinely and in a more decentralized manner. Beneficiaries,
through the vehicle of COGES/COGEC, are now actively involved in: the planning and
budgeting of activities in peripheral health facilities, the management of revenues
generated through cost recovery and preventive and promotional activities. A number of
tangible improvements in the health delivery system can also be hoted. Drugs are now
readily available in all health facilities at all levels of the system at an affordable price.
Cost recovery has exceeded expectations: an estimated CFAF 1 billion are in the accounts
of COGES/COGEC. These revenues are collected and managed by COGES/COGEC and
allow most health facilities to cover 100 percent of the costs of their drugs, as well as
other essential operating costs. Health infrastructure has been rehabilitated and extended
thus improving geographical coverage. Key health programs and services have been
strengthened, most notably vaccination coverage and other maternal and child health
services.
16.   Benin's key health indicators have improved over the life of the project.
Vaccination coverage increased from 20 percent in 1989 to 80 percent in 1997. Infant
mortality decreased from 115 per thousand in 1989 to 95 per thousand in 1997, and the
total fertility rate decreased over that same time period from 6.5 to 6.0 per woman of
child bearing age (source: WDR, 1989 and 1997). While these improvements surely
cannot be attributed to PDSS alone, it is likely that a number of notable results achieved
under PDSS, which was national in its scope, have contributed and will continue to
contribute to improved health, most particularly: availability and affordability of drugs,
mobilization of funds for recurrent financing through cost recovery, rehabilitated and
expanded infrastructure, enhanced competencies of medical staff, strengthened priority
programs and services and improved hygiene and sanitation.
17.   The project fell short of its objectives with regard to human resources
management. The redeployment exercise was an initial success, but most redeployed
personnel eventually left their posts to return to Cotonou and environs. While the
training program envisaged under the project was essentially carried out, there was
inadequate planning, management follow-up or evaluation of training to ensure the
relevance of the training, its responsiveness to critical needs, and the full utilization of
newly acquired skills. Finally, only the first of three phases of civil works was completed
under the project (see paragraph 29(d)). For more insight on the Project's outcome, Table
5.B provides details on Benin's health status and health systems issues, as assessed at the
time of appraisal, and their status at the Project's end.



- 8-
B.   SUMMARY OF' COSTS
18.   At appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$32 million
equivalent (net of taxes and duties) with a foreign exchange component of US$22.1
million equivalent (69 percent). Base cost estimates were in May 1989 prices. Actual
total project cost was US$24.5 million equivalent, of which US$17.1 million equivalent
was in foreign exchange. The main reason for the difference between planned vs. actual
total project costs is the fact that two of the three phases of civil works were not
implemented (para. 29 (d)). Table 7A shows plamned vs. actual costs by disbursement
category.
C.   FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
19.   Table 7B itemizes the difference between projected and actual total project cost
by financier and by local vs. foreign components. At the time of Board Presentation, it
was estimated that the total project cost of US$32.0 million equivalent would be financed
as follows: IDA: US$18.6 million equivalent; the Swiss Cooperation: US$11.3 million
equivalent; and the Government of Benin and beneficiary contributions: US$2.1 million
equivalent. The contribution of the Swiss Cooperation was increased by US$4.0 million
equivalent for a total of US$15.3 million equivalent on February 28, 1990. The actual
financing of this project was somewhat different than planned. IDA's contribution
amounted to US$14.8 million equivalent, the Swiss Cooperation contributed US$9.0
million, and the Government and beneficiaries together contributed US$0.7 million.
D. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
20.   The project was prepared over a period of 3 years, with the first identification
mission taking place in 1986, and the Board Presentation and signature of the
Development Credit Agreement taking place on June 6, 1989 and June 26, 1989,
respectively. The credit became effective on Januaiy 10, 1990 and closed seven and one
half years later on its original closing date of September 30, 1997. The mid-term review
of the project was held in October 1996. Disbursements against commitments under the
project were made until March 6, 1998. Delays in holding the mid-term review are
primarily attributable to the impact of the March 1996 Presidential elections, most
notably the immersion of Government in the campiaigns during the 6 months leading to
elections and the massive turnover of personnel in virtually all key technical and
managerial posts in MOH following the elections. An outstanding balance of SDR 3.56
million (US$4.79 million equivalent) was canceled effective March 13, 1998.



-9-
E.   ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION
21.   Perhaps the two most significant factors affecting project implementation were:
(a) reluctance to embrace reforms and (b) massive turnover of virtually all key actors in
the Ministry that significantly diminished institutional memory. Reasons for resistance to
sectoral reform differed from one reform to the other. Pharmaceutical reforms posed a
threat to entrenched interests and strong historical links with a small network of suppliers.
Benin's private sector was uncomfortable at the prospect that their prices and brand name
drugs might no longer be competitive. Lack of support to reforms also was the result of
unfamiliarity and lack of confidence in generic drugs, in early stages of the reform, on the
part of service providers and patients alike. Resistance to the idea of granting financial
and managerial autonomy to the CAME as well as to the idea of involving
COGES/COGEC in the management of this entity was the reason for long delays in
approving its permanent legal status.  The foundations and rationale for reforms
associated with improved strategic sector management (CNEEP/CDEEP, PTD) and
sector organization (reorganization of MOH) were not well understood and, in addition,
challenged the status quo. This was exhibited during the life of the project in the
occasional setbacks on these reforms: in 1992 the Directorates responsible for Planning,
Administration and Financial Management, and Human Resources Management were
suppressed and functions inappropriately assigned to the Cabinet of the Ministry, only to
be reinstated as Directorates in 1995. In the early years of the project, CNEEP was
functioning effectively and the PTD was well prepared, while in the later years of the
project these mechanisms were virtually abandoned. Resistance to decentralization was
the result of the lack of understanding of actors at all levels of the systems of the new
roles and responsibilities of managers, the fear on the part of actors in the periphery that
increased responsibility would not be accompanied by sufficient resources and other
support, and the fear on the part of central level staff that they would lose considerable
control over activities and resources. Once COGES/COGEC began demonstrating their
capacity for contributing to sector management and holding the Ministry decision-makers
and service providers accountable for implementing sector reform and ensuring quality
services, resistance to the idea of co-management has grown.
22.   The preparation and aftermath of the 1996 Presidential elections also had
considerable impact on project implementation. Virtually all key actors inside and
outside the Ministry were indisposed to focus on sector reform and other project activities
during the 6 months leading up to this event. Following the election, an enormous
turnover of staff ensued. A new minister was appointed, new staff were assigned to
replace every single Director at the central-level Ministry; and all Departrnental Directors
for Health were replaced, except for one. In addition, two new project coordinators (for
PDSS and PSP) were named. None of those people nominated had been closely involved
in sector reform, PDSS/PSP development or implementation; and a number of staff in
these key positions did not have the skills and experience that responded fully to the
requirements of the posts. In essence, there seemed to be a lack of importance placed on
retaining and utilizing the institutional memory and capacity developed during the course



- 10-
of project development and implementation. Just after the nomination of this entirely
new team, a special Bank mission visited Benin specifically to brief the new team on both
projects, particularly to review and discuss with them in great detail the content and
rationale of every covenant of each of the two DCAs (PDSS and PSP). Unfortunately, at
the project's end it is acknowledged that the covenamts of the DCA were neither fully
internalized nor adhered to by Government.
F.    ASSESSMENT OF THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
23.   The Bank's performance during project development was highly satisfactory. The
dialogue with Government, both in terms of its process and in terms of its content, was
excellent. Despite the fact that the PDSS was developed well before the Sector
Investment Approach (SIP) was articulated in the Bank, the design of this project
embraces the main principles of SIP: it is sector-wide in scope; it encompasses a coherent
sector policy framework; it puts local stakeholders in charge; it emphasizes full use of
local capacity; it emphasizes the importance of according Government the lead role in
ensuring that all donors support nationally-established policy, strategy and priorities; it
embraces a learning approach through periodic, decentralized and participatory
evaluation of program implementation and fmetuning of future programs in light of
experience; and the funds available under the credit are somewhat flexible so as to
accommodate (through annual evaluation and programming exercises) emerging
opportunities and constraints in an evolving sector. IThe dialogue was well focused on the
priority health needs and demands of Benin's popu[ation, particularly those residing in
rural and peri-urban areas, and on the chronic systeimic issues that severely constrained
MOH perforimance. It was also well linked with the macroeconomic and cross-sectoral
issues and dialogue. Furthermore, as detailed in para. 12 (on evaluation of project
objectives), project design and objectives were well conceived, innovative, and fully
appropriate to priority health sector issues and needs.
24.   Bank performance during project implementation was satisfactory overall,
although it is acknowledged that the Bank might have been more proactive in addressing
and resolving selected project management issues in the earlier stages of implementation.
The Bank was diligent in monitoring and blackstopping Government on the
implementation of reform measures and holding them accountable to their commitments
to reform -- most particularly those concerning the restructuring of the Ministry,
strengthening capacities in strategic sector managemnent and inter-sectoral coordination,
the establishment of mechanisms for co-management of the sector by MOH and civil
society and the establishment of the CAME. The sector dialogue thus did not stagnate
during implementation. On the contrary, it was deepened and broadened in light of
implementation experience. With regard to the central level, Bank's efforts were devoted
to convincing new actors in the Ministry of the rationale for the sector reforms and to
eliciting their commitment to implement them, in accordance with the DCA. Bank
supervision missions spent much of their time in the field, which allowed them to have a
real sense of the impact of sector reform in general and of the project in particular and



thus to recommend actions for further enhancing project performance and outcome in this
regard.
25.   Problems of the poor performance and slow implementation of phase 1 of civil
works and of inadequate project financial management and accounting, as well as
recommendations to resolve these problems, were raised in Aide-Memoires and in the
Forms 590 quite early in the project's life. Lack of follow-up by Government on these
recommendations led the Bank to impose ultimately more concrete and severe corrective
measures, including: (a) in 1995 the complete rewriting of project accounts for the first
five years of implementation that identified ineligible and unjustified expenditures that
were eventually reimbursed by the Government to IDA and to the Swiss; and (b) in 1996
the decision to delegate the responsibility for the management and implementation of
remaining civil works to the private sector in light of poor performance of MOH on
phase 1.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
26.   The Borrower's performance during project development was excellent. The high
quality of project design and the extent of ownership of the project objectives and its
underlying reforms were attributable in large part to the quality of the technical team
within MOH responsible for project development. This team, selected on the basis of
their technical skills and experience, undertook a extensive analysis of the systemic
problems inhibiting optimal performance of the MOH and explored various reform
options to address and resolve these problems. Backstopped by the leadership in the
Ministry, this team was allowed to be visionary and open to innovative approaches,
including: the involvement of beneficiaries in health sector development, decentralization
of strategic sector management; and major pharmaceutical sector reform. The Action Plan
of reform measures benefited from strong political leadership and commitment to its
realization at the highest levels of Government and from the willingness of Government
at the highest levels to take risks.
27.   The Borrower's performance during project implementation was mixed. Despite
pockets of resistance to sector reforms the Borrower's decisions and actions culminated
in the achievement of many reform measures in a difficult environment (para. 13) and in
improved access and quality of health services. It must also be noted, however, that the
Borrower's performance was weak with regard to the following aspects of project
implementation, described more frlly in other sections of this report: (I) the non-respect
of key covenants of the DCA (para. 29(a)); (2) reluctance, and in some cases resistance
to, key reform measures that underpinned PDSS (para. 21); (3) poor planning,
management and evaluation of training supported under the project, which resulted in
underexploitation of skills and competencies in support of project objectives and sector
reform (para. 17); and (4) subsequent to the Presidential elections of March 1996,
massive turnover of experienced, skilled staff, who were holding key technical and
managerial positions in MOH and who were knowledgeable about sector reform, with no
apparent effort to exploit institutional memory (para. 22). In addition, at the level of the



-12-
BCP, the following factors inhibited Borrower performance: (1) inadequate project
financial management and accounting practices that led to a rewriting of project accounts
and the reimbursement of US$1.2 million equivalent (para. 29(b)); (2) poor
management/oversight of civil works (para. 29(d)); (3) overly centralized
organization/working style of BCP (para. 29(f)); and (4) and lack of procurement
capacity.
IV.   SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY
LESSONS LEARNED
28.         While reform implementation under PDSS has indeed been laudable,
sustainability of reforms remains fragile and poses a challenge to the Government and the
Bank alike. Section B. of this Chapter details key actions required to consolidate and
sustain reforms, which were compiled by national stakeholders during the final evaluation
process. Consensus among national stakeholders was also reached on the constraints to
project implementation and on their underlying causes (as presented in Section A. of this
Chapter). Drawing on both the positive and weak aspects of project design and
implementation, the evaluation process culminated in the compilation of lessons that
Government and the Bank are committed to apply immediately to improve the
performance and impact of the ongoing PSP (see Section C. below).
A.   FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEM[ENTATION EXPERIENCE
29.   Project implementation permitted the achievement of many significant outcomes,
as outlined in Chapter III.A. of this report. However, implementation was constrained
considerably by the following major issues:
(a)   Inadequate Understanding of/Adherence to the Development Credit
Agreement. Of the twenty-five covenants included in the DCA, 13 were
fully complied with, 6 were partially complied with, and another 6 were
not complied with at all. Those partially complied with or not complied
with at all were unfamiliar to, and/or ill-understood by many key actors in
the Ministry, despite the Bank's special orientation mission for new MOH
leadership and team and constant emphasis on these covenants during
regular supervision missions.
(b)   Project Financial Management aind Accountability.  A complete
rewriting of PDSS accounts, carried out in 1995 by an independent firm,
identified ineligible and unjustified expenditures carried out in the context
of the project in the amount of 1.1 billion CFAF.  This amount was
adjusted downwards -- to 624.5 million CFAF (US$1.2 million
equivalent) -- in light of additional documentation found by the
Government, accepted by the independent auditor, and agreed to by all
three parties (Government, IDA and the Swiss Cooperation. Upon the
review and approval of the Council of Ministers, the Government



- 13 -
reimbursed the IDA credit and the Swiss Grant in an amount equivalent to
US$1.2 million. A computerized and decentralized system for project
financial management and accounted was developed in order to ensure
rigor and transparency in the financial management of PDSS, as well as
PSP. Because of very long delays in installing this system, recorded in the
several preceding aide-memoires of the mission, PDSS never benefited
from this system. While the condition of disbursement which required the
introduction within MOH of a financial management and accounting
system was satisfied (para. 9), in retrospect the system introduced for the
project was not computerized and perhaps not sophisticated enough for a
project the size of PDSS. In addition, the chief accountant, who left the
project, was not replaced by another qualified accountant for several years;
his duties were assumed in the interim by the deputy coordinator, who did
not possess adequate accounting skills. Despite issues raised in qualified
audits, it was only in 1995 that steps were taken to improve the system and
hire qualified accounting staff.
(c)   Disbursements. Poor financial management was also reflected in the long
periods of inactivity of the Special Account, which slowed the pace of
implementation considerably and led to suspension of its use on June 25,
1996.  In addition, lack of respect of disbursement procedures was
reflected in the doubling of the Special Accounts in collaboration with the
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissements (CAA). The suspension on the use of
the Special Account was lifted upon Government reimbursement of
ineligible and/or unjustified expenditures, mentioned above.
(d)   Civil Works. Only the first of three phases of civil works was completed
under PDSS. Implementation of the first phase of civil works was very
slow due to lack of skills in procurement procedures, in management and
in technical supervision. Budget overruns, inappropriate technical choices
in the design and problems linked to implementation of these works
resulted in constructions with marginal cost-effectiveness, at best. A
condition of disbursement in the Development Credit Agreement
(paragraph 3(c) of Annex 1) specified that subsequent phases of civil
works could not be initiated until the previous phase was completed
(works, staffing, functioning of priority programs) thus causing delays in
the initiation of phase 2. At the time of the mid-term review (October
1996) MOH, the Bank and the Swiss Cooperation acknowledged that the
remaining two phases could not be completed prior to the credit's closing
date of September 30, 1997. After some discussion, they agreed on the
principle of contracting out responsibility for management and
implementation of the second phase of civil works to the private sector
following a competitive process; and on this basis the Government sought
Bank's agreement to extend the closing date by 18 months to allow
completion of phase 2 under this new arrangement. The Bank agreed to



-14-
grant such an extension upon Government implementation of three
actions: (a) the recruitment of an architect adviser; (b) the completion of
the audit of project accounts for CY 1996 and (c) the signature of the
contract with the private agency, selected in accordance with Bank
procedures. Because the Bank deternmined that the evaluation process
undertaken by Government for choosing the private agency was not in
accordance with Bank procedures, the last action (contract signature) was
not carried out by Government by the credit's original closing date and the
credit was thus closed on September 30, 1997.
(e)   Recurrent Cost Financing.   The MOH  considered that project
implementation was considerably constrained because neither the IDA
credit nor the Swiss grant for PDSS provided for recurrent costs,
particularly those associated with the running of the BCP. Recurrent costs
were indeed provided for under the project. It was negotiated and agreed
in Washington in 1989 by IDA ancl the Government of Benin that
recurrent cost financing would be covered by Govermment counterpart
funds. Government's ability to honor its counterpart financing was
assured through Section 3.07(b) of the DCA, which commits the
Governnent of Benin to allocate an increasing amount of the national
budget to the health sector, specifying the amounts for salary and non-
salary recurrent costs for each year over the entire life of the project. These
funds were intended to finance recurrent costs of the sector in general as
well as recurrent costs associated with project management. A review of
allocations under the structural adjustnent project do confirm that these
allocations were indeed sufficient to cover essential health sector costs;
and MOH did not consume more than 50 percent of its public budget
during the entire life of the project.
(f)   Centralized Management of PDSS. Despite the fact that PDSS was
designed in a fully participatory manner, including the consultation of the
beneficiary populations, its implementation was constrained by
insufficient information and involvement of actors and stakeholders in the
periphery and a lack of clarity of rol[es and responsibilities for project
implementation, particularly in light of decentralization. The central
directorates did not assume necessary leadership and were not sufficiently
involved in the implementation of decentralization and in the
establishment of good communications within the entire structure. In
addition, relations between MOH and structures for community
participation were not always harmonious or productive.



- 15 -
B.   SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
30.   Enlightened perspectives and concrete recommendations emanating from the final
evaluation workshop have acknowledged fully the fragility of reform achievements made
under PDSS and the need for great commitment (at the policy level, as well as on the part
of implementors of national health policy and strategy) to their consolidation and
sustainability. One of the most important products of the workshop was a compilation of
actions to be taken to achieve this end. Among the most salient were: the need to further
develop skills and revitalize mechanisms for improved strategic sector management and
coordination (CNEEP/CDEEP, PTD) and the need to decentralize these functions; the
need to underpin gains made in the pharmaceutical sector through, among other things,
the training of prescriptors and the control of illicit drug sales; the need to improve
partnerships in health, not only through actions to strengthen the capacities of
COGES/COGEC, but also the capacities of MOH in this regard; and the need for
orientation of sector management and service delivery around the principal of client-
orientation.  The value added of the non-governmental sector in health system
performance has been amply demonstrated during project implementation. The roles and
contributions of these partners will be crucial in consolidating and sustaining sector
reform.
31.   The fruits of the participatory evaluation process include a validation of the
Government's Letter of Sector Development Strategy, which outlines an action program,
objectives and policy aimed at implementation of national sector strategy, which PSP is
designed to support. This key document, cited in the Development Credit Agreement for
PSP and annexed to the appraisal report, outlines three major objectives: (a) to improve
the quality and access of basic health services, including the establishment of sector
norms and standards, integration of services and programs; the establishment of health
districts; and the consolidation of reforms in the pharmaceutical subsector; (b) to improve
strategic sector management and management of resources through: support to
decentralization; redynamization of CNEEP/CDEEP, preparation of policies on health
financing and human resources management and support to their implementation;
strengthening and decentralization of planning and evaluation; and (c) to strengthen
partnerships in health, particularly with civil society (COGES/COGEC).
32.  It became very clear during the evaluation process that the consolidation and
sustainability of achievements made under PDSS -- particularly with regard to sector
reform -- will be highly dependent on the leadership and commitment of Government at
the highest levels and on the full appreciation and ownership of these reforms on the part
of all actors within MOH. There are still considerable pockets of resistance for the
various reforms, as described in para. 21. Decentralization and strengthened partnerships
with Governmental (CNEEP/CDEEP) and non-governmental (COGES/COGEC, CAME)
actors, created and supported under PDSS, will be both the means and the end in this
regard.



- 16-
C.   LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS ]IN THE SECTOR IN BENIN
33.   Lessons of Project Design and Development. Many rich and positive lessons can
be gleaned both from the process and content of project design. Section F. of this report
on the Assessment of the Bank's Performance validates the principles of the SIP
approach to project development and their effectiveness in eliciting a productive and
constructive dialogue and partnership with Governnment in addressing difficult sector
issues by innovative means and in encouraging greater coherence and coordination in the
various programs and interventions of all partners (international and local) in health. By
the same token, Section G. of this report on the Assessment of the Borrower's
performance underlines the importance of strong leadership, ownership, vision and risk-
taking of policymakers and managers, both within and outside of MOH, in conceiving
and implementing sector reform. This section also points to the cruciality of assigning a
top-notch team, with the skills and experience necessary, to undertake quality work in
needs assessment, problem analysis and project design and development. The Bank's and
the Borrower's performance also illustrate the value of consulting and involving the
managers and service providers in the periphery, as well as the population -- the ultimate
beneficiaries -- in needs assessment and project design. Such a process builds ownership
and capacity at the local level, both of which are essential to successful reform
implementation.
34.   Section E. of this report provides detail and insight on the positive lessons learned
with regard to project content, summarized here. In essence, the project defined in a
holistic fashion all systemic constraints to sector performance and addressed them
through dialogue and interventions both at the macroeconomic, cross-sectoral level, as
well as within the sector. The links and complementarities of the various components
and actors were well exploited and interwoven to the extent that the whole project
equaled more than the sum of its individual components. Such a project design should be
a guide for future operations in the sector in this and other regions.
35.   Lessons of Project Implementation. Perhaps the most important of all lessons,
acknowledged by all parties during the evaluation process, is the need for all actors in
project implementation to master the contents of the DCA and to follow it rigorously to
ensure its full implementation -- especially with regard to reform. This is all the more
important in an environment where there is strong turnover of managers, decision-
makers, technicians and service providers. Among the other salient lessons are: (a) the
importance of a viable system for project financial management and accountability and
the need to ensure adequate accounting expertise throughout the life of the project; (b) the
importance of mastering procurement and disbursement procedures for smooth and
accelerated implementation and disbursement; (c) the wisdom of subcontracting out
responsibilities to the private sector where they clearly have the comparative advantage,
illustrated by the case of civil works implementation; (d) the necessity of monitoring
very rigorously the recurrent costs financing of the project, including the clarity and
adequacy of financing sources, as well as the financial sustainability of project
interventions; and (e) the wisdom of decentralizing project management and



-17 -
implementation so that key actors and beneficiaries will have the opportunity to enhance
project impact by virtue of their knowledge of local needs and issues, commitment and
experience.
36.   One final lesson of implementation experience is the importance of clear
communication and mutual understanding between the Bank and the Borrower. The
constraints to project implementation underpinning the above-mentioned lessons were
constantly raised throughout project implementation by the Bank in its dialogue, in its
Aide-Memoires, in its written communication with Government, and through routine
exchanges with Resident Mission staff. However, these messages were ill-understood
and/or resisted by the Borrower; and the (tough) steps ultimately taken by the Bank and
the Government to resolve burning problems -- resulting in the suspension of the use of
the special account, reimbursement by Government of ineligible/unjustified expenditures,
the decision to contract out subsequent phases of civil works, Bank's objection to
procurement files -- all were perceived, in their time, as Bank attempts to block
implementation.  The evaluation process seems to have raised considerably the
appreciation of MOH of the rationale for IDA's actions and decisions in this regard; and
it is hoped that this important breakthrough will allow for a stronger, more productive
partnership in the implementation of future operations in the sector.



- 18 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A:   Key Input Indicators for Project: Implementation and Operation
Table 5B:    Overall Evaluation Framework and Outcome Indicators
Table 5C:    Problems related to the quality of infrastructures/lessons learned
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 8:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 11:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12A:  Bank Resources: Missions
Table 12B:   Bank Resources: Supervision Missions



-19-
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives              Substantial          Partial          Negligible         Not applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                    O0                                                         0
Sector Policies                           0                 0                   0 -                  0
Financial Objectives                      0                  El                 0                    0
Institutional Development                 0                  0                  0                    0
Physical Objectives                       0                  El                 0                    O
Poverty Reduction                         0                  0                  0                    0
Gender Issues                             0                  0                  0                    0
Other Social Objectives                   0                  0                  0                    0
Environmental Objectives                  0                  0                  0                    0
Public Sector Management                  0                  0                  0                    0O
Private Sector Development                0                  0                  0                    0
(including non-governmental sector)
B. Project Sustainability                    Likely                      Unlikely                      Uncertain
1                                 ~~~~~~~0                        0                             0 
C. Bank Performance                           satisfactory              Satisfactory                   Deficient
Identification                            0                            0                             O
Preparation Assistance                    0Z                           0                             03
Appraisal                                 01                           0                             0
Supervision                               0                            0                             0
Higl
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactory             Satisfactory                    Deficient
Preparation                               0                            0                             0
Implementation                            0                            03                            0
Covenant Compliance                       0                            10                            0
Hi, 
E. Assessment of Outcome                    satisfactory    Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory       unsatisfactory
0                 0                   0                   0



- 20 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit title          Purpose                                        Year of           Status
Approval
Preceding operations
Not Applicable
Following operations
Health and Population   The overall objective of the project is to assist: the Government  1995  Supervision
(Cr. 2734-BEN)       in improving the health and well-being of Benin's population,
with particular emphasis on its most vulneralble segments. It
will support the national sector policy and strategic objectives.
The project will: (a) assist in the further development and
expansion of family planning program; and (b) support
implementation of the three main reforms included in the
national health sector strategy for the period 1995-1999. The
three reforms are: (a) decentralization and strengthening of
sector management and administration; (b) reconfiguration of
the referral system and strengthening of its capacity to provide
technical support services to primary health care and nutrition;
and (c) expansion of the participation of stakelholders, including
beneficiaries, in the planning, implementation and evaluation of
national health policy and programs.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned                   Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Project Brie)                           n.a.                        01/86
Preparation                                            02/86                         11/87
Appraisal                                              10/86                         06/88
Negotiations                                            n.a.                         03/89
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)            n.a.                         03/89
Board Presentation                                     08/87                         06/89
Signing                                                 n.a.                        06/89
Effectiveness                                           n.a.                         01/90
Project Completion                                     03/97                         09/97
Credit Closing                                         09/97                         09/97
n.a. = not available



-21 -
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year       Appraisal Estimate              Actual              Actual as % of
Estimate
1990                         5.7                       2.8                     49
1991                         10.3                     4.6                      45
1992                         15.0                     9.0                      60
1993                        16.4                      10.1                     62
1994                        17.4                      10.7                     61
1995                        18.1                      11.1                     61
1996                        18.4                      15.2                     83
1997 a/                     18.6                      15.1                     81
1998 a/                      0.0                      14.8                    n.a.
a/ Govenmment reimbursed IDA the equivalent of $0.30 million for payments made from the Credit funds for ineligible expenses.
Source: Loan database of March 29, 1998 (Date of final disbursement: March 6, 1998).



-22 -
TABLE 5A: KEY INPUT INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Components                       [ SAR Planned             Actual
I. Quick-disbursing Component                           [              j_|
Ist tranche release (at effectiveness):                    $3,300,000          $3,300,000
a) Implementation of MOH's restructuring and redeployment
plans;
b) Appointment of the Directors of MOH's key units;
c) Adoption of legal, administrative and financial measures to
execute the first phase of the cost recovery program and the
opening of the Social Fund Account
2nd tranche release:                                       $3,500,000          $3,500,000
a) Creation of a user-oriented non-profit institution for the
procurement and distribution of essential drugs (Centrale
d'Achat);
b) Agreement on the content and level of investment and
recurrent budgets for 1990;
c) Review of the level and composition of actual expenditures for
1989;
d) Audit of the Social Fund
e) Promulgation of legislation and operating procedures to permit
the participation of the private sector in the distribution and sale
of drugs and the opening of private clinics.
3rd tranche release:                                       $3,200,000          $3,200,000
a) Initiation of the national cost recovery programs;
b) Agreement on the content and level of both the investment and
recurrent budgets for 1991, and review of the level of actual
expenditures for 1990
c) Audit of the Social Fund
d) Performance audit of the Centrale d'Achat
H. Investment component                                 |               l                       I
A. Improvement of Sector Management and Organization
Al. Strengthening of MOH
Originally programmed activities:                                        CNEEP, CDEEP, DP,
a) Development and strengthening of planning, programming and            PTD, DPP, DA, DSF,
administrative procedures in MOH;                                        Budgets-programs
b) Reorganization and streamlining of functions of the central           Restructuring of MOH
units;
c) Strengthening of technical management functions of central
units responsible for the elaboration of priority programs; and
d) Creation of a strategic project and program coordination              CNEEP
committee
1. Civil Works and Equipment:
a) Rehabilitation of MOH central infrastructure                1                    1
b) Office equipment (including computer system)                1                    1



- 23 -
Components                         SAR Planned           Actual
2. Training and Study tours (no. of persons)
a) Programming and budgeting and dissemination of MIS        70                  70
b) Fellowships: (no. of persons)
(i) Program management                                        2                  3
(ii) Financial management                                  -1 4                   2
3. Technical Assistance:
a) Planning and programming (manmonths):
International: preparation and evaluation of MIS              9                   0
National: Preparation and evaluation of management reports    5                   0
B. Decentralization of Management Functions
Originally programmed activities:
a) Strengthen the Provincial Health Directorates of Atacora,                 Not achieved
Mono and Atlantique                                     _                                     l
1. Equipment and materials
a) Office Equipment                                                           Achieved
b) Vehicles and maintenance                                                   Achieved
2. Training
a) Workshops                                                 n.a.                n.a.
b) In-service training in program planning, management and   n.a.                 3
health services delivery                                                                      l
B Sector Investment and Financing
B1. Investment Planning and Management
Originally programmed activities:
a) Preparation of the three-year rolling investment plan               Carried out, until 1996
50% achieved
b) Develop and institutionalize the process of investment
planning, improve evaluation skills of MOH staff                       Achieved (CNEEP,
c) Support the establishment of an inventory of current projects       CDEEP and PTD)
1. Equipment
a) Office equipment and materials (including micro-computer for               Achieved
DEP)
2. Technical Assistance
a) Preparation and evaluation of three-year rolling plan      3          Carried out, until 1996
3. Training
a) Financial accountant                                       1                   1
b) computer training                                          3                   1
B2. Financial Planning
Originally programmed activities:
a) Annual review of work program budgeting system                             Achieved
b) Setting up of a financial management and accounting system              Partially achieved
for all levels of the health system
c) Expand and improve the cost-recovery program                               Achieved
d) Develop a decentralized accounting and financial control                Partially achieved
system
e) Periodic auditing of MOH accounts                                          Achieved



-24 -
Components                          SAR Planned  |         Actual
C. Improvement in the Health Delivery System                            l
Cl. Essential Drugs Program
Originally programmed activities:
a) Develop and institute an essential drugs program                             Achieved
b) Publish and distribute a reference list of essential drugs and a             Achieved
national drugs formulary for each level of the health system
1. Seminars and other (no. of persons)
a) Management of essential drugs                                1               Achieved
b) Pharmaceutical inspection                                   2                Achieved
c) Computer training                                           I                Achieved
d) Use of drug formulary (CSD, CHP heads)                      12               Ongoing
e) Use of drug formulary (CSD, CHP, CCS personnel)             13               Ongoing
f) Dissemination of system (cost recovery: doctors)            24               Achieved
g) Dissemination of systems (cost recovery: accountants)       24             Not achieved
2. Technical Assistance (manmonths)
(Essential drugs and cost recovery):
a) International: (i) Drafting of legislation                  2                Achieved
(ii) preparation of national system of management of accounts  4                Achieved
(iii) implementation of system                                 3                Achieved
(iv) evaluation of cost recovery system                         1               Achieved
b) National: (i) Preparation of national management reports    4              Not achieved
(ii) implementation of system                                  3                Achieved
(iii) evaluation of cost recovery system                       2                Achieved
C2. Establishment of an Early Warning System for the
Surveillance and Management of High Risk Pregnancies
Originally programmed activities:
a) Set up within each of the six regions, an early warning system               Achieved
for the surveillance and management of high risk pregnancies
b) Develop physiological norms that fit each community's                    Partially achieved
profile, define regional profiles for high risk pregnancies, train
provincial teams to manage the system
1. Equipment and vehicles
a) Equipment of operating and obstetric rooms in regional                     Not achieved
hospitals
b) Ambulances (one in each region)                                              Achieved
c) Motorcycles for satellite rural centers                                      Achieved
d) Communication equipment                                                    Not achieved
2. Training and Study tours (no. of persons)
a) Study tours for regional managers of the system                            Not achieved
b) Midwives                                                    11               Achieved
c) IDE in surgery                                              6                Achieved
d) IDE/SF in anesthesiology                                    6                Achieved
e) IDE in radiology                                            3                Achieved
f) MCH/FP: dissemination of system                             30             Not achieved
g) MCH/FP: Seminars                                            10               Achieved
h) EPI: Promotion (doctors)                                    11              Not achieved



-25 -
Components                         SAR Planned           Actual
i) EPI: Promotion (nurses aide)                              11              Not achieved
j) EPI: Promotion (CCS Resp.)                                154             Not achieved
k)EPI: Retraining (CCS Resp.)                                70              Not achieved
1) EPI: Training of village agents                           70             No t achieved
3. Technical Assistance
a) MCH/PF: preparation of MCH/PF program                      2               Achieved
a) IEC: to be determined                                      8              Not achieved
C3. Pilot Development Projects for the Urban and Per-urban
Poor
Originally programmed activities
a) Carry out two pilot programs (at $200,000) to provide                     1/3 achieved
assistance to disadvantaged communities in Cotonou, Porto
Novo, Abomey, Natitingou and Parakou.
b) First pilot: provide basic environmental hygiene and sanitation           1/3 achieved
services with the active participation of the communities
c) Second pilot: finance a number of actions in these same                   1/3 achieved
communities through grant of US$10,000 equivalent for
strengthening of culturally relevant traditional community
organizations; proposals are submitted to CNEEP for approval.
C4. Physical Infrastructure
Originally programmed activities                                       3 CSSP
a) Support to district-level (CSDs) and communal-level (CCSs)          14 CCS
facilities in the three regions; office accommodations and drug        2nd and 3rd phases of
storage facilities to facilitate regions' health directorates to       civil works not completed
assume their new responsibilities and decentralize essential drug
management system
1. Civil Works and Equipment
a) 1st phase                                              $4,900,000          $4,900,000
b) 2nd phase                                              $5,300,000         Not achieved
c) 3rd phase                                              $4,000,000         Not achieved
(Include architectural design, civil works and supervision of
construction works and medical equipment, office furniture and
supplies).                                                                                   L
CS. Maintenance Program (to be provided and financed by
AJDB) for physical infrastructure and technical equipment              Infrastructure: Achieved
Originally programmed activities                                       Equipment: Not achieved
a) to help MOH design and implement a preventive maintenance
programn
1. Fellowships and training
a) Biomedical engineer                                        1              Not achieved
b) Civil engineer                                             1              Not achieved
c) Training Technicians                                       3              Not achieved
d) Dissemination of program                                   11             Not achieved
2. Materials and Support
a) Materials and logistical support to maintain facilities and               Not achieved



-26 -
Components                      [__SAR Planned            Actual
equipment at functional levels                         j
C6. Supportfor IEC Program
Originally programmed activities
a) Comprehensive health education project (financed by UNDP)                  Achieved
b) Integrating health education efforts with ongoing preventive               Achieved
health programs and based on UNDP's recommendations
c) Strengthen MOH's capacity to develop and manage the                        Achieved
integrated MCH/FP, STD/AIDS and EPI programs and support
these in the project zones
1. IEC Program                                                        1
a) Provision of $200,000                                   $200,000          3/4 achieved
D. Manpower and Human Resources De elopment                  [
DI. Strengthening of DRH
Originally programmed activities
a) Strengthening of the Human Resources Division (DRH) and its         Redeployment: Achieved
efforts to develop staff redeployment and in-service training          Training: Not achieved
programs
b) Prepare a staff redeployment program designed to redress            Achieved
current geographical and hierarchical inequities in the distribution
of medical and paramedical personnel to satisfy the
decentralization objectives for the sector
c) Developed and computerized personnel files for the three            Files developed but not
regions and later for the entire country                               operating
d) Redeployment of staff to begin in year 2 of the project             Done, but unsuccessful
1. Technical Assistance
a) International: (i) preparation and evaluation of redeployment
program                                                       4              Not achieved
(ii) preparation and evaluation of retraining program         5              Not achieved
b) National: (i) preparation and evaluation of retraining program  4         Not achieved
2. Training and Fellowships
a) Management of human resources                              3                   1
b) Computer training                                          1                   1
3. Equipment
a) Office furniture                                           1                   1
b) Office equipment (including one computer)                  1                   1
c) Vehicle                                                                        1
D2. In-service Training
Originally programmed activities
a) To upgrade the technical skills of staff                                 Not achieved
b) To support the design and implementation of local in-service              Not achieved
training efforts in order to improve the quality of primary health
care and community outreach activities
1. Training                                                          I
a) Training of instructors (to begin in Year 1)                              Not achieved
b) In-service training program (to begin in Year 1)                          Not achieved
c) Training for primary-level staff                                           Achieved



-27 -
Components                       ]_SAR Planned             Actual
d) Formal specialized technical training for staff of the project              .
zone: (Administration; Doctors; Nurses; Midwives)              48             80% achieved
e) Personnel management                                        11             Not achieved
2. Technical Assistance (manmonths) to assist in the design and
implementation of the program and the training of trainers             I
a) International specialist services                           5              Not achieved
b) National specialist services                                2              Not achieved
3. Other                                                               I
a) books, journals and supplies                                 1               Achieved
E. Project Management                                   |
1. Technical Assistance
a) Technical adviser                                           36               Achieved
b) Program adviser                                             9                Achieved
c) Procurement adviser                                         6                Achieved
2. Project Launch Seminar                                      1                Achieved



TABLE 5B: OVERALL EVALUATION FRAMEWORK AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
PROBLEMS AND         OBJECTIVE           STRATEGIES             INDICATORS             STATUS AT END OF           FUTURE CHALLENGES
ISSUES AT                                                                              PROJECT
APPRAISAL
Health indicators were  To improve overall  Through a health sector   Mortality and morbidity  Significant changes in  New goals and objectives towards
among the poorest in   health indicators and  reform the strategy was   and fertility changes  mortality, immunization  sustaining and improving health
the world i.e. high  in particular and  to: Address the major   and improvements in    coverage, increased ration of  indicators must be established to
mortality, morbidity    decrease infant and   causes of morbidity and   other health indicators   health service to population    consolidate and improve gains made.
and ferfility and low    maternal mortality,   mortality;
life expectancy      morbidity and       Reorient priorities in  Reorientation of health   Priorities of the project have   Monitoring and supervision systems
fertility, and     heath care delivery     services towards      focused on preventive      must be strengthened to address
increase life      systems; and            Primary Heath         measures, such as          quality, access and participation
expectancy         Increase public         Activities            immunization as seen by
awareness for the need                       dramatic increases in       Reproductive health activities
for family planning and   Level of public    coverage                    continue to pose a major challenge
prevention of STD/AIDS  awareness of the need                            for the health sector as a result of the
for family            Reproductive health activities  socio-cultural factors which support  r-
planing/prevention of    have been integrated within   high fertility.
STD/AIDS              the PHC package but not
institutionalized effectively
__________l                          l                     I                           I 



PROBLEMS AND         OBJECTIVE          STRATEGIES             INDICATORS            STATUS AT END OF          FUTURE CHALLENGES
ISSUES AT                                                                            PROJECT
APPRAISAL
Weak centralized     Implement a health   Reorganize and       Reorganization of     The lack of technical and  The progress and achievements of
ministry with       sector reform       streamline functions of   MOH and extent to  administrative competencies   PDSS were continually undermined
insufficient capacity    designed to:   the Ministry's central    which such         at the central level, the  by weak commitment and massive
for managing,       increase efficiency,   units to reinforce their   reorganization enabled   somewhat improved, but still  turnover of staff and consequent loss
coordinating,        quality, coverage    capacity to respond to    the Ministry to respond  weak capacity to co-ordinate  of institutional memory. Continued
programming and      and effectiveness of  the needs of the    appropriately to      donor financing of the sector,  efforts to build and maintain capacity
implementing health   the heath care    population             priorities of health  and unsatisfactory        are warranted.
sector activities.   delivery system;                          sector strategy       monitoring and supervision
Lack of human        establish a        Strengthen                                  systems continue to        Decentralization of the health sector
resources development decentralized health  administrative planning   Decentralization of  undermine health sector  will consolidate gains made in the
plan.                system for planning   programming and     health services delivery  reform.               reforms under PDSS. Support for
implementing and    procedures within MOH   system                                        decentralization of services must be
delivering health    for improvements in the                   Decentralization of the health  mobilized.
services; establish a   capabilities of the  Extent to which    delivery system is still not
budgeting system   various units comprising  reorganization of MOH   fully realized.
capable of        the health delivery     provides clear
mobilizing and     system                 guidelines on roles an
allocating resources                      responsibilities and
based on needs,    Develop Human          identified competencies
priorities,        Resource Development   for fulfilling functions
particularly in the    Plan in line with needs   required
periphery; and     and priorities of
Prepare and        personnel to meet the  Capacity of MOH to
implement a human  health needs of the    plan, program its
resources          country in the context of  activities, and
development plan    the health sector reform   coordinate donor
financing



PROBLEMS AND         OBJECTIVE          STRATEGIES             INDICATORS             STATUS                     FUTURE
ISSUES AT SAR
Poor quality and     Improvement in the   Appropriate training of   Training undertaken by  Reform has only been  Some redeployed personnel have not
coverage of services:   quality and coverage  health service personnel  PDSS          partially realized. Significant  remained in sites but returned to
geographical         of services        to address the needs and                     training has taken place for    Cotonou.
disparities in the                      priorities of the majority  Appropriateness of  staffing needs at the PHC
allocation of human    Provide essential  of the population    training for improving   levels                   The redeployment effort envisioned
and material resources. drugs at affordable                    quality of services                               under PDSS should be examined
Lack of operating    prices             Recruitment and                               A system of incentives has    within the overall context of a
funds, and essential                    redeployment of health   Personnel redeployed    been put in place to recruit    Human Resource Development plan
drugs at the lower                      services personnel                            and retain staff at difficult    to determine how much has been
level                                                          Completion of the      and remote sites           achieved and what remains to be
Deteriorated health                     Rehabilitation and     rehabilitation of                                 done.
infrastructures                         renovation and         infrastructures planned   Rehabilitation of
equipping health       by the project        infrastructures has lagged  In coLlaboration with staff at the
facilities                                   significantly in the project.   lower levels and community groups,
Quality of the structures  Only one third of     work conditions should be reviewed   o
Establishment of a drug   rehabilitated.     infrastructure rehabilitation   to address constraints personnel face
procurement and                              has been achieved under the   in these sites.
distribution system    Establishment of a drug  Project
procurement and                                  Improved used of and management
distribution system a    One of the most significant    of revenues collected through cost
achievements of the project is  recovery will be pursued. The fight
Capacity to provide   the establishment of the drug  against illicit drugs should be
essential drugs at all    procurement and distribution  intensified. The financial viability of
levels of the system  agency.                    CAME should be monitored and
which are affordable to                          secured.
the community



PROBLEMS AND         OBJECTIVE          STRATEGIES                   INDICATORS               STATUS                      FUTURE
ISSUES AT SAR
Weak participation of  Revitalization and    Creation of COGES/COGEC  The role of the Ministry to   Tangible changes in the  Accept, encourage, and
populations          participation of local and defnition of bylaws for their promote community  quality of services that the  support participation of
populations to    full and meaningful participation  partnerships        population was receiving as    COGES and COGEC in
Lack of confidence  participate actively                                                      compared to conditions prior   health sector
and alienation of the   in carrying out  Provide local health committees  Existence of community    to the project and utilization    management and
community from      health reforms and   training in financial and   groups and its role partners  rates.                 promotion and support
existing health     recover costs       management to enable them to   in the implementation of the                       their efforts to network
services and its ability                play an active role in program  health sector reforms  Legitimization and credibility  and to strengthen
to meet their needs                     implementation                                        of the country's health     further their capacities.
Through a                                       Extent to which community  reform policy by the
Ministerial Arrete    Mobilize community        participation has benefited   population through their active  Build MOH capacity
define the roles   participation in personal and  the health of the population  participation in cost recovery,  and commitment to this
responsibilities and   community health promotion,    and influences health care   planning and budgeting of  end.
functions of local    cost recovery, early recourse to   system positively  health activities, and health
health committees to  basic care, essential drugs and                    prevention and promotional
be active partners in  prophylactic planning for  Support of MOH to       activities.
the decision making  developing a new attitude among  COGES and COGEC
an implementation   individuals and families
of health services in  conceming preventive behavior.
their communities



TABLE 5C: PROBLEMS RELATED TO THE QUALITY OF INFRASTRUCTURES/LESSONS LEARNED
Problems Encountered              Possible origin                  Possible solutions                Health & Population Project
.___________________              (Credit 2734-BEN)
Costly buildings            Weakness of the delegated       Reinforce the capacity of the delegated    Reinforcement of supervision and monitoring
executing agency                executing agency                     capacities of the studies performed by the
Produce real technical specifications/  delegated executing agency
Demands which were not expressed   bidding documents:                Set-up of a real architectural program
or not well expressed concerning  . Improvement of the architectural
functional aspects and the problems   programmation
related to means and preventive  . Expression of demands & supervision of
maintenance                     studies
Reinforce the delegated executing agency  Studies of standard elements and of standard
Non-applicable concern expressed                                     solutions
by architecture and engineering  Qualification/selection of architecture and
consulting firm (questionable   engineering consulting frms
technical choices, overabundant
solutions)                                                                                                        M
Obscure selection by the
architecture and engineering
I consulting firm
Contribution of conmmunities    Construction:
non provided at all or hardly    Initial insufficient community  COGES/COGEC                     Decentralization, COGES, COGEC
provided                   involvement                      Reduction of expected contributions  Reduction of contributions
Overestimated contribution expected
Weak animation/sensibilization
Upkeep/Maintenance              Integration of those concerns in the  Architectural and technical demands
Ill-suited architectural solutions  technical specifications/bidding  Civil works technicians set up in DDS
Material inability to take charge  documents                         Distribution & propagation of the maintenance
(know-how, financial means,     Sensibilization                      guide produced within the PDSS context (civil
availability)                   Maintenance guide                    works technicians & beneficiaries)
Absence of concern on the part of
the beneficiaries
Partially completed program  Implementation delays
(one phase out of three)    Delays in the preparation of bidding  Availability of standard elements and  Enhanced technical specifications (bidding
documents                       solutions                            documents)
architecture and engineering consulting    Standard documentation
._________  _________ _____________________   firms qualification



Problems Encountered              Possible origin                   Possible solutions                Health & Population Project
(Credit 2734-BEN)
Supervision/monitoring of architecture  Reinforcement of the delegated executing
and engineering consulting firms     agency (architect-adviser from MOH)
Delays in awarding contracts                                          Contract specialist in CN-PSP/DIEM
Inadequate knowledge of procedures  Executing agency                  Delegate responsibility for management and
Delays in contract signing      Training & qualification of personnel  implementation of civil works to private sector
Adjusting the handling of visas      (delegated executing agency)
Partially completed program /   Financial difficulties of firms
follow-up...                Assessment schedule of work status   Revision of the payment schedule  Delegated executing agency
Financial stability of firms
Payment delays of firms         Revision of financial networks        Delegated executing agency
Hemmed-in position/accessibility of  Constraint (no solution)         Constraint
certain sites
Program distribution
(tranches subordinate one to the  Adaptation of program               Preparation of the complete set of bidding
other)                                                                documents under Phase I
Non-reception of some works   Failures in the follow-up of   Stability/Qualification of management  Contract specialist/Delegated executing
contracts                       staff                                 agency
Non-payment of retention    Failures in the follow-up of     Stability/Qualification of management  Contract specialist/Delegated executing
money                       contracts                        staff                                 agency
Insufficient use of the grace  Failures in the follow-up of  Stability/Qualification of management  Contract specialist/Delegated executing
period                      contracts                        staff                                 agency
Modification of payment networks
Lack of interest of finns for  Constraints weighing down on finns                                  Delegated executing agency
public contract             Payment problems



- 34 -
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study                Objective as deflned during      Status                Impact of study
evaluation or redefined
1. Studices to measure the impact                           Comipleted       Enabled an assessment of the motivation
of pilot operations on poor urban                                            and of the relevance of outputs as well
and suburban communities                                                     as the creation of a management
structure for the micro-projects of
_women
2. Socio-economic study      Obtain a calculating basis for health  Not completed
(189/1990)                   costs by level & by department
3. Epidemiological study     Mid-term review                Mid-term review   Enhanced appreciation of project's
Final evaluation               Final evaluation   impact and remaining challenges
4. Sociological study on     Mid-term review                Mid-term review   Enhanced appreciation of project's
COGES/COGEC                  Final evaluation               Final evaluation   impact and remaining challenges
5. Study on the Social Fund  Check how this activity was    Cornpleted       Little impact as study exhibited limited
executed and whether it was                     understanding of design and philosophy
appreciated by the beneficiaries                of social fund
6. Study on Training         Evaluation on the impact of training  Completed  Provided insights and lessons for
improved management and outcome of
____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ _  _training  efforts
7. Report on CAME            Perform a chronological study of    Completed   Provided insights and lessons of
the creation of CAME                            relevance inside and outside of Benin
8. Study on budgeting for the  Reinforce the feasibility studies of   Completed  Provided insights for improving
first 5 years of CAME        FED                                   _          budgeting system
9. Study about the legal     Check the legal bases for this  Completed       Enabled the definition of an appropriate
framework of CAME            institution                                      legal framework for this structure
10. Study on the financial  How to install the financial &  Completed        Brought about the development and
management system            accounting management system in                 partial set-up of the system
the health facilities



-35 -
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS (BY CATEGORY OF EXPENSES)
(US$ Million)
Category                      Appraisal estim ate             Actual/latest estimate
l_______________________________    Local    Foreign        Total      Local     Foreign     Total
1. Civil works and equipment under
Part C.4 of the Project
Phase 1                             2.1        2.0        4.1       3.2         1.4        4.6
Phase 2                             2.0        2.0        4.0                    -          -
Phase 3                             1.5        1.5        3                -                -
2. Rehabilitation of Priority Services  0.3       0.1         0.4       0.6         -          0.6
under Part A. I of the Project
3. Furniture, equipment, materials and  0.3       2.1         2.4       1.5         3.3        4.8
vehicles, except for Part C.4 of the
Project
4. Consultants' and architects'         1.1        2.7        3.8       1.3         1.4        2.7
services, fellowships and overseas
training                                                                                             l
5. Local training                      0.8                    0.8       0.6                    0.6
6. Goods imported during the                      10.0       10.0                  10.5       10.5
execution of the Program
7. Refunding of PPF                    0.1        0.6         0.7       0.2         0.5        0.7
8. Unallocated                          1.7        1.1       2.8
TOTAL                     9.9       22.1       32.0       7.4         17.1       24.5
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Source                       Appraisal estimate              Actual/latest estimate
Local    Foreign      Total      Local     Foreign     Total
IDA                                   2.8        15.8        18.6       3.0       11.8       14.8
Swiss Contribution                    5.0         6.3        11.3       3.7        5.3        9.0
Government and beneficiaries          2.1          -          2.1       0.7                   0.7
TOTAL                          9.9        22.1       32.0       7.4        17.1      24.5
Source: Ministry of Health, Social Protection and Women's Affairs
TABLE 8: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR) and
therefore there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for evaluation purposes.



TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section  Covenant Present  Original   Revised                             Description of                                      Comments
type   status  fulfillment fulfillment                            covenant
date      date
3.01      10      CP                         The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in  Problems related to provision of
Schedule 2 to the DCA and; to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOH and  required human resources,
PCB with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate  especially for accounting
administrative, fnancial, economic and public health practices, and shall provide,  management and recurrent costs.
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
3.02 (a)   09     C                          The Borrower and IDA shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified
in Schedule 4 to the DCA.
3.02 (b)   09     CP                         Prior to each such exchange of views as referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, the Reports provided until 1996.
Borrower shall furnish to IDA for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as IDA shall reasonably request.
3.02 (c)   09     CP                         The Borrower and IDA shall, not later than December 31 of each year the Project is   Exchanges of views stopped in
executed, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project, on the  1993.
basis of annual work programs prepared by PCMC.                                 .__
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 the Non provision of non IDA-  e
3.04 (a)   10     NC                         DCA, the Borrower shall: (a) during the course of the Project, provide each year in its financed recurrent costs. When
budget amounts sufficient to cover its annual contribution to the cost of the Project, as PTD process stopped, costs of the
assessed on the basis of annual financial plans prepared by PCMC;       Project were no longer assessed
3-n4 (b)   o4    IC                          (b) open and maintain in a commercial bank a Project account in CFAF, in the name
of the Project, to be used exclusively to meet the Borrower's contribution two the cost of
_________             the Project;
3.04 (c)   04     C                          (c) pay into said Project account an initial amount of 75 million CFAF; and
3.04 (d)   04     NC       -                 (d) thereafter, deposit into said Project account promptly before the beginning of each Deposit done with delay
calendar quarter during the course of the Project, starting April 1, 1990, one-fourth of (sometimes 2 years)
said annual contribution of the Borrower.
3.05 (a)   03     C                          (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain in the Cotonou branch of the Central
Bank for West African Countries a Social Fund on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA.
3.05 (b)   03     C                          (b) The Borrower shall, upon each withdrawal from the Credit Account under
Category (6) of the table in paragraph I of Schedule I to the DCA, deposit, or cause to
be deposited, in the Social Fund, in accordance with appropriate financial procedures,
the equivalent in CFAF of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit
Account under said Category (such equivalent to be determined as of the respective
dates of such withdrawals). The amounts so deposited in the Social Fund shall be used
exclusively to finance non-wage recurrent costs in the Borrower's health and
education sectors, agreed upon between the Borrower and IDA.'



Section   Covenant Present  Original    Revised                                 Description of                                           Comments
type   status  fulfillment  fulfillment                                covenant
date      date
3.05 (c)    03     CP                            (c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, at least on a quarterly basis, all such Covenant complied with for the
information as IDA shall request concerning the utilization of the amounts deposited   ftrst tranche only.
._______  ________ in the Social Fund pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section.
3.06       03      C                             The Borrower shall open and maintain in a commercial bank, an account in the name
of each of the eleven district health centers in the Project Area on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, to be used exclusively to receive the proceeds of cost recovery for
health services and to finance drug purchases in each such center.
3.07(a)    10      CP                            The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project, furnish to IDA for its review: Complied until 1996.
(a) not later than November 30 of each year, its revised and updated three-year rolling
investment plan for the health sector for the subsequent .three calendar years,
emphasizing delivery of health services to rural areas; and
3.07 (b)    10     NC                            (b) not later than September 30 of each year, its recurrent budget for the subsequent   See 3.04 (a)
calendar year showing, inter alia: (i) for 1990, allocations of at least 2.6 billion CFAF
to MSP's wage costs, and of at least 2.2 billion CFAF to MSP's non-wage recurrent
costs; (ii) for 1991, allocations of at least 2.7 billion CFAF to MSP's wage costs and of
at least 2.2 billion CFAF to MSP's non wage recurrent costs; (iii) for 1992 and
subsequent years, allocations of at least 6% of said recurrent budget to the health
sector and of at least 40% of the total health sector budget to MSP's non-wage                                      s
recurrent costs; and (iv) priority allocations to delivery of health services in rural
areas.
3.08 s      0      c                             The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project, maintain: (a) the Human
Resources Sub-Commission within the Borrower's National Commission within the
Borrower's National Commission for Negotiations with the International Monetary
Fund and the World Bank; (b) the PCMC with the staff set forth in its establishment
decree, and with such functions as set forth in Schedule 6 to the DCA; and (c) the PCB
with such functions and staff as set forth in Schedule 6 to the DCA.
3.09       10       C       10/31/89             In order to carry out Part A.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than October
31, 1989, cause health management committees to be established and made functional
in each district and community within the Project Area.
3.10       tO       NC                           In order to carry out Part C.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall, prior to awarding the  Redeployment took place, but was
contracts for such works, reassign health staff to facilities to be extended or  unsuccessful: redeployed staff
rehabilitated.                                                                 did not go to their assignment, or
asked and obtained another
assignment.
3.11       10       C                            The Borrower shall furnish to IDA, for its approval a description of the function,
qualifications, selection criteria and envisaged employment of each candidate for a
fellowship, to be financed under the Project.
3.12       10      N C                           The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that all staff, after receiving  Not complied with at the central
training financed under the Project, remain in their new assignment for a period of not level because of staff turnover. At



Section   Covenant Present   Original    Revised                                         Description of                                                 Comments
type    status   fulfillment  filfillment                                      covenant
date        date
less than three years.                                                                 the regional level, staff
redeployed after training did not
remain in their assignments.
4.01 (a)    Of        NC                               (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts          Non eligible and non authorized
4.01 (a)   01        NC                              adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,        expenses led to the suspension of
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project and the Program of the             the use of the special accounts and
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project and   to the reimbursement of the funds
the Program or any part thereof.                                                        by the Borrower.
4.01 (b) (i)          CP                               (b)The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)   No decentralized accounting
4.01 (b) (i)         CP                               of this Section, including those for the three Special Accounts, the Project account and  system in place (a the regional
the Social Fund referred to in Sections 3.04 and 3.05, respectively, of the DCA, and    health centers level).
the eleven cost recovery accounts referred to in Section 3.06 of the DCA for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(ii) furnish to IDA, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
4.01 (b)(ii) 01                                       the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and                                                      oo
4.01 (b) (iii) 01     C                                (iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records, accounts and the
audit of thereof as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request..                      __
4.01 (c) (i)  01      C                                For aii expenditures with respect to w    wit lddrawals m'rom the Cred-t Account or the
Swiss Contribution Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
4.01 (c) (iv) 01      C                                (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Covenanl t                                                                                                    PrePnnt Staus:
-  Accounts/audits                                    S. - Indigenous people                                 C  -  covenant complied with
2  -  Financial performnatrevenue generation fronmbeneficiories  9  = Monitoring review, nd reporf5ng         CD    complied with otter delay
3. -  Flow and utilization of project funds          tO. P=oject implementation                               CP =  cotnplied with praialy
4. -  Cotunop funding                                 I). S-rtro Or croasosectoral budgetry orothersoturce allocation  NC -  aotcomplied with
5. -  Management pects of the prject or execuling agency  12. = Sectoral or cros-setoral policy/ regulatory/intitutiona action
6. -  Environment covenants                          13. = Other
7. -  Involuntary reettlememt



-39 -
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement Number and Title            Description and comment on lack of compliance
O.D. 13.05 Project Supervision (Annex D, para. 29)   A few legal covenants were not complied with. Refer
to Table 10, Status of Legal Covenants and
Development Credit Agreement, Sections 3.04 (a),
3.04 (d), 3.07 (b), 3.10, 3.12, and 4.01 (a).
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                       Planned                        Actual
Project Cycle
Staff Weeks        US$         Staff Weeks        US$
('000)                         ( 000)
Preparation to appraisal            n.a.           n.a.            81.5            159.8
Appraisal                           n.a.           n.a.            49.4            103.0
Negotiation through Board           n.a.           n.a.            20.0             41.7
approval
Supervision                         n.a.           n.a.           185.4           350.7
Completion                          n.a.           n.a.              8.8            16.1
TOTAL                             n.a.            n.a.           345.1           671.3
n.a.: not available
Source: Costs Accounting System (FACT, June 1, 1998)



-40 -
TABLE 12A: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Perfornance Rating
Number                     Speciallized     Implemen-
Stage of         Month/        of         Days in       Staff Skills      tation     Development     Types of
Project Cycle       Year       Persons       Field        Represented       Status      Objectives     Problems
A. To Appraisal:
Reconnaissance I      2/85           2            2        EH, PO
Identification        2/86           2            5        E-, PO
Preparation 1         4/86           2            3        EH, PO
Preparation 11        7/86            1           23       PH
Preparation Im        8/86           2            8        EH, PO
Preparation IV        12/86           1            1       EH
Preparation V         3/87            1           2        EH
Preparation VI        5/87            1           17       PH
Preparation VII       12/87          2            13       PH, OA
2/88           3            10       PH, A, MGT
Preappraisal          4/88           3            8        PH, E, AO C
Total A                              20           92
B. Appraisal through
Board Approval:       06/88          7            20       PH, E, AO, MCH,
Appraisal                                                  A, IEC
Post-appraisal        11/88          2            9        PH    _
TotalB                               9            29     r      _
C. Board Approval      10/89         3            9        PH, A, OA
through Effectiveness    |                    _                               __7__                      _
Total C.                             3            9
Supervision           2/90 to        85          227       A, CHS, E, ED,         3             2
3/98 (27                             EH, FA, HS, IEC,                              PP, OS
missions)                           IS, LTA, MGT,
OA, GYNiOB,
PG, PH, FHA, PO,
=_______________         ________                  POP/WA IE, RM,
Completion            4/98           4            8        PH, PO, FIR,           3             2        AOF, CLA,
MGT, POP/WID,                                 PMP, PP
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ______   _______   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   LTA, A, RM
Specialization:
A: Architect; CHS: Community Health Specialist; E: Economist; ED: Educator; El-: Health Economist; FA: Financial Analyst;
GYNI/OB: Gynecologis/Obstetrician; HS: Health Specialist; IEC: IEC Specialist; IS: Implementation Specialist; LTA: Language
Staff Assistant; MC: Malaria Control Specialist; MCH: Matemal and Child Health Specialist; PEV: EPI Specialist; PHA:
Pharmaceutical Specialist; MGT: Project Management Specialist; OA: Operations Analyst; PG: Planning Specialist; PH: Public
Health Specialist; PO: Project Officer; POP: Population Specialist, PR: Procurment Specialist; RM: Resident Mission staff (may
include: Economist, Project Officer, Disbursement Officer, Financial Analyst); TRG: Training Specialist; WID: Women in
Development Specialist
Types of problems for performance:
AOF: Availability of Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag; OS: Overall Status; PDO: Project
Development Objectives; PMP: Project Management Performance; PP: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress; TAP: Technical
Assistance Progress; TP: Training Progress.
Performance Rating: 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory; 4: Highly Unsatisfactory; n.ap. = not applicable; n.a. =
Form 590 not available
Form 590 reports overall compliance with legal covenants satisfactory. Nevertheless, compliance with financial covenants is rated
unsatisfactory.



-41 -
TABLE 12B: BANK RESOURCES - SUPERVISION MISSIONS
Perfomiance Rating by type
Stage of     MontW    Number   Days        Specialized      -       -       -       -
Project      Year       of       in        Staff Skills    OS    PDO    CLC    PMP    AOF           PP      TP     TAP      SP       DL
Cycle                Persons   Field      Represented
Supevision 1      2/90       1       5      PH                 2       2       2       2        F               2               2    -*2
Supevision 2      11/90     1        4      PH                 2       2       2       2        1       1       2       1       1       0%
Supervision 3     1/91       1       3      OA                n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.    n.ap
Supervision 4     4/91      5        14    ED, PH, PO, RM      2       2       2        1       1       1       2       1       1       0%Mo
Supervision 5     9/91      2        9      PH, RM             2       2       2        1       1       1       1       1       1       00/0
Supenvision 6     1/92      2        5      PH, RM             2       2       2        1       1       1       1       1       I       00/.
Supervision 7     2/92      1        5      PH                n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.    n.ap
Supervision S     5/92      2        S      PH,OA              2       2       2        1       1       1       1       I       I       0%/.
Supervision 9      1/93     5        9      A, IEC, PH, RM     2       2       2        I       1       2       1       1       1       0%/0
Supervision 10    5/93      5        13    PH, RM, A, HS,    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       n.a
MGT
Supervision II    10/93     7        13    PH, OA, MGT,        2       2       3       2        1       2       1       1       I       00/.
HS, A, ED, RM
Supervision 12    11/93      1       11    GYN/OB             n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.    n ap
Supervision 13    4/94      3        10    MGT, HS, RM        n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.    n.ap
Supervision 14    4/94       1        6     EH                n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.    n.ap.
Supervision 15    5/95       1       14    FA                 n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.    n.ap
Supervision 16    6/95      8        11    PG, MGT, PH,       n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.      n.a.
CHS, GYN/OB,
HS, RM
Supmision 17      9/95      4        1 1    PH, OA, FA, A     n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.      n.a.
Supervision 18    11/95      1       7      FA                n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.    n.ap
Supevision 19     4/96      3        72    FA, RM             n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   nap.   n.ap.   n ap.    n.ap
Supervision 20    7/96      3        7      PH, OA, FA, RM    n.ap.    2       2       2        2       2       2       2       2      16.4.
Supervision 21    8/96       1       8      HS/MGT            n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.    n.ap
Supervision 22    10/96     6        13    PH, A, OA,          3       2       3       2        2       3     n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   23.2
PHA, RM
Supervision 23    2/97       1       9      A                 n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.    n.ap
Supevision 24     2/97       1       2      IS                n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.    n.ap
Supervision 25    6/97      9        8      PH, A, MGT,        3       2       2P      3       2        3     n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   23.5
PG, FA, RM,
LTA
Supervision 26    6/97      7         8     PH, OA, MGT,       3       2       3       2        2       3     n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   25.7
POP, RM
Supervision 27    3/98      3         7     FA, RM            n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.   n.ap.    n.ap
TOTAL                       85      227
Specialization:
A: Architect; CHS: Community Health Specialist; E: Economist; ED: Educator; EH: Health Economist; FA: Financial Analyst; GYN/OB: Gynecologis/Obstetrician;
HS: Health Specialist; IEC: IEC Specialist; IS: Implementation Specialist; LTA: Language Staff Assistant; MC: Malaria Control Specialist; MCH: Matemal and Child
Health Specialist; PEV: EPI Specialist; PHA: Pharmaceutical Specialist; MGT: Project Management Specialist; OA: Operations Analyst; PG: Planning Specialist; PH:
Public Health Specialist; PO: Project Officer; POP: Population Specialist; RM: Resident Mission staff (may include: Economist, Project Officer, Disbursement
Officer, Financial Analyst); TRG: Training Specialist
Types of problems for performance:
AOF: Availability of Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag; OS: Overall Status; PDO: Project Development Objectives; PMP:
Project Management Perfomance; PP: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress; TAP: Technical Assistance Progress; TP: Training Progress.
Perfomance Rating: 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory; 4: Highly Unsatisfactory; n.ap. not applicable; n.a. - Form 590 not available
Estimation of mission's length: number of days not recorded in aide-memoire
Form 590 reports overall compliance with legal covenants satisfactory. Nevertheless, compliance with financial covenants is rated unsatisfactory.



ADpendix A
REPUBLIQUE DU BENIN
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DES SERVICES DE SANTE (CR. 2031-BEN)
MISSION D'EVALUATION FINALE
PROJET SANTE ET POPULATION (CR. 2734-BEN)
MISSION DE SUPERVISION
AIDE MEMOIRE
25 avril au 6 mai 1998
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale a sejoume au Benin du 25 avril au 6 mai 1998. Elle avait
deux objectifs: (a) participer a l'evaluation finale du Projet de Developpenient des Services de Sante
(PDSS), finance par le Benin, l'IDA et la Cooperation Suisse, et (b) superviser le Projet Sante et
Population (PSP). Elle etait composee des personnes suivantes: Mmes/Messrs. Denise Vaillancourt
(Chef de Mission, Specialiste en Gestion), Hugues Agossou (Analyste Financier); Asha Ayoung
(Specialiste en Passation des Marches), Ousmane Diagana (Charge d'Operations Principal), Rougui
Diallo (Chargee de Programmes), Ce1ine Gavach (Assistante), Bellds Giorgis (Consultante/Expert en
Sante Reproductive), Femnand Piotte (Consultant/Specialiste en Gestion), Jacques Waechter
(Consultant/Architecte), et Rama Zime (Chargee des Decaissements). La mission a aussi beneficie de
l'appui de M. Michael Azefor (Representant Resident de la Banque mondiale au Benin) et de M. Jean-
Robert Moret (Representant Resident de la Cooperation Suisse au Benin).
2.    La mission a ete re,ue a plusieurs reprises par Son Excellence Mme Marina d'Almeida
Massougbodji, Ministre de la Santd, de la Protection Sociale et de la Condition Feminine (MSPSCF).
Elle tient a la remercier, ainsi que tous ses collaborateurs, et plus particulierement le personnel des
Umnits de Coordination du PDSS et du PSP pour leur disponibilite.
II.    PROJET  DE  DEVELOPPEMENT  DES  SERVICES  DE  SANTE  - PDSS
(CR. 2031-BEN)
A.    Evaluation finale du Projet.
3.     La mission a assiste a l'Atelier National d'Evaluation Finale du PDSS (Cr. 2031-BEN) qui
s'est d6roule a Bohicon du 28 au 30 avril 1998. Parmi les participants, on comptait des representants
de tous les niveaux du MSPSCF, des autres ministeres membres du CNEEP, de la Centrale d'Achat
des Medicaments Essentiels (CAME), des COGES/COGEC, de la Cooperation Suisse, ainsi que
divers consultants qui ont contribue, par la realisation d'etudes, a 1'exercice d'evaluation. La mission
a regrette l'absence de la plupart des Directeurs Ddpartementaux de la Sante (DDS), ainsi que le
nombre tres limit6 de repr6sentants des COGES/COGEC et des services de sante pripheriques, par
rapport aux representants du niveau central. Cela dit. les resultats de I'atelier sont satisfaisants: tous
ses objectifs ont et atteints. Les participants ont: (a) mis en 6vidence les r6alisations, les 6lements
cles et les problemes fondamentaux qui se sont poses au cours de l'execution du Projet; (b) identifie
les moyens de consolidation et de ptrennisation des acquis du PDSS; et (c) tire des le,ons en vue
d'ameliorer l'execution du PSP (Cr. 2734-BEN) et de poursuivre le dialogue entre la Banque
mondiale et le Gouvemement.



2
4.     Cette section cherche a donner les grandes lignes des resultats de l'evaluation. Un projet
prcliminaire du chapitre ecrit par la Banque pour le Rapport d'Achevement du Projet se trouve en
Annexe 1. II d6taille et analyse plus en profondeur les conclusions de la mission.
5.     Acquis. D'une maniere generale, on peut consid6rer que le PDSS est une r6ussite, etant
donnc son r6le capital dans l'elaboration et l'appui aux reformes sectorielles. A son actif, on peut
noter: (a) la reorganisation formelle du MSPSCF et la cr6ation de trois nouvelles directions: la
Direction de la planification, de la coordination et de 1'6valuation (DPCE, devenue la DPP); la
Direction des services administratifs et financiers (DSAF, devenue la DA), et la Direction de la
sante familiale (DSF); (b) la generalisation a l'6chelle nationale du recouvrement des coGits et de la
participation communautaire et la creation des comites de gestion au niveau de la commune
(COGEC) et de la sous-prefecture (COGES), qui rendent la communaute cogestionnaire des
activit6s men6es par les formations sanitaires; (c) la mise en place d'un systeme independant
d'achat des medicaments essentiels generiques (MEG) par la cr6ation d'une Centrale d'Achat des
Medicaments Essentiels et de consommables medicaux i(CAME), qui assure que les MEG et les
consom:mables medicaux sont disponibles a tout moment et a un prix abordable, i tous les niveaux
du systeme; (d) Ia mise en place de mecanismes pour faciliter la participation intersectorielle et
celle des diffirents partenaires a la planification, la coordination et l'evaluation des activit6s
sectorielles (CNEEP et CDEEP); (e) la mise en oeuvre d'un mecanisme de preparation d'un Plan
triennal de developpement (PTD) a horizon glissant; (f) la creation de fichiers informatis6s pour la
gestion du personnel; et (g) 1'extension et la rehabilitation du patrimoine immobilier de la sante.
6.     Defaillances / leoons tirees de 1'ex6cution du Projet. L'execution du projer a ete
considerablement affaiblie par les problemes suivants:
(a)    Non respect des clauses de l'Accord dle Credit de Nveloppement. L'atelier
d'dvaluation finale a ete l'occasion de reevaluer avec l'Emprunteur le statut du
respect des clauses de l'Accord de Credit de Developpement. 11 s est avere que. sur
25 clauses mentionnees dans l'Accord de Credit, 13 ont ete respectees, 6 n'ont ete
que partiellement respectees et 6 n'ont pas du tout ete respectees. II est apparu
clairement au cours des discussions de I'atelier, que le contenu des clauses non
respectees autant que celui des clauses; partiellement respectees etaient soient
totalement inconnues, soit mal interpretees par le ministere. Ainsi par exemple, la
clause 3.07(b) stipule que, le 30 septembre de chaque annee. un budget de
fonctionnement (salarial et non salarial), avec des montants precis pour la periode
allant de 1990 a la fin du Projet, devait etre 6labore. Cette clause etait inconnue de
la plupart des acteurs du Projet, et ceux qui la connaissaient ne l'ont pas interpretee
comme une mesure visant a assurer le financement des coOts recurrents du Projet
autant que du Secteur. L'une des consequences de cene m6connaissanc/
incomprehension s'est traduite par une partie des depenses non eligibles du Projet
que l'Emprunteur a dO rembourser a l'IDA. II est enfin apparu une
incomprehension globale des principes et de la philosophie de base sous-tendant la
definition de ces clauses; la mauvaise interpr6tation de la clause sus-citee par ceux
qui la connaissaient en est un indicateur.
(b)    Gestion financiere et comptabilit6 du Projet. Une reconstitution des comptes du
PDSS realis6e en 1995 par un cabinet ind6pendant a identifi6 des d6penses
in6ligibles et/ou non justifi6es dans le cadre du projet. pour un montant de
1.069.391.000 FCFA. Ce montant fut reduit a un montant de 624.502.419 FCFA,
suite a la d6couverte par le Gouvernement de pieces justificatives additionnelles,
qui ont et6 acceptees par Ic cabinet d'audit ind6pendant, et a I'accord des trois
parties concernees (Gouvernement, IDA et Cooperation Suisse). Apres examen et
approbation par le Conseil des Ministres, le Gouvernement a rembourse le cr6dit



3
IDA et le Don Suisse pour un montant de 624.502.419 FCFA. La mission rappelle
que la mise en place du systeme de gestion financiere et comptable informatisee et
decentralisee en cours devrait permnettre de garantir la rigueur et la transparence
dans la gestion des fonds du PDSS et du PSP. La mission regrette cependant que le
PDSS n'ait pas pu en profiter a cause du retard dans la mise en place de ce systeme.
Les taches suivantes restent a remplir pour rendre op6rationnel le systeme
comptable du PSP: (a) la disponibilite et la vulgarisation du manuel de procedures
administratives et comptables; (b) la formation des differents acteurs a une
meilleure utilisation du systeme; et (c) I'equipement de la cellule comptable au
niveau de la DA et des DDS en outils informatiques appropries.
(c)   DDcaissements. La mauvaise gestion financiere du Projet fut 6galement reflet6e
dans les longues periodes d'inactivite du Compte Special, ce qui- a ralenti
considerablement l'execution du Projet et a mene A la suspension de l'utilisation du
Compte Special, le 25 juin 1996. En outre, ie non respect des procedures de
decaissement a ete illustre par le dddoublement des comptes speciaux realise en
accord avec la Caisse Autonome des Amortissements (CAA). La suspension de
l'utilisation du Compte Special fut levee apres remboursement par le
Gouvemement des depenses in6ligibles etlou non justifiees mentionnees ci-dessus.
(d)    Genie civAl. Seule la premiere des trois phases de g6nie civil prevues dans le PDSS
a ete achevee. La mise en oeuvre de la phase 1 de genie civil a ete tres lente, a cause
d'une insuffisance de competences dans la connaissance des proceddures d'appel
d'offres. dans la gestion et dans ia supervision technique. Les depassements
budgeraires, des choix techniques contestables dans la conception et les problemes
lies A la mise en oeuvre de ces constructions ont abouti a des infrastructures dont le
rapport cofut/efficacite est, au mieux. marg,inal. Une des conditions de decaissement
de I'Accord de Credit de Developpement (paragraphe 3 (c) de I'Annexe 1) specifie
que les phases suivantes ne pourraient debuter avant que la phase precedente soit
achevee (travaux, personnel, programmes prioritaires): ceci a donc cause des
retards dans le lancement de la phase 2. Lors de la revue a mi-parcours (octobre
1996). Ie MSPSCF, la Banque mondiale et la Cooperation Suisse ont reconnu que
les deux phases restantes ne pourraient etre achevees avant la date de cl6ture du
cr6dit. fixee au 30 septembre 1997. Les trois parties ont neanmoins convenu, apres
discussions, de proceder a une d6l6gation de la maitrise d'ouvrage pour l'execution
des deux phases de genie civil restantes. C'est sur la base de cet accord que le
Gouvernement a demandd a la Banque de proroger de 18 mois la date de cl6ture du
Credit 2031 -BEN, afin de permettre I'achevement de la phase 2 de genie civil. La
Banque n'avait pas d'objection a une telle prorogation, sous r6serve que le
Gouvernement mine a bien trois actions: (i) le recrutement d'un architecte conseil:
(ii) I'achevement de I'audit des comptes du Projet pour l'annee 1996; et (iii) la
signature du contrat avec le maitre d'ouvrage deiegue selectionne suivant les
procedures acceptables A la Banque. Le Gouvernement a satisfait aux deux
premieres conditions, mais la Banque etait d'avis que le processus d'evaluation des
offres pour le choix du maitre d'ouvrage d&ldgu6 n'etait pas conforme a ses
procedures de passation des marches- Cette condition (signature du contrat pour la
maitrise d'ouvrage delegude) n'ayant pas dte remplie par le Gouvernement le cr6dit
fut donc cl6ture le 30 septembre 1997.
(e)    Financement des couts de fonctionnement. Le MSPSCF estime que l'execution
du Projet a ete considerablement handicapee parce que ni le crddit IDA ni le Don
Suisse ne finan,aient les coits recurrents, et plus particuliirement ceux concemnant
le fonctionnement de l'UCP. La mission a explique lors de l'atelier que les couts de



4
fonctionnement etaient pourtant bien prevus dans le Projet. Ainsi que negocie et
approuve par le Gouvernement et la Banque mondiale a Washington au cours des
negociations du credit, et conformement aux dispositions de l'Accord de Cr6dit de
Developpement, les couits de fonctionnement sont a la charge de I'Etat. La capacite
du Gouvernement a honorer le financenient de sa contrepartie etait assuree dans la
Section 3.07 (b) de l'Accord de Cr6dit de Developpement, dans lequel le
Gouvernement s'engage a allouer un montant croissant de son budget national au
secteur de la sant6. Cette Section specifie egalement les montants pour les charges
de fonctionnement salariales et non salariales, pour chaque annee du Projet. Ces
fonds devaient financer les cocuts de fonctionnement du secteur en general, y
compris ceux li6s a la gestion du Projet. Un examen des allocations dans le cadre
des programmes d'ajustement structurel confirme que ces allocations suffisaient a
couvrir les coGts essentiels du secteur sante, et que le MSPSCF n'a pas eonsomme
plus de 50 % de son budget pendant toute la duree du Projet. Les participants a
l'atelier qui sont intervenus sur ce sujet avait une autre interpretation de cette
clause. Ils croyaient que le credit aLiriat dGi prevoir le paiement des frais de
fonctionnement du Projet.
qj     Gestion centralisee du PDSS. Le PDSS a ete concu d'une facon participative,
comprenant la consultation des populations benificiaires. Toutefois, son execution
a ete largement centralisee et marquee par des insuffisances au niveau de la
circulation de l'information, de la communication et de l'implication des acteurs et
partenaires de la peripherie, et par un manque de clarte des roles et responsabilites,
particulierement dans le cadre de la decentralisation. Les directions centrales n'ont
pas assume le leadership necessaire et ne se sont pas suffisamment impliquees en
vue d'operationnaliser la decentralisation et d'6tablir une bonne communication
dans l'ensemble de la structure. De plus, les relations entre le ministere et les
structures de participation communautaires n'ont pas toujours et harmonieuses et
fructueuses.
7.     Consolidation  et p6rennisation  des  acquis.   Des perspectives claires et des
recommandations concretes 6manant de l'atelier d'evaluation finale ont mis l'accent sur la fragilit&
des reformes realisees, ainsi que sur la n6cessit6 d'un plus grand engagement de la part des cadres
du ministere, a tous les niveaux, en vue de la consolidation et de la p6rennisation des acquis. Les
actions A envisager pour arriver a ces resultats constituent une des recommandations majeures de
l'atelier. Ces recommandations valident la Lettre de Strategie de Developpement Sectoriel (Annexe
2), decrivant un programme d'actions, d'objectifs et de politiques destine a mettre en oeuvre la
strategie nationale dans le secteur de la sante, pour le support de laquelle le PSP a ete concu. Ce
document cle, mentionne dans l'Accord de Credit de Developpement du PSP (Cr. 2734-BEN) et
annexe au Rapport d'Evaluation de celui-ci, souligne trois objectifs principaux: (a) ameliorer la
qualite et l'acc&s aux services de sante primaire, y compris notamment l'etablissement de nornes et
standards pour le secteur, P'int6gration de services et programmes, la mise en place des zones
sanitaires, et la consolidation des reformes dans le sous-secteur pharmaceutique; (b) ameliorer la
gestion strategique du secteur et la gestion des ressources, entre autres, par: I'appui a la
decentralisation, la redynamisation du CNEEP/CDEEP, I'elaboration et la mise en oeuvre des
politiques de financement du secteur et du developpement des ressources humaines, le renforcement
et la d6centralisation de la planification; et (c) renforcer le partenariat pour la sante, en particulier
avec la societe civile (COGES/COGEC).
8.     Les prochaines etapes. Selon les directives de la Banque soumises au Gouvernement et
discut6es au cours de la mission precedente, un Rapiport d'Achevement sera present6 au Conseil
d'Administration de la Banque mondiale le 28 mai 1998. Ce document sera compose de 2
chapitres: I'un ecrit par l'IDA, et l'autre par le Gouvernement. La mission souligne l'importance



5
pour la Banque de recevoir la contribution du Gouvernement au Rapport Final ainsi que ses
commentaires sur le chapitre de la Banque le 18 mai 1998, au plus tard. En effet, i cette date, une
r6union regroupant diff6rents directeurs et sp6cialistes de la Banque examinera ces documents afin
de les valider avant la soumission du Rapport final d'Achevement au Conseil d'Administration de
la Banque.
B.    Autres questions relatives ia la cl6ture du cr6dit 2031-BEN.
9.     Prise en charge des phases 2 et 3 de genie civil. La mission a et6 inform&e que, suite i
une requete adress6e a la Coop6ration Suisse par le MSPSCF, la Cooperation Suisse a accepte de
bilat6raliser le reliquat du Don Suisse pour le PDSS destin6 a financer la mise en oeuvre de la phase
2 de genie civil. Cette decision libere l'IDA de ses responsabilit6s en tant qu'administrateur du Don
Suisse. La Coop6ration Suisse pr6pare actuellement la documentation formelle a cet effet. La
mission a 6galement e6 informre par le Ministre de son intention de chercher le financement pour
la mise en oeuvre de la phase 3 aupres d'autres partenaires au d6veloppement.
10.    Depenses effectuees apres la date de cl8ture du credit. Le Projet a soumis i la mission,
pour reexamen, un dossier d6taillant certaine d6penses, objet de la DREF 62, rembours6e
partiellement par l'IDA et des DRF 63 et 64 rejetees par l'IDA. Des son retour a Washington, la
mission s'est engagee i 6tudier ce dossier, cas par cas, avec le Charge des D6caissements pour le
Benin, tout en appliquant les criteres et les exigences des procedures de decaissements de I'IDA et
tout en considerant la date de cloture du credit (30 septembre 1997) et la fin de la periode de grice
(30 janvier 1998). Les rdsultats de cet examen feront l'objet d'une communication de l'IDA qui sera
transmise au MSPSCF avant le 25 mai 1998.
11.   Audit final et patrimoine du PDSS. La mission tient a rappeler que le rapport d'audit
final du PDSS devait etre disponible au plus tard le 31 mars 1998 (6 mois apres la date de cloture du
Projet). Malgr6 les differents rappels de la Banque, I'auditeur n'a pas encore 6t6 selectionne a ce
jour. La mission s'inquiete de ce retard considerable et souhaite que le rapport d'audit lui soit
transmis avant fin juin 1998. En outre, la mission tient a rappeler que le patrimoine (mobilier et
mat6riel) du PDSS au 31 janvier 1998 devra etre inventorie dans les meilleurs d6lais aveo
l'identification de l'emplacement et du gestionnaire responsable. La mission espere obtenir le
rapport d'inventaire d'ici fin juin 1998.
II.    SUPERVISION DU PROJET SANTE ET POPULATION - PSP. (CR. 2734-BEN).
12.    Les lecons apprises de l'execution du PDSS indiquent clairement que les objectifs initiaux
du Projet demeurent valables et doivent etre poursuivis. Toutefois, les moyens utilis6s pour les
atteindre n'ont pas toujours 6t6 ad6quats. Pour am6liorer la performance du systeme do, sante et
renforcer l'impact du Projet, le PSP doit mettre l'accent sur les points majeurs suivants:
implantation d'une gestion axee sur la qualite des services, renforcement de la capacit6 de gestion
des niveaux d6centralises, amelioration de I'accueil, renforcement et ajustement de la participation
communautaire, decentralisation assum6e a tous les niveaux, amelioration de la capacite en
planification, et supervision int6gr6e.
A.    Plan d'actions du PSP pour 1998 (18 mois).
13.    La mission a procede a l'analyse du plan d'actions du PSP en se ref6rant aux documents
suivants: I'Accord de cr6dit, la Lettre de Strat6gie de Developpement Sectoriel (annex6e au
Rapport d'Evaluation du PSP et en Annexe 2 de cet aide-m6moire), le rapport de l'atelier de
lancement du PSP (et d'6valuation i mi-parcours du PDSS), les aide-m6moires des missions de
supervision (en particulier ceux des missions de juin 1997 et de d6cembre 1997), et les documents
6manant de l'atelier d'6valuation finale du PDSS (avril 1998). Ces documents contiennent les points



6
de reperes qui jalonnent la voie que le projet doit suivre pour maintenir le cap et qui nous
fournissent ainsi des outils d'analyse precieux. Comme ces r6f6rences font partie du processus
dynamique de suivi du projet, ils collent a la realite v6cue et observ6e par les acteurs.
14.    La mission constate que le plan d'actions propose ne tient pas suffisamment compte des
objectifs, strat6gies et des le,ons apprises depuis le ddbut du projet. II ne semble pas avoir ete
6labor6 en utilisant une approche systemique, mais apparait comme une serie d'activites
compartimentees et ponctuelles. La relation avec le PTD n'est pas etablie ce qui ne permet pas de
tenir compte des interventions des autres partenaires au developpement. Dans sa pr6sentation, le
plan d'actions ne decrit ni ne structure les categories de depenses (coOts recurrents, investissements)
de fa,on claire et distincte. Enfin, les couts unitaires n'ont pas etd actualises. Toutefois, a l'occasion
de discussions avec Mme le Ministre et certains de ses cadres, elle a indique que le plan d'actions
qui a et6 soumis a la Banque et celui qui a ete adopte par le CNEEP. Le ministere exprime des
reserves quant A ce plan d'actions et a comrnence a le reviser. Ce nouveau plan d'actions du
MSPSCF sera presente a l'IDA lors de la prochaine mission en juin 1998.
15.    Compte tenu du fait que le projet n'a guere progress6 en ce qui concerne l'atteinte de ses
objectifs primordiaux, que le temps passe et que la cl6ture du PSP est dans trois ans, la mission
considere que le plan d'actions devrait etre developpe autour des themes majeurs se rapportant au
renforcement de la gestion, a l'amnlioration de la qualite des services (accueil, efficacite, couverture
sanitaire) et au renforcement du partenariat. Ainsi, la mission pense que le PSP devrait programmer
des activites integrees visant a renforcer la capacite de chaque niveau a remplir efficacement les
fonctions decentralisees qui lui sont devolues dans le cadre de la decentralisation dans un souci de
collaboration. Le ministere pourrait ainsi developper une demarche de gestion partagee par tous, qui
suppose la participation et la responsabilisation des ressources humaines, qui est basee sur
I'amelioration continue. orientee vers la satisfaction du c:lient, et axee sur la recherche de resultats.
Un tel processus avait sembIl rallier les participants de I'atelier de lancement du PSP a Akassato.
La mission suggere de reprendre cette piste. De plus, le PSP pourrait prevoir dans son plan
d'actions la definition d'indicateurs de performance par les COGEC / COGEC. En ce qui concerne
la participation communautaire, il parait maintenant pertinent de poursuivre et d' intensifier
l'experience a la lumiere des acquis et du cheminement parcouru. Dans son plan d'actions de 1998,
le PSP pourrait contribuer a preciser la nature et le cadre de la participation, le rBle du ministere
dans ce processus et developper une d6marche participative unifiee et un plan d'actions dans le
cadre duquel les medecins chefs et les cadres collaborent etroitement avec les representants de la
population. Dans un tel contexte, la formatioon des responsables a la co-gestion et la formation des
membres des structures participatives se trouveraient bonifiees.
16.    La mission ne peut voir si la formation d6coule d'un plan de formation, ni si les actions de
supervision decoulent d'une politique et d'un prograrmme de supervision, car la verticalite des
actions semble evidente. Au niveau de l'equipement et du materiel de bureau, le plan d'actions ne
semble pas tenir compte de l'existant au sein des services et directions, ni de l'heritage du PDSS en
cette matiere. Enfin, la mission se demande comment seront assumes les couts r6currents lies a cette
cat6gorie de d6penses a la fin du projet.
17.    Nonobstant les commentaires et les remarques que la mission suggere au PSP de prendre
en consideration, la mission a classe les activites en trois categories pour permettre d'amorcer la
r6alisation du programme sans delai: (a) les activit6s qui se situent concretement dans le cadre du
Projet et qui peuvent donc etre realis6es immediatement, (b) les activites qui, a priori, semblent se
situer dans le cadre du Projet, mais qui exigent d'etre mieux articulees en fonction des objectifs et
des strat6gies du PSP; et (c) les activites qui semblent se situer en dehors du cadre du Projet et qui,
par consequent, ne pourraient pas etre financees par le PSP. L'analyse de la mission a ete discut6e
avec le Ministre et certains de ses cadres et se trouve a I'Annexe 3.



7
B.    Passation des marches.
18.    Pendant son sejour, la mission a recu du PSP le rapport d'6valuation de la s6lection du
specialiste en passation des marches. La mission a proced6 a l'examen et a l'etude dudit rapport. De
plus, le specialiste en passation des march6s, membre de la mission, a eu un entretien avec le
candidat classe au premier rang par la commission de selection. A la suite de l'etude des dossiers et
de l'entretien, la mission considere que ce candidat ne possede une experience en matiere de
passation des march6s qui est d'avantage liee au recrutement. Compte tenu que le type d'activites -
de passation des marches majoritairement pr6vues dans le cadre du PSP est relie aux travaux de
genie civil, et a l'acquisition d'equipements et de medicaments, un candidat ayant une formation
d'Ing6nieur ou tout autre profil technique equivalent conviendrait mieux a ce poste. Sur cette base,
la Banque n'aurait pas d'objection a la selection du candidat classe en seconde position par la
commission, a condition que celui-ci recoive le support d'un consultant international sp6cialiste en
passation des marches, qui apportera au Projet un appui ponctuel pour une duree a determiner, en
'meme temps qu'il assurera la formation du cadre national. Par exemple, I'expert pourrait tout
d'abord travailler pendant un mois, suivi de visites pius courtes, tant que ['expert national aura
besoin d'assistance pour les activites de passation des marches. Cet arrangement permettra le
transfert de connaissances, tout en faisant avancer le Projet.
C.    Genie civil.
19.    Le principe du recours a ia maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee a ete retenu pour la mise en oeuvre
de l'ensemble des operations, a l'exception des travaux relatifs a I'amenagement du MSPSCF, dont
le processus de mise en oeuvre est dejA engage. Pour les travaux qui seront delegues, il a ete
convenu de decouper le programme de construction en deux phases. La premiere phase des travaux,
qui portera sur un volume de travail limite. aura pour objet de s'assurer de la capacite des deux
agences, et notamment de I'AGDSD, a mettre en oeuvre des operations selon des procedures
acceptables par l'IDA. Cette premiere phase sera engagee suite a une negociation de gre a gre avec
les deux agences du pays. La deuxieme phase portera sur l'essentiel des travaux et sera attribu6e
suite a une consultation organis6e entre les deux agences, sous reserve des resultats qui seront
analyses lors d'un audit technique qui sera organise a la fin de la premiere phase. Il est prevu en
outre que l'ensemble des etudes architecturales sera realise en premiere phase en vue de pouvoir
disposer des DAO du Genie civil des le debut de la phase 2. Le detail des taches a conduire, le
decoupage envisage pour le genie civil, les criteres qui serviront a apprecier les resultats ainsi que le
calendrier previsionnel de mise en oeuvre sont presentes en Annexe 4. Le calendrier previsionnel
offrant peu de souplesse d'ici la Date de cl6ture du PSP, la mission insiste pour son suivi
rigoureux, tout retard dans la mise en oeuvre de la phase I risquant de compromettre la mise en
oeuvre de la phase 2.
D.    Respect des clauses de I'Accord de Credit de Developpement.
20.    La mission a revu, avec le coordonnateur du PSP, le statut des clauses de l'Accord de Credit
de D6veloppement (Annexe 5). La mission tient A rappeler que cet important exercice doit etre
realise frequemment afin de servir de calendrier de travail et donc de base a la programmation des
activites. La parfaite connaissance de l'Accord de Credit est indispensable pour tous les acteurs du
Projet.
E.    Preparatioii de la prochaine mission.
21.    Le management de la Banque mondiale a clairement indique que la date de cloture du cr6dit
2734-BEN (PSP), fixee au 30juin 2001 sera respectee. Etant donne que le lancement et 1'execution
du projet ont 6t6 lents pendant les deux premieres annees de la vie du Projet, et que, par consequent,
le taux de decaissement est bas, les investissements et activites prevues dans le PSP devront etre



8
r6alis6s dans les trois ann6es a venir. Cette situation, et les lec,ons tir6es de 1'execution du PDSS
exigent une revision du Projet, qui sera le but de la proc:haine mission sante, pr6vue pour fin juin J
d6but juillet 1998. Cet exercice comprend: (a) la validation des objectifs et composantes du Projet,
ainsi que de la Lettre de Strategie de Developpement Sectoriel, sur laquelle la conception et les
objectifs du Projet sont bases; (b) I'examen du bilan d'activites pour le premier semestre 1998; (c)
1'examen et la r6vision du plan d'actions pour le reste cle la vie du Projet, en tenant compte de sa
faisabilit6, sa coherence avec les priorites de la strategie detaillee dans la Lettre de Strategie de
Ddveloppement Sectoriel et dans l'Accord de Credit de Developpement, sa complementarite avec
les interventions des autres partenaires au developpement dans le secteur sante et 1'enchainement
optimal des diverses interventions; (d) 1'examen et la rdivision, si necessaire, du plan d'actions de
passation des march6s jusqu'* la fin du Projet; (e) la precision des indicateurs de performance et
d'impact qui seront fixes par les responsables de l'execution du Projet, y compris ceux au niveau
operationnel (prestataires de services et COGES/COGEC); (f) un examen rigoureux des progres
realises selon les principales clauses de I'Accord de Credit de Developpement; (g) une revue des
r6les et responsabilites pour l'execution du Projet. et la revision, si necessaire, du Manuel
d'Execdtion du Projet afin de clarifier et de simplifier lPexecution; (h) les conditions de
perennisation du Projet; et (i) la planification do la revue a mi-parcours du PSP.
22.    En fait, la revision du PSP est deja amorcee dans le contexte de cette mission d'evaluation
finale du PDSS. Les resultats de l'atelier d'evaluation finale du credit 2031-BEN (PDSS) ont
clairement valide les objectifs et les composantes du PSP, ainsi que sa coherence avec la Lettre de
Strategie de Developpement Sectoriel: La mission et les cadres du MSPSCF ont amorce la
discussion sur le plan d'actions soumis a la Banque. Cette discussion se poursuivra a partir des
modifications que le MSPSCF envisage d'apporter a ce document. Les parties ont egalement
elabore un plan de passation des marches qui sera aussi revise a la lumiere des modifications
apportees au plan d'actions. En outre, la mission et le MSPSCF ont revu les progr6s du
Gouvernement en matiere de respect des clauses juridiques de lPAccord de Credit de
D6veloppement. La mission recommande que le MSPSCF commence a preparer la prochaine
mission afin d'assurer sa productivite qui conduira a l'acceleration de l'execution du Projet. A cet
effet, la mission souhaiterait que le MSPSCF prepare un dossier prenant en compte les neuf points
mentionn6s ci-dessus avant l'arrivee de la prochaine mission, et organise des discussions et des
echanges a ce sujet avec les acteurs principaux a tous les niveaux du systeme.
Cotonou, le 6 mai 19
Denise Vaillancourt
Chargee de Projets
Banque Mondiale



Appendix B
Benin Health Services Development Project
Summary of the Government's Chapter
The following is a brief summary of the Government's contributing Chapter to the ICR. Their
full, original text in French, including annexes, is contained in the French version of the ICR.
L     Description and Launch of Project Design
A. Historical Background. This project was conceived in the context of the first Structural
Adjustment Operation and dialogue, and sought to address and correct the devastating social and
economic situation of the late 1980s.
B. Project Objectives. Medium- and long-term objectives of the project were to improve health
status of Benin's population, particularly rural populations, through strengthening institutional capacities
in planning, programming and management of resources (capital, human and financial).
C. Project Components. Project components include: support to planning, strengthening of
pharmaceutical subsector, strengthening of financial management, administration and human resources
management, maintenance, IEC, strengthening of curative and preventive services, support to
departmental directorates of Health, support to cost recovery and support to community initiatives
(microprojects).
D. Organizational Arrangements for Project Implementation within Government. The
Ministry of Public Health was responsible for project implementation, but other Ministries were involved
in progranmming and evaluation through the vehicle of the CNEEP.
II.    Project Design, Implementation and Impact
A. Evaluation of Project Design. A number of studies carried out by Government contributed
to project design and to the choice of three subprefectures (Toffo, Lalo and Ouake), which was also a
function of national priorities. Project recurrent costs were included in Government's project proposal,
but were eliminated during negotiations.
B. Principal Results by Component. These are presented in Annex I of the Government's
report.
C. Project Coordination and Management. Roles and responsibilities of the various actors are
outlined. The centralized management of the project, the absence of a computerized financial
management and accounting system and the inadequate understanding of the various covenants of the
DCA are all cited as lessons.
D. Project Impact on Implementation of National Health Policy. This project has
contributed to extending health coverage and to improvements in health indicators.
m.   Critical Analysis of Performance of the Bank and Government
A. Bank. Creation of CNEEP, and reorganization of the Ministry of Public Health are among
the positive influences of the Bank's support to the project. Among the negative aspects of Bank's
performance are: suspension of utilization of the Special Account in 1996, delay in holding the mid-term



2
review, Bank's position on civil works implementation and management after evaluation of the first
phase, and the closing of the Credit one year after the mid-term review.
B. Government. Positive aspects of Government's performance include: design of management
system for health services, organization of mid-term review workshop, reimbursement of
ineligible/unjustified funds in the amount of 624 million CFAF, creation of the CAME, establishment of
system of community financing of health, and introduction of essential generic drugs since 1989. Among
the negative aspects of Government performance are: unsatisfactory result of redeployment exercise,
mobility of personnel trained under the project, and the insufficient consideration of recurrent costs.
IV.   Economic and Financial Evaluation  This section presents planned vs. actual costs and
recurrent cost analysis, and quantifies physical outputs of the project.1
V.    Perspectives on Improving Implementation of ithe Health and Population Project (Credit
2734-BEN). Drawing on lessons learned, itemized in Chapter IV., a number of steps must be taken to
improve Government performance in the following key areas: strategic planning, accounting and
financial management, human resources management, procurement and decentralization.
VI.   Conclusions
PDSS is one of the most important projects designed for the sector, conceived in conjunction
with the first Structural Adjustment Program. This project made a significant contribution to improving
health indicators, which were at very unsatisfactory levels before the project's start.  Project
implementation also permitted numerous achievements.
Among the most significant of achievements are: institutional reforms, establishment of health
infrastructure in Toffo, Lalo and Ouake, improved access of the population to essential drugs at low cost,
the mobilization of additional resources through community financing, the streamlining of health sector
assistance as well as the establishment of a good coordination mechanism for health sector projects and
programs. It can be affirmed by all, without doubt, that the numerous achievements made by those
responsible for health since 1990 were thanks to the differenat components of PDSS.
As a first project of its kind, and given its large scale, this project also encountered a number of
stumbling blocks in its execution. The proof of this is that of 61 centers planned for rehabilitation under
the project, only 17 were realized.
On the occasion of the final evaluation of this project, it is good to note that there are high hopes
for the ongoing Population and Health Project.
World Bank Qualifying Footnote: Govermnent's financial data on the project are calculated and
presented in CFA francs, which are not adjusted for the various exchange rates over the life of the project.
As such they may not be fully coherent with financial statements included in the Bank's chapter of this
report or with Banlcs official disbursement statements.



MEAU RTAN         A           f                                   L-                                                      j                            R _A A'AeI
MALI                       N GER        $                            N         I      G        E        R                                                            A
R>     7  NovoMBURNIG FAG) - x                                                                                                                             t e (       ,
GBURK ~INA    FAS                                                                         rx                                      I     rm-/\Ayr
A)15L  .   \           C"                                                                          /
NopA            CAMUEROON   PRSLA)AA
GUINEA                                       Topo       \2
lo Pomo                                                  aGoumsr             \       /zKI                           \_ PEOPLES)h AL_
i-AEON (REP OF TUE
CONGO!~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~O-
BURKIo- rNArIN4  FAS  7*                                                                                 GeAped  r    DIrLsnT   \oLt
K                                                    TA AILA T.LLA/O                                                      OLd                     COTAAT-
Modio~~~~~~~~~~~T                          L         OLA         'o,1 ew r           AAA
inme~~~~~~~~~~~~-AA                                        TAL  .. GALEAPAL-  t
f/t                                                                                                                         (R(
~~9)    i*   ST    LPARArA                        'T )AP 
'A ~ ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       , lrAn  )-              JB   
-~~~!                                                                      ) {   EALTA EVCS  EEOMN
N~ ~  --                                           St.o                                                          ARJ C
~~~~1TEAA~~~~~~~~~~
A'                                                          C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TOGO  .L          (. _T
T  O  G  O         X    z                                 (~~~~~~~~~~~T.AL  \| =                              Projeot DiEtEiTtE FiTanced by IDA
5     FA                       o            AtsTA                                               Natieonol University   opalCne
Paved RoadE                                                           'I tti                                      0     DisErirt Health  eer
GroAne Roodo              |                                                 A 1   LAbo.                                   Community Hea lth Centeps
Earth RAAds               ;          AAALA            Vt       u A 1                                             A        EApooded Prograim af Immunization Project
RaIlEaAdE                  11LAA                                    g                                              *       Missionalry Itonpitain
U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  CATLAP                                                                                                         0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T0
t       Rcgiovol AIEpAPTE         I;     ~t2!.    AAAAAAA                         J                                       A}       Village Health AgenEs (Dutch Projects)
-==- Rivcrn                4         Ibe1 -  -om -                A                                                                   German/Benie Projects
       Notional CapiTols        )$TUA  ~o   -                ,, 0e                                                       _       (Volonticrns du ProgresJ
(9     PEAAIAUT CapIToAl                                   >PAIA.AA
69J    DiATESCT Copihals         )        -            -                (           i
~~--   Prooipce BAAAdoEIoA         \                                   /             '55                           U      20      UT      TO       tO      coo
--    eITerTatEonal BAoodorleE               * Ad,.Lpum  J                                                                      NILOATETEET
FTr deToil TI MONO and                                                                                                             E  N    I N
ATLANTIQUE proolnuen ToLao
jZ ~ ~ ~~~CM                         A ALETI  G           0vd.   t       O:TONQA  e5-l.IA
> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~HAT  SEVIE DEVELOPMENTlr;
< GHANAI                                                                                                                                    t . I J
sr         5^                                             2'-                                            3'                                                                                "I



