Document of
FILE Copy                                 The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1967a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
9F THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
ZAJEDNICA PREDUZECA ZA PUTEVE S.R. SRBIJE
(Association of Enterprises for Roads
of the Socialist Republic of Serbia)
REPUBLICKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE ? SARAJEVO
(Republic Community for Roads, Sarajevo),
SOCIJALISTICKA REPUBLIKA MAKEDONIJA
(The Socialist Republic of Macedonia)
AND
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA MAGISTRALNE
I REGIONALNE PUTEVE, S.A.P. KOSOVO, PRISTINA
(The Self-Managing Community of Interest for
Arterial and Regional Roads, S.A.P. Kosovo, Pristi
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR AN
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 3, 1977
g This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                                          Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                                   Din. 18.00
Din. 1                                                 US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                                             US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                                         US$55,555.55
*The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
The currency equivalents given above are as of July 31, 1976.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL      -            Basic Organization of Associated Labor
CRO       -            The Council of Republican and Provincial Roads
Organization
CYR       -            Community of Yugoslav Railways
GDP       -            Gross Domestic Product
GMP       -            Gross Material Product
Kosovo    -            Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
LDR       -            Less Developed Region  (of Yugoslavia)
SFRY      -            Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
TYH       -            Trans-Yugoslav Highway



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
ZAJEDNICA PREDUZECA ZA PUTEVE S.R. SRBIJE
(Association of Enterprises for Roads
of the Socialist Republic of Serbia),
REPUBLICKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE, SARAJEVO
(Republic Community for Roads, Sarajevo),
SOCIJALISTICKA REPUBLIKA MAKEDONIJA
(The Socialist Republic of Macedonia)
AND SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA MAGISTRALNE
I REGIONALNE PUTEVE, S.A.P. KOSOVO, PRISTINA
(The Self-Managing Community of Interest for
Arterial and Regional Roads, S.A.P. Kosovo, Pristina)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$56.0 million to the Association of Enterprises for Roads of
the Socialist Republic of Serbia, Republic Community for Roads, Sarajevo, the
Socialist Republic of Macedonia and the Self-Managing Community of Interest
for Arterial and Regional Roads, S.A.P. Kosovo, Pristina, with the guarantee
of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to finance the foreign ex-
change cost for an Eighth Highway Project. The loan would bear interest at
8.5 percent per annum and would have a term of 15 years including a grace
period of 3 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic mission
visited Yugoslavia in October 1975; its report entitled "Economic Memorandum--
Yugoslavia" (1086b-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September
3, 1976. A special economic mission to review the new development plan and
the new planning system visited Yugoslavia in October and November 1976, and
its report is under preparation. Some of the material gathered by the mission
has been utilized for updating the information contained in the subsequent
paragraphs of this report. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth during the last
two decades, with total GDP at constant prices having increased by an average
1/   Part I of this report is substantially identical to that in the Report
and Recommendation of the President for the Agriculture and Second Agro-
Industries Project in Macedonia and the Agriculture and Agro-Industries
Project in Montenegro (Report No. P-1943a-YU) dated February 7, 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
rate of 6.3 percent, and per capita GDP at 5.2 percent annually. In 1975,
per capita GNP was about US$1,480 (World Bank Atlas methodology). This
impressive record of growth was accompanied by some fundamental structural
changes in the economy which has moved towards a modern industry/service
oriented urban society.
4.        The population growth rate averaged 1 percent per year during the
last two decades, but with considerable regional variations ranging from an
average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and Provinces
to 0.7 percent for the developed ones. The structural changes in the economy
permitted a sizeable transfer of the labor force from agriculture to industry
and services. Despite this, however, by 1975, 37 percent of the employed
resident labor force was still engaged in agriculture and forestry, mostly
on small private farms; industry (including mining) accounted for 23 percent,
and other sectors for 40 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitu-
tional amendments which were consolidated in the new Constitution of 1974.
It strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia.  First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the socially
owned means of production are entrusted to the workers' collectives, is the
fundamental right and obligation of every Basic Organization of Associated
Labor (BOAL--the smallest technologically identifiable unit of operation) in
every sector and activity. Second, the responsibility for most important
social and policy decisions has been shifted from the Federation down to the
Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes. And third, the management
and financial responsibility for social activities (health, education, wel-
fare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state to Communities of
Interest (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates of both suppliers
and users of the specific services). Responsibility for certain economic
activities affecting large segments of the society (like communal services,
power production, highways and water management) can be--and progressively
is--similarly organized through Communities of Interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, most enterprises and
public institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has
the leading role in economic and social development; it accounts for 85 per-
cent of GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private
sector is comprised predominantly of peasant farms (generally with a 10
hectare limit to landholdings) and small enterprises (generally with a 5
person limit on the number of non-family workers), mainly in handicrafts,
construction, trade, transport and tourism. In the past, the private sector
had been relatively neglected by government policy. However, lately increased
attention is being devoted to private farmers with a view to accelerating the
growth of agricultural production and reducing the rural/urban income disparity.
7.        Regional income disparity--with a gradient of per capita income
falling generally from North to South--has emerged as one of the most impor-
tant development issues of the country. Four regions can be distinguished
by stage of development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high income region
with almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia and Croatia,
and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income regions,
ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average; however, even within



-3-
these regions pockets of underdevelopment persist. The Republics of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, M4ontenegro and Macedonia, with per capita income between 67 to
75 Dercent of the nationai average, constitute the upper group among the
officially designated Less Developed Regions (LDRs')  The Socialist Autonomous
Proviince of Kosovo (Kosovo), with an average income of only 33 Dercent of the
national average (about US$490,0 equivalent), is at the bottomi of the spread.
These Interregionai disparities can be traced back further to intra-regional
disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the spread between communes Can
extend over the range of 10 to 1, and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor
rural communes within the LDRs which largely determines the disparity between
the regions, The rate of economic growth of the LDRs as a whole was only
slightly below the average Lor Yugoslavia, but due to the faster population
growth (1_6 percent per year versus 0.7 percent in the more developed regions)
the income disparity has tended co widen significantly during the last two
decades.  in order to reverse this c:.rend and to accelerate economic growth
and social development in the LDRs,, --mechanisms have been instituted for
sizeable transfers of financial resources,  in 1975, net credits on bighly
favorable terms (rcontaining a grant element of around 50 percent) were made
available through the Federal Fund for -he Accelerated Development of Less
Developed Regions to the LDRs in the amount of US$370 million9 equivalent
Lo about 20 percent of their totsl ir3estment in the soci-al sector. An addi-
tional US$1.97 million were transfe-:c-.c as budgetary grants for social services.
The mechanism for both categories assures a growth of transfers irt line with
t-he growth in total GDP.
Open unemployment has not been a serious problem and is eEtimated
to be only around 4 percent of the -r-esident labor force in 1975. However,
this low rate con.ceals three important aspects of the employrient problen~
First, an estimated 800,000 out of a total laboor force of around 9 million
(in 3974) has assumed temnporary employment abroad0  Second, there is some
evidence of growing regional and occuaational imbalances, due to low inter-
regional mobility of labor and to namatched skill requirements in a Last
changing economy0  Third, severe underemployment persists in the private
agricultural sector,
Recent Developments
9.        In 1974, Yugoslavia recorded a rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent
in real terms as compared to 5 percent aind 4 percent in 1973 and 1972, respec-
tively.  Industry was the leading sector with an estimated growth rate of il
percent in 1974; however, the growth of agricultural production, enhanced by
favorable weather conditions, and of services (with the exception of tour-is,)
also accelerated during the year. This rapid expansion of economic activity
permeated the whole economy.  invest.ment outlays grew in nominal term.,s by
almost 40 percent (9 percent in real terras) and total consumption exTonoituros
uy about 41 percent :13 percent in real. terr.ms).  The resulting rapid increase
in total demand for goods and services was reflected both I>; the rise of ern--
ployment and of imports--both in nominal and real terms--and domestic prices0
The gairn in total employment amounted to abotut 5 percent in 1974 and exceeded
for the first tim.re the natural increase of the labor force.  Induistrial pal   -
ducer pri.ces rose by almost 30 percent while the cost of living rose less



-4.
rapidly by some 21 percent. Since fiscal policy, for institutional reasons,
leaves little room for demand management, the major response to the infla-
tionary pressures was in terms of monetary policy and direct controls through
prices and incomes policy, including recent legislation placing greater con-
trol on investment expenditures. After an expansionary phase during 1972 and
1973, the money supply increased by only 24 percent as compared to a nominal
increase of social product of about 36 percent. The shift to a large deficit
in the balance of payments in 1974 also contributed to the increased effec-
tiveness of the monetary policy.
10.       The balance of trade deficit increased from US$1.7 billion in 1973
to almost US$3.7 billion in 1974 both on account of an increase in the volume
and the rapid rise in the price of imports and the stagnation of real exports
(the terms of trade for the country are estimated to have deteriorated by
about 11 percent). The recession in Western Europe led to a sharp decline in
exports to that area. The traditionally large surplus for invisibles (mostly
from workers' remittances and tourism receipts) failed to compensate for the
large trade deficit, and the country recorded a current account deficit in
excess of US$1 billion in 1974 as compared to a surplus of US$464 million in
1973.  In response to the circumstances, the import regime has been gradually
tightened since August 1974, affecting a large variety of consumer goods and
some capital and intermediate goods.  In addition, the National Bank raised
the intervention point in the foreign exchange market, in effect devaluing
the dinar by about 7 percent against t'he currencies of Yugoslavia's major
trading partners.  The large current account deficit led to some loss of
foreign exchange reserves; the official reserves fell by US$438 million in
1974 (compared to a gain of US$632 million in 1973). In addition, net for-
eign borrowing, which averaged US$390 million during 1971-73, increased to
around US$650 million in 1974. Commercial import credits from suppliers
and credits from financial institutions continued to be the major sources
of foreign capital. Long-term funds related to financing of development are
being made available mainly by the IBRD and some bilateral sources (particu-
larly the US Export-Import Bank and Federal Republic of Germany). Yugoslavia
has also been one of the beneficiaries of the IMF's Special Oil Facility.
Yugoslavia's medium- and long-term external debt outstanding as of December 31,
1975 is estimated at US$6,050 million (disbursed only). Debt service payments
amounted to about 16.5 percent of foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances) in 1974 and 16.9 in 1975.
11.       In 1975, the growth rate of the economy receded to 4.5 percent, due
mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary policy, stagnating
exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes and stagnating consumption;
economic investment and housing construction provided the major growth stimulus
during 1975. The inflationary pressure, which built up during 1974 and ex-
tended into 1975, receded drastically in the second half of the year; the rate
of increase of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent for 1974
to 11 percent during 1975, and the index of real personal receipts slightly
declined for the whole of the year.   The good harvest in 1974 had a favor-
able impact on the balance of payments, although meat exports were severely
affected by the European Community ban on meat imports. Exports to oil



-5-
producing countries and to the non-convertible currency area continued to
expand rapidly in 1975, but were insufficient to compernsate for the sharp
decline in exports to the convertible currency area. As a result, commodity
exports declined by 2 percent in real terms. Workers' remittances and re-
ceipts from tourism have increased marginally. However, a larger contraction
of imports and an improvement in the terrms of trade led to a decline in the
current account deficit to $1,032 million.
Estimates for 1976 and Prospects for 1977
12.       Further reduction of the balance of payments deficit and of the
in.flationary pressures in the economy were the major objectives of economic
policy during 19760 On both counts, these objectives are successfully being
met. Due to the reduction of imports--with sizeable stocks of imported inter-
mediate goods being gradually depleted--and to a lesser extent the increase of
exports, a small current account surplus is expected for the year as a whole.
The rate of inflation declined further, with the cumulative index of indus-
trial producer prices dropping to 6 percent for the first nine months of 1976
compared with 26 percent for the same period of the preceding year. However,
the measures and policies leading to this improvement simultaneously halted
econom,ic growth du-ring the first half of 1976.  By the middle of the year,
industrial prcduction started to expand again, mainly as a result of an ex-
pansion of investnent and exports, and an increase of money supply during the
first part of the year. This upsurge, in conjunction with the favorable crol
of 1976, is expecued to lead to a real increase of GDP by about 4 percent for
the year as a whole0 For 1977, Yugoslav authorities expect the growth rate
to rise to 5.5 percent, accompanied. however, by a reappearance of a moderate
current account deficit and a moderate resurgence of the rate of -nflation,
Employment growth, estimated at 3 to 305 percent for 1976 is expected to
continue at about the same rate thrcugh 1977.
Mediurm- and LonA-Terr Objectives and Prospects
130       The surfacing of major economic problems during 1974, such as rapid
inflation and balance of payments pressures, has led to a reappraisal of
development objectives0 in the light cf the recent shift of relative prices
in favor of raw materials, rmore emphasis will be given to the developrmient of
Yugoslavia's own notural resources. In this connection, the development of
the energy sector is given the highest priority. It focuses on electric
power, where the generating capacity is likely to fall critically short of
the rapidly rising power requirements of the expanding economy0  The devel-
opi.ient of the power sector will be based primarily cn the largely unutilized
hydropower potential and soft-coal reserves of the country.  Other priority
activities are ferrous metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy
(notabl  lead, zinc, copper, nickel and bauxite'aluminum), technologicUtIly
adnanced production equipment, basic chemicals including petroleum refining,
agriculLure and foGd processing, interrepublic transpcrtation, m,ultipurpcse
works, and houEsng and basic conmt:ruction material.



-6-
14.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-intensive invest-
ment pattern, associated with longer time lags between investment and out-
put. To sustain this development path, both continued high borrowing abroad
and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the possible
exception of private savings, interest rates have not been given a signifi-
cant role to play in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the
income policy--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workers' income and accumulation--will have a crucial role.
15.       The new Five-Year Plan (1976-80) focuses on the implementation of
these objectives. For growth, an average rate of 7 percent per year is pro-
posed, comparing with a target growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 per-
cent and an expected realized growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment,
the average planned growth rate would come to about 3 percent with annual
increments exceeding the natural increase of the labor force by growing
margins. This would permit more vigorous pursuit of two major social objec-
tives: the reduction of the-number of temporary migrants abroad, and an
increased abscrption of the rural underemployed into the social sector. The
economy will continue to be open to the world market, although the composition
of foreign trade is expected to change with a reduced share for raw material,
serit-finished products and consumer goods on the import side, and an increased
share for agricultural preducts and manufactured goods on the export side.
Workers' remittances are not expected to increase in real terms, but rising
tourism receipts are expected tc compensate for the expected declining impor-
tance of workers' rem.ittances.
16.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
oL the new Five-Year Plan. To that end, the transfer of financial resources
to the LDRs in the forms of loans at concessionary terms for economic invest-
ment and of budgetary grants for social development will be continued and
probably increased as a proportion of total GDP. Since most of the natural
resources of the country, including hydropower, are to be found in the LDRs,
these regions will also benefit from the increased emphasis on the develop-
ment of power and basic industries which will be financed largely through
direct financial contributions from the consuming regions.
17.       The new Five-Year Plan was prepared according to the self-management
principle stipulated in the Constitution of 1974. Self-management planning is
perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging consensus-finding.
In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to sectors and activities) and
general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth rates of social
product and the volume of savings and investment) are determined on the basis
of consensus by the Assemblies (Communal, Republican and Provincial, and
Federal) of the socio-political communities. Subsequently, the planning
process starts at the bottom with individual enterprises and Communities of
Interest setting out expectations and targets. The planning process then
proceeds through successive and partially overlapping stages of horizontal
adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily at eliminating gross
duplications), vertical adjustments between closely interdependent sectors and



7
branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of magnitudes of production,
conceptually within an input/output framework), and regional adjustments
between Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal and vertical con-
solidation). The socio-political communities participate in this process by
ensuring observance of the broad priorities, targets and constraints, and by
resolving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct participants. The
evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their totality constitute
the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the form of "social
contracts" or "self-management agreements" which are legally binding for the
whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of major deviations occur-
ring in the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan differs from the
previous one in strengthening and formalizing the commitments for implemen-
tation by enterprises, banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
18.       In spite of the recent balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers' credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COMECON countries and the European Communities, and efforts are being intensi-
fied to open up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. The debt service
ratio is estimated to have remained in 1976 at the same level as in 1975
(around 17 percent), and it is expected to decline slightly in the subsequent
years. Taking into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures
taken in the past to control balance of payments problems, as well as the
prospective growth of production and structural improvement of the balance
of trade, Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank
lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
19.       The Bank has made 42 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$1,417
million. Of this amount, approximately 44 percent (US$620.4 million) has
been for 14 loans for the t-ransportation sector--7 for highways totalling
US$220.0 million, 4 for railways totalling US$248.0 million, US$59.4 million
for a natural gas pipeline, US$49.0 million for an oil pipeline, and US$44.0
million for a port project. Bank lending has generally concentrated on
infrastructure including, in addition to the transportation loans, power
(three loans totalling US$135.0 million), telecommunications (one loan for
US$40.0 million), US$51.0 million for two water supply and sewerage projects
1/   Part II of this report is substantially identical to that in the Report
and Recommendation of the President for the Agriculture and Second Agro-
Industries Project in Macedonia and the Agriculture and Agro-Industries
Project in Montenegro (Report No. P-1943a-YU) dated February 7, 1977.



-8
and five multipurpose projects totalling US$177.0 million which included sub-
stantial agricultural components for irrigation and agricultural credit. Four
loans totalling US$131.0 million have been made for agriculture and agro-
industries. Ten loans have also been made for industry and two for tourism.
The first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976. In
addition, IFC has made investments in nine Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about US$130.0 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IFC investments as of January 31, 1977, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
20.       The basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia continues
to be dictated by the following interrelated, yet distinct objectives:
(a) support of the Yugoslav efforts to accelerate development in
the Less Developed Regions (LDRs);
(b) promotion of agricultural development in both the private and
social sectors by providing basic infrastructure and credit;
(c) encouragement of structural reforms in the major sectors
through improved coordination, institution-building and
technical assistance;
(d) help in the identifying and financing of gaps in basic
infrastructure--particularly transport and energy; and
(e) alleviation of critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
These objectives have guided Bank lending in previous years. It is obvious
that each Bank operation cannot address all these objectives which are not
always fully compatible. There has, however, been an evolving change in the
relative weights of these objectives with particular emphasis being directed
towards the support for the lesser developed regions and the agricultural
sector.
21.       Our emphasis on aiding the accelerated development of the LDRs is
fully in accord with the Federal Government's wishes and avowed policy to
reverse the widening gap between the richest and the poorest regions (Slovenia
and Kosovo, respectively). Over the past two years, over two-thirds of our
lending has been to the lesser developed regions, and we hope to maintain a
comparable pattern of distribution over the medium term, though there will
undoubtedly be year-to-year fluctuations. A loan of US$54.0 million (Loan No.
1360-YU) for the Metohija Multipurpose Project in Kosovo was approved by the
Executive Directors January 11, 1977. Loans of US$24.0 and US$26.0 million
for agriculture and agro-industries projects in Macedonia and Montenegro were
approved by the Board February 22, 1977. Over the next two years, operations



-9-
envisaged for LDRs include a second loan for agricultural credit, a third
loan for industrial credit, and three loans for irrigation, water supply and
sewerage, and multipurpose water resource and agriculture development. High-
way, railway and power transmission projects during the same period will both
assist the LDRs and promote structural refo7rms in the transport and energy
sectors. IFC is currently investigating several new investment opportunities
to encourage joint ventures which would provide technical, management and
marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.
22.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment pro-
gram for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these
regions to take stock of development potential and identify constraints,
the Bank undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo,
Bosnia-Herzegovina,  lacedonia and Montenegro).  These regional surveys,
coupled with intensified Bank assistance in project formulation, should enable
the Bank to achieve a high level of participation in the development of these
regions.
23.       The Bank supported and assisted in the formulation of the 1973
"Green Plan" which, in addition to providing a comprehensive framework for
promoting agricultural development, recognized and encouraged the role of the
private sector which holds almost 85 percent of the cultivated land and employs
over 90 percent of the farm population. It is now generally appreciated that
the private farm sector can--given sufficient support in terms of extension
services, credit for inputs and basic infrastructural facilities--generate
significant increases in production. Our loans for the Ibar Multipurpose
Project (Loan No. 777-YU) and the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No.
1360-YU) in Kosovo, the Agro-Industries Project (Loan No. 894-YU) in Macedonia
and the Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 1129-YU) have given special
attention to the needs of the private farm sector. The recently approved
loans for agriculture and agro-industries projects in Macedonia and Montenegro
(para 21) and the forthcoming projects for irrigation and agricultural credit
will support agriculture development in general and in particular the private
sector.
24.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, compounds the inherent complexities of coherent
sector planning which are evident in any economy. This is of particular
relevance to the transport and energy sectors. The Bank's significant in-
volvement in these sectors, both in terms of money and technical assistance,
has helped to highlight the critical need for, and to evolve mechanisms to
further countrywide coordination of, sectoral investment programs and policies.
The limited, yet discernible progress made has been supported by our lending
for electric power distribution, railways and highways. Our continuing in-
volvement in the transport and power sectors, though the funds we can make
available are limited, will, we hope, have further beneficial impact on
fostering coordination. For instance, the proposed project, will provide for
studies of road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and our-
selves believe essential for fostering inter-modal coordination and devising
a policy framework for the transport sector.



-10
25.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to attain its growth targets. While the Yugoslavs are
making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western financial
markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there is
presently no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The Bank,
therefore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the
foreseeable future. In our financing of infrastructure projects, we propose
to devote particular attention to those which have clear possibilities of
attracting co-financing and where our participation, albeit limited, is likely
to induce the entry of financing partners.
26.       The level of Bank lending has remained constant, averaging about
US$200 million annually during the period FY74-76. Although this represents
only a small proportion of the country's need for external finance, it is
equivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official capital in-
flow in convertible currencies. Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to
about one-fifth of its total public debt outstanding and disbursed. The
outstanding debt to the Bank is, however, expected to decline gradually from
its current level of less than 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt.
Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service was 4 percent in
1974 and is projected to increase to about 6 percent in 1980.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN YUGOSLAVIA
27.       Because of its location Yugoslavia is an important crossroad in
Europe. The trunk routes and international connections are of special concern
because Yugoslavia has borders with seven countries. Traditionally, the
Yugoslav transport system has provided access to the sea for a number of
Central European countries. The development of Yugoslavia's transport system
has been shaped by the country's topography. The major routes developed
along the Sava-Danube valley in the north have avoided the mountains in the
central and southern regions. This influence, together with different
historical developments between the northern and southern regions, resulted
in the early twentieth century in an unbalanced distribution of transport
infrastructure: while the northern regions already had a sound transport
system, the system in the southern regions remained underdeveloped. Postwar
reconstruction was a major task. Since that effort, carried out over the
first postwar decade, the transport networks have been substantially expanded,
through construction and modernization of the national trunk routes, both for
railways and highways, and-through expansion of port facilities on the Adriatic
coast.
28.       Today Yugoslavia has a well-diversified system.  At the beginning of
1975, Yugoslavia had 98,372 km of roads, 10,300 km of rail lines, 7 main ports
and 15 airports (10 of which handle international flights) and a sizeable net-
work of inland and coastal waterways. Pipelines have come into increasing use
in recent years.
29.       The roads and railways are the backbone of the transport system, but
traffic growth for these and other modes has been rather uneven. Between 1964
and 1974 the freight traffic (ton-km) on railways increased by about 2 percent



per annum compared to an increase of about 18 percent per annum on highways.
The passenger traffic on railways declined by about 2 percent per annum during
the same period in contrast with an increase of about 21 percent per annum on
highways.  As a result, road transport has gained in relative importance.  In-
land water transport has retained an important and competitive place, carrying
about 9 percent of total freight traffic. The ports have almost doubled their
cargo handling since 1964 and currently move about 21 million tons per annum.
Several port authorities are contemplating extensive investments, and a port
survey was included in an earlier Bank-financed project to provide the frame-
work for further investment in the port sub-sector.
30.       Transport is thus one of the dynamic sectors of the Yugoslav economy,
road transport being the dominant mode. Although, as noted, the growth of
road transport has been rapid in recent years, development of the highway
network has not kept pace with it. Heavy traffic volumes on roads with poor
alignment and distressed pavements have resulted both in unacceptable levels
of traffic congestion and a heavy accident toll. The need for adequate high-
ways is urgent if growth of the total economy is not to be impeded.
Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
31.       The Yugoslav system, characterized by decentralization of the eco-
nomic and social units, adds to the inherent difficulties of coordinating
policy for the development of the transport sector as a whole. The policies
that have been pursued, such as the freedom of choice by users to select their
transport mode and competition among transport enterprises, reflect the
nation's prevailing economic climate. There is as yet, however, no overall
clearly stated and well-defined transport policy, though recently, with a view
to creating the necessary conditions for integrated development of transport,
the Federation, the Republics and the Autonomous Provinces have mutually agreed
to establish a long-term transport policy for the country. Considerable prog-
ress has been made in this direction, and the authorities are in the process
of negotiating social agreements on the various aspects of future transport
policy. The proposed eighth highway project provides for a road-user charges
study and a rail costs study which are intended to serve as a basis for devel-
oping a national policy framework for the transport sector and for promoting
greater inter-modal coordination and efficiency.
32.       Decentralization of decision making, initially to Republics and
Provinces and as now envisaged, to communes and enterprises, has resulted in
a large measure of autonomy being enjoyed by transport enterprises. This
extension of autonomy to the "grass-root" agencies and transport organizations
would increase the number of decision-making bodies and make countrywide
transport planning and coordination (especially between road and rail) more
difficult. The Yugoslav authorities are acutely aware of, and actively
addressing, the need for better articulating and establishing policy guidelines
and an appropriate institutional framework within which various transport
agencies and enterprises can act and collaborate effectively.
33.       With decision making so decentralized, the main thrust for better
coordination must necessarily originate voluntarily from the various trans-
port enterprises and the Republics and Provinces. A tangible manifestation



- 12 -
of their willingness to work together is the formation of associations among
enterprises in the various sub-sectors which provide varying degrees of
coordination. Details are treated under the sub-sector discussions.
The Railway Sub-sector
34.       The railway network is operated by five independent enterprises
which form the Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR), each serving a Republic,
except that the railway organizations serving Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo and
Vojvodina jointly form one enterprise. The railways have remained the prin-
cipal carriers of medium- and long-distance traffic. In 1975, they carried
a total of 21.6 billion ton-km, compared to 26.0 billion ton-km carried by
road; however, of this road traffic, 16.4 billion ton-km was "town account"
traffic, 1/ which generally moves over relatively short distances and for
which railways do not usually compete. The railways also carried 10.3 billion
passenger-km, compared to 25.7 billion passenger-km carried by buses which,
however, cater principally for shorter journeys. Railway revenues from
freight and passengers were in the ratio 4:1.
35.       The railways had serious problems following the economic reforms
of 1965, which included the policy of liberalization of all modes of transport
and hence stimulated road transport significantly and altered the pattern of
commodity flows to the railways' disadvantage. They were ill-equipped and
slow to adjust to the new market conditions and their profitability suffered
accordingly. Furthermore, the 1965 reforms transferred responsibility for
financial coverage of railway deficits and investments from the Federal Govern-
ment to Republics and Provinces which could not quickly provide the funds and
were not at that time sensitized to railway issues. These specific factors
were compounded by the general illiquidity of the economy and widespread in-
flation.
36.       The Bank has made four railway loans.  The first (Loan No. 361-YU,
US$35.0 million) was made in 1963 for the modernization of the Sarajevo-Ploce
line, and was substantially completed in 1970, with a delay of two years. The
second (Loan No. 395-YU, US$70.0 million) was made in 1964 to help finance the
modernization of the main lines from the Italian and Austrian borders to the
Greek border. Initially, this project ran into difficulties arising from the
1965 reforms and aggravated by managerial and institutional problems. By proj-
ect completion, however, these problems were resolved. The Third (Loan No.
531-YU, US$70.0 million) was made in 1968 for construction of the Belgrade-Bar
line. Completion was originally scheduled for 1973, but as a result of geo-
technical and other constructional problems in difficult mountainous terrain,
the line was not placed into service until 1976; the project should be sub-
stantially completed during 1977. Additional Bank lending was made available
in 1974 for a fourth loan (No. 1026-YU, US$93.0 million), and this project
1/   Goods carried in trucks belonging to businesses which produce, process
or market those goods.



- 13 -
should also be substantially completed in the present year. A key provision
under this project called for an increase in tariffs in order to eliminate
deficits, but this has been severely limited since mid-1975 by the Governments'
anti-inflationary measures. There was also a fall in traffic in 1975 and 1976
due partly at least to a slowing of the Yugoslav and of neighboring economies.
The consequent cash shortages have caused serious delays in the execution of
investments. The Government authorities now seek to ensure the railways'
financial viability through direct contributions to revenues. These policies
are under active discussions with the Bank as part of the appraisal of a fifth
railway project.
The Highway Sub-sector
37.       Prior to 1955, the development of road transport was rather limited
under a Government policy which accorded priority to the railways.  Since then,
the Government's policy has been aimed towards creating economic conditions
equally favorable for the development of all transport modes, and road trans-
port has expanded rapidly. The vehicle fleet has grown from about 125,000 in
1958 to about 1,726,000 in 1974. Between 1966 and 1974 the registration of
passenger cars increased fivefold, and the number of trucks and buses doubled.
38.       The accelerated development of the paved network began in the early
1960's, at which time only about 9,000 km of paved roads were open to traffic.
Of the 98,372 km of roads which existed at the beginning of 1975, about 35,400
km were paved. Nevertheless, despite its rapid development, the density of the
paved network remains inadequate to meet the needs of ever increasing traffic.
Large sections of the main highway arteries, particularly of the Trans-Yugoslav
Highway (TYH)--spanning Yugoslavia from its Italian and Austrian borders in the
northwest to its Bulgarian and Greek borders in the southeast, is in addition
to being the backbone of Yugoslavia's transport network, the shortest route
linking Europe with the Near and Middle East--are heavily congested and in need
of upgrading to provide greater capacity.
39.       Although highway expenditures for investment and maintenance have
increased steadily over the last decade, they have not been sufficient in view
of the rapid expansion and modernization of the economy, and inflation has
eroded a substantial portion of the increased outlay. In fact, in real terms,
highway expenditures have not kept pace with the growth of highway traffic.
Highway expenditures increased from about US$150 million per annum during
1966-70, to an average of about US$290 million per annum under the 1971-75
Five-Year Plan. Overall, highway expenditures for new construction and up-
grading in 1974 amounted to about 77 percent of total highway expenditures
(US$315 million equivalent), with the remaining 23 percent earmarked for high-
way maintenance. The satisfactory standard of road maintenance in Yugoslavia
indicates that reasonable amounts have been made available during the last
few years.
40.       The Federal Government's role in highway financing has been phasing
out since 1970, when it was decided that the Federation should cease its par-
ticipation and carry out only obligations under previous commitments. In 1974,
the Federal Government's remaining contribution to highway financing was only



- 14 -
about 4 percent of the total expenditure. The main source for highway financ-
ing is the revenue from taxes on gasoline, diesel oil and license fees as well
as the revenue from taxes paid by foreign motorists on entering Yugoslavia.
The total revenue from these taxes on gasoline, oil and license fees as well
as taxes paid by foreign motor vehicles yielded about US$0.33 billion equiva-
lent in 1974 compared to a total outlay of about US$0.31 billion equivalent
in the same period on the construction and maintenance of all inter-urban high-
ways. About 41 percent of these revenues were earmarked in 1974 for highway
maintenance and improvement. These earmarked revenues provided about 44 per-
cent of the total expenditures in 1974 for highway construction and maintenance.
The balance was made up of external and domestic loans (24 percent), the Fund
for Less Developed Regions (4 percent), contributions by the Federal Government
(4 percent) and contributions from other sources, including voluntary contri-
butions of enterprises and citizens (24 percent).
41.       In keeping with the overall decentralization of the transport sector,
administration of the highway sub-sector in Yugoslavia is concentrated in the
Republics and Provinces, The Federal Government's role is restricted to general
policy and regulatory matters such as regulations on vehicle dimensions, axle
loading and road safety aspects and the international aspects of highway
administration and road transport.
42.       At the Republican and Provincial levels, responsibility for highway
administration lies with the Republican or Provincial road organizations.
These organizations are governed by "Boards" comprising relatively large num-
bers of members of various interest groups such as transport companies, indus-
trial enterprises, agricultural cooperatives, and professional and road-user
organizations. The members elect an "Executive Board" which is responsible
for day-to-day administration and preparation of highway proposals, which are
coordinated through the planning system with the plans of other sectors and
need the approval of Republican or Provincial Governments. Purely local
roads are under the jurisdiction of the local communities which have special
departments. In cities, planning authorities are giving increasing attention
to urban transport impact with a view to rationalizing the use of transport
facilities. Coordination among the Republican or Provincial road organizations
is provided through the Provincial/Republican Assemblies, the Federal Commit-
tee for Transport and Communications, and the Council of Republican and Provin-
cial Roads Organization (CRO).
43.       Out of the seven highway projects, for which the Bank has provided
financing, four have been successfully completed, and the remaining projects
are all well in hand. The Fifth Highway Project (Loan No. 751-YU of June 18,
1971, which experienced an initial delay of about eight months in fulfill-
ing the conditions of effectiveness of the loan), is almost completed, and
the section remaining should be opened to traffic by the Fall of 1977.
For the Sixth Highway Project (Loan No. 990-YU of May 31, 1974), for which
requests for changes in road alignments were agreed in order to provide
better service to two communities, four out of six road sections are com-
pleted; the remaining are expected to be finished by March/April 1977.
Regarding the Seventh Highway Project (Loan No. 1143-YU of July 18, 1975),
construction has started in the Republic of Serbia, and contracts have been



- 15 -
awarded in the Republics of Slovenia and MIontenegro. In general, the main
problem encountered on the highways projects in Yugoslavia relates to land
acquisition where unforeseen difficulties have delayed construction. Cost
overruns have not been excessive and can be generally accounted for by prob-
lems of devaluation.
Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector
44.       As an integral part of the financial support provided by the Bank
for the transportation sector through the various loans referred to in para-
graph 19 of this report, we have placed great emphasis on improved coordina-
tion within the individual sub-sectors at the regional and national levels as
well as the need for developing an appropriate policy framework for ensuring
adeauate coordination betweern the sub-sectors. Such emphasis on coordination
has been both in terms of planning as well as on the policy framework which
would be conducive to full economic utilization.  At the national level, the
Bank has encouraged and supported the establishment and strengthening of impor-
tant advisory and coordinating inst-itutions, such as the Federal Committee
for Transport and Communications which oversees the total transportation
oicture in Yugoslavia as well. as the Council of Republican and Provincial
Roads Organizations (CRO) which focusses on the highway sector, and the Com-
munity of Yugoslav Raihlways (CYR) which encompasses the railway sub-sector.
The Bank, through its lending for the Ilarbor Bar Project (Loan Nof 1060-YU),
has provided financing for organizing the port sub-sector. Finally, by our
lending for the Oil Pipeline and the Gas Pipeline Projects, we have impacted
on the whole of the transportation sector in Yugoslavia.
45.       As a basis for further consideration by the Yugoslav authorities of
important inter-nodal coordination *ssues, and as an essential underpinning
for our continuing dialogue on these issues witlh, the various national and
regional authorities, the proposed proJect includes two complementary studies
on road-user charges and rail costs. These studies are designed to establish
an appropriate basis for developing a suitabie policy framework, including
tariffs which would permit the orderly eonomic development of the transport
sector.  The Bank is also providing assistance in the preparation of an over-
all feasibility study of the Trans-Yugoslav Highway which calls for enl-anced
coordination between almost all the Republics and Provinces.  In addition, to
improve further highway planning at the regional level and to provide a basis
for Bank support for development of secondary and feeder roads in addition to
our involvement with prinary roads, the proposed loan includes funds for
assistance to enable Kosovo--the least developed region of Yugoslavia--to-
prepare a highway master plan which could form the basis for considering a
highway sector loan to Kosovo in due course.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The Federal Government has asked the Banlk to help finance the pro-
posed project which will comprise: the construction of about 130 km of main
highway sections in the Republics of Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia,
and the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo; studies by consultants of
road-user charges and rail costs in Yugoslavia; and provision for technical
assistance to Kosovo in the preparation of a provincial highway master plan.
Feasibility studies for the project roads were carried out by Yugosav consult-
ing firms and design institutes in accordance with the "Guidelines for Highway
Feasibility Studies", in turn prepared by consultants under the Bank's Fifth
and Sixth Highways Projects (Loans Nos. 751-YU and 990-YU, respectively).
Final designs of the project roads were carried out by the same agencies
assisted by the institutes for soil mechanics, geology and civil engineering.
Following a pre-appraisal mission in March/ April _976, the project was
appraised in September 1976. Negotiations were held January 17-24 inclusive.
The Yugoslav delegation was led by Mrs. Keti Comovska, Assistant President,
Federal Committee for Transport and Communications.
Proiect Description
47.       The proposed loan and project are summarized in Annex III and
described in detail in the report "Appraisal of ai7 Fai hth Highway Project",
(No. 1365a-YU).  This report, dated February 28, 1f7 is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
48.       The project comprises:
(a)  the construction of the following highway sections, identified
in the 1976-80 Development Plan as having the highest priority
in thie respective Republics and Provinces (Map IBRD 1082R1):
(i)  in the Republic of Serbia, two additional traffic lanes
to, and the reconstruction of, the existing sub-standard
two-lane linited access highway from Mali Pozarevac to
Ralja (28 km) to relieve the heavy congestion;
(ii)  in the Republic of Macedonia, two additional traffic lanes
to the limited access ma-n highway between Kumanovo and
Titov Veles including a bypass of Skopje City (52.7 km)
to provide additional capacity for present and projected
traffic;
(iii)  in the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, including the
Commune of Pristina, and for a short distance in the
Republic of Serbia, a new two-lane paved road along the
approximate alignunent of an old earth road in very poor
condition between Mtakovac and Peci,i_Ja on the Pristina-
Leskovac route (40.0 kmn); and A



17 -
(iv) in the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, two-lanes as the
first phase of an ultimate four-lane divided highway
with limited access between Banja Luka and Klasnice
(9.3 km-).
(b) studies by consultants of road-user charges and rail costs
in Yugoslavia; and
(c) technical assistance for the preparation of a highway master
plan for the Province of Kosovo.
Road-User Charges and Rail Costs Studies. As stated in para 45 of this re-
port, complementary road-user charges and rail costs studies, to be undertaken
by consu'ltants, are expected to contribute to and encourage greater inter-
modal efficiency and coordination as well as the more economic utilization
of transport facilities. The road-user charges study would examine particu-
larly the fiscal, economic and administrative aspects of the present system of
levying road-user charges, taxing vehicles, and allocating resources to the
highway sub-sector in Yugoslavia, and would assist authoriti-es in reviewing
present policies and problems concerning the level of road-user charges and
their distribution to meet road infrastructure costs. The study on rail
costs would examine the cost-effectiveness of the railway system and would
also assist the Government in clarifying important railway rating policies0
These two studies could provide the basis for a road/rail coordination
policy and would focus on matters to be discussed and pursued in future
Bank lending to the transportation sectore
Technical Assistance. With a view to improving highway planning at the
regional level and to providing a basis fcr Bank support for development of
secondary and feeder roads, in addition to our involvement with primary
roads, we have included technical assistance to enable Kosovo to prepare a
highway master plan which could form the basis for considering a highway
sector loan to Kosovo at some future stage.
Borrowers and Project Execution
49.       For the construction and road-user charges study components of the
proposed project, the loan would be made to the road organizations of Serbia,
Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo and to the Socialist Republic of Macedonia. A
condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement (Section 7.01 (a), (b) and
(d), and Recitals B and C) requires that the Governments of the participating
Republics of Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina and of the Autonomous Province of
Kosovo will have approved a guarantee to cover the financing of their respec-
tive sections of the project roads, including possible cost overruns, as well
as of the road-user charges study. During negotiations, it was confirmed that
the Government of Yugoslavia would bear all costs, including the limited for-
eign exchange, for the rail costs study.  It was agreed during negotiations
that the Federal Government, through its Federal Committee for Transport and
Communications, would ensure that the CR0 would carry out the road-user charges



- 18 -
study and that the CYR would carry out the rail costs study with the assis-
tance of experts whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference are
satisfactory to the Bank. In addition, it was also agreed that CR0 and CYR
would closely cooperate in the carrying out of their respective studies and
regularly exchange information (Guarantee Agreement Section 3.04(a)). The
loan for the technical assistance for the preparation of the highways devel-
opment plan in Kosovo would be made to the Community of Interest for Roads
of Kosovo which would also be responsible for executing the plan.
50.       The road organizations of the three participating Republics and
the Autonomous Province of Kosovo would be responsible for executing their
respective construction works. In the case of the Pristina-Leskovac road,
part of which falls in Serbia, the Community of Interest for Roads for Kosovo
would be the executing agency for the project road in its entirety. This
organization would also administer the construction work within the Commune of
Pristina on behalf of that authority. The conclusion of a formal agreement
amongst the concerned Republican and Provincial Governments giving effect to
these arrangements is a condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
(Section 7.01 (a) and Recital (B)).
51.       As in the case of previous highway projects where these arrangements
worked satisfactorily, supervision of the construction work would be effected
by the road organizations themselves assisted by the Yugoslav consulting
engineers and technical institutes which designed the project roads. As was
the case in the Seventh Highway Project, the CR0 would again act as fiscal
agent for the project, coordinator of disbursement requests to the Bank, and
liaison agent between the Republics, Province and the Bank on project-related
matters. A condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement stipulates that
the concerned Republics and Province will have delegated authority to CR0 to
undertake these obligations (Section 7.01 (c)).
52.       The construction contracts in Kosovo should be completed in early
1979, in Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina in late 1979, and in Macedonia, in late
1980. The road-user charges study is expected to be completed towards the end
of 1978, the highways master plan for Kosovo about mid-1978, and the rail
costs study around the middle of 1979.
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The total cost of the project, including taxes and duties (about
US$21.5 million equivalent), is estimated at US$179.0 million equivalent.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$56.0 million, based on the
assumption that, as in the past, local contractors will win the awards of
construction contracts after international competitive bidding. A 10 percent
physical contingency has been included to allow for unforeseen quantity
increases in the road construction works. Price escalation for construction
costs has been calculated using annual rates of 13 percent for 1976 and 12
percent for the period 1977-79, and has been assumed the same for both local
and foreign costs. The price escalation of consulting services has been
calculated using a factor of 11 percent for both foreign and local costs.



- 19 -
54.       The proposed loan of US$56.0 million corresponds to the foreign
costs of the project (35.5 percent of project costs net of taxes and duties)
and will be lent to the four borrowers as follows: US$20.9 million to the
Association of Enterprises for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Serbia;
US$7.4 million to the Republic Community for Roads, Sarajevo; US$23.4 million
to the Socialist Republic of Macedonia and US$4.3 million to the Self-Managing
Community of Interest for Arterial and Regional Roads, S.A,P. Kosovo, Pristina;
local costs will be borne by the Republics of Serbia, Macedonia, and Bosnia-
Herzegovina; the Autonomous Province of Kosovo; and the Commune of Pristina.
A condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement (Section 7.01 (a) and (b)
and Recitals B and C) requires that the Republics of Serbia, Macedonia and
Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo will have adopted or
cause to be adopted the legal authority authorizing the construction and fi-
nancing of their respective road sections.
55.       Although they have not indicated their intention of so doing,
Serbia and Macedonia may wish to operate their respective highway sections
as toll roads, as some Republics have done for road sections financed under
the Third, Fifth and Seventh Highway Proiects (Loans Nos. 608-YU, 751-YU and
1143-YU, respectively). Tt was agreed under these earlier loans that if tolls
were to be imposed, they would be appLied f1exibly and at such levels as not
to divert an unduly large portion of through-traffic to the alternative toll-
free facilities or means of transportation, During negotiations the Borrowers
similarly agreed that this same principle would apply to the application of
any tolls on the highway sections financed under the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement Section 3.06 (a)).  This ap-eoacn is consistent with, and takes
account of, the Operations Evaluation Departcment Performance Audit Report
(No 1385) on the Yugoslav Third Highway Proect (Loan No. 608) distributed
December 10, 1976. The Report cites examples where it believes traffic
diversion took place due to excessively high tolls and cautions against tolls
which would discourage potential traff'ic.
Procurement
56.       Construction contracts based on unit prices would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement", Subject to being preqlualified, bidders would be allowed to
bid for one or more highway sections, and contracts would be awarded on the
basis of the lowest evaluated bid for any possible combinations of sections.
Prequalification procedures should begin in February 1977. Bids for the con-
tracts would be invited in April 1977 leading to contract awards to the lowest
evaluated bidders in June/July 1977.  Contracts will include satisfactory
escalation clauses.
57.       Proposals from suitably-qualified consulting firms acceptable to
the Bank according to conditions and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank will be invited and contracts signed before September 30, 1977 for the
execution of the road-user charges and rail costs studies and for the prep-
aration of the Kosovo highway master plan. Assurances were obtained from the
Kosovan Borrower and the Federal Government that they will invite proposals
for the studies from suitably-qualified consultants and discuss, and agree
to, their evaluations and proposals for contract award with the Bank before



-20 -
awarding the contracts for the studies. No later than June 30, 1979, they
will discuss and agree with the Bank on implementation of the findings (Loan
Agreement Section 3.03 (a) and (b); Guarantee Agreement Section 3.04 (b)).
Disbursements
58.       The size of the foreign exchange component varies due to different
standards and types of construction for the different highway works to be
executed in the Republics/Province concerned and has determined the Bank's
participation accordingly. Thus, the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would
finance the foreign exchange component of project costs amounting to 33 per-
cent of the works in Serbia, 29 percent of the works in Macedonia, 32 percent
of the works in Kosovo, and 36 percent of the works in Bosnia-Herzegovina;
the foreign exchange costs of the road-user charges study; and the technical
assistance in preparation of the Kosovo highway master plan.
Environmental Impact
59.       The project is not expected to have an adverse environmental impact;
in fact, by reducing traffic congestion, reduction in accidents and air
pollution will also result, and the alternative routes proposed will enhance
several urban environments by the diversion of heavy traffic.
Justification
60.       The proposed project works in the Republics of Macedonia, Serbia,
and Bosnia-Herzegovina would provide additional capacity required to accommo-
date current and expected increases in traffic and thereby support the further
economic development and integration of the regions they serve. The project
section to be executed by Kosovo would provide a direct all-weather paved
road connection between Pristina and Leskovac, two important commercial,
administrative and population centers in Kosovo and Serbia, respectively;
it would also open up some areas along the road which are now isolated for
much of the year.
61.       The principal direct beneficiaries would be road users who come
from a wide range of sectors and income groups due to the diversity of the
traffic using the highways. Because of their interregional character, the
roads will benefit long distance as well as local traffic. The beneficiaries
will also include foreigners such as international truckers and tourists,
stimulating the foreign exchange earning potential for the country as a
whole. The important commodities that would be affected by the improved roads
are raw and processed agricultural goods, construction materials, wood and
wood products, fuels, chemicals and other manufactured goods. Because the
transport enterprises are highly competitive and generally well managed, it
is expected that reductions in transport costs accruing to truckers and other
transport intermediaries would be passed on gradually to producers and con-
sumers.
62.       The studies on road-user charges and rail costs would assist the
Government in clarifying important transport policy issues, and the highways
master plan for Kosovo would establish a framework for a highway development
program to improve that Province's road system.



- 21 -
63.       Based on the most probable estimates of construction costs, vehicle
operating costs, time costs, base-year traffic and traffic growth, the proposed
investments on the project road sections would produce economic returns ranging
from 15 to 62 percent, with a weighted average of 23 percent. These returns
understate the full economic benefits of the project by excluding reductions
in accidents and greater comfort and convenience of travelling on the new and
improved roads. On the Mali-Pozarevac-Ralja section in Serbia, the upgrading
of the existing two-lane road to divided four-lane standard, accounting for 35
percent of the total economic cost, would increase the capacity of the road
considerably; and savings in combined vehicle operating costs and time costs
are conservatively estimated to yield an economic rate of return of about 24
percent. On the Kumanovo-Titov Veles section in Macedonia, accounting for 47
percent of the total economic cost, this component, for purposes of economic
evaluation, was divided into four sub-sections, the economic rates of return
for which range between 16 and 62 percent. The entire component yields a
satisfactory economic rate of return of about 22 percent. On the Pristina-
Leskovac Highway in Kosovo and Serbia fthe Makovac-Lisica-Petrilja section
accounting for 7 percent of the total economic cost), savings in vehicle
operating costs, due mainly to the distance shortening for through traffic,
are estimated to yield an economic rate of return of about 25 percent, amply
justifying the proposed investment. Finally, on the Banja Luka-Klasnice sec-
tion in Bosnia-Herzegovina, accounting for 11 percent of the total economic
cost, the resulting savings from reduced road-users' cost alone would yield an
acceptable rate of return of about 15 percente  To test the effects of possible
variat4ions in the above estimates, sensitivity tests were made on the assump-
tion that construction costs would increase by 15 percent combined with a 15
percent decrease in users  cost savings and alternately with the same decrease
in construction costs combined with the same increase in users' cost savings.
Even under the above unfavorable assumptions. the economic rate of return would
still range from 11 to 45 percent, with a weighted average of 18 percent, and
all proposed sections would therefore remain acceptable. The benefits accruing
from the road-user charges and rail cost studies and technical assistance in
the preparation of Kosovo's highways master plan are not quantifiable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Zajednica Preduzeca Za
Puteve S.R. Srbije (Association of Enterprises for Roads of the Socialist
Republic of Serbia); Republicka Zajednica Za Puteve, Sarajevo (Republic Com-
munity for Roads, Sarajevo); Socijalisticka Republika Makedonija (The Socialist
Republic of Macedonia); and Samoupravna Interesna Zajednica Za Magistralne i
Regionalne Puteve, S.A.P. Kosovo, Pristina (The Self-Managing Community of
Interest for Arterial and Regional Roads, S.A.P. Kosovo, Pristina); the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic and the Bank, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed
loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 22 -
65.       Special conditions of loan effectiveness are described in paragraphs
49, 50, 51 and 54 of this Report and set forth in Section 7.01 of the Loan
Agreement.  These conditions specify that:
(i) the Governments of the participating Republics of Serbia, Bosnia-
Herzegovina and of the Autonomous Province of Kosovo approve a
guarantee to cover the financing of their respective sections of
the project roads, including possible cost overruns, as well as
of the road-user charges study;
(ii) the Community of Interest for Roads for Kosovo will be the execut-
ing agency for the Pristina-Leskovac road, part of which falls in
Serbia, and administer the construction work within the Commune
of Pristina on behalf of that authority, and that the conclusion
of a formal agreement amongst the concerned Republican and Provin-
cial Governments giving effect to these arrangements be executed;
(iii) the CRO act as fiscal agent for the project, coordinator of dis-
bursement requests to the Bank, and liaison agent between the
Republics, Province and the Bank on project-related matters, and
that the concerned Republics and Province delegate authority to
CRO to undertake these obligations; and
(iv)  the Republics of Serbia, Macedonia and Bosnia-Herzegovina and the
Autonomous Province of Kosovo adopt or cause to be adopted the
legal authority authorizing the construction and financing of
their respective road sections.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 3, 1977



ANN4X TIo4pae
TABLE 3A                                                  Page 1o      ae
YUGOSLAVIA               -SOCIAL.  INDICATMR  DATA  8SEE~T
L6N3  APEA  (THOU   '0)                         -..................    .......
*          .                                            U00,5LA014                                   REFEPENCE COUNTRIES  (1 97 0
TO1AL          45, .                                                   iST RECENT                                            GERMPANY
A038(0.        144, 7                             1 9 60        I(97 0    ESTIMATE              RUMANIA,  REP   SPAIN    FED. REP.a
GNP PEP OcoTTA  ('SS)                                90 .0       820.0        1480.0                        .,/a    1560o.0         942D.0
P')JL.Tll   00  VhdAL  9841072 T90
'OPULA711k  oao-PA,  4TI00O)                      18,4l         20 .4         21 ,0                   2 0.3          33. .            16!
PER SIJAQE  KM,                                72,0          A9,0          63.0                     R5.0           67.0         240.0
PEP 190. K". A5Rl:JL,T  R     LA"P            I  14 .0      1 38.0         147.0                  139.0            97 .0        4 39, 0
VTTAL STATISTICS
AVPQA0-F -~TRT`M RAT4  t/Tn7;J)                1~.86.        a I0          18.2                     19.0           2 1. 0         17 .3
0V090;r 'EATH RAT; (/T~0,j)                     11.5          9.1           9.2                      8.9            8.8           11.6
T7~PFA0  ~',0TLIY  RATE f/T1!nj1                88.0           5. 5        40.4                    49,4            27 ,9          23 .6
LTFE  EYPECTAN:Y  AT A06TH  (YRS)               63.7         6 7 .7        68.0/a                   65.41          70o.8a         7 0.3
9P054  QEPR7MT0l004  RATE                        I,            1. I,3       I,3                      0.9            1 .4           I,2
DDOOLAThI), GRjOTr4 RATE (1)
T2TAL                                            1.2           1.0          0.0                      1.0            1.1            8.0
I9PRAI                                          6.0           4.6            ..3.4                                 2.0            4.1
J49AII POOULATION  Cl  DF Tfl'TAL,                27.2          3R,7          39.0Ib                  40.8           59.1           82.4
A;E STPJCTUPE (PERCENT)
o Ii  10   ER p54                               0 . 7       2 8. 3        26.6 Ia                 2 5. 9         2 7.8a          23 .2
15 T1 64  YEARS                                6 3 .2        b 4 3         65.2 7i                 6 5. 5          6 2 .5         6 3. 6
65 YS4PS AND 3VE0                                6 .1          7 .4         a .27ia                  8.6            9 . 7         1 3 .2
ASE nEPE95ENCY  90T0)                               0,6          0,6           0.5 Ia                   0.5            4.6            0.6
EC>'.iaIC DEPE0OENCY  9AT700                        1.0            .,o.87-i                             0 .7  /b       1.1I           0 .9
ACCEPTORS  (CI1U'.LATTvE, TRDU)                   .              ,.                                     
jSERS  (% OF MARRIED wD'mEN1                       .,                         .                        ,
TOTAL LA9!7P FORCE  (TOH  S&'J3)               8 300a0             .,       9100.0 Ic              9900.0        11900.0        26500. 0
149)0  FORCE  IN AGRI0JLTURE(5                   5 7.0            ,.          36.1 Id                 4 9.0          25.0            8.9
JNFMPLOYEo  CS OF LA3DQ FORCE)                      7.0            ,.3.9 Id                                            I . 0   0 Ia    .
0N004E D05TOOOUTI3N
0 iF 000V481 N6009E 9EC'! 85-
.41GHEST   5% OF 4OJSEHDL0S                     16.4i Ia    I15, I.'
aZGHcST POX OF -QJSE'k'3L)S                    411. 5        XI .41,          .                        .
LOWEST5   205  OF HOJSE4HOLDS                    6.9 Ia        6,6
LOWEST'  400  OF HOJOEHOLDS    __               1.0(         t.18,             ,.                                     ,o
Dt5TPIRUTION  OF LANDO JANE9SHIP
% 0a'NEI RV TIP 105  OF 089595  (I                 15.1 *       I81  .I       15.1 *,
% I.1451) 8Y SMALLEST  104 O..IOERS   (f)   84.9 *              84.0*         84.9*
4561.70 A.0 ~HjTRTTIIN
'O'oL4TO7IN PER PHYSICIAN                       1420.0       1000.0         9000 o/a                 690.0          740.0/b        580.0
'oOPULATION PER 01UR5I4G PERSON                  50 0. 0 lb   35 0,.1  /a   350.0       e00.0o'                  .                 35 0.0
PODo'LATTIN  PER .4i50IT4L 853                   19 0.0       I180,.0          7 0.0 /.If            1 2 0.0        220.0           90.0
OER C481TA SLJPPLY O' ) 
CAL)RIES (5  OF qE7j7RE"ENT5)                 II15. 0       124,0         iOS,o/a                 I1 .16.        10 7. 0         12 1 .0
PR711E0'  roNAMS  PER 34Y1                      91.0         95.0          94,0 .L.o                ;?.0           8(.0           88.0
-IF 0400"  ANIMiAL &ND POLSE                 27.0         P0.0             ,.28.0                               4 0,.0         5 6 .0
354TW 04ATE  (/rmou)  41Es 1-4                       .5          2 .6          2 . 5  b                  .0            0.9            0.9
EDJ,, ATIlON
*  DUT2ENROLLMENT 9o1T20
'909499  SCAOOL1                               9 6 .0        Cs4,.0        9 6,                   11.0             11,   Ic      129 .0
SE!0Ob3ARV SCk)OL                               3 4 .0       4 5 .0        48,0                     46b.0          57 .0 Ic        66.0?
(5T99T AND 5E1040  LEVEL)                      1 2 .0        02 .0         1 2 .0                 12-13            15.0           1 5. 0
030T0Di1 SEnDRY                                   2           7 2,0         74.0                     5 8. 0 Ic      2 0 .0ota
00.1LT 1.170A0Y 90TE (Y.)                         7 7 .0        85,0            ..99.0                               94,C           99.0
8E9  9004  (AVERAGE)                     I1,7                       I    /1.   b             i,3  /d         ..            0,7 1
OCCUPIED 7''ELLINGS 41THOJUT
PIPED ,oTEO  (X3                                                S.66,0 /b.h                           88,0 .Ld,s     ,             0 .3 lb
A0CEA8 TO ELECTR00ITy
(% OF ALL  DWELLIN3S)                          54,5             ,,         57,Q /b                 49,0 /d           ..         180.0
RJ9AL' 39ELLINIS CONNECT'ED
TO ELECTRICITY  (1                              36.1 I.                    80.1  lb                 2 7.0o Id
0055S JMiPT TOON
9oiOT  REEsTV5PS  (P59  TwOfl  POP)               84.0         183,0        176,0                    (52.0          2114,0         318.0
'A8SENSED'AT4S  (PE9  T.1TU POP)                    3 .0        35.0          63.0                        ,7 1.4                   22o00
01511T9(0T7y (K.9,4/Y   DER CoP)                 480,0       1288,0        1965.0                   0615.0         1627.0         4128.0
N(5,j009NT  (oD/YR PER bAP)                         2.3          4.1           i.9                      2,6            b.7          1.7.7
S5E 40(5ES AND DEF!40T0343 ON PEVERS5



ANNEX S
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 sod 1970 and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
1    Agriculture land held by social sector "pmbinate", = Agriculture land held by private small-holders "10 hectares" s               aa.
0*   selection of Federal Republic of eormany as a. obiective courtry is based pp the close ecnsic ties maintained by the two countries, as well as
on the fact that the greater part of Yugoslavia's around one million wrkers temporarily abroad have found cmployment in the Federal Republic of
Germany.
YUGOSLAVIA              1960    Ia  1963;    /b  Including midwives, asaistant midwives, assistant nurses and nursing .urilaries.
1970    /a  Including midwives, assistant midwives, assistant nurses and nursing auxilaries.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE    /a  1972:    /b  1971;    Is  Including about 80  thousand migrant workers working outside:    /d  Residets
pply;    /e  Including midwives, assistant midwives, assistant nurees and nursing aouilaries;
/I  Government hospital establisbments;    /g  1969-71 average;    / h  Ieside;    /i  Ratio of population
under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force.
ROMANTA:               1970    /e  The clcuisripn cf these figures is under diacucni,o; the nstimmte f-r 1975 is $1300;    lb  Ratis of population under
-   15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  Full-tine education only;    /d  1966;    /e  Inside.
SPAIN                  1970    /a  Registered unemployed;    /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country;    /c  6-10 and 11-16 years of age
respectively.
GERMANY FED. RIP.      1970    Ia  Total, urban and rural;    /b  Inside  nly.
R13, Decembsr-6, 1976
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou kh  )                                                                 Population per nurning person - Population divided by camber of pra-ti-
Total    otal surface area comprising land area and inland watero.                      cing male and female graduate nurses, "trained'  or "certified"
Agric. - Most recent esti-ate of agricultural atro  used temporarily or                 nurses, and auxiliary personneL with training or  xperienicc
permanently for crops, pastares, carket 4 kitchen gardens or to lie                 Population per hospita1 bed - Population divided by samber of hospital
fallow.                                                                               beds available in public med private general and epenialized hospita1
sod -ehabilitrtios centers;  -cal-den cocaitg homes sad a esd bithoents
GNP per capita (US$) - GNP per capita estimatea  at current market prices,              for .satodial and preventive care.
calculated by same con-ve-ion method as World Bank Atlas  (1973-75 basis);         Per capita sapply of calories (% of reouirements) - Cimputed fron
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                                             energy equivalent of net fond supplies available is ciontry per capit
per day; ava ilable supplies coprise dometic pr-do-tion, iporta lean
Pta-ulatlot and vital otatisctia                                                        exports, and changes in stcek; net supplies ecalude animal fed, seeds,
Polation (mid-yr  milli) - An of July first,  if not -vailsble,                         quantitieo uned in fond processing and loosen in distribution; require-
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                          meets were estimated by FAO based on physiolcgioal coeds for normal
activity and health considering environmental temporature, body weights,
Fopalatlos density - per square ke - Mid-year population per square kile-               ago and see distributions of populstion, and allowing 107. for waste
-eter (100 hactarca) cf total area,                                                    t hossehold level
Populatio- density-Per suare kb  of sCrio. land - Computed as above for               Per capita srspoly of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per
agiutrlland amly.                                                              capita inst supply of food per day; net eupply of food is definod as
above; requirements for all countries established by USDA Economic
Vital statistics                                                                        Research Services provide for a mininm  allowance of 60 grams of
Crade birth rate per thousand, aerage - Annusl live births per thousand                 total protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of
nf mid-year population; tee-year arithmetic averageo ending in 1960 snd              which 10 grams should be animal protein; these standards are lowsr
-19;;-and five-year average soding in 1975 for most recet estimate.                   than those of 75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of amimat protein
de a            ,rte   r thoud,          Anvuag   datcbs per thousand of mid-'        as an average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
year population; te-year arithmetic avrges aedisg in 1960 and 1970 and                Survy..
five-year average  ending in 1975 for mort recnt estimate.                          Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
Infant mortality rate (/thou) - Annual deatho of inf-nts under one year                 derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.
-Of age per thousand live births.                                                    Death rate (I/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group
Lie expctancy at birth (yes) - Average somber of years of life remain-                  1-4 years, to children in this age group; suggested as as indicator of
ing at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                    malnutrition.
1975 for d_ealoping ountries.
Gro.s reproduction rate - Average camber of live daughters a veom. will               Education
bear in her  oral rep-odu-tivr period if she emperiones pareset age-               Adiu-ted enrolment ratio - primarvy  chool - Enrollment of ell ages as
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averagos ending in 1960,                -percentage of primary nchool-age population; includes children aged
1970 and 1975 for developing coontries.                                               6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
Population growth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-               for countries with universal education, enrollment may sxceed 100%
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                     since same pupils are below or above the official school age.
Population iro-th rate () - urbon - CGopued like grawth rate of total                 Adbueted enrollment ratiou- saon.d-ry school - Campoted 00 abnov;
population; diffeent definitiuns of urban areas may affict compars-                   secondary ed-cation requires at least four years of apprtved primary
bility uf data among cuoctries.                                                       instruction; providee general, vocational or teacher training
Urban Population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                     instructio.s  for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; -orrespondence
different definitions of urban arean may affect comparability of data                 courses are generaily eocluded.
among  .o.mtries                                                                   Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
Age structure (percent) - Childeen (0-14 years), woehing-age (15-64 yeaee),             schooling; at secondary level, vocational inetrntion -y be par-
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population.                tially or campletely excluded.
Age depeedency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                Vocational emrollment (% of  -e-ondary) - Vocational institutions
those of ages 15 through 64.                                                         include technical, industrial or other pr-gras which operate
iconomic dependen.y ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over                independently or as departments of secondary institutions.
to the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.                                    Adult literacy rate (7.  - Literate adulto (able to read and write) as
F_milv planning - acepatr  (amalative, thou) - CGuulatibe mVmbor of                     percentage of total adult popslation aged 15 years and over.
acceptors of birth-control devices under aeupieas of nati n 1 family
planning peugram  since inception.                                                 Rousing
Family Plameim -users (7. of married womeo) - Percectages of maoeied                  Persons per room  (urban) - Average nmeber of persons per room in
women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who uen birth-control devicee                occupied conventional dwe1lings in urban areas; d-ellings eeclude
to all married women in same age group.                                               no_mpseranent strutturns and umeccupied parts.
.OcuPied dwellings withost pipad water (7) -  Occupied convemtione1
VEmlo-ment                                                                              dwellinga in urban and rural areas without insids cr outside piped
Total labor force (thousand) - Ec-nomically active persons, including                   water faeilities as percentage of a11 occupied dwellings.
armed forces and unemployed but escluding housewivea, students, etc.;              Access to electricity (7. of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings
definitions in v"'lca countries see not comparable,                                  with electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwelings In
Labor fice in agriculture (7.  - Agricultural labor force (in farming,                 urban and rural areas.
forestry, hunting and fishiog) at percentage  of total labor force.                Rural dwellings cosnected to electricity (7) - Computed as above for
Usemployed (7. of labor force) - Unemployed are unually defioed as                      rural dwellings only.
persons who are able and willing to tabs a job, out of a job on a
given day, remained ot  of a job, and se-king work for a specified                 Consumiton
'Yoimum period not  eaceding one week; nay not be comparable between                Radio receivers (per thou pOp) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
countries due to different definitions of unemployed and source of                    caotD to gienerl poblic per thousand of populationm  excludes
data, e.g., employment office statistics, oample surveys, compulsory                  unlicensed receivers in countries aod in years when registraticn of
unemployment insurance.                                                               radio sets was in effect; data fcr resent years may not be comparable
since most countries abolished licensing.
Im..-. Distribution - Perceotage of private income (both in cash and                 Passenger cars (per thou pop) - Fa.senger cars compriso motor cars
kind) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and pooreat                   seating less than eight persons; emludso ambulances, hearses and
40% of hocseholds.                                                                   military  -ehicles.
Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual consumptico of iedustrial, con-
Distribution of land ownership - Percentag         of land owned by wealthiest          mer-ial,,public and private electricity in kilswatt hours per capita;
10. and poorest 10% of land owners.                                                 generally based en production data, without allowance for losses in
grids but allowing for imports and esports of electricity.
HealIth  nd Nutrition                                                                 Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annual consamption in kilograms
Population per physician - Population divided by  -mbher of practicing                  estimated from domestic productioe plus set imports of newsprint.
physiciAns qualified from a medical sehool at university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amsouts in Million US Dollars)
Actual              Prelscimiary    Projected
1972     1973      1974         1975             1976               1965-72       1972-75       1973-76         1972      1974       1976
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                         Constant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate of $1 = 17.0 Din.                  Average Annual Growth hates                 As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                      21,638  22,720   24,765         25,887          26,922                  5.6           6.2           5.8          97.8    000          99.3
Gains from Terms of Trade                       468     681       -           +142            +197                                                             2.2      -          0.7
Gross Domestic Income                       22,106  23,401   24,765         26,029          27,119                  5.5           5.6            5.0         100.0    100        100.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                          6,588   7,600    8,312          8,350           8,082                 12.6           8.2           2.1           29.7     33.6       29.8
Exports (i-cl. NF85                          5.437   5.788    5,694          5.872           6.506                  8.3           2.6           4.0           24.5     23.0       24.0
Resource Gap                                  1,151   1,812    2,618         2,478            1,576
Consumption Expenditure                     16,139  17,716   19,953         19,795          19,670                  6.7           7.0           3.5           73.0     80.6       72.5
Investment Expenditure                       6,650   6,816    7,429          8,570           8,827                  6.0           8.5           9.0           30.1     30.0       32.5
National Savings                              6,904   6,806    6,241         7,330           8,717                  6.6           2.0           8.6           31.2      25.2      32.1
Domestic Savings                             5,499   5,006    4,812          6,092           7,252                  3.1           3.5          13.2           24.9     19.4       26.7
MERCHAIDI0E TRADE                                     Annual Data at Current Pricec                                                                           As a Percentage of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                                689   1,004    1,305          1,887           1,877                                                           21.4      17.4       25.0
Petroleum                                     126     296       843          756           1,015                                                            3.9      11.2       13.5
Intermediate Goods                         1,910   2,513    4,398          4,296           3,826                                                           59.2      58.5       51.0
Consumption Goods                             502     698       972          758             784                                                           15.6      12.9       10.5
Total Merch. Imports (c.i.f.)              3,227   4,512    7,518          7,697           7,502                                                          100.0    100.0       100.0
Exports
Capital Goods                                316      389       514          695             920                                                           14.1      13.5       18.8
Textile and Leather Goods                    362      409       477-         600             761                                                           16.2      12.5       15.6
Noe-ferrous Metallurgy                        272     325       556          458             472                                                           12.2      14.6         9.7
Agricultural Products (incl. food)           400      475       439          488             640                                                           17.9      11.5       13.1
Other                                        887   1.255    1.819          1.831           2.093                                                           39.7      47.8       42.8
Trotal Mrch. Exports (f.o.h.)             2,237   2,853    5,805          4,072           4,886                                                          101.0    100.0       100.0
MERCI411DISE TRADE INDICES                                      1974 = 100
Export Price Index                             63      76       100          109              114
Import Price Index                            58       68       100          105             109
Terms of Trade Index                         109      112       100          104             105
Export Volpme  Index                           93      99       100           98              112
VALUE ADDED bY SECTOR                       Annual Data in Constant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate
of $1 = 17.0 Din.                                                                            An a Percentage of Total
Agriculture                                3,213   3,496    3,763          3,663           3,846                  2.7           4.5           3.2          15.6      16.0       15.0
Manufacturing sod Mining                   6,374   5,712    7,471          7,888           8,125                  6.6           7.4           6.6          31.0      31,8       31.8
Other                                     10 956  11.362   12J276         13.026          13.589                  5.4           5.9           6.2          53.3      52.2       53.2
Total                                     20,543  21,370   23,512         24,577          25,560                  5.3           6.2           6.2         100.0    100.0       100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE  /1                                              Current Prices                                                                              An Percent of GDP/Market Prices
Current Receipts                           2,772   3,489    4,841           ..              ..                    ..            ..            ..           17.5      19.5
Current Expenditures                       2,520   3,154    4,794            ..             ..                    ..            ..            ..           16.0      19.4
Rudgetary Savings                            251      334       -47          ..             ..                    ..            ..             .            1.6       0.2
Public Sector Investment                     224      281       328          ..             ..                    ..            ..             .            1.4        1.3
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER /2                         TOTAL LA30R FORCE-                                   VALUE ADDED PER WORiCER (1974 PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATE $1 = 17 Din.
Million        7. of Total          1972-75                       UE Dollars             Percent of Average         1972-75
1972    1975    1972    1975   Av. Ann. Growth Rate                 1972      1975             1972      1975    Av. Ann. Growth Rate
Agriculture /3                              3.6      3.0    45.0    37.4            -5.9                         893    1,211                35        40            10.7
Manufactoring and Mining                    1.65    1.87   20.6    23.3              4.3                       3,863    4,218               130       138             3.0
Other 3/                                    2.75    3.13   34.4    39.3             4.6                        3.984    4.135               155       135             1.2
Total                                       8.00    8.02  100.0   100.0              0.1                       2,568    3,064               100       100             6.1
LI  Budgets of Federation, Republics and Autonomus Provincee, .nd Communes.
i2 Total resident active labor force, i.e. excluding workers abroad and unemployed.
13  Active labor force in the private sector (agriculture sod other) and, accordingly, total are estimates.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regioc
December 6, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Annual
Actual                   Projected  Growth Rates
1972    1973    1974    1975       1976        1972-75
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                 3425    4407    5694    6315        7306          16.5
Imports (incl. NFS)                 3821    5168    8312    8767        8809          23.1
Resource Balance (X-M)              -395    -761   -2618   -2452    -1503
Interest                            -165    -222    -285    -337        -355          19.6
Workers Remittances                  889    1310    1511    1575        1747          15.4
Other factor services net              17      50       93      62        70          38.2
Current Transfers (net)               74       87      110     120       135          12.8
Balance on Current Account           419      454   -1189   -1032         94
M&LT Loans /1
Disbursements                      943    1170    1426    1850        2031          20.1
Repayments                        -570    -686    -814    -930    -1025             13.6
Net Disbursements                    373      454      612     920      1006          28.3
Capital Transactions n.e.i./        -117    -285       139     -68       -
Use of Reserves                     -675    -663       438     180    -1100                               Actual
Estimated
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                              DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE/4    1972    1973    1974         1975
Official Grants & Grant-like          -        -        -       -    Public Debt Out. &
Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                              75.0   104.9   256.5   209.0   Interest on Public Debt    63.2    97.1   101.2    120.8
IDA                                 -        -       -        -    Repayments on Public Debt 154.3   205.0   282.3    309.0
Other Multilateral                  -        -       -        -    Total Public Debt Service 217.5   302.1   383.5    429.8
Governments                      183.9   179.7   615.4   274.7   Other Debt Service            634.5   726.9   826.6    937.0
Suppliers                         82.3      3.0       .6      -    Total Debt Service          852.0  1029.0  1210.1   1366.8
Financial Institutions           121.4       -     73.1    86.2
Bonds                               -        -     51.5       -    Burden on Export Earnings (%)/5
Public Loans n.e.i.                4.2       -        -       -
Total Public M&LT Loans            466.8   287.6   997.2   569.9   Public Debt Services Ratio  5.0           5.2     5.2       5.3
Total Debt Service Ratio   19.4    17.7    16.5         16.9
IDS - Direct Investment Inc. -         -        -         -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT                 Disbursements only          Percent       Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                         559.1                  24.6
IDA                                  -                     -            Int. as % Prior Year
Other Multilateral                   5.3                    .2                         DO&D         5.3      7.3     6.3       6.5
Governments                       1304.3                  57.4          Amort. as % Prior Year
Suppliers                          115.6                   5.1                         DO&D        12.9    15.3    17.4       16.5
Financial Institutions             269.9                  11.9
Bonds                               18.1                    .8        IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Public Debt n.e.i.                     .1                  -            "  as % Public Debt O&D  20.7    19.6    18.8         20.6
2272.5                100.0          "  as % Public Debt
Services    14.7    12.7    11.9       13.4
Other M&LT Debts/3                3780.0
Short-term Debt (disb. only)         -
1/ Includes direct foreign investment.
2/  Includes errors and ommissions, short term loans, net export credits,  IMF account,
National Bank and Commercial Bank Credits.
3/  Estimate.
4/  Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
5/  Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
December 2, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at January .31, 1977)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Sixteen Loans fully disbursed                                        474.7
751      1971   SFRY                           Roads                  35.0     0.3
752      1971   Hotel "Bernardin", Piran    Tourism                   10.0     1.1
777      1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water   45.0    29.5
782      1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,Dubrovnik Tourism                 20.0      2.2
836      1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia   Power                   75.0    14.0
894      1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0      6.9
916      1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline           59.4    24.4
947      1973   Kikinda                        Iron Foundry           14.5     1.2
965      1974   IMT                            Tractor Factory        18.5     0.5
966      1974   FOB                            Iron Foundry           15.0     1.6
990      1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                  Roads                 30.0      1.9
1012     1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial Credit    28.0    11.6
1013     1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit    22.0    13.1
1026     1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                    Railways              93.0    54.2
1060     1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion      44.0    37.7
1066     1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      5.9
1129     1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural Credit  50.0    48.0
1143     1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                 Roads                  40.0    36.1
1173     1975.  Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline              49.0    46.3
1262     1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources             20.0    20.0
1263     1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage              45.0    45.0
1264/a   1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control               38.0    38.0
1277     1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit                50.0    50.0
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Total (less cancellation)                               1,313.1*   489.5
of which has been repaid                                  154.0
Total now outstanding                                   1,159.1
Amount sold                             7.8
of which:  Amount repaid              6.3                 1.5
Total now held by Bank                                  1,157.6
Total undisbursed                                                   489.5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1977)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                       Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment Corporation  Investment
for Yugoslavia                        Corporation      -       2.0      2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.       Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev         Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt       Industry         7.6    2.2       9.8
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler              Automotive
Benz A.G.                             Industry        13.0    2.9      15.9
1972   Sava/Semperit                            Tires            4.0    1.5       5.5
1973   Belisce/Bel                              Pulp and Paper 13.3      -       13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO                 Special Steel  10.0      -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                           Cement Plant   10.0      -       10.0
1975   Rudarsko Metalurski                      Steel           50.0     -       50.0
Total Gross Commitments                                   112.9   16.6    129.5
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                     60.3    2.2      62.5
Total commitments held by IFC                             52.6   14.4       67.0
Total Undisbursed                                           8.8    6.2      15.0
*Note: A loan of US$54.0 million to the Water Management Organization "Mietohija"
for a multipurpose project was approved and signed subsequent to the
above date of Statement A; it is not yet effective. Loans of US$24.0
million and US$26.0 million respectively to Stopanska Banka Skopje and
Investiciona Banka Titograd for agriculture and agro-industries projects
in Macedonia and Montenegro were also approved and will shortly be signed
subsequent to the above date of Statement A.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 751 Fifth Highway: US$35.0 million Ldan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
After an initial delay of about eight months in fulfilling the con-
ditions for effectiveness of the loan, construction work on all sections has
progressed well. All road sections are open for traffic, although one section
in Slovenia is about 92 percent complete. Because of shortage of funds the
Republican Road Authority has reprogrammed its completion. The first 44 km
was opened at the end of June 1976 and the last 6.5 km will be finished by
September 1977.
Loan 752 Bernardin Tourism: US$10.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: June 20, 1977.
Following initial delays in project implementation due to appointing
consultants, providing the necessary infrastructure and obtaining approvals by
local authorities, bids received in July 1974 indicated that the project, as
originally envisaged (2,500 beds), would cost approximately 100 percent above
the originally estimated cost of US$25.6 million. This increase was mainly
due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the project spon-
sors have agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 1,616 beds
(Amendment to Loan 752-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-258) at an estimated cost
of US$39.9 million, requiring additional financing by the sponsors of about
US$14.0 million. Following the resolution of the financial problems excellent
progress was made and the Port and Village hotels were opened for occupancy on
June 4, 1976. Structural problems were encountered with the foundations for
the Cliff Hotel, but the main structure has now been completed and the hotel
is scheduled to be opened in early March, 1977.
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 20, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction
is now underway, the main dam is almost completed and the reservoir will be
filled starting in February. A small part of the irrigation network has been
completed with the remainder expected to be completed by 1978. Project costs
have been above appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being pro-
vided by the Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Delays have been
encountered in the arrangements for boundary adjustment. Consultants have
been engaged to help find solutions, and the Kosovo Government has enacted
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
appropriate legislation. A draft law has been prepared by the Kosovo Govern-
ment and is expected to be enacted in the near future, which will assist in
the formation of specialized services, including agricultural extension for
the private sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the
project sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034
beds (Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost
of US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about US$1.6 million
and a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment
to Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy on June 5, 1976.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The Project construction is progressing slowly and is expected to
be completed by December 1977, about one year late. Its cost has increased to
about $415 million (up 84 percent) chiefly due to escalation in prices. The
resulting cost overrun is being financed by the Government from funds received
from the Federal Republic of Germany and from the Borrowers' own internal
sources. Appointment of management consultants was delayed until mid-1976
and their report is now expected in June 1977, about 3 1/2 years late. The
financial performance of 3 of the 12 Borrowers in 1976 was below the required
level of 35 percent self-financing following a downturn in electricity sales
and higher operating costs arising from inflation. The promulgation of the
new Constitution in 1974 and the consequent evolution of the legal and
financial status of the Borrowers, particularly in regard to the requirement
of their policy of pooling resources at the Republican levels requires changes
in the legal arrangements including the application of financial covenants.
These are being considered along with the proposed second power transmission
project which has just seen appraisal.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. There have been, however, diffi-
culties in obtaining satisfactory procurement contracts for the big facilities
mainly due to the heavy cost overruns. With considerable delay, contracts
have now been signed for one of the wine by-products processing facilities,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
and the central wine cellar and construction has begun on both sites. Con-
tract negotiations for the slaughterhouse are nearing completion. The second
wine by-products facility will either be retendered or not constructed at all
because of the high investment costs and resulting low financial viability.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 20, 1977.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the
project has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than two years in project
implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by end 1978.
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
Effectiveness was delayed about five months due primarily to the
extra time required for the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement by the
Federal Assembly. Project implementation is about four months ahead of
schedule. Total project costs now are about 13 percent (about US$4.6 million
equivalent) above appraisal estimates due to large increases in local costs.
Financing of this cost overrun has been arranged with a local bank.
Loan 965 IMT Tractor Factory Expansion: US$18.5 million Loan of February 22,
1974; Effective Date: June 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The factory was officially inaugurated on March 7, 1976. Completion
work on minor portions of the project, however, is continuing.
Loan 966 FOB Iron Foundry: US$15.0 million Loan of February 22, 1974;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Implementation is expected to be on schedule. Local costs are about
27 percent (about US$10.0 million equivalent) above appraisal estimates due to
design changes and domestic inflation. Financing of this local cost overrun
has been arranged with a local bank.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Four out of six road sections are complete. The remaining sections
should be completed by March/April '77. Two requests for changes in road
alignments have been agreed in order to provide better service to two commu-
nities.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit:  US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is almost fully committed,
but the final date for submission of sub-projects has been extended by six
months to June 30, 1977 to allow adjustments in individual sub-loans, as
needed, and to allow the banks time to submit additional projects for finan-
cing from resources freed as-a result of such adjustments. Loan disbursements
have been accelerating after a slow start and are expected to soon catch up
and even surpass appraisal estimates.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit:  US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. There have been substantial delays in project execution due
principally to financial and administrative difficulties. Government efforts
to combat inflation have caused railway tariffs to lag behind inflation. Sub-
stantial subsidies are now being proposed, and the Bank is currently reviewing
this matter with the Government. Good progress continues on investment plan-
ning.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
In general the Project is progressing well, but is now about 8
months behind schedule due to delays in procurement, most recently regarding
the grain silos, for which final designs have not yet been completed. Com-
pletion of the project is likely to be at least 6 months after the original
completion date of December 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation. Preliminary calculations indicated the need for a
substantial tariff increase to meet the Loan Agreement's financial covenants,
but the commune authorities approved a smaller increase. The Bank is seeking
explanations from the communal and federal authorities together with their
proposals for resolving the matter.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effective
Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working in a competent manner with respect to preparation of
subproject appraisal reports. Disbursements of IBRD funds under the project
initially were lagging behind appraisal estimates, reflecting both learning
curve problems with the methodology for subproject appraisal and the time
required for the effective organization of implementation by Vojvodjanska
Banka, the lead bank. Project operations now show encouraging progress with
respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of institution building.
Commitments for investments in social sector enterprises are running ahead
of those for private farmers, due largely to institutional arrangements in
Yugoslavia, but a substantial pipeline of private sector subprojects should
ensure the desired balance. A second project is at the appraisal stage and
is expected to reach negotiations by May 1977.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Construction has started in the Republic of Serbia. Construction
contracts have been awarded in the Republics of Slovenia and Montenegro.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline:  US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a four-month slippage in the completion of Phase I will
occur, though it is expected that the balance of the project will be completed
on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million' Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study i-s under way. Terms of Reference
and selection of consultants is about to be finalized for the flood control
and water quality studies. Final designs and tender documents for the Vrutci
Dan are being reviewed, and construction should begin in 1977. Construction
is under way on some parts of the Cacak component and tenders are being in-
vited for the principal work in Titovo Uzice. The impetus towards the creation
of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest has slowed due to the longer
than anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing is being strength-
ened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date:  November 9, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
Consultants for final designs and tender documents have begun their
work. Tendering is expected to begin early 1977.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is March 31, 1977.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Eight subprojects, including 7 below the free limit, have been
approved for disbursements for a total committed amount of US$4.3 million.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date:  May 31, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is May 31, 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
YUGOSLAVIA: EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers:              Association of Enterprises for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Serbia; Republic Community
for Roads, Sarajevo; The Socialist Republic of
Macedonia; and the Self-Managing Community of
Interest for Arterial and Regional Roads, S.A.P.
Kosovo, Pristina.
Guarantor:              The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:                 US$56.0 million equivalent, in various
currencies.
Terms:                  Amortization in 15 years, including a 3-year
grace period, with, interest at 8.5 percent.
Project                 The features of the project include:
Description:           (a) construction of highway sections in the
Republics of Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and
Macedonia; and the Province of Kosovo; (b)
studies of road-user charges and rail costs
in Yugoslavia; and (c) technical assistance
for the preparation of a highway master plan
for the Province of Kosovo.



- e 2         3
C:~~~~~~~~~C
v t- L, .-te  'os  - C,                                      SS  -' -3
b                                      2                 .
.4 a     e d G f-.   1                    ,~             Qf)a4w(    ,   
-     3  s ri i a -.  r z z g _- ir a             i                33
'_)  Kcs                                  (U5 Q          ,3 80         _
U-ilbt-._                         {.2, 90       27 &90       L2 0 ,S 80
Contingenci eS
Ecaat-on  1j -a1C ,4,C4C 39                                    5. 1I5
Sub-ntota:i                        -J3? i. 4 I 0     8?-630     7 D2'0
-.3   Rdad.;fey  .,t-arges 7 tiaa'i 2.l  i;60)G      I p.2
{-i,f,3  Raii    sts  S tudy- ,1 f
Tr _. shnl' ,_a lL A.f ssil-. ,t a nce t5
3!>3V                            tO           :3.l,;0:      1 90
Subtot ai                              i 2C          2 50          370:
LS t 2alI.Piroi_ct  cs ts        .2 2             _;G 3000          O. 7 2 5 30
tral  IRcuudd)                        123> 0 0       55 000       17. 0900
Fi3R-anc - i-ig -P m an: .                                   il4lioa:lUS 5re-rcent of Total
ISRI)                                 5b 6 f0           31.3
Republiis of Sebi4a.
MAcedonia,. an d."B os s iat
iI-7etgovi-7a;. Pro7ffi-7ue-
of:- Kcisevc; .? nd:-
OMMume.f -oPf it'tria .2 3.0 .8. 7
1 7 9'.- O        100'. 0
1/    Cbnstructibn* cost.estmatesare--a  f- -         Jy  14 J1976+.  Esealatiba-  assumed
atI 132.'fbr 197 6 an,i.' 12Z for- years-- I 9?.79 is- the- sam.e- f r: bc-.th. local and
foreiggacostsi, lfh- 1Tie -with  the p-coosec-zoasteruc. aid-perTids-,-price
esca1atiOn fcr Se.rbia 1i- 33%   f 2  e d o a     -ed ni a, 42%. IEbr. BOsniu 38 %} and for
Kosevc- 29%,i'
2/    Study wil be e fiaranaee b'7 Yugos_   iauL        _ v     reeain p art  .f the Project.
31    Local !costs of foregn  nsul' ttasr ts          y e,re frch1ded.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Estimated
Disbursements:                                                Amount
Annual      (US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year  (US$ million)   Cumulative
1977/78           9.19            9.19
1978/79          25.49           34.68
1979/80          18.44           53.12
1980/81           2.88           56.00
Procurement             Construction contracts based on unit prices would
Arrangements:          be awarded after international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Subject to
prequalification, bidders would be allowed to bid
for one or more highway sections, and contracts
would be awarded on the basis of the lowest
evaluated bid for any possible combinations of
sections.
Technical               Proposals from suitably-qualified consulting firms,
Assistance:            acceptable to the Bank according to conditions and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, will be
invited and contracts signed before September 30,
1977 for the studies of road-user charges and rail
costs and technical assistance to Kosovo for prep-
aration of the highway master plan.
Rate of Return:         The overall economic rate of return is 23 percent.
Estimated Project
Completion Date:       September 30, 1980.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 1365a-YU
Date: February 28, 1977
EMENA Projects Department



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA: EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    About 2 years (August 1974 to
September 1976)
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:  Republican and Provincial Road
Organizations in consultation
with Highway Institute, Belgrade;
Institute for Studies and Design,
Banjaluka; Highway Engineering
Centre, Sarajevo; Bureau for
Economics and Statistics,
Ljubljana; Economic Institute,
Skopje; and Institute for Studies
and Design, "Granit", Skopje.
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:  January/February 1976
(d) First Bank mission to review project: March/April 1976
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: September 1976
(f) Completion of Negotiations: January 24, 1977
(g) Planned date of Effectiveness: 90 days from the date of signing
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) As a condition of effectiveness, Governments of the participating
Republics of Serbia, Macedonia, and Bosnia-Herzegovina; and of the
Autonomous Province of Kosovo to approve a guarantee to cover the
financing of their respective sections of the project roads, in-
cluding possible cost overruns (Loan Agreement Section 7.01 (a),
*                      (b) and (d) and Recitals B and C; para 49 this Report).
(b) As a condition of effectiveness, the Republics of Serbia,
Macedonia, and Bosnia-Herzegovina; the Autonomous Province of
Kosovo; and the Commune of Pristina to adopt legal authority
authorizing the construction and financing of their respective
road sections (Loan Agreement Section 7.01 (a) and (b), and
Recitals B and C; para 54 this Report).
(c) As a condition of effectiveness, the Kosovo Road Organization to
be duly authorized to be the executing agency for the Pristina-
Leskovac Road, part of which falls in Serbia, and to administer
the construction work within the Commune of Pristina on behalf
of that authority (Loan Agreement Section 7.01 (a) and Recital
B; para 50 this Report).
(d) As a condition of effectiveness, the Council of Republican and
Provincial Roads Organization (CRO) to be duly authorized to act
as fiscal agent for the project, coordinator of disbursement
requests to the Bank, and liaison agent between the Republics,
Province and the Bank on project-related matters (Loan Agreement
Section 7.01 (c); para 51 this Report).
(e) The Federal Government, through its Federal Committee for Trans-
port and Communications, to ensure that the CRO will carry out
the road-user charges study and that the CYR will carry out the
rail costs study with the assistance of experts whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms of reference are satisfactory to
the Bank. In addition, the CRO and the CYR to cooperate in the
carrying out of their respective studies and to exchange regularly
information (Guarantee Agreement Section 3.04 (a); and paragraph 49
this report).



__________________________________________________                                                                                                      BR))  10862R1
,                        ',,
r                                                       AHtAV 
Ikt'j%iAAt4 4AK 1Adj*&     4                                              .                        "   7'777
a
0                 44
4
T                                       N      /
   AAZHJ                                         4'

'A-
froj)i
r-'A
TAACPA/
A-   AA
-     Puropeon gyTh                                                                                                                          \           $
J                                                                                Orner Clots 1 Highways
First, Second, Third, and Faurdo Highway Project -
AOrAAHA4                     I      A                    -  rrntr -tigirway Project
cytittyst          A                    -      SAab Highway Project                                                                                                                 I
A                  -'                                         Seventh Highway  Project
ttgirr, Highway Project                                                                                                    A
IA>   Highway Bridge at Kosovo Poije jOth Ptnjenr)                               I
YconLAv 4A                                 A4    end Kasovo Poje -  Priopso Section (Sty Project)                           A
                                                '  -'-- Roiweys
AA4A 4
*          to  aria    Bodi                                                                                                                                                            r
41                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5                   A
A_______                                                                   4
*AItA                                                                                                                                                                                                   A
eAOAtrtss                                                                            K    <
< 
I                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRE   C
I                              i                                                             A'                         4                                      A                                                                    A
A           -       7'                                                       ______________                  _______________________



