FILE COPY
Report No. 1365a-YU
Appraisal of an Eighth Highway Project
Yugoslavia
February 28, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOk OFFICIAL USE ON!14 
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS  (as of April 1976), .
Currency Unit               =  Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)*
Din 1                       =  US$0.0555
Din 1,000                   =  US$55.5
Din 1,000,000               =  US$55,555
US$1                        =  Min 18.00
WEIGHTS AND MIEASURES
Metric System                  British/US System
1 meter (m)                 =  3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =  0.3861 sq. mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =  0.9842 long ton (ig ton)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADT       -  Average Daily Traffic
BOAL      -  Basic Organizations of Associated Labour
CPS       -  Central Projects Staff
CRO       -  Council of Republican and Provincial Roads Organization
CYR       -  Community of Yugoslav Railways
ER        -  Economic Return
RTE       -  Railway Transport Enterprise
SAP       -  Socialist Autonomous Province
SR        -  Socialist Republic
TYH       -  Trans-Yugoslav Highway
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
*The Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973. The currency
equivalents given above are as of April 30, 1976.



APPRAISAL OF               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUEMARY AND  CONCLUSIONS  ...................................   i-iii
I.     INTRODUCTION  ..............................................                                 1
II.     TRANiSPORT  SECTOR  ..........................................                               1
A.     Effects  of  Geography  and  Economic  Growth  on Transport                           1
B.     The Transport  System  ................................                               2
C.     Transport  Policy,  Planning  and  Coordination  ...                    ......        3
D.     Previous  Projects  ...................................                               5
III.      THE  HIGHWAYS  .............................................                                 5
A.     The Network  .........................................                                5
B.     Traffic  .............................................                                6
C.    Administration  ......................................                                 6
D.     Planning  ............................................                                7
E.     Investment  and  Financing  ............................                              8
F.     Engineering  .........................................                                9
G.     Construction  ........................................                                9
H.     Maintenance  .........................................                                9
IV.    THE  PROJECT ..............................................                                   9
A.    Objectives  ..........................................                                 9
B.     Description  .........................................                              10
C.     Engineering  .........................................                              13
D.     Cost  Estimates  ......................................                             14
E.     Financing  ...........................................                              15
F.     Implementation  ......................................                              16
C.     Disbursements  .......................................                              17
H.     Environmental  Impact  ................................                             18
V.     ECONOMIC  EVALUATION  ......................................                                18
A.     Main  Benefits  and  Beneficiaries  .....................                            18
B.     Economic  Evaluation  .................................                             19
C.     Other  Project  Elements  ..............................                            22
VI.     AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND  RECOMiMENDATIONS  ........                 ..     .........       22
This report was prepared by Messrs. R. Mulligan (Engineer) and M. Ganguli
(Economist).
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be uwed by recipients only in the performartce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
-TABL E S
1.  Freight Traffic by Mode of Transport, 1958-74
2.  Passenger Traffic by Mode of Transport, 1958-74
3.  Cargo Handled by the Main Ports, 1958-74
4.  Public Roads in the Six Republics and Two Autonomous Provinces, 1974
5.  Modernization of the Highway System, 1958-74
6.  Registered Motor Vehicle Fleet, 1958-74
7.  Highway Expenditures in 1974
8.  Financing of Highway Expenditures, 1958-74
9.  Financing of Highway Expenditures in 1974
10.  Design Characteristics of Project Roads
]l.  Average Daily Traffic
12.  Motor Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings per Km
13.  Economic Returns and First Year Returns
ANNEXES
1.  Study of Road User Charges
2.  Study of Rail Costs
3.  Highway Master Plan for Kosovo
4.  Transportation Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
5.  Organization Chart of the Road Council of S.R. Macedonia
6.  Description of Project Roads
7.  Project Implementation Schedule
8.  Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
MAP
10862RI   Highway System - Yugoslavia



APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTHI HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
SUMMARY AI4D CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the construction of three
primary highways and one secondary road, Studies of Road-User Charges and
Rail Costs in Yugoslavia as well as technical assistance in the preparation
of a highway master plan for the Autonomous Province of Kosovo at an estimated
total cost of US$179 million equivalent, for which a Bank loan of US$56.0 mil-
lion, equivalent to the foreign exchange component is proposed.
ii.       Transport is one of the dynamic sectors of the Yugoslav economy and
road transport is now the dominant mode. Although in recent years the growth
of road transport has been rapid, development of the highway network has not
kept pace with it. Heavy traffic volumes on roads with substandard geometry
and distressed pavements have resulted both in unacceptable levels of traffic
congestion and a heavy accident toll. The need for adequate highways is
urgent if growth of the total economy is not to be impeded.
iii.      The Government, however, is acutely aware of highway needs.  In
September 1976, the eight Republics and Autonomous Provinces reached a Social
Agreement for the construction/improvement of about 1230 km of the most
urgently needed main roads during the period 1976-80; the road sections
included in this proposed project are of the highest priority in that agreed
list of roads.
iv.       The proposed project would provide for road construction in three
Republics and one Autonomous Province. In two cases the capacity of the
existing highway would be doubled by adding a second carriageway: in another
case, to avoid the local congestion of ribbon-development, the first two-lane
carriageway of a later four-lane highway would be built on a new alignment
away from the existing road; and for the fourth section a new secondary high-
way would be built completing a link between two major centers, and opening
for development an area hitherto inaccessible by vehicle except for brief
periods of the year.
v.        Transport coordination has long been a concept which the Bank has
sought to promote in Yugoslavia. However, because of the devolution of
responsibility for decision-making in transport affairs from the Federal
Government to Republics and Provinces, still to continue further to Communes
and Enterprises, the goal of adequate inter-modal coordination would appear
to have become correspondingly more difficult to achieve. Despite the seeming
difficulties, a willingness has emerged for the Republican and Provincial
Authorities to meet to discuss matters of common interest. For highways, the
forum has been the Council of Republican and Provincial Road Organizations,
where matters such as highway design standards, common approaches to technical



- ii -
and economic studies are discussed and agreed. Up to the present the Council
has no executive authority and is advisory only, but its role is currently
being reviewed and it may emerge as a more authoritative body for country-wide
highway affairs. The Council has its counterparts in other transport modes.
To take advantage of this willingness to cooperate among the Republics and
Provinces the proposed project includes a Study of Road-User Charges by
consultants which would assist the authorities in reviewing present policies
and practical problems concerning the level of Road-User Charges, and their
distribution to meet road infrastructure costs. A similar Study on Rail Costs
is also included. These two studies could provide the basis for a road/rail
coordination policy. The proposed project also provides for technical assis-
tance to the Autonomous Province of Kosovo in the preparation of an integrated
highway development program. Such a program might well be the basis of a
future Bank highway sector loan to this economically less developed region
of Yugoslavia.
vi.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Association of Enter-
prises for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Serbia, the Republic Community
for Roads, Sarajevo, Bosnia-Herzegovina, the Socialist Republic of Macedonia,
and the Self-MIanaging Community of Interest for Arterial and Regional Roads of
the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo. Each Roads Organization would be
responsible for executing the construction of the project roads within its
jurisdiction; the Federal Committee for Transport will be responsible for co-
ordinating the execution of the road and rail studies by the Council of Road
Organizations and Community of Yugoslav Railways respectively and the Community
of Interest for Roads in Kosovo would be responsible for preparing the highway
development program for the Province. The respective Governments would give a
guarantee for the financing of total project costs including possible cost
overruns, while the Federal Government would guarantee the loan.
vii.      The Council of Republican and Provincial Road Organizations would
act as fiscal agent for the project and as coordinator in project matters to
the Bank.  Construction contracts based on unit prices would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement", among prequalified contractors. Prequalification procedures
according to Bank Guidelines for all the construction subprojects are expected
tc be completed by mid-April 1977.
viii.     The project was appraised during September 1976.  The beneficiaries
of the project would come from a wide range of sectors and income groups due
to the diversity of traffic using the highways. Savings in vehicle operating
costs would constitute 35% to 80% of the total benefits for different project
roads.
ix.       The economic benefits attributed to the project road improvements
take into account only savings in vehicle operating costs, passenger time
and road maintenance costs. The proposed investments on the road sections
would produce economic returns ranging from 15% to 62%. The weighted average
economic return of all civil works components, which account for 99.7% of
total project cost, is 23%.



- iii -
x.        Sensitivity tests were made on the assumption of a 15% increase
in construction costs combined with a 15% decrease in users' cost savings.
Even under these unfavorable assumptions, the economic returns would range
fromn 11% to 45%, with an overall economic return of 18%.
xi.       On the above basis and subject to the conditions of effectiveness,
the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$56.0 million
to the Road Organizations of Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo and the
Republic of Macedonia for a 15-year term including a grace period of 3 years.



APPRAISAL OF
Al EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has asked the Bank
to help finance a project comprising the construction of about 130 km of
main highway (about 80 km of which being two sections of Yugoslavia's Trans-
Yugoslav Highway) in the Republics of Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia,
and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, and studies by consultants of road-user
charges and rail costs in Yugoslavia, as well as technical assistance in the
preparation of a highway master plan for Kosovo. Construction of the project
road sections was proposed by the authorities as being of the highest priority
within their five-year highway plans. Feasibility studies for the project
roads were carried out by Yugoslav consulting firms and design institutes in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Highway Feasibility Studies", prepared by
consultants under the Bank's Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects. Final designs
of the project roads were carried out by the same agencies assisted by the
institutes for soil mechanics, geology and civil engineering.
1.02      The total project cost is estimated at US$179.0 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$56.0 million, the proposed loan amount.
1.03      This report has been prepared on the basis of information provided
by the Yugoslav authorities and their consultants, and on the findings of an
appraisal mission, comprising Messrs. R. Mulligan (Engineer), and M. Ganguli
(Economist), which visited Yugoslavia during September 1976.
TI. THE TRANiSPORT SECTOR
A. Effects of Geography and Economic Growth on Transport
2.01      Yugoslavia has an area of about 255,800 sq km.  Its population
of about 21 million is growing at a rate of O.9% per annum. The country's
topography has largely influenced the shape of the transport system. Major
national and international routes traverse in a northwest-southeast direction
avoiding the crossings of the rugged coastal and southern mountains. The
northern part of the country is better served than the southern part for
historical reasons.
2.02      Yugoslavia's location makes it an important crossroads of Europe.
The trunk routes and international connections are of special concern because
Yugoslavia has borders with seven countries. Traditionally, the Yugoslav
transport system has provided access to the sea for a number of central
European countries. Several international land connections, particularly



- 2 -
with Italy and Austria, have acquired special significance for foreign
tourism. The Trans-Yugoslav Highway (TYH) and railway corridor, spanning
Yugoslavia from its Italian and Austrian borders in the northwest to Bulgaria
and Greece in the southeast, is the shortest route linking Europe with the
Near and Middle East and has become a major transit route. This corridor
is the backbone of Yugoslavia's transport network and serves some of the
country's major areas of high industrial and commercial activity. Since early
1976, and as part of its normal transportation project and sector activities
in Yugoslavia, the Bank has been discussing the development of the TYH corridor
with the Government.
2.03      Yugoslavia's diversified economy has grown rapidly since World
War II. During the past decade, per capita income has grown by about 6% per
annum to reach about US$1,480 in 1975. Rising economic activity and per-
sonal incomes led to a rapid growth in transport requirements. Between 1964
and 1974, total freight traffic grew at about 9% per annum (Table 1) and
total passenger traffic by about 13% per annum (Table 2).
B. The Transport System
2.04      The transport system in Yugoslavia is well diversified.  At the
beginning of 1975, Yugoslavia had 98,372 km of roads, 10,300 km of rail lines,
7 main ports and 15 airports (10 of which handle international flights) and a
sizeable network of inland and coastal waterways. Pipelines have come into
increasing use in recent years.
2.05      The growth of traffic by different modes has been rather uneven.
Between 1964 and 1974 the freight traffic (ton-km) on railways increased by
about 2% per annum compared to an increase of about 18% per annum on highways.
The passenger traffic on railways declined by about 2% per annum during the
same period in contrast with an increase of about 21% per annum on highways.
As a result, road transport has gained in relative importance and has replaced
rail transport as the dominant carrier. River transport has retained an
important and competitive place, carrying about 9% of total freight traffic.
The ports have almost doubled their cargo handling since 1964 and currently
move about 21 million tons per annum (Table 3). Several port authorities are
contemplating extensive investments; at the Bank's insistence, a port survey
was included in an earlier Bank project to provide the framework for further
investment in the port sub-sector.
2.06      During the early 1960's transport facilities developed more slowly
than other sectors of the economy and accounted for only about 10-11% of total
investment, the lowest in Europe. Since then the position has improved some-
what, and transport accounts for about 16-18% of the total investments since
1970; but in view of the considerable gaps in the transport infrastructure,
the resources devoted to the sector appear to have been insufficient and much
still remains to be done. One of the most urgent needs at present facing the



transoort sector is modernization of railways, which has been delayed for lack
of funds.  In this context, Government support rmeasures should be paralleled
by improved utilization of railway capacity and extensive marketing and
promotional efforts. Also the capacity of some ports needs to be increased,
and many roads are still below standard for the traffic they carry and need
improvements to handle anticipated traffic efficiently and economically.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
2.07      There is as yet no overall clearly stated and well-defined transport
policy. However, the basic rationale for such a policy has been implicit in
the country's main economic principles; free choice by users and competition
in a market economy among autonomous transport enterprises. Recently, with a
view to creating the necessary conditions for integrated development of trans-
port, the Federation, the Republics and the Autonomous Provinces have mutually
agreed to establish a long-term transport policy for the country. Considerable
progress has been made in this direction, and the authorities are in the
process of negotiating social agreements on the various aspects of future
transport policy.
2.08      Decentralization of decision making, initially to Republics and
Provinces and as now envisaged, to Communes and Enterprises, resulted in a
large measure of autonomy being enjoyed by such transport agencies. This
extension of autonomy to the "grass-root" agencies and transport organizations
would increase the number of decision-making bodies, and make the country-wide
transport planning and co-ordination (especially between road and rail) more
difficult.
2.09      The Yugoslav authorities are acutely aware of the need for estab-
lishing a satisfactory institutional framework within which various trans-
port agencies and enterprises can collaborate effectively. The Bank played
a useful role in this context in:
(i) the establishment of the Federal Committee (originally
a Secretariat) for Transport and Communications;
(ii) the establishment of the Secretariats or Committees
for Transport in most Republics and Provinces;
(iii)  the establishment of the Council of Republican and
Provincial Roads Organization (CRO); and
(iv) strengthening the Community of Yugoslav Railways (CYR).
2.10      In the Yugoslav political system these institutions are essentially
advisory. With decision-making so decentralized, the main thrust for better
coordination must necessarily originate voluntarily from the various transport
enterprises and the Republics and Provinces. A tangible manifestation of



- 4 -
their willingness to work together is the formation of associations among
enterprises in the various sub-sectors which provide varying degrees of
coordination. For example, the CRO, established by the various road organiza-
tions in the Republics and Provinces in 1971, has been active in the nationwide
standardization of engineering and design criteria, data collection and other
technical matters. Under recent agreements the five inter-dependent railway
enterprises have delegated to CYR increased responsibilities for planning,
coordination, research and marketing. In addition to financing highway
projects of high priority, the Bank has tried to encourage the Yugoslavs to
develop the mechanisms for coordination. Progress in this direction has been
s-Low, partly because Government's political philosophies emphasize devolution
of authority and decentralization of decision-making to the Republics and
Provinces, with diminishing responsibilities of the Federal administration.
However, there is encouraging evidence of the willingness for cooperation -
one example in context is the joint approach of the concerned administrations
to solving the problems of the Trans-Yugoslav highway in a planned and logical
manner.
2.11      Further improvements are still needed, however; in its forthcoming
Social Agreement on Economic and Other Measures, the Government needs to
define its transport policies more precisely and delineate more clearly the
responsibilities of the Federal, Republican and Provincial governments and the
Communities of Interest in the transport sector, including possibly giving the
CRO a legal status with authority to play a more effective role in highway
matters. Fuel policies in relation to transport development should also be
clearly stated. The Government may well wish to balance the need for economic
development, in which transport plays a vital part, against its desire to
substitute other sources of energy for oil, of which transport is the prin-
cipal user. Also, to promote transport coordination more effectively, the
need is becoming increasingly pressing for studies on road user charges and on
railway costs to ascertain and eventually eliminate overt and hidden subsidies
or cross-subsidies. At present the Yugoslav railways are facing mounting
deficits which the administrations wish to meet from various subsidies, in-
cluding one on infrastructure costs. The justification claimed is that road
users, particularly the operators of heavy diesel trucks, do not pay their
full share of these costs. The Bank has no evidence that road users do not
pay their full share, but because diesel fuel is taxed much less (about half)
than gasoline, cross-subsidies may favor the operation of heavy diesel trucks -
the vehicles which cause most damage to the roads.
2.12      The proposed project includes as an important component, therefore,
a Study of Road-User Charges, brief details of which are given in Annex 1. A
Study of Rail Costs is also being included (brief details of which are given
in Annex 2). Both studies are expected to provide a firm basis for the
efficient and economic utilization and coordination of transport facilities;
their concurrent timing, however, is important if the transport coordination
issues are to be addressed effectively. The timing of completion of both
studies would permit the inclusion in a possible future Highway Project of



- 5 -
a comprehensive road/rail coordination study whose major input would be the
findings of the two modal studies. In addition, the proposed project provides
technical assistance to the Autonomous Province of Kosovo in the preparation
of a highway master plan with investment priorities ranked on economic cri-
teria. Brief details of the study scope are given in Annex 3.
2.13      In the past the Bank's main objectives in Yugoslavia's transport
sector have been the development of the basic infrastructure and the local
skills needed to operate the modal institutions. Under the Third and Fourth
Highway Loans the laws and decrees related to the highway subsector were
reviewed, the organizations for road maintenance and their operations were
overhauled and improved; traffic counting, which earlier had been rudimentary,
was carried out on a systematic and planned basis. Subsequent highway loans
provided technical assistance in the formulation of standardized guidelines
for the preparation of feasibility studies. The results of this technical
assistance are now abundantly evident in the high quality of project prep-
aration.
2.14      The thrust of future transport sector lending will be to consolidate
progress in institutional development and to foster inter-modal coordination.
The technical assistance under this proposed Eighth Highway Project to Kosovo
for the preparation of a highway master plan could well provide the stepping
stone to a new dimension in the Bank's lending to Yugoslavia by providing the
basis for a possible future sector loan in highways to that economically less
developed region.
D. Previous Projects
2.15      The project would be the fifteenth for the transport sector as
a whole and the eighth for highways. Total Bank lending for the transport
sector amounts to US$620.4 million, including US$220 million for seven high-
ways, US$108.4 million for two pipeline projects, US$248 million for four
railway projects and US$44 million for the Bar Port Project. Out of the
seven highway projects, four have been successfully completed so far, and
the remaining projects are well in hand. Government's execution of the
highway projects has been generally satisfactory. Brief details of all
transport projects are in Annex 4.
III. THE HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      At the beginning of 1975, Yugoslavia had about 98,400 km of roads,
of which about 35,400 km were paved. The rapid development of the paved net-
work began in the early 1960's when only about 9,000 km of paved roads were
open to traffic; since then the paved length has increased fourfold (Tables 4
and 5).



- 6 -
3.02       Ilowever, despite its rapid development in the last decade, the paved
network is still inadequate to meet the needs of traffic growth (2.05). Large
sections of the main highway arteries, particularly of the TYH, are heavily
congested and are in need of upgrading to provide greater capacity. Several
roads alreadv paved have foundations and other design features inadequate for
the traffic loads they carry. I4any gravel roads are carrying relatively high
volumes of traffic and are becoming inadequate for the needs of modern motor
traffic, necessitating their reconstruction to paved standards.
3.03       Thle highway network is divided into four administrative classes:
Class I roads connecting the Republics, Provinces or important commercial
and industrial centers; Class II roads interconnecting regions within
R1epublics or Provinces; Class III roads serving Communes within the regions;
and Class IV roads which are local roads (Table 4). The Federal Government
determines which roads in the network should be Class I roads; these in-
clude roads of the European network ("E" roads); the Republics and Provinces
are responsible for the construction and upkeep of the Class I network, but
themselves decide which roads should be included and maintained in the Class
[I and III network. The Comrnunes are responsible for the Class IV roads.
B. Traffic
3,04       Road transport has developed rapidly and the vehicle fleet has
g-rown from about 125,000 in 1958 to about 1,726,000 in 1974 (Table 6).
Between 1966 and 1974 the registration of passenger cars increased fivefold
and trucks and buses doubled. Hlost of the increase in the vehicle fleet was
supplied by domestic production. Private car ownership is steadily rising
as per capita incomes grow. The trucking industry is highly competitive.
Motorization in the different regions of the country, however, varies widely
in line with their state of development: Slovenia, the most developed has
seven inhabitants per car; Kosovo, the least developed, has about 100 in-
habitants per car.
C. Administration
3.05       Highway administration in Yugoslavia is decentralized and con-
centrated in the Republics and Provinces. The Federal Government's role is
restricted to general policy and regulatory matters such as regulations on
vehicle dimensions, axle loading and road safety aspects and the international
aspects of highway administration and road transport.
3.06       At the Republican and Provincial levels, responsibility for highway
administration lies with the Republican or Provincial Road Organizations. These
organizations are governed by "Boards" comprising relatively large numbers of
members of various interest groups such as transport companies, industrial



enterprises, agricultural cooperatives and professional and road user organi-
zations. The members elect Executive Boards which are responsible for day-
to-day administration and preparation of highway proposals, which are co-
ordinated through the planning system with the plans of other sectors and
need the approval of Republican or Provincial Governments. Purely local
roads are under the jurisdiction of the local communities whiich have special
departments. In cities, the City Planning Authorities are giving increasing
attention to urban transport impact with a view to rationalizing the use
of transport facilities.
3.07      Coordination among the Road Organizations is provided through the
Republican and Provincial Assemblies, the Federal Committee for Transport and
Communications and the CRO.
3.08      The organization of highway administration has changed repeatedly
during the postwar years. At present, for example, the physical planning and
administration of the road plans of Macedonia are handled by the Republican
Road Council, which replaced the Republican Road Fund about two years ago.
The Council is governed by a board of members and is headed by a Secretary
(Annex 5), aided by a professional staff of 22 engineers, 3 economists,
4 lawyers and various technicians. This organization is expected to evolve
further and to become an "Association for the Communities of Interest for
Roads." The Communities of Interest, it is understood, would further promote
increased citizen and user organization participation in the decision-making
process. It should be recognized, however, that the organization of the
highway sub-sector is complex, that the highway administration is still in a
period of transition as a result of the continuous decentralization process,
and no firm long-term plans on highway investment are as yet available.
Although these conditions are not entirely conducive to a sector-lending
approach by the Bank at this stage, technical assistance is being included
under the presently proposed project whereby the economically less developed
region of Kosovo would be helped to prepare a highway master plan which might
form the basis of a future Bank Sector Loan.
D. Planning
3.09      Five-Year Highway Plans are prepared by the Road Organizations,
coordinated with the plans for other sectors by the Republican or Provincial
Planning Organizations and approved by the Republican or Provincial Assemblies.
The new plans for 1976-80 are almost ready for finalization by the assemblies.
Inter-Republican roads are planned on the basis of agreements among the
respective Governments.
3.10      Although no problems have arisen in these connections in recent
projects, during loan negotiations assurances were obtained from the Borrowers
that they will continue to collect and record such technical economic and
financial data as shall be reasonable for the proper planning of the highway
network, and continue to ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles
using the roads shall not exceed the design limits of the roads.



- 8 -
3.11      Recently, a study has been initiated under the aegis of CRO to
assist the authorities in preparing Investment, Financing, and Action Plans
for improving the TYH. In this context, a Social Agreement has already been
reached amongst the Federation, Republics and Autonomous Provinces for the
development of the TYH as well as certain other major roads during 1976-80.
This Agreement also commits the Republics and Provinces to mobilize the
required resources, a demonstration that the mechanism for country-wide
planning, coordination and cooperation does exist.
E. Investment and Financing
:3.12     Overall highway expenditures for new construction and upgrading
in 1974 amounted to about 77% of total highway expenditures (US$315 million
equivalent), with the remaining 23% earmarked for highway maintenance (Table
7). Highway expenditures have increased steadily over the last decade (Table
3). However, inflation eroded a substantial portion of the increased outlay
and in real terms the highway expenditures did not keep pace with the rapid
growth of highway traffic (2.05).
3.13      The Federal Government's role in highway financing has been phasing
out since 1970, when it was decided that the Federation should cease its par-
ticipation and only carry out obligations under previous commitments. In
1974, the Federal Government's remaining contribution to highway financing
was only about 4% of the total expenditure. The main source for highway
financing is the revenue from taxes on gasoline and diesel oil, license fees
as well as the revenues from taxes paid by foreign motorists on entering
Yugoslavia. In 1974 these revenues yielded about Din 6.0 billion (US$0.33
billion); in the same year expenditures on construction and maintenance of
the highway system totalled Din 5.6 billion (US$0.31 billion). About 41% of
these revenues were earmarked in 1974 for highway maintenance and improvement.
These earmarked revenues provided about 44% of the total expenditures in 1974
for highway construction and maintenance (Table 9). The balance was made up
of IBRD and domestic loans (24%), the Fund for Less Developed Regions (4%),
contributions by the Federal Government (4%), contributions by the Republics,
Provinces, Communes (23%) and other sources (1%). Since the earmarked reve-
nues cover only about 44% of the total expenditures, the road development
plans of the Road Organizations depend heavily on budgetary allocations,
public loans, bank credits, and voluntary contributions of enterprises and
citizens.
3.14      Expenditures for highway maintenance in 1974 amounted to about
Din 27,900 (about US$1,550) per km for the highway network maintained by
the Republics and Provinces. The satisfactory standard of road maintenance
in Yugoslavia indicates that adequate amounts have been made available during
the last few years.



- 9 -
F. Engineering
3.15      Preinvestment studies of highway projects may be commissioned by
the Road Organizations from either local or foreign consulting firms and, in
general, are very satisfactorily executed.  The subsequent design of the proj-
ects and the supervision of their construction is usually performed, also very
satisfactorily, by the Road Organizations who may enlist the support of com-
petent Yugoslav consulting engineers and technical institutes.
G. Construction
3.16      Road construction and improvement is normally executed by means
of unit-price contracts. As a rule, participation in bidding for locally
financed projects is limited to the domestic contracting industry, which is
capable, highly competitive, and sufficiently aggressive to have won several
contract awards outside Yugoslavia. Bidding for Bank-financed projects,
however, is subject to international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement"; such bidding for past highway proj-
ects, however, has resulted in the participation as a joint-venture partner of
one foreign contractor only, an indication of the competitive edge the local
industry has on its own ground. Quality of construction work is generally of
a high standard.
H1. Maintenance
3.17      Road maintenance is carried out on the basis of yearly contracts
negotiated between the Road Maintenance Enterprises and the Road Organiza-
tions. The Maintenance Enterprises are deployed widely in each Republic or
Province, enabling prompt and effective maintenance to be carried out. The
standard of road maintenance is satisfactory (3.14). However, during loan
negotiations assurances were obtained from each of the Borrowers that it
will continue to ensure that all roads falling within its jurisdiction will
be adequately maintained in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices, and that funds, facilities, services and other resources required
therefore will be provided promptly, as needed.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The  burgeoning growth of Yugoslavia's motor vehicle fleet in recent
years has brought into sharp relief the inadequacies of the highway network
in general. The worst effects, however, are evidenced in the primary system.



- 10 -
Some of the many highway sections where design standards are deficient are now
carrying such heavy traffic volumes that serious congestion results and the
accident toll is heavy. The proposed project addresses this core problem by
the selection for construction of three road sections where the traffic pro-
bLems are presently identified as being the most vexing.
4.02      The needs of the secondary and rural road networks are also impor-
tant, but are not of the same urgency or magnitude as those of the primary
system. However, the construction of one secondary road selected for in-
clusion in the proposed project would solve some pressing sccial problems and
provide a catalyst for development within its zone of influence as well as
affording sizeable distance savings for through traffic. For these reasons,
its construction would generate large tangible and many intangible benefits,
despite comparatively low forecast traffic volumes.
4.03      As a significant step towards achieving inter-modal transport
coordination the proposed project includes a Study of Road-User Costs by
consultants. The results of this Study should assist the authorities in re-
viewing the policies and the practical problems concerning the levying and
the level of road-user charges and their allocation to meet the costs of road
infrastructure. Concurrently with the foregoing study, the proposed project
also includes a Study of Rail Costs. Both studies are complementary and their
findings will form a basis for developing a national policy framework for the
major transport modes.
4.04      The provision of technical assistance to Kosovo will help this
economically less developed region prepare a highway master plan which would
not only define clearly the development objectives of the Province ranked
on the basis of economic criteria, but might also serve as the possible
vehicle for a future Bank sector loan in highways to the Province.
B. Description
4.05      The project comprises:
(a) the construction of the following highway sections, identified
in the 1976-80 Development Plan as having the highest priority
in the respective Republics and Provinces (Map IBRD 1082R1):
(i)  in the Republic of Serbia, two additional traffic lanes
to, and the reconstruction of the existing two-lane
limited access highway from Mali Pozarevac to Ralja
(28 km);
(ii)  in the Repubic of Macedonia two additional traffic
lanes to the limited access main highway between
Kumanovo and Titov Veles including a bypass of
Skopje city (52.7 km);



- 11 -
(iii)  in the Autonomous Province of Kosovo and for a short
distance in the Republic of Serbia, a new two-lane
paved road along the approximate alignment of an old
earth road between Pristina, Makovac and Petrilja on
the Pristina-Leskovac route (40.0 km); and
(iv)  in the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, two-lanes as
the first phase of an ultimate four-lane divided
highway with limited access between Banja Luka and
Klasnice (9.3 km).
(b) studies by consultants of:
(i)   Road-User Charges in Yugoslavia;
(ii)   Rail Costs in Yugoslavia; and
(iii)   the highway sector in Kosovo leading to
the preparation of a highway master plan.
Road Construction
4.06      Brief descriptions of the project road sections follow.  For
detailed descriptions of the project roads, see Annex 6.
Serbia: Mali Pozarevac-Ralja Road
4.07      This road section was previously proposed for financing under the
Seventh Highway Project, but was withdrawn from the project because its con-
struction could not be accommodated within the loan amount. As well as being
an important section of Yugoslavia's primary road network it is part of the
TYH. The road is heavily congested and the addition of two new traffic lanes
is urgently needed. The existing two-lane pavement is distressed and in poor
condition; provision for its reconstruction is therefore included in the
proposed project.
Macedonia: Kumanovo-Titov Veles road
4.08      Like the Mali Pozarevac to Ralja highway in Serbia, this road
section is also part of the TYH. Unlike the Serbian road section, however,
the existing two-lane limited access highway is in reasonably good condition
except in a few places where there are pavement failures. To provide addi-
tional capacity for present traffic and projected traffic growth, the proposed
project provides for the construction of two additional traffic lanes and a
bypass of Skopje city; the project also includes limited rehabilitation works
on the existing road to correct pavement failures.
Kosovo and Serbia: Pristina-Leskovac Road
4.09      Of this 102 km secondary route, about 62 km are paved, the remain-
ing 40 km (mainly in Kosovo, but with a short section in Serbia) from Pristina



- 12 -
to Makovac (10 km from Pristina) to Petrilja are gravel/earth in very poor
condition. Barely passable in dry weather, the road is impracticable for
slotor vehicles for much of the year.  The proposed project provides for the
construction to two-lane paved standards of the unpaved 40 km, on substan-
tially the same general alignment as the old road.
4.10      About 17 km north of Pristina, on the main road to Belgrade,
another gravel/earth road links to the project road at Tulare.  Similar
to the 40 km section proposed for construction under the project, this road
is also in poor condition, and few vehicles use it. However, if it were
improved, it would provide an alternative link between Pristina and Leskovac
some 14 km longer than the proposed project road. There is insufficient
traffic to warrant construction of both roads. Therefore, to preserve the
benefits deriving from the proposed project road construction, the Provincial
Covernment concerned should defer substantial improvement to the other route
until such time as the investment would be clearly justified economically.
During loan negotiations, the Borrower's agreement was obtained to such a
proposal.
Bosnia-Herzegovina: Banja Luka-Klasnice Road
4.11      The road from Okucani on the TYH to Banja Luka and onwards to Vakuf,
Jablanica and the Adriatic is one of Yugoslavia's principal north/south routes
as well as one of the principal accesses from the north to the Republic of
Bosnia-Herzegovina. The link between Banja Luka and Okucani is already carry-
ing a near capacity traffic load, but the Banja Luka-Klasnice section proposed
for construction under this project is the most congested, a situation exacer-
bated by ribbon-development and slow moving local traffic. Accordingly, the
project provides for a new limited access two-lane highway from Banja Luka
to Okucani on a new alignment to the west of the existing road. The existing
road will then cater mainly to local traffic. The authorities intend control-
ling land development along the new route so that the problems of the existing
road are not repeated. Assurances to this effect were obtained from the
Borrower during loan negotiations.
Road-User Charge Study
4.12      The proposed project includes a Road-User Charge Study to be under-
taken by consultants. The Study would examine the fiscal, economic and admin-
istrative aspects of the present system of levying road-user charges, taxing
vehicles, and allocating resources to the highway sub-sector in Yugoslavia,
make recommendations concerning appropriate pricing policies and systems for
levying road-user charges to achieve an optimal economic utilization of present
and proposed road facilities (Annex 1).
Rail Costs Study
4.13      The proposed Rail Costs Study would establish a cost-accounting
system and recommend steps needed to determine the costs of providing all
railway services, broken down into principal commodity flows and inter-city



-13 -
and commuter passenger services. The system recommended would provide rail-
way management with the data needed to analyze on a continuing basis the
relationships between tariffs and costs and cost control. The Study would
be carried out in two phases (Annex 2).
Technical Assistance
4.14      The proposed project also provides technical assistance to the
Autonomous Province of Kosovo in the preparation of a highway master plan
for that province (Annex 3). The study would provide a detailed investment
program for the period 1978-80, with proposed projects ranked according to
economic criteria, and an outline investment program for the period 1981-85.
4.15      There is adequate expertise available locally to execute much of
the work needed for the foregoing three studies. However, so that particular
expertise may be called on for certain specialist tasks, the project provides
for about 40 man-months of consultants' services.
C. Engineering
4.16      Engineering, according to the design standards of Table 10, which
are satisfactory, has been carried out by competent Yugoslav engineering
consulting firms and by 'institutes for geology, soil mechanics and civil
engineering.



- 14 -
D. COST ESTIMATES
4.17      The estimated costs of the project are as follows:
Estimated Costs -
Dinar (Million)                       US$ (Million)             Foreign
Project Component                Local       Foreign       Total        Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange
I.  Road Construction
(a)  Serbia
Mali Pozarevac-Ralja (28 km)         5T6.59        260.81      787.40        29.26       14.49       43.75       33.1
(b)  Macedonia
Kumanovo-Titov Veles (52.7 km)       704.27       284.21       988.48        39.13       15.79       54.92       28.8
(c)  Bosnia-Herzegovina
Banja Luka-Klasnice (9.5 km)         154.70         85.14     239.84          8.60        4.73       13.33       35.5
(d)  Kosovo
Pristina-Leskovac (40 km)            108.09        51.80      159.89          6.00        2.88        8.88       32.4
Total for Construction             1,493.65       681.96   2,175.61          82.99       37.89      120.88       31.3
Contingencies:
Physical 10%                       149.37        68.19      217.56          8.30        3.79       12.09
Escalation      2                  559.70       252.81      812.51         31.11       14.04       45.15
Total I                          2,202.72    1,002.96   3,205.68         122.40        55.72      178.12
II.  Consultants' Services to Provide:
(a)  A study of road-user charges3/          1.00         2.20        3.20         0.06        0.12        0.18        67
(b)  A study of rail costs  4/               0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0
(c)  Technical assistance in       3/
highway planning for Kosovo -          1.00          2.20        3.20         0.06        0.13        0.19        67
Total                                   2.00         4.40        6.40         0.12        0.25        0.37        67
Contingencies (10%)                    0.20         0.44         0.64         0.01        0.03        0.04        67
Total II (with contingencies)          2.20          4.84        7.04         0.13        0.28        0.41        67
Totals I and II (excluding              1,495.65        686.36   2,182.01         83.11       38.14      121.25       31.5
contingencies)
Contingencies:
Physical                                149.37         68.19      217.56         8.30        3.79       12.09
Escalation                               559.90       253.25      813.15        31.12       14.07       45.19
Totals I and II (with contingencies)  2,204.92    1,007.80   3,212.72            122.53       56.00      178.53
Tot:als (Rounded)                       2,205.00    1,010.00   3,215.00          123.00       56.00      179.00       31.3
1/ Excluldes costs of land acquisition, final design and supervision of construction which are met in toto by
Government, but includes approximately 12% taxes.
2/ Construction cost estimates are as of July 1, 1976. Escalation, assumed at 13% for 1976 and 12% for years
1977--79, is the same for both local and foreign costs.  In line with construction periods shown in Annex7 , price
escaLation for Serbia is 33%, for Macedonia 42%, for Bosnia 38%, and for Kosovo 29%.
3! Loca:L costs of foreign consultants only are included.
4/ Study will be financed by Yugoslavia but will remain part of the Project.
During loan negotiations, the project cost estimates were discussed and confirmed with the Borrowers.



- 15 -
4.18      Construction cost estimates are based on quantities from the final
design and on unit rates; the costs of consulting services are based on the
estimated number of man-months required at US$6,000/man-month, which include
all overheads.
4.19      A 10% physical contingency has been included to allow for unforeseen
quantity increases in the road construction works. Price escalation for con-
struction costs has been calculated using annual rates of 13% for 1976 and 12%
for 1977-79, and has been assumed the same for both local and foreign costs.
The price escalation of consulting services has been calculated using a factor
of 10% for both foreign and local costs.
4.20      The fcreign exchange component is estimated at US$56.0 million,
based on the assumption that, as in the past, local contractors will win the
awards of construction contracts after international competitive bidding.
E. Financing
4.21      The proposed loan of US$56.0 million corresponds to the foreign
exchange component of the project (31.3% of total costs); local costs amount-
ing to US$123.0 million will be borne by the Republics of Serbia, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia, the Autonomous Province of Kosovo. A condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan would be that the Republics of Serbia,
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo and the
Commune of Pristina will have adopted the legal authority authorizing the
construction of their respective road sections.
4.22      For the construction components of the proposed project, the loan
would be made to the Association of Enterprises for Roads of the Socialist
Republic of Serbia, the Republic Community for Roads, Sarajevo, the Socialist
Republic of Macedonia, and the Self-Managing Community of Interest for Arterial
and Regional Roads of the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo. A condition
of effectiveness would be that the Governments of the participating Republics
and of the Autonomous Province of Kosovo will have approved a guarantee to
cover the financing of their respective sections of the project roads, in-
cluding possible cost overruns. Although the concerned Road Organizations
and the Republic of Mlacedonia will be the Borrowers for the Road-User Charge
Study, during loan negotiations it was agreed that the Government of Yugoslavia
would meet the full costs of the Rail Costs Study, which remains part of the
project. The Self-Managing Community of Interest for Roads of Kosovo will be
the Borrower for the Highway Master Plan of that province.
4.23      Although they have not indicated their intention of so doing,
Serbia and Macedonia may wish to operate their respective highway sections
as toll roads, as some Republics have done for road sections financed under
the Third, Fifth and possibly Seventh Highway Projects. It was agreed under
those earlier projects that if they were to be imposed, tolls would be
applied flexibly and at such levels as not to divert an unduly large portion



- 16 -
of through traffic to the alternative toll-free facilities or means of trans-
portation. The Performance Audit Report (No. 1385) of December 10, 1976,
dealing with the Third Highway Project (Loan 608-YU) in Yugoslavia also
cautions against setting tolls at such a high level as to discourage potential
traffic. During loan negotiations the Borrowers agreed to the same principle
applying to the highway sections financed under the proposed project.
4.24      The Road Organizations of the four Borrowers have all participated
satisfactorily in earlier Bank highway projects. Each entity executes effi-
ciently its annual work programs approved by its Republican or Provincial
Assembly.
F. Implementation
Responsibility for Implementation and Supervision
4.25      The Road Organizations of the three participating Republics and
the Autonomous Province of Kosovo would be responsible for executing their
respective construction works. In the case of the Pristina-Leskovac road,
part of which falls in Serbia, the Community of Interest for Roads for Kosovo
would be the executing agency for the project road in its entirety. This
organization would also administer the construction work within the Commune
of Pristina on behalf of that authority. The concerned Republican and Pro-
vincial Governments' agreement to these arrangements has been notified to
the Bank, but their formal agreement to this effect would be a Condition of
Effectiveness of the proposed loan. As for previous highway projects where
these arrangements worked satisfactorily, supervision of the construction work
would be effected by the Road Organizations themselves assisted by the Yugoslav
consulting engineers and technical institutes which designed the project roads.
As was the case in the Seventh Highway Project, the CRO would again act as
fiscal agent for the project, coordinator of disbursement requests on the
Bank, and act as liaison agent between the Republics, Provinces and the Bank
on project-related matters. A condition of Loan effectiveness would be that
the concerned Republics and Province will have delegated authority to CRO to
undertake these obligations.
4.26      The Federal Committee for Transport and Communications would be
responsible for coordinating the execution of the Road-User Charge and the
Rail Cost Studies by CRO and CYR respectively (4.22).  The Community of
Interest for Roads of Kosovo would be responsible for executing the Highway
Master Plan for that Province.
Procurement
4.27      Construction contracts based on unit prices would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement." Contracts would be of such a size as to permit maximum
participation of the local industry, allowing firms to bid for one or more



- 17 -
sections up to their prequalified capacity.  Contractors would be prequali-
fied for the works and prequalification procedures began in February 1977.
Bids for the contracts would be invited in April 1977 leading to contract
awards to the lowest evaluated bidders in June/July 1977. Contracts will
include satisfactory price escalation clauses.
Right-of-Way Acquisition
4.28      The concerned Republican and Provincial Governments are at present
acquiring the land needed to build the project roads. On some earlier projects
land acquisition problems have delayed implementation; on others the problems
have been sufficiently serious to necessitate realignments of the project
roads. Although no major difficulties are foreseen for the proposed project,
assurances were obtained from the Borrowers during loan negotiations that they
will make available all right-of-way as needed for the timely implementation
of the project.
4.29      Proposals from suitably qualified consulting firms acceptable to
the Bank according to conditions and Terms of Reference satisfactory to the
Bank would be invited and contracts signed before September 30, 1977, for the
execution of the Road-User Charge and Rail Costs Studies and for the prepara-
tion of the Kosovo Highway Master Plan. Assurances were obtained from the
Borrowers that they will invite proposals for the Studies from suitably
qualified consultants, and discuss and agree their evaluations and proposals
for contract award with the Bank before awarding the contracts for the Studies.
No later than June 30, 1979, they will discuss and agree with the Bank on
implementation of the findings of these Studies.
Project Implementation Schedule
4.30      The construction contracts in Kosovo should be completed in early
1979, in Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina in late 1979, and in Macedonia in late
1980. The Road-User Charge Study should be completed towards the end of 1978,
the Highway M4aster Plan for Kosovo about mid-1978, and the Rail Costs Study
about mid-1979. The Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 7) was discussed
and confirmed with Government at loan negotiations.
G. Disbursements
4.31      The proceeds of the loan would finance the foreign exchange compo-
nent of project costs amounting to 33% of the works in Serbia, 29% of the
works in Macedonia, 32% of the works in Kosovo and 36% of the works in Bosnia-
Herzegovina as well as the foreign exchange costs of the Road-User Charge
Study and the technical assistance to Kosovo. During negotiations it was
confirmed that the Government of Yugoslavia would bear all costs, including
the limited foreign exchange required, for the Rail Cost Study.
4.32      Based on the loan becoming effective by July 1977 a schedule of
cumulative disbursements has been estimated and is shown at Annex 8. This
schedule was discussed and confirmed with the Government during loan nego-
tiations.



- 18 -
H. Environmental Impact
4. 33     The addition under the project of two new traffic lanes to the
existing roads in Serbia and Macedonia will entail only minimal disturbance
to land-holders as there is little habitation along either existing road. To
the extent that traffic congestion on these two sections is obviated, reduc-
tion in air pollution will result. Where the project roads in Macedonia and
Bosnia-Herzegovina offer alternative routes to passing through the city areas
of Skopje and Banja Luka to through traffic, the urban environments of these
centres will be enhanced by the diversion of this mainly heavy traffic. Vil-
lages along the central portion of the Pristina-Leskovac route, isolated for
much of the year, will benefit from an improved social environment when the
road is made all-weather.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUTION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      The proposed project works in the Republics of Macedonia, Serbia
and Bosnia-Herzegovina would provide additional capacity required to accom-
modate current and expected increases in traffic and thereby support the
further economic development and integration of the regions they serve. The
project section in Kosovo would provide a direct all-weather paved road
connection between Pristina and Leskovac, two important commercial, adminis-
trative and population centers in Kosovo and Serbia respectively; it would
also open up some areas along the road which are now isolated for much of
the year.
5.02      The principal direct beneficiaries would be road users; they come
from a wide range of sectors and income groups due to the diversity of the
traffic using the highways. Because of their interregional character, the
roads will benefit long distance as well as local traffic0 The beneficiaries
will also include foreigners such as international truckers and tourists,
stimulating the foreign exchange earning potential for the country as a whole.
The important commodities that would be affected by the improved roads are raw
arLd processed agricultural goods, construction materials, wood and wood prod-
ucts, fuels, chemicals and other manufactured goods. Because the transport
enterprises are highly competitive and generally well-managed, it is expected
that reductions in transport costs accruing to truckers and other transport
intermediaries would be passed on gradually to producers and consumers.
5.03      The studies on Road User Charges and Rail Costs under the proposed
project would assist the Government to clarify important transport policy
issues (Annexes 1 and 2).  The technical assistance in the preparation of a
highway master plan for Kosovo would provide the provincial Government with
the framework of a highway development program with priorities ranked accord-
ing to economic criteria.



- 19 -
B. Economic Evaluation
General
5.04      The conditions and characteristics of the existing project road
sections are described in Annex 6. Table 11 indicates present and fore-
casted traffic on each of the project sections. The traffic projections
are based on past traffic trends, recent origin and destination studies,
projections of total production of goods and services and growth of per
capita income in the zones of influence. The forecasts take into account
normal traffic growth and, wherever appropriate, the additional traffic
generated by the proposed project works. Forecast traffic growth on the
various project sections ranges from about 3% to 10% per annum, except in
the case of the road section in Kosovo. These growth rates are conservative
when compared with the trends for the same roads from 1965 to 1975, which
fluctuated around 15% per annum. The earlier high growth rate reflects the
rapid development of road transport following a more liberal transport policy
in the sixties. Up till then Government had emphasized railways as the
principal transport mode; now, however Government policy favors the develop-
ment of all modes of transport, a climate in which road transport was given
a great initial spurt. However, road transport is expected to grow more
slowly in the future since it appears that a levelling of freight and pas-
senger transport among the competing modes is expected in the next few years.
Traffic on the road section in Kosovo is estimated to grow initially about 17%
per annum; for the period 1980-2000, the growth rate is estimated to decline
to about 4-9% per annum. Iligher growth rate at the initial stage is expected
mainly because of the low level of motorization in the influence area, reason-
able prospects of generated traffic in agricultural and forest produce and
diversion of ore concentrates from highly circuitous road-cum-rail route to
a much shorter all road route from Lece mines to MIitrovica.
5.05      The quantified economic benefits attributed to the project road
sections consist of savings in vehicle operating costs, passenger time, and
road maintenance costs. To take overhead costs into account, time savings
were valued at 1.1 times average hourly wage rate of travellers in the in-
fluence area for journeys made for business purposes. Since the value of
time savings for non-business trips are difficult to establish firmly, they
were estimated at one-fourth of average wage rates. Benefits due to increased
comfort, convenience and safety have not been considered.
5.06      Savings in transport costs, excluding passenger time savings,
account for more than 80% of the total benefits for the road section in
Kosovo, and about 35% to 70% in the case of the arterial routes included in
the project. The expected unit savings in vehicle operating costs in the
opening year of the project roads range between 7-20% for passenger cars and
between 6-24% for trucks and truck-trailers (Table 12 ). Savings in transport
costs accruing to foreign tourists and foreign truckers have been included as
benefits on the grounds that they can be regarded as a stimulus of at least
equal value for tourism or the Yugoslav economy in general. However, of all
the heavy vehicles using the TYH, only about 4% were foreign, and less than
half of these were in transit.



- 20 -
5.07      In selecting the proposed investments, several alternative solu-
tions were evaluated such as improving or reconstructing the existing road,
constructing a new one, construction of the ultimate four lanes by stages
and the stage construction of pavements, etc. For each project section, the
most economical solution has been adopted.
5.08      Two highway sections included in the proposed project parallel rail-
way lines. Because these sections are relatively short, their improvement
is not expected to divert any significant volume of traffic from the railways
which carry mainly long-distance bulk cargo and passenger traffic.
5.09      Based on the most probable estimates of construction costs, vehicle
operating costs, time costs, base-year traffic and traffic growth, the pro-
posed investments on the project road sections produce economic returns
(E.R.'s) ranging from 15% to 62% (Table 13). ER's are evaluated at domestic
prices excluding taxes. Shadow price adjustments for foreign exchange, labor,
etc. do not change the results by more than 0.5%. All sections would yield
first-year benefits of 10% or more on the proposed investment. The weighted
average ER of all the civil works components, which account for 99.7% of total
project cost is 23%; this aggregate rate of return excludes the three study
components for which no meaningful ER could be estimated. The above economic
returns understate the full economic benefits of the project by excluding
reductions in accidents and greater comfort and convenience of travelling on
thle new and improved roads. To test the effects of possible variations in the
above estimates, sensitivity tests were made on the assumption that construc-
tion costs would increase by 15% combined with a 15% decrease in users' cost
saivings and alternatively with the same decrease in construction costs combined
w-ith the same increase in users' cost savings. Even under the above unfavor-
able assumptions, the ERs would still range from 11% to 45% and all proposed
sections would therefore remain acceptable.
Mali-Pozarevac-Ralja Section (S.R. Serbia)
5.10      In 1975 average daily traffic (ADT) was about 11,000; about 30% of
which was heavy commercial vehicles. Under existing road conditions, the high
proportion of heavy commercial vehicles acts as a great impediment to the
smooth flow of traffic, lowers the operating speed and increases traffic
hazards (4.07 and Annex 6). Traffic is further expected to grow between 3-9%
per annum over a 25-year period, compared to an annual growth rate of 13-15%
between 1965-75. Upgrading of the existing two-lane road to divided four-lane
slandard would increase the capacity of the road considerably and savings in
combined vehicle operating costs and time costs are conservatively estimated
to yield an ER of about 24%.
Kumanovo-Titov Veles Section (S.R. Macedonia)
5.11      On the average, about 7,000 vehicles per day were operating on this
section in 1975.   About 30% of this traffic consisted of heavy trucks, truck
trailers and buses. Traffic is expected to grow between 4-10% per annum over
a 25-year period compared to an annual growth rate of about 12-15% between



- 21 -
1965-75. The existing facility is badly congested and inadequate to handle
the traffic volumes present and future. The project provides for an additional
two-lane carriageway and a bypass of Skopje city (4.08).
5.12      Savings in vehicle operating costs account for 70% of the total
benefits. The Skopje bypass would enable through traffic, estimated at about
40-50% of total traffic on the road, to avoid the congested city center.
Moreover, it would also reduce the journey distance by about 17 km. As a
result, the construction of the bypass section shows a high E.R., approximately
40% for the first year.
5.13      For the economic evaluation the subproject was divided into four
subsections. E.R.s range between 16-62% for the different subsections and
the entire subproject yields a satisfactory E.R. of about 22%.
Pristina-Leskovac Highway (S.A.P. Kosovo and S.R. Serbia)
Hfakovac-Lisica-Petrilja Section
5.14      The improvement/reconstruction of this road would provide an all-
weather route and shorten by about 70 km the average journey between Pristina
and Leskovac. Recent origin and destination studies indicate that more than
200 vehicles per day, representing through traffic only, would have used the
new highway in 1975 if it had been built.
5.15      Government's effort to develop this backward and isolated area is
impeded due to lack of suitable communications. The new link would help to
provide necessary medical, educational and other essential facilities in this
remote area and would open up other possibilities for the future. Savings in
vehicle operating costs, due mainly to the distance shortening for through
traffic, are estimated to yield an ER of about 25%, amply justifying the
proposed investment.
5.16      As an alternative to the first section of the project road, it
would also be possible to improve an existing earth/gravel road, about 17 km
to the north. However, this alternative would lengthen the journey distance
between Pristina and Leskovac by about 14 km and would have much less devel-
opmental impact than the project road. The latter is therefore a much better
solution (4.09 and 4.10).
Banja Luka-Klasnice Section (S.R. Bosnia-Herzegovina)
5.17      Traffic volume in 1975 was about 7,500 vehicles per day, of which
about 27% were trucks. The proposed construction of a two-lane road along a
new alignment would relieve the existing highway of all through traffic and
make it available primarily for local traffic, pedestrian and slow-moving
vehicles (4.11). The resulting savings from reduced road users' cost alone
would yield an acceptable ER of about 15%.



- 22 -
C. Other Project Elements
5.18      Benefits were not quantified for the Studies on Road-User Charges
and Rail Costs and for the technical assistance to Kosovo. However, these
components are considered essential since they would assist the authorities
in reviewing the policies and practical problems concerning the level and
distribution of payments for transport infrastructure costs, and also in
preparing a need-based integrated highway program in the economically less
developed region of Kosovo.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following princi-
paL issues:
(i) the CRO would act as fiscal agent for the project and act
as coordinator in matters relating to the Bank (4.25); and
(ii) if any tolls would be introduced in the future on any of the
project highways, such tolls would be set at rates that would
ensure an economic use of such highways and alternative routes
or means of transportation (4.23).
6.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that the Borrowers:
(a) will have adopted the legal authority authorizing construction
of the respective road sections (4.21); and have given a gua-
rantee covering the financing of such road sections, including
possible cost overruns (para. 4.22); and
(b) would have delegated authority to the Council of Road
Organizations to act as fiscal agent for the project,
as coordinator of disbursement requests to the Bank and
as liaison agent between the Government and the Bank on
project-related matters, including the study on Road-User
Charges (para. 4.25).
6.03      With the assurances indicated above, the project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$56.0 million to the road organizations of Serbia,
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kosovo and the Republic of Macedonia for a 15-year term
including a 3-year grace period.
February 1977



TABLE 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Freight Traffic by Mode of Transport, 1958-74
(billion m. ton-km)
Maritime                    Road
Inland                   Trucking        Own 1/
Year    Total    Railwpay   Waterway    Coastal    Enterprises   Account
1958     16.3      13.0         1.5          0.3            0.6          0.9
1959      17.8      13.9        1.6          0.5            0.8          1.0
1960      20.5      15.2        2.0          0.4            1.0          1.9
1961      21.0     14.9         2.1          0.4            1.4          2.2
1962      21.6      15.0        2.2          0.4            1.6          2.4
1963      25.5     17.3         2.6          0.4            2.0          3.2
1964      28.6      18.3        3.1          0.4            2.4          4.4
1965     30.4      18.0         3.3          0.4            3.1          5.6
1966      32.0      17.5        3.9          0.3            3.6          6.7
1967      31.9      16.4        3.9          0.2            4.0          7.4
1968      35.2      16.4        4.3          0.7            4.8          9.0
1969      35.9     17.7         3.4          0.2            5.6          9.0
1970     41.5      19.3         4.4          0.3            6.7         10.8
1971     43.7      19.7         4.2          0.3            7.3         12.2
1972     48.9       19.2        4.6          0.4            8.1         16.6
1973     35.6       20.4        4.9          0.4            8.5         21.3
1974      64.6      23.1        5.5          0.4            9.8         25.8
Average Distance (kmi)
1965                 241        359          283             84           17
1966                 244        364          199             91           18
1967                 238        358          147             98           20
1968                 239        347          362            110           22
1969                 252        256          118             98           18
1970                 255        280          151            114           18
1971                 259        249          144            102           17
1972                 265        255          263            110           23
1973                 274        262          189            116           23
1974                 283        283          190            122           23
1/  Excluding freight carried by vehicles owned by private individuals
Source: Federal Bureau of Statistics
February 1977



TABLE 2
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Passenger Traffic by Mode of Tranp       1
(millions of passenger km)
Road
Passenger       Airway       Maritime         Inland
Year      Railway        Bus I'         Car 2/      Domestic        Coastal       Waterway        Total
1958       8,877        1,760           679            60             359            30          11,765
1959       9,250        2,231           936            82             352            26          12,877
1960      10,449        2,826         1,300           114             370            27          15,086
1961      10,089        3,139         1,812           136             361            23          15,560
1962       9,908        3,315         2,350           165             348            21          16,107
1963      10,673        3,876         2,700           267             304            16          17,836
1964      12,308        4,843         3,403           366             241            18          21,179
1965      12,800        6,025         4,507           480             215            16          24,043
1966      12,196        7,986         6 079           537             194            15          27,007
1967      10,753        9,599         9:111 3/        532             119             8          30,122
1968      10,284       10,686        11,261           620             165             9          33,025
1969      10,470       12,547        14,400           890             182            12          38,501
1970      10,939       14,143        18,452         1,305             190            11          45,040
1971      10,566       16,691        22,407         2,000             228             6          51,898
1972      10,571       18,422        25,587         2,505             207            10         57,302
1973      10,571       21,146        27,580        3,192              210            11         62,710
1974      10,429       23,379       31,848         3,453              176            13         69,298
Average Distance (km)
1965          54           28          n.a.           757              44            43
1966          57           27          n.a.           907              50            46
1967          55           26          n.a.           833              36            37
[968          56           25          n.a.           835              47           168
:1969         59           26          n.a.           832              48           215
:L970         69           26          n.a.           859              48           208
1L971         72           27          n.a.           954              43           186
]972          75           27          n.a.         1,037              37           167
1973          77           28          n.a.         1,040              34           200
1974          77           28          n.a.         1,041              29           209
1/  For buses interurban public services only
2/  Estimates for 1958-1966 based on assumption that each passenger car travelled about 9,600 km annually
with an average occupancy rate of 2.5 persons per car
3/  Estimates for 1967-1974 based on assumption that each passenger car travelled about 12,800 ki
annually with an average occupancy rate of 2.0 persons per car
n.a. (not available)
Source:  Federal Bureau of Statistics:  Statistical Bulletins 1958-1974 and mission estimates for
passenger cars
Febriary 1977



TABLE 3
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Cargo Handled by the Main Ports, 1958-74
(thousand m tons)
Year     Rijeka      Sibenik      Split      Ploce      Dubrovnik      Koper      Bar
1958     3,817         742        1,485       525          249           30        32
1959     3,965         875        1,873       429          321           48        21
1960     4,055         724        1,689       487          381          106        23
1961     4,057         762        1,729       572          460          161        35
1962     4,645         960        1,960       632          440          252        56
1963     5,943         937        2,401       645          504          609        79
1964     5,841         941        2,330       730          571          658       131
1965     6,205         960        2,015       758          568          762       223
1966     8,386       1,039        2,107       797          388          750       441
1967     7,966         680        1,626    1,017           315          813       632
1968     8,438         560        1,527    1,165           247        1,100       587
1969     7,925         651        1,336    1,144           245        1,805       654
1970    10,349         669        1,506    1,543           344        1,946       625
1971    10,740         645        1,758    2,183           358        1,909       753
1972     9,941         700        1,632    2,025           332        1,790       851
1973    10,483         897        2,516    2,476           246        1,862       780
1974    12,663         931        2,040    2,452           314        1,996       791
Source: Federal Bureau of Statistics
February 1977



APPRAI S Al OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Public Roads in the Six Republics and Two Autonomous Provinces 1974 -
(km)
Republics                                  Autonomous Provinces               Total 2/
Type of    Road       Bosnia and                                                                                              Republics &
Surface    Class    Herzegovina    Croatia    Montenegro    Macedonia    Slovenia 2/ Serbia    Vojvodina    Kosovo             Provinces
Paved     I            1,525         2,468         562            705           831       2,235        661          402          9,389
II          1,282         3,149         255            502         2,250        1,929     1,279           266         18,268
III           489         2,718          69            146           -          2,625      1,057          252            -
IV              80        2,509         232            908         1,604        1,674        527          189          7,723
3,376       10,844       1,118          2,261         4,685        8,463      3,524        1,109         35,380
Gravel    I              234           136          81            249            18           47       -              21            786
II          1,226         1,370         332            320         1,709          564        114          103         14,431
III         1,513         3,711         191            254           -          2,416        416          192            -
IV             207        7,204       1,335            554         7,152        5,101        188          564         22,305
3,180       12,421       1,939          1,377         8,879        8,128        718          880         37,522
Compact    I              -               1         -              -             -             13         14           -              28
Earth      II             -             -           -               51           _            128        162           26          2,826
III           -              86         -              301           -          1,082        465          525            -
IV          3,344         2,189         247          3,118           384        9,289      2,733        1,312         22,616
3,344        2,276         247          3,470           384       10,512      3,374        1,863         25,470
All Types  I            1,759         2,605         643            954           849        2,295        675          423         10,203
II          2,508         4,519         587            873         3,959        2,621      1,555          395         35,525
III         2,002         6,515         260            701           -          6,123      1,938          969            -
IV          3,631        11,902       1,814          4,580                     16,064      3,448        2,065         52644
9,900       25,541       3,304          7,108        13,948       27,103      7,616        3,852         98,372
1/ Preliminary data
2/  For Slovenia and Total Republics and Provinces.  Road class   I: Interregional
II: Regional
IV: Local
Source: Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Bulletin 1974
February 1977



TABLF 5
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Modernization of the Highway System, 1958-74
(kin)
Annual Increase of         Total Length of
Year                         Paved Road Network         Paved Road Network
1958                                833                      5,014
1959                              1,047                      6,061
1960                                699                      6,760
1961                                985                      7,745
1962                              1,255                      9,000
1963                              1,053                     10,053
1964                              1,544                     11,597
1965                              1,353                     12,950
1966                              1,424                     14,374
1967                              1,614                     15,988
1968                              2,715                     18,703
1969                              3,041                     21,744
1970                              2,470                     24,214
1971                              3,136                     27,350
1972                              2,523                     29,873
1973                              2,833                     32,706
1974                              2,674                     35,380
1/ All types of paved roads. Many are former gravel roads paved with
a thin bituminous surface and in general will require improvement
in the next few years.
Source: Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Bulletins 1958-1974
February 1977



TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Registered Motor Vehicle Fleet 1958-74
(thousand units)
Motor-      Passenger                              Trailers &
Year      cycles         Cars         Buses      Trucks        Others         Total
1958       37.6         28.3            3.9        43.6         12.8          125.2
1959       54.5         39.0            4.6        49.8         16.3          164.2
1960       69.7         54.2            5.1        54.6         19.4          203.1
1961       72.1         75.5            5.2        50.2         16.6          219.9
1962       91.0         97.9            6.1        58.0         19.2          272.2
1963       98.0        112.5            6.6        64.5         20.3          201.9
1964      102.2        141.8            7.4        72.6         21.8          345.8
1965      106.4        187.8            8.2        84.2         24.7          411.5
1966      112.8        253.3            9.8        98.8         27.6          501.8
1967      111.9        355.9           11.2       117.2         31.7          627.9
1968      107.0        439.9           12.3       122.9         23.1          715.2
1969     111.9         562.5           13.3       131.2         36.0          854.9
19'0     107.7         720.8           14.8       148.0         40.7       1,032.0
1971     106.3         875.3           16.4       167.6         43.7       1,209.3
1972       96.4        999.5           17.7       181.6         49.0       1,344.2
1973       86.1      1,140.5           17.8       195.6         56.5       1,496.5
1974       86.3      1,333.0           19.2       220.9         67.0       1,726.4
Source: Federal Bureau of Statistics, Statistical Bulletins and Others
1958-74
February 1977



TABLE 7
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Highway Expenditures in 1974
(Din Millions)
Republics &
Autonomous           New                           Paving of                  1/
Provinces       Construction   Reconstruction   Gravel Roads   Maintenance         Total
Bosnia -
Herzegovina          688               380             211            181          1,460
Croatia              488                20              392           300          1,200
Macedonia            231                10               -              61           302
Montenegro            60                40               10            30            140
Serbia                87               772              -             266          1,125
Slovenia             439               97              129            315            980
Kosovo                11               180               -             27            218
Vojvodina             -                 74               38            96            208
Total           2,004             1,573              780          1,276          5,633
1/ Includes winter service and periodic maintenance
Source: Federal Committee for Transport and Communications
February 1977



TABLE 8
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Financing of Highway Expenditures, 1958-74
(Din Millions)
Federal          Regional and 2/ Total Investment
Year                   Government -    Local Authorities   and Maintenance
1958                       161                  180                  341
1959                       199                  203                  402
1960                       271                  223                  494
1961                       370                  277                  647
1962                       326                  324                  650
1963                       316                  482                  798
1964                       411                  614                1,025
1965                       193                  802                  995
1966                       140                  908                1,048
1967                       207                1,224                1,431
1968                       286                1,679                1,965
1969                       210                1,981                2,191
1970                       209                2,383                2,592
1971                        74                2,871                2,945
1972                        75                3,825                3,900
1973                        23                4,302                4,325
1974                       204                5,429                5,633
1/ Investment only
2/ Funding of highway investments and maintenance by Republics,
districts, communes, donations from industrial and commercial
enterprises, and public lcans.
Source: Federal Committee for Transport and Communications
February 1977



APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Financing of Highway Expenditures in 1974
(Din Milliorns)
Republics and                                                        Funds for         Republics
Autonomous        Earmarked 1/   Loans and         Federal       Underdeveloped         and
Provinces         REsources -      Credits       Government         Regions           Communes       Other      Total
Bosnia-                297            693               82               20               368            -       1,460
Herzegovina
Croatia                700             50               -                -                400            50      1,200
Macedonia              101             60               45               -                  96           -          302
Montenegro              70               5              25               40                 -            -          140
Serbia                 451            234               32               91               313             4      1,125
Slovenia               574            314               20               -                 72           -          980
Kosovo                  84              1               -                62                48            23         218
Vojvodina              183             -                -                -                  25           -          208
2,460          1,357             204              213               1,322          77       5,633
1/ Revenues from certain taxes on gasoline and oil, license fees and taxes paid for foreign motor vehicles
entering Yugoslavia; about 41% of these revenues were earmarked in 1974 for highway improvement and maintenance.
Source:  Federal Committee for Transport and Communications
February 1977



APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Design Characteristics of Project Roads
Unit     Mali Pozarevac-Ralja   Kumanovo-Miladinovci   Miladinovci-Petrovec   Petrovec-Katlanovo   Katlanovo-Titov Veles   BanJa Luka-Klasnice   Pristina-Leskovac
Type of Terrain                  -            Hilly                    Rolling                    Flat                  Flat                    Hilly                  Flat/Rolling          Hilly/Mountainous
Design speed                    km/hr           120                      120                        120                   120                    100                      120                     40
Max. Gradient                    2               1                         4                         3                     3                       5                        2                       9
Carriageway Width                D          2x 7.5                       7.5                        7.5                   7.5                    7.5                       7.5m                    6m
Emergency Lane Width             m           2x 2.5                      2.5                        2.5                   2.5                     2.5                   2x 2.5m
Shoulder Width                  to          2x 1.0                    1.0 & 2.0                 1.0 & 2.0              1.0 & 2.0              1.0 & 2.0                 2x 1.0m                2 x l.Om
Minimum Radius
Horizontal Curves             D              700                     700                        700                    700                     500                      600                    40D
Minimum Radius
Vertical Curves
Summits                 D            20,000                    20,000                     20,000              20,000                   18,000                   20,000                   4,000
Sags                    D            18,000                    18,000                     18,000              18,0n0                   12,000                   18,000                   2,000
Maximum Single Axle Load        ton             10                        10                         10                  10                       10                       10                      10           N
Type of Wearing Surface          -            Asphaltic               Asphaltic                 Asphaltic             Asphaltic              Asphaltic                  Asphaltic               Surface         n
Concrete                Concrete                  Concrete              Concrete               Concrete                  Concrete                 Dressing
Source: Republican and Provincial Road Organizations
February 1977



TABLE 11
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Average Daily Traffic
(Units)
Cars                                 Heavy Trucks/
Year       and Taxis        Buses        Trucks    Truck Trailers        Total
(1)           (2)            (3)          (4)             (5)             (6)
Mali Pozarevac - Ralja Section (28.0 km) - Serbia
1975          7,908           714        1,871             850          11,343
1980        12,600           990         2,090          1,320           17,000
1985        16,455         1,135         2,145           1,715          21,450
1990        19,170         1,200         2,215           2,015          24,600
2000        27,000         1,400         2,600          3,000           34,000
Kumanovo - Miladinovci Section (18.9 km) - Macedonia
1975         4,615           317           822             794          6,548
1980          7,560          360         1,160           1,220          10,300
1985        10,930           420         1,630          1,720          14,700
1990        16,080           480         2,160          2,280           21,000
2000        25,870            610        2,670          2,850           32,000
Miladinovci - Petrovec Section (8.8 km) - Macedonia
1975         2,095           122            376            398           2,991
1980          3,050           115           540            745           4,450
1985         4,450           130            770          1,050           6,400
1990         6,650            150        1,000           1,400           9,200
2000        11,600            200        1,230           1,770          14,800
Petrovec - Katlanovo Section (5.9 km) - Macedonia
1975         4,979            467        1,364           1,072           7,882
1980         8,140            540        1,980          1,590           12,250
1985        11,760            630        2,780           2,230          17,400
1990        16,680            720        3,650           2,950          24,000
2000        26,160            920        4,550           3,670          35,300
Katlanovo - Titov Veles Section (19.0 km) - Macedonia
1975         4,912            375        1,135           1,005           7,427
1980         8,420            440        1,680           1,510          12,050
1985        12,200            500        2,350           2,100          17,150
1990        17,520            580         3,100          2,800          24,000
2000        27,500            750        3,850           3,500          35,600
Makovac - Lisica - Petrilja Section (39.6 km) - Kosovo
1975            128            12            64              8            212
1980            314            20           127             14            475
1985            475            25           180             20            700
1990            650            30           245             25            950
2000          1,000            50           370             30         1,450
Banlaluka - Klasnice Section (9.3 km) - Bosnia - H9erzegovina
1975          5,200           300        1,600             400           7,500
e                                   1980          8,500            220        2,530             550         11,800
1985         12,500           250         3,500            750          17,000
1990         18,500           450        5,000          1,050          25,000
2000         23,000           700        6,500          1,800          32,000
1/ Existing traffic in 1975 and forecasts for later years.
Source: Feasibility studies of the project roads and mission estimates
February 1977



APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Motor Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings per k J
Dinar, net of taxes
Mali Pozarevac - Ralia                 Kumanovo - Titov Veles                    Makovac - Petrilja                     Banjaluka - Klasnice
Existing  Proposed              %      Existing  Proposed              %       Existing2./Proposed             %      Existing  Proposed
Highway   Highway   Saving  Saving   Highway   Highway   Saving  Savinz   Highway   Highway   Saving  Saving   Highway   Highway   Savin   Saving
Pass v       er    1.281      1.025    0.256      20       1.245     0.997    0.248       20      1.105      1.031    0.074      7        1.240      1.009    0.231      19
Car/
Bus .2/            6.202      4.822    1.380      22      6.189      4.788    1.401       23      5.297      4.896    0.401      8        5.860      4.359    1.501       26
(45 seats)
Truck              5.713      4.563    1.150      20      5.637      4.412    1.225       22      5.220      4.863    0.357      7        5.538      4.235    1.303       24
(9 m ton)
Truck Trailer      8.024      6.522    1.502      19      7.892      6.181    1.711       22      7.157      6.689    0.468      6        7.847      6.145    1.702       22
(20 m ton)
2/ Relate to opening year of project roads
v  Relates to existing circuitous route
/ Excludes passenger time
Source: Feasibility studies of the project roads and mission estimates
February 1977



TABLE 13
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Returns and First Year Returns
Sensitivity Analysis                First
Proportion of         Most Probable        Lower             Higher 2/       Year Benefit
Highway Section           Total Investment          Estimate          Estimatel/        Estimate-            Ratio
Kali-Pozarevac-RalIa                35                    24               18                 30                 17
iumanovo-Titov Veles                47                    22               16                28                  14
(i) Kumanovo-Miladinovci                              16               12                 20                 10
(ii) Miladinovci-Petrovec                              62               45                 80                 40
(iii) Petrovec-Katlanovo                                21                16                26                 14
(iv) Katlanovo-Titov Veles                             16               12                 20                 11
Pristina-Leskovac
Makovac-Lisica-Petrilja    7                      25               19                 31                 18
Banjaluka-Klasnice                 11                     15               11                19                  11
Assumes a 15% increase in construction costs, combined with 15% decreases in users'
cost savings.
2/ Assumes a 15% decrease in construction costs, combined with 15% increases in users'
cost savings.
Note: Economic Returns are evaluated at domestic price excluding taxes. Further adjuRtments
of shadow prices for foreign exchange, labor,etc., do not change the results by more
than 0.5%.
Source: Feasibility studies of the project roads and mission estimates.
February 1977



ANNEX I
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Study of Road User Charges
Background
1.        In many countries, as well as in Yugoslavia, certain charges for
public transport may be below cost. At present the Yugoslav railways are
facing increasing deficits and both the Governments and the Railways
apparently wish to cover these deficits by various subsidies including a
contribution to infrastructure costs. The justification claimed is that
road transport by diesel trucks does not pay its fair share of infrastruc-
ture costs -- an issue open to conjecture.
2.        In Yugoslavia the total revenue from taxes on gasoline and oil,
license fees as well as the revenue from taxes paid by foreign motor vehicles
entering Yugoslavia yielded about Dinar 6.0 billion (US$0.33 billion) in 1974
c:ompared to a total outlay of about Dinar 5.6 billion (US$0.31 billion) on the
construction and maintenance of all interurban highways. But even where they
may cover overall costs, there may not be a direct relation between specific
user charges on different types of vehicles especially heavy trucks and the
:infrastructure costs for which they are accountable. These practices may lead
to distortions in traffic flows within and between different transport modes.
The Bank has no evidence that road users as a whole do not pay their full road
infrastructure costs in Yugoslavia, but cross subsidies may favor heavy diesel
trucks which inflict the most damage on the roads, because diesel carries
substantially less (about half) tax than gasoline. To clarify this situation
with respect to road transport in Yugoslavia, the project includes, as an
important component, a study on road user charges.
PIurpose of the Study
3.        To examine the fiscal, economic and administrative aspects of the
present system of Levying road user charges, taxing vehicles and allocating
resources to the highway sector in Yugoslavia. After reviewing the existing
situation and taking into account Yugoslavia's position with respect to the
European Economic Community, the study will make recommendations concerning
appropriate pricing policies and systems for levying road user charges to
achieve an optimal economic utilization of present and proposed road (in-
cluding urban road) facilities. The study will also ascertain the present
distribution of revenues from each and all types of road user charges among
the recipient authorities, and the effects of any recommended changes in
road user charges on such revenues, the cost of transport and the prices
of typical commodities.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Scope of the Study
4.        The study will set out first the existing structure and level of
present road user charges for each major vehicle type and recommend the
user charges which should be levied on each of the selected vehicle types,
operating on the interurban as well as the principal urban networks. The
study will consider alternative road pricing policies setting out the
advantages and disadvantages of each.
February 1977



AITNEX 2
Page I
APPRAISAL OF
All EIGIHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Study of Rail Costs
Background
1.        Each of the five Railway Transport Enterprises (RTEs), which
together form the railway system of Yugoslavia, is composed of a number of
Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs), each of which is responsible
in the first place for its own accounting and cost recording. IWhile a con-
siderable amount of detailed cost information may already exist in individual
BOALs, a main task in the introduction of a costing system would be in codify-
ing and extracting this information and in ensuring the use of standard
methodology in data collection, processing and presentation.
Purpose of the Study
2.        The purpose of the study is to establish a cost accounting system
which will make available to railway management the data which is necessary
for the continuing analysis, comparison and control of costs. It will arrange
for the provision of cost information for the fixing of freight rates and
passenger fares and for a comparison of costs with different transport modes.
It will enable the evaluation of net revenue benefits which may be obtained
from operating and technological changes and from capital investments. It
will establish a methodology for the determination of the cost of surplus
staff.
Scope of the Study
3.        The study will be carried out in two phases with assistance as
required from consultants and under the direction of a steering group compris-
iag external participants and RTEs' senior management, preferably not below
tne grade of Assistant General MIanager. Phase I will include a survey of
basic cost data already available and of costing methods in use and will
recommend the steps necessary for the determination of the costs of all
railway services broken down by principal commodity flows and inter-city and
commuter passenger services. It will summarize and review the existing system
of rates and fares. It will detail the methodology for the evaluation of the
cost to the railways of the employment of surplus staff. It will define
costing principles and make preliminary recommendations for Phase II.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        Phase II will provide for the refinement and improvement of cost
data resulting from Phase I in order to achieve a comprehensive system for
cost comparison and control. It will make detailed recommendations for the
improvement of data needed for tariff setting. It will analyze the relation-
ship between tariffs and costs and, if appropriate, make recommendations for
different tariff policies and discuss their implications with reference to
government support measures. It will complete a review of uneconomic lines
under existing methodology.
February 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Highway Master Plan for Kosovo
Background
1.        The Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo is a roughly quadratic
shaped region measuring about 100 by 100 km and is the most underdeveloped
and densely populated region of Yugoslavia. In transport and communications
the Province faces problems of accessibility from different parts of the
country. Inside the Province many rural settlements still have no all-weather
connection. This has immediate economic consequences through the lack of
access to markets and employment possibilities. In addition, it impedes
breaking the circle of inadequate development, overpopulation and poverty.
In order to provide the Provincial Government with the framework of a highway
development program with priorities ranked on economic criteria, the project
includes technical assistance for the preparation of a highway master plan for
Kosovo.
Objectives
2.        The purpose of the study is to provide:
(i) a general highway master plan, and cost estimates therefore,
for the period 1978-1985 formulating a concept of long term
development of the road network including a maintenance plan;
(ii)  a detailed highway investment program for the period 1978-80,
including the ranking of proposed projects based on economic
priorities, and subsequent highway investment programs in
outline which shall cover the period 1981-85, and also
including a preliminary ranking of proposed projects by
economic priorities;
(iii)  recommendations for:
(a) amelioration of those financial and managerial constraints
hampering the general expected level of road construction
and maintenance;
(b) such organizational modifications/strengthening required
for improving the operation and administration of road
system; and
(c) training for local people in the fields of highway admin-
istration and operations.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Scope of the Study
3.        The study shall review and analyze the existing highway inventories
and based on reconnaissance surveys divide it into two broad groups for de-
tailed analyses and quantitative economic evaluation purposes. Group I will
consist of those road works for which improvements appear to have considerable
benefit potential and which therefore required detailed field inventories and
analyses to establish and confirm their relative priorities.  Group II will
consist of all other road works for which improvements appear to have a lower
level of potential benefits.  The focus of the highway master plan would be
on such factors as:
(i) the adequacy of the proposed program in relation to the
development needs of the region;
(ii) the balance of investments in main roads, secondary roads
and feeder roads;
(iii) appropriate role of highway investments in relation to
other modes of transport;
(iv) the adequacy of the planned program of maintenance; and
(v) the adequacy of the organization of handling highway
administration, procurement procedures, construction
supervision and related institutional facilities required
to support the execution and operation of the program.
February 1977
t



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Transportation Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
Pr-evious Projects
1.        So far the Bank has lent US$620.4 million in total to the transport
sector, including US$220 million for six highway projects, US$108.4 million
for two pipeline projects, US$248 million for four railway projects and US$44
million for the Bar port project.
HigShway Projects
2.        The first highway project (Loan 344-YU, US$35 million) was financed
in 1963 for the completion of the coastal section of the Adriatic Highway (422
kin) and parts of the Belgrade-Nis road (174 km). The second highway project
(Loan 485-YU, US$10 million), financed in 1967, was for the improvement of 367
km of roads connecting the Zagreb-Belgrade highway via Sarajevo and Tuzla with
the Adriatic highway. Both projects were completed within the original cost
estimates and agreed time schedules. The third (Loan 608-YU, US$30 million),
financed in 1969, comprised about 120 km of roads in Croatia, Miacedonia and
Siovenia, and was completed in August 1974 with a 20-month delay primarily due
to delays in completing an access road, but which did not impede the operation
of the main highway. This project had an 8% cost overrun, because of inflation
and foreign exchange adjustments. The Operation Evaluation Department's
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 1385 dated December 10, 1976) highlights
that the Third Highway Project has been successfully completed with most civil
works carried out close to the appraisal schedule. The Audit Report, however,
emphasizes the need to adequately study tolls, so that their imposition does
not impede the optimum use of roads and this caution has been taken into
account in the proposed project. The fourth (Loan 678-YU, US$40 million)
was financed in 1970 for the construction of about 220 km of roads in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro, Serbia and Vojvodina. Because of expropria-
tion problems in the section of Bosnia-Herzegovina, the project was completed
in December 1975 with 18 months delay. There was a 12% cost overrun due to
inflation and foreign exchange adjustments. The fifth highway project (Loan
751-YU, US$35 million) became effective 8 months late due to Government ad-
ministrative delays. The project comprises 153 km of roads in Kosovo, Macedonia
and Slovenia, procurement of US$1.7 million worth of engineering equipment,
consultants' services and a staff training component to improve highway plan-
ning and project preparation. All roads are open for traffic. The engineering
ec[uipment is being delivered and the consultants' services are completed. The
st:aff training component was delayed because of difficulties encountered in
securing training of candidates in the head office of foreign consultants and



ANNEX 4
Page 2
in foreign institutes and because of language problems. A restricted program
is now well underway and the remaining part of the program may be modified by
inviting foreign consultants and specialists to give training courses in
Yugoslavia. Present estimates indicate an 8% cost overrun because of the
combined effect of inflation and foreign exchange adjustments. Because of the
delay in training it is expected that the project will be completed by the
middle of 1977, involving a delay of about nine months. The loan for the
sixth highway project (Loan 990-YU, US$30 million) was made in May 1974 and
became effective six weeks later than estimated in December 1974. The project
finances six road sections in Bosnia-Herzegovina, totalling 150 km, the
training of transportation economists and road engineers and US$1.1 million
worth of engineering and laboratory equipment. Two out of six road sections
are completed. The remaining sections should be completed on time by the end
of 1976. The loan for the seventh highway project (Loan 1143-YU, US$40 mil-
lion) was made in July 1975 and became effective in March 1976. The project
comprises about 90 km of road construction in Slovenia, Serbia and IMontenegro,
and US$0.1 million worth of technical assistance to improve preparation of
highway feasibility studies and to provide a related training program. The
work has progressed satisfactorily in Serbia but is slightly behind schedule
in Montenegro and Slovenia, because of expropriation problems and government
delays. Construction works for all seven projects have been or are satisfac-
torily carried out, reflecting the competence of the Yugoslav contracting
industry.
Naftagas and Oil Pipeline Projects
3.        The loan for the Naftagas project (Loan 916-YU, US$59.4 million) was
made in June 1973, but, due to organizational reforms within the enterprise,
became effective in March 1974 after six months delay. Due to a substantial
increase in the project costs and a reallocation of priorities in the use of
natural gas which caused the elimination of some consumers who withdrew their
finances from the project, a delay of more than two years in project implemen-
tation has occurred. It has now been decided that the actual implementation
will be carried out in three phases of which only phases I and II will be
implemented now, the additional funds required being provided by different
agencies in Yugoslavia and by a supplementary loan of US$11 million from
the Bank under the Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project - Loan 1264-2-YU.
Construction started in late June 1976 and the project is scheduled for
completion by year end 1978. The loan for oil pipeline project (Loan 1173-YU,
US$49.0 million) was made in November 1975 and became effective in July 1976
after four months delay. The project comprises the procurement, construction
and/or installation of an oil receiving port in the Adriatic and related
distribution system. Phase I will provide a yearly capacity of 16 million
tons and will be completed in May 1978; Phase II, providing a capacity of 20
million tons annually, will be completed a year later. Due to slower than
anticipated progress of design and procurement, it is estimated that a four-
month slippage in the completion of the Phase I will occur, though it should
still be possible to complete the balance of the project on schedule.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
R'ailways
4.        The first railway loan (Loan 361-YU, US$35 million) was made in
1963 and was substantially completed and put into operation in 1970, i.e.,
with a delay of about two years.  The second railway loan (Loan 395-YU,
UrS$70 million) was made in 1964 to help finance a Modernization Program
for the main lines. The Program, which covers electrification, signalling,
telecommunications and marshalling yards, was to be executed between 1964
and 1968, at an estimated cost of US$185 million, but due to long delays
completion is not expected before 1977. The total cost is estimated at about
US$405 million. The loan was fully disbursed in November 1972 and completion
cf the Program is being assisted by the Fourth Loan (below). The third rail-
way loan (Loan 531-YU, US$50 million) in 1968 helped to finance the completion
of 372 km of the Belgrade-Bar line. Completion was orignally scheduled for
1973, but geo-technical and other construction difficulties in mountainous
terrain delayed the opening of the line until 1976. The cost estimate has
increased from US$225 million to about US$350 million. The fourth railway
loan (Loan 1026-YU, US$93 million) was made in July 1974 and became effective
by the revised date of February 12, 1975. The loan finances the completion
of the 1964 Modernization Program and certain related investments, including
track rehabilitation and further signalling works, which are needed to obtain
the full benefits of the program. There have been serious delays in project
execution due principally to financial and administrative difficulties.
Government efforts to combat severe inflation have caused freight rates to
lag too far behind the increase in railway costs resulting in large financial
deficits. The railways now expect an acceleration of project execution and it
is hoped that most of the Bank-financed investments will be completed by the
end of 1978.
Port of Bar Project
5.        The loan (Loan 1060-YU, US$44 million) was made in November 1974
to finance port and railway facilities. The date for the loan to become
effective was postponed from Mlay 12, 1975 to June 13, 1975. The project is
now about 9 months behind schedule due to delays on procurement of grain silos
and retendering and negotiations with the lowest bidder for the main items of
civil works.
February 1977



APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Organization Chart of the Road Council of S.R. Macedonia
Republic Assembly
S.R. Macedonia
4I
Executive Council
Secretariat for
Traffic & Communication
Road Inspection
Council for
Road Construction, Maintenance
and Reconstruction
Secretary
of the Road Council
Department for        Department for                           Department for    Department for
Development of      Supervision of Road    Department for        Budget &             GeneralM
Road Network         Construction &          Maintenance        Accounts          AdTninistrationM
.               ~~~~~Reconstruction. 
February 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Description of Project Roads
Mali Pozarevac-Ralja (28 km)
1.        This section is part of the Belgrade-Nis (Trans-Yugoslav) highway
leading to Sofia and Athens. Because of heavy congestion, the present limited
access road requires upgrading to four-lane divided standards. Both horizon-
tal and vertical alignments of the present road are satisfactory; the addi-
tional facilities therefore will be provided by adding a second two-lane
carriageway with an emergency lane. However, the pavement of the existing
road is now in poor condition and because of poor geological conditions,
there have been numerous subsidences; it will be reconstructed as needed
with the addition throughout of an emergency lane. The project includes
two major interchanges.
Kumanovo-Titov Veles (52.7 km)
2.        The present limited access road, passing through the city of Skopje
was constructed between 1960 and 1962 as part of the first class highway
(Trans Yugoslav Highway) linking Yugoslavia with Greece. Although the geo-
metric elements of the existing road are, for the most part acceptable, and
the pavement has stood up well under the traffic load, capacity constraints
now dictate the addition of a second two-lane carriageway throughout. From
Kumanovo to Miladinovci (18.93 km) the new carriageway comprising two traffic
lanes and an emergency lane will be on the right of the existing road. A new
railway crossing structure and a new bridge over the Lipkovska River and
interchanges at Kumanovo and Miladinovci are the main structural features
of this section. The section Miladinovci-Petrovec (8.84 km) forms a by-pass
oi- Skopje, saving 17.4 km for through traffic. The new carriageway crosses
flat to rolling terrain and joins at Petrovec on the existing highway to
Skopje at an interchange. The section Petrovec-Katlanovo (5.94 km) again is
in flat to rolling terrain and the new carriageway would therefore be built
aLongside the present road. The geometry of the existing road is good and
the only structural feature is a crossing of the Peinje river. Because of
the mountainous nature of the section Katlanovo-Titov Veles (18.98 km) the
new carriageway leaves the alignment of the existing road. The steepness and
rugged nature of the terrain necessitates the construction of twenty viaducts
with total length of 2,960 m and three tunnels with a total length of 930 m.
AE; there is no habitation along the existing road and the new road, and
therefore no local traffic needs to be served, each carriageway will carry
unidirectional traffic flows, making the best use of the capacity of both
the new construction and the present road.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Banja Luka-Klasnice (9.3 km)
3.        The existing road is narrow (6.0 m + 2 x 0.8 m shoulders) with
substandard geometric elements. It passes through four townships, Ploce,
Trn, Zalozak, Lomister, and 37 village roads connect with it.  There is
ribbon-development along almost its whole length. The proposed highway,
the first two-lane carriageway of an ultimate four-lane divided highway with
limited access linking Banja Luka with Okucani on the Trans Yugoslav highway
has been aligned in rolling terrain to the West of the existing road, and is
free from the ribbon-development problems that have contributed to present
traffic congestion. At Banka Luka, an interchange will link the city with
the new road and the existing road. At Klasnice, a temporary at-grade inter-
section will link the new and old roads.
Pristina-Leskovac (40 km)
4.        Of the 102 km route linking Pristina and Leskovac, about 62 km
is paved and the balance of 40 km between Pristina, Makovac and Petrilja in
hilly terrain, is gravel/earth in very poor condition with very substandard
geometric elements. The proposed project road, most of which is in Kosovo,
but with a short section in Serbia, follows generally the alignment of the
existing road, but to acceptable geometric standards. The project also
includes construction of about 2 km of connecting road, to the same design
standards, within the Municipality of Pristina.
February 1977



YUCOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL Op
AN EICHrS hIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLENENUArlCti SCHEDULE
. 1 977                         1 97                          1 979                              90
ITEM                             ACTIVITY                      ACTION BY                           M F M MJ     A 6 O C    .1J  F l A MJ J A C O    J *IJ F MAMJ J A I e O                J F    A     J 4 A    CUD
1. Bank Loan                      1.01   Negotiations                   G--veretent/Blak                 t
1.02   Sign Lean Agreement           C-ve-rent/Beok,
_   _    _    _    _   _  _    1.03   LOa DEfnecniveness    _    Gverp=e.nt/BDDk  _        _ _            _      _        _     |_          _I                                                        -         
2. Canstruntein of Roed            2.01   Prnpare Bid Doc-meste         ioverntenst
Na1i P.narevne knIja           2.02   Prequalify Contr-etors        Goveronnnt                                                    |
(Serbia)                      2.03   Bidding                       GoverDment
2.04   Ev-inate Bids 6 Award         Government/Bank
2.05   C.terrunnien                  ievecnmest/Gonrrecger               _                                                                                              _ _ _ _  _  _  _
3. Conanrtcti_n of Read            3.01   Prepare Did DGne,m-nts        Governrent
Kis-aO-v-TitOe Veles           3.02   Preqvulify Contractar         Governuent
(han.dmnia)                   3.03  BNdding                        Governseot                                t                    |
3,4   Evaluate Bids & Award         Govaeaeoet/Bask
3.25   Conatrrstion                  Government/Contractor -
4.  COgarruetnj  of Read           4.01   Prepare Bid Dfeenemnt         Government
Banja Lska-Klaunice           4.02   Preqsalify Cqntractora         Government                                                                                   I
(Beamia-bHereeg-ona)          4.03   Bidding                      Grovermeene
4.04   Evaluete Ride 6 Awn-d         ioe-ronmnt/B-ak                                                |
4.05   Constru_ti_n                  Governmenn/iontracror
5.  Cenarrnetiem  of Read          5.01   Prepare Bid Docncenta t        nverna,sn
Priattn.-L.a.kva-             5.02   Pre-nalify Conrractora         Government
(gosovo)                     15,03   Bidding                       Goverent| !
5.04   Evaluate Bide & Award         Govern- ent/nank
5.05   Cosatroction                  iove--rent/Co-t-cotr
6.  Rmad-Uase Charge Study         6.01   Prepare Termm  of Reference  GovernBent/B6nk
CRo                           6 02   Invite Pr-posein               Gocerneno-
6.03   Evaln_te Proposals 0          iovernmess/Baok                               tt       _ 
AMaid Catur-tt
6 04   Exeoste Study G.vernmeat/Censoltont
7 lama  Dnalst.r Plan    7.01   Prra .er_a  Raferaa  Govranth nk 
(Tonovo)                    O7.0    InvIte Pr.po.aln              Government
7.03   Evalsate Proposals &          Gi-ernoo-t/Book
Award Contract
7.04 Oi  ecate Study                 Governm- nt/Co...ltanrt
S. Ril Cost Study                 0.01   Prepare Tertu of Reference  Gover-ent/Book
CvR                           8.02  Invite Proposals               Govesn-ent
0.03   Nnelusts Peuposnal  6         Govern.e.t/Bank
Awerd Contract
80.4   Eneoste Stedy                 Govern- ert/C-cnrltat_
February 1977



ANNEX 8
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF
AN EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal                                              Cumulative Disbursement
Year and Quarter                                          at End of Quarter
(US$Million)
1977/78
Sept. 30, 1977                                                  0.73
Dec.  31, 1977                                                  2.21
Mar.  31, 1978                                                  5.07
Jun.  30, 1978                                                  9.19
1978/79
Sept. 30, 1978                                                 13.99
Dec.  31, 1978                                                 20.27
Mar. .31, 1979                                                 27.53
Jun.  30, 1979                                                 34.68
1979/80
Sept. 30, 1979                                                 41.44
Dec.  31, 1979                                                 46.48
Mar.  31, 1980                                                 50.37
Jun.  30, 1980                                                 53.12
1980/81
Sept. 30, 1980                                                 55.04
Dec.  31, 1980                                                 56.00
Source: Mission estimates January 1977
February 1977



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _e_    - -  -   -   t  - IBR D   10 862R l
~~  /                             ((~~~~OCPR  1976
A     U      S      Ts       R    I     A             .                i             r               f                                          X                                                 i 
- . 4 <>x             0               ;;   :   .   \    N- P w: ;R   0   M   A   N   I  A
0:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 H.ghe   P ojs
lp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ e =ltX\'                                                                                    1  
YUGOSAVIA                                             co Po  -. Pt             to    t  PUoSLAt
HIGHWAY SYSTEM                                                                 UT.ll'''oel    PTA  
-  Roitecoyc~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 
) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                      __C4he Cbs2 I Hqghw-ys 6C>y   
FiWs,'ifn,  ThIrd, .,d Fou th High..y P .I-f iM'                                                                                                  g               I                                   2
t 6ttroth Hghoro   yoct td ie
,SH/  ~~~Z  ><    JUJOIA ~~~Prs2p-d Eighih HSighw-y Po.jecd4                                                                                                     >X                    tni                              <                 >
El YUGOSLAVIA        1                              n    oooPiePitn    elo   S    oes                            
*0s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ .  K-    P.1 -4 _',tw    Soi-EER (5t  f t                                                                                                                                                                   i
^>b   -   , r                                                                                                                                      >               Gi   R    E    E    C        E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G R       
I    .    .   -   1   --   I  l  _  IG  i  I PP 23~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'-c-



