CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1377 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Eighth Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ZAJEDNICA PREDUZECA ZA PUTEVE S.R. SRBIJE
(Association of Enterprises for Roads
of the Socialist Republic of Serbia)
REPUBLICKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE, SARAJEVO
(Republic Community for Roads, Sarajevo)
SOCIJALISTICKA REPUBLIKA MAKEDONIJA
(The Socialist Republic of Macedonia)
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA MAGISTRALNE
I REGIONALNE PUTEVE, S.A.P. KOSOVO, PRISTINA
(The Self-Managing Community of Interest for
Arterial and Regional Roads, S.A.P. Kosovo, Pristina)
Dated April 13, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 13, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, party of the first part
(such party of the first part hereinafter called the Bank) and
ZAJEDNICA PREDUZECA ZA PUTEVE S.R. SRBIJE (Association
of Enterprises for Roads of the Socialist Republic of Serbia)
(hereinafter sometimes called the Serbian Borrower),
REPUBLICKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE, SARAJEVO (Republic Community
for Roads, Sarajevo) (hereinafter sometimes called the
Bosnia-Herzegovinan Borrower), SOCIJALISTICKA REPUBLICA
MAKEDONIJA (The Socialist Republic of Macedonia) (hereinafter
sometimes called the Macedonian Borrower), SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA
ZAJEDNICA ZA MAGISTRALNE I REGIONALNE PUTEVE, S.A.P. KOSOVO,
PRISTINA (The Self-Managing Community of Interest for Arterial
and Regional Roads, S.A.P. Kosovo, Pristina) (hereinafter
sometimes called the Kosovan Borrower), parties of the second part
(any such parties of the second part hereinafter sometimes
individually called a Borrower and all such parties of the second
part hereinafter sometimes collectively called the Borrowers).
(A)  The Borrowers have agreed to carry out Part I and the
Kosovan Borrower has agreed to carry out Part II (C) of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (hereinafter called the
Guarantor) has agreed to cause Part II (A) and (B) thereof to be
carried out by respectively the CRO and the CYR (as such terms
are defined hereinafter);
(B)   The Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina
(hereinafter called Bosnia-Herzegovina), the Socialist Republic
of Macedonia (hereinafter called Macedonia), the Socialist
Republic of Serbia (hereinafter called Serbia) and the Socialist
Autonomous Province of Kosovo (hereinafter called Kosovo) each
have adopted or will adopt or cause to be adopted all regulations
necessary to authorize (a) the construction of the respective road
sections included under Part I of the Project (including, without
limitation, the regulation(s) necessary to authorize the Kosovan
Borrower to construct the portion of the Pristina-Seskovac road
which is situated within the territory of Serbia, and to act, with
respect thereto, as executing agency of the Serbian Borrower), and


﻿(b) the provision of the financial resources required for the
complete execution of Parts I and II (C) of the Project to be made
available respectively by: (i) Bosnia-Herzegovina to the
Bosnia-Herzegovinan Borrower, for the purposes of Part I (A)
of the Project; (ii) Macedonia for the purposes of Part I (B) of
the Project; (iii) Serbia to the Serbian Borrower, for purposes of
Part I (C) of the Project; and (iv) Kosovo to the Kosovan
Borrower, for the purposes of Parts I (D) and II (C) of the
Project;
(C)   Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, Serbia and Kosovo have
each agreed to make available or cause to be made available,
on appropriate terms, any additional funds required for the
carrying out of the Project over and above the funds to be made
available in accordance with the regulations referred to in
Recital B and the Loan provided hereunder;
(D) The Borrowers have requested the Bank to assist each of
them in the financing of its Individual Part of the Project, by
making the Loan as provided hereinafter;
(E) The Borrowers have agreed to designate the CRO (as
defined hereinafter) as the representative of each of the
Borrowers for certain purposes under this Agreement, as is
hereinafter set forth;
(F)  The Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into this Agreement with the Borrowers, has agreed to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrowers in respect of their respective
Individual Portions of the Loan (as defined hereinafter);
WHEREAS the Bank, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
has agreed to make a loan to the Borrowers for such purposes in
the amount and on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set
forth or referred to;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Individual Part of the Project", used with respect
to any of the Borrowers, means that portion of Part I or II of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement which
is identified with the Republic or Province in which such Borrower
is established;
(b) "Individual Portion of the Loan", used with respect
to any of the Borrowers, means such portion of the Loan as shall
have been allocated to such Borrower for the purpose of assisting
in the financing of such Borrower's Individual Part of the
Project, all in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
(c) the term "Republic" means any of the Socialist Republics
of (i) Bosnia and Herzegovina, (ii) Croatia, (iii) Macedonia,
(iv) Montenegro, (v) Serbia and (vi) Slovenia;
(d)   the term "Province" means either of the Socialist
Autonomous Provinces of (i) Kosovo and (ii) Vojvodina;
(e) the term "CRO" means the Savet Republickih i
Pokrajinskih Organizacija za Puteve (Council of Republic and
Provincial Road Organizations), a voluntary association
established by agreement of the Road Funds and Road Councils of
the respective Republics and Provinces, dated June 17, 1971,
including any successor thereto and chaired by one of the member
organizations appointed for one or more years pursuant to Article
4 of said agreement;


﻿(f)   the term "Social Accounting Service" means the Sluzba
Drustvenog Knjigovodstva referred to in Article 281 of the
Constitution of the Guarantor;
(g) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(h)  "Borrowers' Statutes" means the respective Statutes of
the Bosnia-Herzegovinan Borrower dated November 10, 1975, the
Statutes of the Serbian Borrower, dated July 13, 1973 and the
Statutes of the Kosovan Borrower, dated April 6, 1976; and
(i) "CYR" means Zajednica Jugoslovenskih Zeleznica
(Community of Yugoslav Railways), an association of railway
transport enterprises in Yugoslavia established by Self-Management
Agreement on Association of Railway Transport Enterprises into the
Community of Yugoslav Railways, dated July 3, 1973 (Official Paper
of the Community of Yugoslav Railways, July 27, 1974), in
accordance with the Law on th, Obligatory Association of Railway
Transport Enterprises into -the Community of Yugoslav Railways
(Official Gazette of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
No. 25/72), and having a Statute defining, inter alia, the
objectives and work of the Borrower and its organization and
management, approved by the Assembly of the Borrower on December
27, 1966 (Official Paper of the Community of Yugoslav Railways,
January 14, 1967).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrowers,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-six million dollars ($56,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrowers and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for civil works required for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1981,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrowers of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrowers shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrowers shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrowers shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreenant.
Section 2.09. (a) Of the amounts in the currencies specified
in Article IV of the General Conditions to be paid to the Bank
by the Borrowers on each payment date pursuant to the foregoing
Sections 2.05 through 2.08 of this Agreement, each of the
Borrowers shall only be liable for, and shall pay a share
equivalent to:
(i) the commitment charge accrued on the principal
amount of its Individual Portion of the Loan
not withdrawn or cancelled and the additional
commitment charge accrued on special commitments
entered into by the Bank at the request of such
Borrower;


﻿-6-
(ii) the interest accrued on the principal amount of
its Individual Portion of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding; and
(iii)   a portion of the amount of each maturity of the
Loan proportionate to the principal amount of
its Individual Portion of the Loan, provided that
such portion shall not have been repaid by such
Borrower in advance of maturity as provided in
paragraph (b) below.
(b) Each of the Borrowers shall have the right, upon payment
of all accrued interest and payment of the premium specified
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and upon not less than 45 days'
notice to the Bank, to repay in advance of maturity:
(i) all of the principal amount of its Individual
Portion of the Loan at the time withdrawn and
outstanding; or
(ii) all of the principal amount of the Loan to be
repaid by such Borrower on one or more maturity
dates in accordance with paragraph (a) above,
provided that on the date of such prepayment
there shall not be outstanding any portion of the
Loan to be repaid by such Borrower and maturing
after such maturity dates.
(c)  It is the policy of the Bank to encourage the repayment
prior to maturity of portions of its Loans retained by the Bank
in its own account. Accordingly the Bank will sympathetically
consider, in the light of all circumstances then existing, any
request by a Borrower that the Bank waive the payment of any
premium payable under paragraph (b) of this Section on prepayment
of any portion of the Loan which the Bank has not sold or agreed
to sell.
(d)  Each of the Borrowers may by notice to the Bank cancel
any amount of its Individual Portion of the Loan which such
Borrower shall not have withdrawn prior to the giving of such
notice, except that none of the Borrowers may so cancel any amount
of its Individual Portion of the Loan in respect of which the Bank


﻿- 7 -
shall have entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. Each of the Borrowers shall designate or cause
the CRO to be designated as its representative for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions set forth or referred to in Sections 2.02, 2.05, 2.06,
2.07, 2.08 and 2.09 of this Agreement, and Articles III, IV and V
and Section 6.05 of the General Conditions, and for such purpose,
the CRO and such Borrowers shall take such actions as are set
forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.11. All obligations of the Borrowers under the
Loan Agreement, unless such obligations shall have been expressly
undertaken by each of the Borrowers separately, shall be joint and
several and the obligation of any of them to comply with any
provision of the Loan Agreement is not subject to any prior notice
to, demand upon or action against any other of them. No extension
of time or forbearance given to any of the Borrowers in respect of
the performance of any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement
and no failure of the Bank to give any notice or to make any
demand or protest whatsoever to any of the Borrowers, or strictly
to assert any right or pursue any remedy against any of them in
respect of the Loan Agreement and no failure by any of the
Borrowers to comply with any requirement of any law, regulation or
order shall in any way affect or impair any obligation of the
Borrowers under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Borrowers shall carry out its
Individual Part of the Project (i) with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
administrative and financial practices, and (ii) in cooperation
with the other three Borrowers and the CRO (as such cooperation is
described in more detail in Schedule 8 to this Agreement) in a
practical manner designed to ensure the most efficient execution
of Part I of the Project as a whole, and Part II (C) of the
Project, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.


﻿- 8 -
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, the Kosovan Borrower shall defer substantial
improvement of the gravel/earth road between Luzane and Tulare
until such time as such improvement shall be economically
justified.
Section 3.02. (a) Each of the Borrowers shall:
(i) construct the roads included in its Individual
Part of the Project in accordance with such design
standards as are set forth in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement or as shall be agreed upon from time
to time between such Borrower and the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank (through the CRO), for its
approval, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction schedules for its Individual Part
of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request; and
(iii) acquire, promptly as needed, all land required
for the carrying cu.t of its Individual Part of
the Project and furnish to the Bank (through the
CRO), promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land is
available for the purpose of carrying out its
Individual Part of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Kosovan Borrower in
carrying out the study included in Part II (C) of the Project,
such Borrower shall, on or before September 30, 1977 (unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree), employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  On or before December 31, 1978 (unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree), the Kosovan Borrower shall review the
recommendations of such study with the Bank and determine, in
agreement with the Bank, which of such recommendations shall be
implemented and the terms and conditions of such implementation.


﻿-9-
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
each of the Borrowers shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of its Individual Portion of the Loan to be
used exclusively for its Individual Part of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) Each of the Borrowers shall in respect of
its Individual Part of the Project: (i) maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the operation thereof, the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) (acting through CRO) furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)   the Borrowers shall cause the CRO to maintain records
adequate for the purposes of Sections 2.10 and 3.05 (a) hereof.
Section 3.06. (a) Each of the Borrowers shall take or cause
to be taken all such actions as are necessary in order to ensure
that if any tolls are imposed on the use of any highway included
under its Individual Part of the Project, such tolls will be set
at such rates as will ensure an economic use of such highway
and alternative routes or means of transportation.
(b)   The Bosnia-Herzegovinan Borrower shall take all
appropriate measures to control land development along the
alignment of the highway included in Part I.A of the Project
that will ensure an economic use of such highway.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the
Bosnia-Herzegovinan, Serbian and Kosovan
Borrowers and of the Highway Operations
of Macedonia
Section 4.01. Each of the Borrowers ;shall exercise its powers
and functions with respect to all public roads in its respective
Republic or Province, as the case may be (except roads falling


﻿- 10 -
within the jurisdiction of municipalities), so as to ensure: (i)
that such roads will be adequately maintained and repaired in
accordar.n..e with sound engineering and financial practices, and
that the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
therefor will be provided, promptly as needed; (ii) that the
systematic collection and recording of such technical, economic
and financial data will be continued as shall be reasonable for
the proper planning or maintenance, improvements and extensions
of such roads; and (iii) that the dimensions and axle-loads of
vehicles using such roads shall not exceed such limits as are
appropriatc to the design standards for such roads.
Section 4.02. Each of the Bosnia-Herzegovinan, Serbian and
Kosovan Borrowers shall at all times cayry out its operations and
manage its affairs in accordance with sound engineering, business,
financial and administrative principles and practices, and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 4.03. Each of the Bosnia-Herzegovinan, Serbian and
Kosovan Borrowers shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with sound practices.
Section 4.04. Each of the Bosnia-Herzegovinan, Serbian and
Kosovan Borrowers shall operate and maintain its plants, equipment
and properties, and from time to time make all necessary renewals
and repairs thereof, in accordance with sound engineering and
administrative practices.
Section 4.05. Each of the Bosnia-Herzegovinan, Serbian and
Kosovan Borrowers shall at all times maintain the right to carry
on its operations, and take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, none
of the Bosnia-Herzegovinan, Serbian and Kosovan Borrowers shall
sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any of
its rights, property or assets except in the ordinary course of
business.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.07. The Macedonian Borrower shall carry out its
highway operations in accordance with appropriate administrative,
financial and highway practices and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. Each of the Borrowers shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its highway operations and its
financial resources and expenditures related to such operations.
Section 5.02. (a) Each of the Borrowers represents that
at the date of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets
as security for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to
the Bank or stated in writing.
(b)  Each of the Borrowers undertakes that, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) if such Borrower shall create any
lien on any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will
equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect, at
no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be
created on any assets of such Borrower as security for any debt,
such Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan;
provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply to (A) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property, or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)   Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, Serbia or Kosovo shall
have failed to make available, as and when needed, the financial
resources provided under the respective regulations referred to in
Recital B of this Agreement;
(b)   Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, Serbia or Kosovo shall
have failed to carry out any of its undertakings or agreements
referred to in Recital C of this Agreement;
(c)   any provision (i) of any of the regulations referred
to in Recital B of this Agreement, or (ii) of any of the agreements
referred to in Recital C of this Agreement, or (iii) of such
Articles of the Statutes of any of the Bosnia-Herzegovinan,
Serbian or Kosovan Borrowers as affect in any way whatever such
Borrower's ability to carry out its Individual Part of the Project
or such Borrower's existence as an independent enterprise, or (iv)
of such Articles of CRO's Statutes as affect in any way whatever
CRO's ability to carry out any of its obligations in the Loan
Agreement contained, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated
or terminated without the prior approval of the Bank; and
(d)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to any
of the Borrowers having an original maturity of one year or more
shall, in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable
in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any of the events specified
in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), or (d) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)   Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, Serbia or Kosovo have
each adopted regulations in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, as referred to in Recital B of this Agreement, and such
regulations are in full force and effect;
(b)   Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, Serbia or Kosovo have
each given guarantees, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, in respect of the provision of all necessary funds in
respect of its respective part of the Project, including
cost-overruns, as referred to in Recital C of this Agreement, and
such guarantees are in full force and effect;
(c)   all necessary consents and approvals have been given
for the CRO to undertake the obligations referred to herein;
(d)   the Borrowers have entered into an agreement with
the members of CRO other than the Borrowers, and CRO has taken
a decision, providing for the execution by CRO in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement of the study included in
Part II (A) of the Project, and for the financing of the costs of
such study; and
(e) CYR has decided to carry out the rail costs study
included in Part II (B) of the Project.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the regulations referred to in paragraph (a)
of Section 7.01 of this Agreement have been duly adopted and are
in full force and effect;
(b)   that the guarantees referred to in paragraph (b) of
Section 7.01 of this Agreement have been duly and validly given
and are in full force and effect;


﻿- 14 -
(c) that the consents and approvals referred to in paragraph
(c) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement have been duly and validly
given and are in full force and effect; and
(d)   that the execution and delivery of the agreement
referred to in Section 7.01 (d) hereof have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 7.03. The date July 11, 1977 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrowers:
Savjet Republickih i Pokrajinskih
Organizacija za Puteve
Administratija
Titova 64
61000 Ljubljana
Yugoslavia


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. David Knox
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ZAJEDNICA PREDUZECA ZA PUTEVE S.R. SRBIJE
(Association of Enterprises for Roads
of the Socialist Republic of Serbia)
REPUBLICKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE, SARAJEVO
(Republic Community for Roads, Sarajevo)
SOCIJALISTICKA REPUBLIKA MAKEDONIJA
(The Socialist Republic of Macedonia)
SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA
MAGISTRALNE I REGIONALNE PUTEVE, S.A.P.
KOSOVO, PRISTINA
(The Self-Managing Community of Interest for
Arterial and Regional Roads, S.A.P. Kosovo,
Pristina)
By /s/ Naum Ackovski
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works
(a) for Part              7,000,000          35%
I (A) of
the Project
(b) for Part             24,000,000          29%
I (B) of
the Project
(c) for Part             20,720,000          33%
I (C) of
the Project
(d) for Part              4,000,000          32%
I (D) of
the Project
(2) Technical Assistance
(a) for Part II             140,000          100% of foreign
(A) of the                              expenditures
Project
(b) for Part II             140,000          100% of foreign
(C) of the                              expenditures
Project
TOTAL     56,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of a country
other than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower
concerned, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category or sub-Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category or sub-Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower concerned, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category or sub-Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category or sub-Category is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower
concerned, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part I.   Highway Construction or Reconstruction
The construction or reconstruction in the Republics of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Serbia and in the
Autonomous Province of Kosovo of the following highway
sections, each portion to be carried out by the
respective Borrower:
(A) Bosnia-Herzegovina Portion:
a two-lane highway as the first phase of an
ultimate four-lane divided highway with limited
access between Banja Luka and Klasnice (about
9.3 km).
(B) Macedonia Portion:
two additional traffic lanes to the limited access
main highway between Kumanovo and Titov Veles
(about 52.7 km).
(C) Serbia Portion:
two additional traffic lanes to, and the
reconstruction of the existing two-lane limited
access highway from Mali Pozaverac to Ralja (about
28 km).
(D) Kosovo Portion:
a new two-lane paved highway along the approximate
alignment of an old earth road between Pristina,
Makovac and Petrilja on the Pristina-Leskovac route
(about 40 km).


﻿- 19 -
Part II.
(A) Road-User Charges Study:
A study to be carried out by the CRO for the
purpose of (i) examining the fiscal, economic and
administrative aspects of the present system of
levying road user charges, taxing vehicles and
allocating resources to the highway sub-sector in
Yugoslavia and (ii) making recommendations
concerning appropriate pricing policies and systems
for levying road-user charges to achieve an optimal
economic utilization of present and proposed road
(including urban road) facilities.
(B) Rail Costs Study:
A study to be carried out by the CYR for the
purpose of (i) studying rail costs in Yugoslavia
and (ii) establishing a cost account system which
would provide the railway management with all the
data required for the continuing analysis of the
relationship between costs and tariffs and for cost
control and comparison thereof.
(C) Highway Development Plan in Kosovo:
A study to be carried out by the Kosovan Borrower
for the purpose of preparing (i) an integrated
highway development program in Kosovo with
priorities set on economic criteria and (ii) a
detailed highway investment program covering the
period 1978-1980 and an outline for the highway
investment program covering the period 1981-1985.
Part I of the Project is expected to be completed by
September 30, 1980.
Part II (A) of the Project is expected to be completed
by December 31, 1978.
Phases I and II of Part II (B) of the Project are expected
to be completed by June 30, 1978 and June 30, 1979, respectively.
Part II (C) of the Project is expected to be completed
by June 30, 1978.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1980
through   November 1, 1991                   2,335,000
On May 1, 1992                                    2,295,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                     Premium
Not more than three years before
maturity                                1.70%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                         3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         6.25%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                         7.35%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                         8.50%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Contracts for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Conditions of bid invitation shall not require that foreign
firms enter into compulsory joint ventures with Yugoslav firms.
3.    (a)  All bidders for civil works included under the Project
shall be prequalified as described in Part 1.3 of the Guidelines.
(b)   Bid invitations for all contracts shall be advertised
also in well-known technical journals or trade publications
outside Yugoslavia.
(c)   Foreign contractors shall not be required to register
in Yugoslavia as a prerequisite for submitting bids. In the event.
that registration shall be necessary after a foreign contractor
has been notified that he will be awarded a contract, the
Borrowers shall facilitate the registration.
(d)  A time period of at least 60 days shall be allowed
for submission of bids.
(e)    Bid bonds or guarantees in the amount of at least 3%
of the bid value shall be required with the submission of bids.
(f) Each civil works contract shall be on a unit-price
basis and shall include:
(i) a price adjustment clause as described in paragraph
2.11 of the Guidelines;
(ii) a provision for retention money in the amount of at
least 5% of the contractor's monthly statements;
and


﻿- 23 -
(iii) an obligation to provide a performance bond in
the amount of 100% of the contract value or
alternatively, at the contractor's option, a
bank guarantee in the amount of at least 10% of the
contract value.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. Each concerned Borrower through
CRO shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in
detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a
statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished
by said Borrower through CRO to the Bank for its comments before
the applicants are notified of the decision of such Borrower, and
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts for civil works:
(a) Before bids are invited, each concerned Borrower through
CRO shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, each
concerned Borrower through CRO shall, before a final decisiGn on
the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to
which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent


﻿- 24 -
with the Guidelines or this S,hedule, promptly inform such
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
through CRO to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
C.   Cooperation among the Borrowers and CRO
In taking any actic-n required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions seL forth or referred to in the Guidelines or
in this Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, the Borrowers shall
proceed in cooperation with each other and with the CRO as set
forth in Schedule 8 to the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
1.    Paragraph 4 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"4. The term 'Loan' means the loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement and the term 'Individual Portion of the
Loan' means the portion of the Loan allocated a particular
Borrower in accordance with the Loan Agreement.
2.    Paragraph 6 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"6.   The term 'Borrower' means all the parties to
the Loan Agreement to which the Loan is made, except that
in Section 4.05, Section 5.02, Section 5.03, Section 5.07,
paragraphs (a), (c), (d), (e), (h) and (i) of Section 6.02,
paragraphs (c), (e), (f) and (g) of Section 7.01 and Section
10.02, such term means one or more such parties."
3.   Section 3.05 is deleted.
4.    Paragraph (b) of Section 4.02 is amended by deleting the
words "Section 3.05" and by substituting the words "paragraph
(b) of Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement".
5.   Section 6.01 is deleted.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 6
Highway Design Standards
The Borrowers concerned shall construct the highways included in Part I of the Project in
accordance with the design standards set out below:
Mali
Pozarevac-  Kumanovo- Miladinovci- Petrovec- Katlanovo- Banja Luka-     Pristina-
Unit   Ralija   Miladinovci   Petrovec   Katlanovo Titov Veles Klasnice      Leskovac
Type of Terrain -      Hilly      Rolling       Flat        Flat      Hilly    Flat/      Hilly/
Rolling    Mountainous
Design speed    km/hr   120          120         120         120      100          120         40
Max. Gradient     %       1            4           3           3        5            2          9
Carriageway
Width           m   2 x 7.5          7.5         7.5         7.5      7.5          7.5        6
Emergency
Lane
Width           a   2 x 2.5          2.5         2.5         2.5      2.5      2 x 2.5
Shoulder
Width           m   2 x 1.0    1.0 & 2.0   1.0 & 2.0   1.0 & 2.0 1.0 & 2.0 1.0 & 1.0      2 x 1.0
Minimum
Radius
Hori-
zontal
Curves          a     700          700         700         700      500         600          40
Minimum
Radius
Vertical
Curves
Summits         a  20,000       20,000      20,000      20,000   18,000      20,000       4,000
Saga            m  18,000       18,000      18,000      18,000   12,000      18,000       2,000


﻿- 27 -
Mali
Pozarevac-  Kumanovo- Miladinovci- Petrovec-   Katlanovo- Banja Luka-   Pristina-
Unit   Ralja    Miladinovci   Petrovec   Katlanovo Titov Veles Klasnice      Leskovac
Type of Terrain -      Hilly      Rolling       Flat        Flat      Hilly     Flat/      Hilly/
Rolling    Mountainous
Maximum
Single
Axle
Load          ton      10          10          10         10         10         10            10
Type of
Wear-
ing
Sur-
face            - Asphaltic    bF,phaltic Asphaltic Asphaltic     Asphaltic    Asphaltic   Surface
Concrete    Concrete   Concrete   Concrete     Concrete     Concrete    Concrete


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 7
Actions to be taken by each of the Borrowers and by the CRO
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to
in Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement:
1.   (a) Upon any such Borrower's respective written request the
CRO shall promptly take the following action with respect to
the Borrower's Individual Portion of the Loan:
(i) make applications for withdrawal from the Loan
Account and pay to the Borrower, or on its order
the amounts so withdrawn;
(ii) request the Bank to enter into any special
commitments in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions;
(iii) give the Bank notice of any repayment in advance
of maturity in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph (b) of Section 2.09 of the Loan
Agreement;
(iv) request the Bank to purchase any currency needed
by the Borrower for payment of principal, interest
and other charges, as provided by Section 4.05
of the General Conditions;
(v)   give the Bank any notice of cancellation in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)
of Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement; and
(vi) in general, take any action required or permitted
to be taken by the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of the General Conditions and
the Loan Agreement referred to in Section 2.10 of
the Loan Agreement.
(b)   Any request submitted to the CRO in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (a) above shall be in such form, and
include such supporting documentation as the CRO shall determine
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
2.   All payments to be made to the Bank by any of the Borrowers
shall be made through the CRO, provided that for such purpose:


﻿- 29 -
(a)  the CRO shall open an account with a Yugoslav bank to
be used exclusively for making such payments (hereinafter called
the Special Account), the necessary details about such Special
Account to be communicated to all Borrowers;
(b)   each of the Borrowers shall make any such payment
into the Special Account in such currency or currencies, and not
later than five working days before such date, as such payments
have to be made to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of
the Loan Agreement;
(c)   not later than 15 working days before any payment
is to be made into the Special Account in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (b) above, the CRO shall advise the
respective Borrowers of the currency or currencies of payment and
of the payment due date; and
(d)  using the funds paid by the Borrower into the Special
Account, the CRO shall promptly make to the Bank the payments to
be made by such Borrower.
3.    The CRO shall (i) assign qualified and experienced staff
in sufficient numbers for the carrying out of the actions to be
carried out by it on behalf of the Borrowers in accordance with
this Schedule 7, (ii) periodically determine its costs and
expenditures incurred in carrying out such actions, and (iii)
charge each of the Borrowers with such costs and expenditures in
the same approximate proportion as its Individual Portion of the
Loan bears to the total amount of the Loan. Each of the Borrowers
shall promptly reimburse the CRO for its share of such costs and
expenditures as so determined by the CRO.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 8
Cooperation between the Borrowers and the CRO in the carrying
out of Part I of the Project (see Section 3.01 of, and Part C of
Schedule 4 to, the Loan Agreement):
1.    The CRO shall establish and maintain a unit (hereinafter
called the Unit) at CRO's headquarters for the coordination of
construction, subject to the approval of the Borrowers. The Unit
shall be supported by such full-time staff provided by the CRO as
the Borrowers shall deem necessary. The CRO shall periodically
determine its costs and expenditures incurred in operating the
Unit and shall charge each of the Borrowers with such costs and
expenditures in the same approximate proportion as its Individual
Portion of the Loan bears to the total amount of the Loan. Each of
the Borrowers shall promptly reimburse the CRO for its share of
such costs and expenditures as so determined by the CRO.
2.   The Unit shall have the functions set forth below as well as
any other functions the Borrowers may assign to it, namely, to
take any action required or permitted to be taken by the Borrowers
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, and in particular and without
limitation, to evaluate bids, to review the Borrowers' proposals
about making awards and to forward such proposals to the Bank, all
as required by the provisions set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 of
Part B of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.


