CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1377 YU
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Eighth Highway Project)
between
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 13, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 13, 1977, between SOCIALIST FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the. Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank, party of the first part, and ZAJEDNICA PREDUZECZA
PUTEVE S.R. SREIJE, (Association of Enterprises for Roads of the
Socialist Republic of Serbia) (hereinafter sometimes called the
Serbian Borrower), REPUBLICKA ZAJEDNICA ZA PUTEVE, SARAJEVO
(Republic Community for Roads, Sarajevo) (hereinafter sometimes
called   the  Bosnia-Herzegovinan   Borrower), SOCIJALISTICKA
REPUBLICKA FOND ZA PATISTA S.R. MAKEDONIJE (The Socialist
Republic of Macedonia) (hereinafter sometimes called the
Macedonian Borrower), SAMOUPRAVNA INTERESNA ZAJEDNICA ZA
MAGISTRALNE I REGIONALNE PUTEVE, S.A.P. KOSOVO, PRISTINA (The
Self-Managing Community of Interest for Arterial and Regional
Roads, S.A.P. Kosovo, Pristina) (hereinafter sometimes called the
Kosovan Borrower), parties of the second part (any such parties of
the second part hereinafter sometimes individually called a
Borrower and all such parties of the second part hereinafter
sometimes collectively called the Borrowers), the Bank has agreed
to make to the Borrowers a loan in various currencies equivalent
to fifty-six million dollars ($56,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrowers in respect of such loan and to cause Part II (A) and
(B) of the Project (described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement)
to be carried out by the CRO and the CYR (as such terms are
defined in the Loan Agreement), as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrowers, has agreed so
to guarantee such obligations of the Borrowers;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble and Section 1.02 of the
Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the aggregate
amount of the Individual Portions of the Loan allocated to the
Borrowers under the Loan Agreement, and the premium, if any, on
the prepayment of such aggregate amount.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external


﻿- 3 -
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit to be taken, any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by any of the Borrowers or the CRO
of their obligations contained in the Loan Agreement, and that,
within the limits of its constitutional powers, it will take or
cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or appropriate
to enable the Borrowers and the CRO to perform such obligations.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall exercise its powers with
respect to all public roads so as to ensure: (i) that such roads
will be adequately maintained and repaired in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices; (ii) that the
systematic collection and recording of the data necessary for the
proper planning and maintenance, improvements and extension of


﻿-4-
such roads will be continued; and (iii) that the dimensions and
axle-loads of vehicles using such roads shall not exceed the
limits as are appropriate to their design standards.
Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor shall through its Federal
Committee for Transport and Communications ensure that CRO will
carry out the road-user charges study included in Part II (A) of
the Project and that CYR will carry out the rail costs study
included in Part II (B) of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate transport practices,
and with the assistance of experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank,
and that CRO and CYR will closely cooperate in the carrying out
of such studies and regularly exchange information thereon.
(b)  On or before June 30, 1979 the Guarantor shall review
the respective recommendations of such studies with the Bank
and shall, promptly after such review, determine, in agreement
with the Bank, which of the recommendations shall be implemented
and the terms and conditions of such implementation.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Federal Secretary for Finance of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Savezni Sekretarijat za Finansije
Bulevar Avnoj-a 104
11070 Belgrade
Yugoslavia
Cable address:
SAVEZNI SEKRLTARIJAT ZA FINANSIJE
Belgrade


﻿-5-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
By /s/ Dimce Belovski
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ A. David Knox
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


