 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14687

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 05/12/2015

               Country: India
             Project ID: P083780                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Third Tamil Nadu             Project Costs (US$M):          US$ 434.00M            US$410.5M
                         Urban Development
                         Project (tnudp Iii)
  L/C Number:            L4798                        Loan/Credit (US$M):              US$300.00         US$ 290.87M
      Sector Board:      Urban Development            Cofinancing (US$M):                    NA                   NA

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                07/05/2005
                                                              Closing Date:             03/30/2011         03/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Roads and highways (55%); General water sanitation and flood protection sector (35%);
                           Sub-national government administration (10%)
          Theme(s):        Other urban development (33% - P); Municipal governance and institution building (33% - P);
                           Municipal finance (17% - S); Urban services and housing for the poor (17% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy John R. Eriksson             Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The objective of the project was" to improve urban infrastructure services in Tamil Nadu in a sustainable manner
through: (a) strengthening the managerial, financial and technical capabilities of Urban Local Bodies (ULBs); (b)
mobilizing resources and securing sustainable funding sources for urban infrastructure by Tamil Nadu Urban
Development Fund (TNUDF); and (iii) providing incentives for investments in low-income neighborhoods through the
use of capital grants". ( Loan Agreement page # 20)

The project was restructured twice (both at Level 2) with Board approval. The project development objective (PDO)
was not changed. The project was first restructured on 07/01/2009. As part of this restructuring, the closing date of
the project was extended by one year from 03/30/2011 to 03/ 31/ 2012 and the scope of Chennai Urban Transport
sub-component was reduced. While 21 urban transport sub-projects were originally proposed under the
sub-component, the Mid-Term Review of July 30, 2009 concluded that only five road sub-projects were adequately
prepared and feasible for implementation during the balance period of the project. Hence as part of this restructuring,
only those five road sub-projects were retained for Bank financing. The second restructuring was on 02/07/2012. to
solely extend the closing date by two years from March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2014. The loan period was extended to
enable GOTN/ULBs to complete 29 on-going (mainly sewerage) sub-projects and to allow time to demonstrate some
of the innovative approaches that were planned under the project components.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
 There were two main components. They were, Institutional Development and Urban Investment.

A. Institutional Development : (appraisal cost US$ 25.00 M: actual cost US$ 19.66 M)
The objective of the component was to support management improvements and institutional changes, including
provision of goods, technical assistance, workshops, and staff training to support the implementation and
sustainability of urban policy reforms, organizational performance, and urban services delivery.

B. Urban Development (appraisal cost US$ 407.50 M: actual cost US$ 390.14 M).
The objective of the component was to develop sustainable urban investments such as water supply, waste water
collection, solid waste management, storm water drains, roads and common facilities such as transportation networks,
and sanitation facilities, based on demand driven investment plans developed by Urban Local Bodies (ULBs). While
investments will be spread over ULBs throughout the State, part of the component will also support grants for urban
road infrastructure and traffic management programs in the Greater Chennai Metropolitan Area including the
surrounding peri-urban areas. These investments would include road widening, small bridges, traffic studies and
management, and road safety sub-components.

The component included two sub-components. They are: ULB Investment sub-component and Chennai Metropolitan
Development Authority (CMDA) Transportation sub-component.
The first sub-component covered investments in urban infrastructure projects that were implemented under Tamil
Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF), and managed by its fund manager, Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure
Financial Services Limited (TNUIFSL), such as: (i) underground Sewerage; (ii) water supply; (iii) solid waste
management and (iv) Salem river improvement).
The second sub-component included: (I) roads and foot-over bridge sub-projects; (ii) initiatives with the Chennai City
Traffic Police; and (iii) institutional capacity strengthening and modernization of the Highway Research station.

Changes during Implementation
As mentioned in the above section 2a, the project was restructured twice with Board approval. The first restructure
was on 07/01/2009 and the second, was carried out on 02/07/2012. The project development objective (PDO) was not
changed. However, though there were no changes made to the results analysis framework, modifications were made
to the target of sub-component ‘Chennai Urban Transport’ under Component B. The number of urban transport
sub-projects was reduced from 21 to 5 urban transport sub-projects as part of the first restructuring but for the
purposes of this review this did not justify a split rating.


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Costs:
The estimated cost at appraisal was US$ 434.00 M. The actual cost at completion was US$ 410.55 M (Annex 1 of
ICR).

Financing:
Of the total amount of US$ 300.00 M signed for IDA financing, the actual disbursement was US$ 290.87 M. Bank
financing was reduced due to mis- procurement under CCTP sub-component, resulting in cancellation (Page # 53 and
Table # 12 and #13 of the Borrower ICR) . There was no co- financing.
Borrower Contribution :
The original borrower commitment was US$ 134.00 M, but the actual contribution was only US$ 119.68 M (Annex 1 of
ICR).

Dates:
The project closed on March 31, 2014 instead of 03/30/2011 as planned at appraisal. .


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
SUBSTANTIAL

The objective was responsive to the Government’s continued efforts to meet the needs of Tamil Nadu urban
development. The state is about 48.5% urbanized with about 35 million people residing in urban areas and
accounting for 9.6% of India’s total urban population. The criticality of the urbanization issue is clearly spelt out in the
         th
latest 12 Plan of Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) and the Tamil Nadu 2023 Vision document. With regard to
absolute number of urban population, the urban growth rates have outpaced rural growth rates. The urban population
growth in the state was 27% during 2001 to 2011 as compared to rural growth of 6% during the same period.

 The relevance of the objective is further justified within the nation’s urban sector priorities as outlined in the 12th Plan
of Government of India: (i) increasing investment in urban infrastructure; (ii) strengthening urban governance and
institutional capacity; (iii) raising environment sustainability; and (iv) improving financial sustainability of ULBs.

At approval the objective was consistent with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the
Executive Directors on August 26, 2004. The objective continues to be coherent with the Bank's latest India Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY2013-2017. Specifically, the objective is directly relevant to the development goals
set out under the Engagement Area Two on Spatial Transformation that seeks to leverage rural-urban transformation
as an opportunity to reduce poverty and increase competitiveness


b. Relevance of Design:
MODEST

The design was founded on extensive background analysis. The components were suitably chosen to support the
achievement of the PDO and to take forward the existing collaborative engagement by the Bank with the GOTN to
address the single most serious issue of urbanization. For instance, even though the ‘Chennai Urban Transport’
sub-component had to be scaled down, the Project design was flexible to allow re-configuration without deviating
significantly from PDOs set forth for the Project.

The causal chain was comprehensive and captured the dimensions of the development objective. The results chain
was broad to capture the demand driven nature of the project, though the original DO and intermediate outcome (IO)
indicators were not sufficiently measurable to enable effective monitoring.

Implementation arrangements of the earlier operation were retrofitted to provide flexibility to make mid-course
corrections, as needed, to meet the emerging challenges of the subject project.

However, the design overlooked the implications of three new parameters that were considered under the
implementation arrangements. They are: (i) institutional complexity due to introducing two new departments within
GOTN; (ii) implication of retrofitting the second component with the Chennai Urban Transport sub-component at a
later stage of project preparation cycle; and (iii) centralizing the role of Commissioner for Municipal Administration
(CMA) without considering the additional time required for it to be fully effective. In this regard, the role of CMA was
centralized in institutional capacity building and urban sub-project management, along with Tamil Nadu Urban
Infrastructure Financial Services Limited (TNUIFSL), Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAD) and Chennai
Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB).

Though the project design identified the risks and provided mitigation measures, it did not take into account: (i) the
limited capacity of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) to oversee the implementation of the
roads sub-component for the greater Chennai Metropolitan Area; and (ii) the complexity of procuring contractors and
implementing sewerage sub-projects.

As part of restructuring, activities under the Chennai Urban Transport sub-component were significantly scaled down,
project funds were reallocated among the remaining sub-components of the same Component 2 and duration of the
project was extended by three years. Capacity building activities were strategically undertaken to improve the
operational effectiveness. The Results Framework was revised and a more elaborate Results Framework was put in
place with measurable targets adequate to assess the progress of project activities toward the Development
Objective.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The project objective was: “to improve urban infrastructure services in Tamil Nadu in a sustainable manner through:
(a) strengthening the managerial, financial and technical capabilities of ULBs; (b) mobilizing resources and securing
sustainable funding sources for urban infrastructure by TNUDF; and (c) providing incentives for investments in
low-income neighborhoods through the use of capital grants.”

There was no change to the objective at restructuring. With regard to indicators, given the demand driven nature of
the project, the Results Framework was revised during Mid–Term Review to include additional indicators of the
development objective (DO) and intermediate outcomes.

The achievement of the objective to improve urban infrastructure services in Tamil Nadu is weighed against
achievement of the sub-objectives clustered in the following manner.

“Strengthening the managerial , financial and technical capabilities of ULBs”
SUBSTANTIAL
Outputs

1. 49 newly created ULBs with new e-governance systems fully enabled
2. Web- portals developed for 102 ULBs and CMA
3. 93 training programs conducted on a wide range of technical and managerial skills to more than 27,280 persons
4. Comprehensive Traffic and Transportation Study on Chennai completed
5. Traffic enforcement and management system introduced
6. Over US$250 million of urban investments prepared 56%, of which are under implementation

Outcome

1. Web portals on case studies of success stories available for replication,
2. Information disseminated on services and contact persons at the ULB level and improved ULB-citizen interface.
3. Delegation of higher administrative powers by GOTN to the City Council (up to INR-4 million), Regional Director of
Municipal Administration (up to INR-5 million ) and CMA (up to INR-50 million)
4. Doubled income to ULBs (from INR-8880 million in 2008-09 to INR-21320 million in 2012-13) from devolution of
taxes to ULB s that provided a buoyant source of revenues and underpinned sustainable borrowing for investment
sub-projects
5 .Policy decisions approved by GOTN in July 2013 for creation of an accounting cadre at ULBs, as well as for new
accounting and budgeting rules/manuals
6.Fatal accidents reduced in Chennai area from 1449 in 2012 to 1271 in 2013

“Mobilizing resources and securing sustainable funding sources for urban infrastructure by TNUDF ”
SUBSTANTIAL
Outputs

1. TNDUF raised about US$52 million from non-budgetary sources against the target of US$ 40 M.

Outcome
1. Improved financial soundness among participating ULBs through cost recovery, increase in revenues, and better
debt management.
"Providing incentives for investments in low -income neighborhoods through the use of capital grants "
SUBSTANTIAL
Output
1. Sewerage sub-projects accessed capital grants and provided access to improved water / sewerage services to over
440,000 people in low-income neighborhoods

Outcome
1. Over 80% of participating ULBs implementing water and sewerage sub-projects introduced new (for sewerage) or
revised user charges aimed at 100% operation and maintenance (O&M) cost recovery. This was accomplished
through formal ULB council resolutions and approved by-laws


 5. Efficiency:
  MODEST
Economic and Financial Efficiency
Economic and financial analyses were not calculated at appraisal due to the demand driven nature of the project and
the costs and benefits of individual sub-projects were thus not completely identified at appraisal. However, the PAD
provided a framework for the ex-ante analysis and the ICR based it's analysis on this framework.

At completion, the overall post economic rate of return (ERR) under the Urban Local Body (ULG) component was
estimated at 19% and the ERR under the CMDA component was estimated at 18%.

The cost-benefit analysis was carried out for each sub-project with total costs of US$ 500,000 and above, except for
sub-projects with non-quantifiable benefits. The analysis also took into account the delays and consequent cost and
time impacts of the 3 year loan extension. The ERR was computed based on the evaluation of cost-benefit streams of
sub-projects implemented under the Urban Investment Component by ULBs and roads sub-projects by CMDA.

Water supply projects exhibited the highest ERR (24%) followed by Bus terminals (21%). Sewerage sub-projects
ranked the second lowest ERR (16%), to roads managed by ULBs (15%) and those by CMDA (18%).
Cities with multiple projects secured the highest ERR (28%) while the total value of these projects was lower than that
of the sewerage sub-project. According to the ICR, the relatively high ERR was a result of the benefits of the multiple
projects complementing each other (ICR, p.30).

Administrative Efficiency
The administration of the project was designed to match the scope of the project components. However, the newly
established institutional structure involved multiple implementing agencies and introduced two new departments
within GOTN, creating institutional complexity. This led to delays in implementation requiring two extensions of the
project closing date.

According to ICR ( page #7), these issues were eventually resolved through improving institutional coordination
between implementing agencies (IAs) by building capacity of IAs and ULBs via various trainings and workshops and
provision of operational and technical guidelines. Under these activities, City Development Plans, GIS mapping, and
development of manuals were prepared reasonably well on time and brought 49 newly created Grade-III ULBs on par
with others through computerization of their municipal functions and improving e-governance. Commissioner for
Municipal Administration (CMA)/ (Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Ltd (TNUIFSL) provided the
required additional monitoring.

The Bank team contributed to the administrative efficiency not only through their 17 regular field missions (Section -
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs) and provided timely recommendations but also through its joint efforts with
GOTN agencies, such as developing a new Design-Build-Operate-Transfer (DBOT) bid document for Sewerage
Treatment Plants (STPs) that proved successful in attracting qualified bidders and completing procurement.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No

    ICR estimate                    Yes                                      17.6%                                    91.2%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
  Overall Outcome.- The relevance of objectives is rated substantial and the relevance of design is rated modest.
The efficacy of achievement of the project objective is rated substantial. Efficiency is rated modest. Given the above,
outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Urban sector issues remain a key policy priority and focus area for GOTN. TNUDF continued to be a viable
institution with adequate staff and a loan recovery rate of 100%. A high probability of continued local ownership by
ULBs to retain local ownership of the sub-projects was projected given their participation on a demand driven basis.
Financial sustainability is evidenced through the appraisal process of TNUDF, which required a levy of user charges
where possible (backed by council resolutions to this effect). Design-Build-Operate-Transfer (DBOT) was considered
a model for Sewerage Treatment Plants (STPs, with five years of O&M built into the contracts. The Commissioner for
Municipal Administration (CMA) developed standard bid document and contracts for outsourcing O&M to private
players through Public Private Partnerships (PPPs). CMA also supported institutional sustainability, through
maintaining an ‘equipment bank’ for O&M of sewerage projects.
However, risk related to future O &M of sewerage is imminent, considering that the sub-sector accounts for a
significant part of the subject project cost and that after five years of operation and maintenance by the implementing
agencies, public-private partnership (PPP) model for O&M of sewerage system has been newly introduced in only one
municipality (ICR page#15). The results of the PPP model were yet to be demonstrated in this and other
municipalities.
   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
       Project preparation was founded on extensive background analysis and the experience of the two previous
related projects, TNUDP 1 and TNUDP 2. The two components of the project were suitably chosen to support the
achievement of the PDO and to address the single most serious issue of urbanization in Tamil Nadu. The Project
was prepared with a high level of political support from the State Government and strong commitment from the
Bank task team.

The results chain was tailored to meet the requirements of demand driven projects. The broad framework
included indicators that would get tracked depending on the type of participating ULBs and sub-projects. And,
accordingly, the results framework also provided for targets for the DO and IO indicators to be determined only
during implementation

But the Bank team failed to fully comprehend the complexity of establishing an implementation arrangement for a
multi-sector Project, following a demand driven approach. In this regard, the team did not weigh the requirements
to fully operationalize the newly established procedures for institutional development activities and for the CMDA’s
transport and traffic sub-component.

With regard to operational procedures the Bank team failed to: (i) consider the availability and need for a market
sensitive, precise and standardized bid document for procuring Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP) contractors; (ii)
capture the delays in obtaining regulatory clearances such as from the National Highways Department; and (iii)
deliberate on the various parameters of a demand driven project (such as: length of loan period, impromptu land
acquisition).


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated for supervision. There was continuity of staff within the
task team from project inception to completion. Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and implementation
Status Reports (ISRs) were realistic in reporting achievement of the development objective and implementation
performance. The Bank’s procurement and financial management staff worked with TNUDF staff to ensure
adherence to rules and procedures during project implementation with regard to procurement of goods and works
and selection of consultants, accounts and audits, based on the Loan Agreement (ICR page#17). Procurement,
safeguards and fiduciary compliance were regularly monitored by the task team and found to be compliant. In the
process any emerging issue or delays were addressed by the Bank without delays.

The Mid-Term -Review (MTR) was timely (July 2008) and addressed critical implementation issues. The Bank
team downgraded the Implementation Progress (IP) rating during MTR and subsequently restructured the project
in close partnership with GoTN to address the non-performing sub-component. The team also put in place more
elaborate Results Framework indicators appropriate to monitor the project activities.

 The main shortfall of the supervision was that the task team failed to pin down the duration of the loan period,
                                       nd
forcing the project to go through the 2 restructuring to extend the closing date by two years from March 31, 2012
to March 31, 2014, though the issues related to Sewerage Treatment Plants (STP) and the sub-component
‘Chennai Urban Transport’ under Component B land acquisition were already identified at MTR and at the first
restructuring.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:
 a. Government Performance:
     Both GOI and GOTN consistently maintained their commitment throughout the project cycle. Financial
accountability and follow-up were observed. Expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred and
documentation was maintained properly for periodic review. Counterpart funding was maintained in accordance
with the LA provisions. GOTN took timely corrective measures, made appropriate budget provisions and ensured
that TNUDF was adequately staffed throughout project implementation. All legal covenants under TNUDP-III were
complied with.

The government officials worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continuous basis, and cooperated fully
with the task team – for instance, in completing the restructuring and addressing sewerage related issues.

However, there were delays in: (i) obtaining regulatory clearances such as from National Highways Department
and from Tamil Nadu State Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) for the sewerage sub-projects (some of which took
over an year to be granted; (ii) land alienation involving other departments of GOTN ; and (iii) regulatory
clearances from Tamil Nadu State Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) .

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
   TNUDF/CMA were effective in carrying out all aspects of project management.

The project had decentralized financial management (FM) arrangements with involvement of multiple line
departments. Statement of expenses (SOE) claims and quarterly FMRs were regularly submitted to the Bank. The
actual utilization against tranche releases was monitored separately by TNUDF and was reported in the quarterly
financial reports and validated through annual sub-project audit reports. The financial management of transport
implemented by CMDA was adequate, with no issues reported.

Procurement was handled by multiple agencies, for example CMA, CMDA, TNUDP, TWAD Board, Highways
Department, Highways Research Station, Chennai Traffic Police, Chennai Metro Water (CMWSSB), and ULBs.
While Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF)had adequate capacity to oversee procurement compliance,
many of the newly participating ULBs and government departments were less familiar with the Bank’s
procurement guidelines in the initial years of implementation, but this challenge was well addressed by TNUDF
(please see section # ’11 b’ of this review for additional detail).

Procurement of sewerage contracts was initially problematic due to a combination of factors - the schedule of
rates (which they were mandated to use) was not always reflective of market prices. In case of sewerage
contracts, there was a lack of adequate sewerage contractors in India. This resulted in high price bids, low
participation by bidders, re-bidding, etc. leading to delays, which was one of the main reasons for Loan extension.
The Bank team worked closely with counterpart agencies/ULBs in resolving these issues through a variety of
measures, including revision of costing practices, holding bidders’ conferences, incorporating suitable price
adjustment formula in bid documents, developing a new Design-Build-Operate-Transfer (DBOT) bid document etc.
At closure the project was able to successfully bid out all (over 50) sewerage contracts. Additionally, TNUDF also
closely supervised hiring consultants under the Project Development Advisory Facility (PDAF).

TNUDF / CMA submitted all required quarterly and annual reports in a timely manner. These reports were
informative, and provided valuable feedback on how the TNUDP-III was progressing covering all project activities.
The status of performance indicators were incorporated in all progress reports and served as valuable input to
Bank supervision mission reports.

Interagency coordination was a major element during project implementation. The project involved multiple
institutions and agencies, thus requiring effective institutional arrangements to ensure coordination. For instance,
early stage coordination for the urban infrastructure component was facilitated through state-level committees,
while in the case of the CMDA component, the multi-agency PMU was complemented with a separate PIU within
the Highways Department for sharper focus on the road sub-projects.

TNUDF played an intermediary role in appraisal and monitoring of safeguards impacts, followed up on safeguard
implementation with the concerned local bodies and provided strong support to Highway department in
successfully mitigating safeguard impacts. Throughout the implementation, TNUDF maintained the safeguard
positions and these safeguard specialists brought out issues as they emerged to the attention of ULBs and closely
followed up on their implementation. Through this process not only were the environment and social safeguards in
compliance (please see Section ’11 a’ below for additional details, but TNUDF also strengthened its capacity for
safeguards management. For instance, TNUDF played an intermediary role in appraisal and monitoring of
safeguards impacts. It closely followed up on safeguard implementation with the concerned local bodies and
provided strong support to Highway department in successfully mitigating safeguard impacts. Throughout the
implementation, TNUDF maintained the safeguard positions and these safeguard specialists brought out issues to
the attention of ULBs and closely followed the implementation issues. Through this process, TNUDF has also
developed capacity for safeguard management

On the negative side, there were initial delays in the implementation of the Chennai urban transport
sub-component. However, the sub-component accounted for only less than 10% of the overall project cost and its
performance picked up after restructuring

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
      The results chain was tailored to meet the requirements of demand driven projects. The broad framework
included indicators that would get tracked depending on the type of participating ULBs and sub-projects. And,
accordingly, the results framework also provided for targets for the DO and IO indicators to be determined only during
implementation. This was rectified during mid-term review, when the Bank team along with GOTN counterpart
agencies put in place a more elaborate and specific results framework with targets (used in this ICRR). TNUDF being
a continuing institution had adequate methods for collecting and collating data, especially financial data (such as ULB
loan repayment rates), as part of its sub-loan/sub-grant agreements with ULBs.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   TNUDF regularly collected the following data to support implementation monitoring: (i) contract management and
sub-project completion; (ii) procurement; (iii) status of Environment and Social safeguards implementation; and (iv)
financial data and reporting, including quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and repayment of loans by the
ULBs etc. The actual figures were compared with the target values. As service level indicators were to be monitored
at the ULB levels, these indicators were not monitored very closely at the TNUDF level, but regularly by the office of
Commissioner of Municipal Administration (CMA)..

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The data provided in the bi-monthly reports of TNUDF were evaluated as part of periodic internal reviews and used
for decision-making by GOTN and CMA, particularly with regard to implementation of contracts, ULBs’ debt servicing,
procurement, and disbursements. In addition, the information was also used by the Bank team for supervision and for
internal reporting as part of Implementation Status Reports.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
Environmental Safeguards: The project triggers for OP 4.01 is classified as ‘F’ category. The sub-projects were in
accordance with the Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF). Thirty sewerage/water treatment
plants taken up for implementation by ULBs, carried out Environment Impact Assessments (EIAs) as per ESMF. All
regulatory clearances were obtained from Tamil Nadu State Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) albeit with delays in
some instances. There were some instances of inadequacies in regular monitoring and reporting of EMP
implementation status by the respective agencies/ULBs, but, no issues were reported. As a supplement, two
Environment Audits were carried out to confirm implementation were in accordance with the EIAs. However, the ICR
does not confirm a positive environmental impact in terms of reduction in pollution of water bodies and water reuse
from the sewerage interventions.

Social Safeguards: .The project triggered OP 4.12 under social safeguards.
Land acquisition and resettlement implementation was in compliance with the ESMF and
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) were accordingly prepared during implementation. While there were some
instances of delays in compensation payment and R&R assistance, they were later addressed through follow-up by
the Bank team/TNUDF, with no issues reported. During implementation, two Social Audits were carried out to confirm
that implementation was in agreement with the Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs). According to the ICR, availability of
land for urban sub-projects was problematic. Key reasons quoted are: change in site/locations (about 16
sites/locations were changed from over 40 sites that were required); (ii) objections from nearby residents,; (ii) court
cases (due to land titles not being clear in India in general); (iii) delays in land alienation involving other departments
of GOTN; and (iv) failure of private land acquisition negotiations (linked to general risk averse atmosphere within
governments in India over the last few years). At closure, all site-related issues were successfully addressed and
there was no pending case on site availability. With regard to title issuance, the process was not completed at
closure for 65 squatter families who were shifted to an apartment in Salem. According to the ICR, the titles were
expected to be issued by December 2014 at the end of five years of stay in the new house as per existing GOTN
laws/rules for issuing titles. However, compensation and assistance had been paid to all affected people and the
project facilitated inclusion of 400 non-title holders for R&R assistance who otherwise would not have received
compensation.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement
As previously noted, procurement was undertaken by multiple agencies. While TNUDF had adequate capacity to
oversee procurement compliance, many of the newly participating ULBs and government departments were less
familiar with the Bank’s procurement guidelines in the initial years of implementation. This was quite challenging with
regard to ensuring procedural compliance, collecting the list of contracts (for the purpose of post review) and
preparing procurement plans. In this regard, TNUDF: (i) studied all ULB related procurement plans though there was
reluctance by newly participating ULBs to follow agreed procurement procedures, particularly where these were in
conflict with GOTN’s Transparency in Tenders Act; (iii) reviewed contracts, irrespective of the value of the Bank’s prior
review thresholds; (ii) provided capacity building through training and hand-holding support to ULBs for compliance
with Bank procurement guidelines; (iii) collected the list of contracts (for the purpose of post review); and (iv) gathered
procurement data during implementation for monitoring purposes for both Bank as well as Government of Tamil Nadu.
Additionally, TNUDF also closely supervised hiring consultants under the Project Development Advisory Facility
(PDAF).


The procurement of sewerage contracts were initially problematic due to a combination of factors - the schedule of
rates (which they were mandated to use) was not always reflective of market prices in case of sewerage contracts,
lack of adequate sewerage contractors in India, etc. This resulted in high price bids, low participation by bidders,
re-bidding, etc. leading to delays, which was one of the main reasons for Loan extension. The Bank team worked
closely with counterpart agencies/ULBs in resolving these issues through a variety of measures, including revision of
costing practices, holding bidders’ conferences, incorporating suitable price adjustment formula in bid documents,
developing a new Design-Build-Operate-Transfer (DBOT) bid document, etc. At closure the project was able to
successfully bid out all (over 50) sewerage contracts. However there is no documentation related to number of
procurement audits in the ICR.

Financial Management
The project had decentralized FM arrangements with involvement of multiple line departments. Although the line
departments maintained appropriate accounting records as per the government prescribed norms, there were initial
delays in financial reporting and submission of SOE claims to the office of TNUDF. These were mainly due to
ineffective coordination between line departments and lack of understanding on the Bank’s reporting procedures.
TNUDF had later developed standard financial reporting formats, after which SOE claims and quarterly FMRs were
regularly submitted to the Bank. The actual utilization against tranche releases were monitored separately by TNUDF
and was reported in the quarterly financial reports and validated through annual sub-project audit reports. The
financial management of transport implemented by Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) was also
adequate, with no issues reported. However there is no documentation related to number of financial audits in the
ICR.


 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
Two initiatives to introduce public private partnerships (PPPs) were, according to the ICR, to have potential for
replication and wider scale-up (ICR, page#15). They were: (i) Pallavaram Municipality, which had already introduced
PPP in O&M of its sewerage system and (ii) 25 MLD Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) had been bid out on a PPP-BOT
model in Tuticorin, where the private operator would invest in the STP, maintain it and recover the investment costs by
selling treated waste-water to industrial waste-water users in the vicinity. These sub-projects were believed to hold
potential for replication in other rapidly urbanizing and industrial regions of Tamil Nadu and other parts of India.
d. Other:
NONE


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately         The relevance of objectives is rated
                                                            Satisfactory       substantial and the relevance of design
                                                                               is rated modest. The efficacy of
                                                                               achievement of the project objective is
                                                                               rated substantial. Efficiency is rated
                                                                               modest. Given the above, outcome is
                                                                               rated moderately satisfactory.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately         There were shortcomings in
                                                            Satisfactory       Government performance owing to
                                                                               delays in: (i) obtaining regulatory
                                                                               clearances such as from National
                                                                               Highways Department and from Tamil
                                                                               Nadu State Pollution Control Board
                                                                               (TNPCB) for the sewerage sub-projects
                                                                               (some of which took over a year to be
                                                                               granted; (ii) land alienation involving
                                                                               other departments of GOTN ; and (iii)
                                                                               regulatory clearances from Tamil Nadu
                                                                               State Pollution Control Board (TNPCB)
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
  Calibrating loan period to project complexity / project design . At appraisal, the project/loan period should be
calibrated taking into account project complexity and the project approach rather than following a standardized five
year loan period. Especially for a demand driven and complex project, a thorough review of similar initiatives would
be advantageous as well as relatively intensive technical assistance by experienced Bank staff would be helpful
during preparation and implementation.

Tapping into Non-traditional resources as a Supplement to Mainstream Project Financing : A combination of bond
financing and beneficiary contributions is a tested approach that could be considered based on the implementation
location and existing political environment. This would involve combining private, public and donor funds with
beneficiary contribution.

Levy of user charges : All water supply, sewerage and bus terminal projects should be structured with beneficiary
contributions to fund the capital cost of the project and user charges to cover full O&M and debt service to achieve
financial sustainability. This could be done through a well- designed documentation process, including detailed
project appraisal followed by loan sanctions, considering the debt bearing capacity of the local bodies/beneficiaries
and acceptance of terms and conditions of loan sanctions.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
Why? A project performance assessment is recommended to: (i) identify the accrued benefits and costs (direct and
indirect), given that over US$250 million worth of urban investments were prepared and 56% of which were still under
implementation at project closure; (ii) assess the performance of the PPP model in operation and maintenance of the
STPs; (iii)determine positive environmental impacts in terms of reduction in pollution of water bodies and water reuse ;
and (iv) confirm titles were issued for 65 squatter families who were shifted to an apartment in Salem by December
2014..




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR follows the OPCS guidelines and includes a good Borrower ICR. It provides an extensive report of project
investments and problems faced. The section on lessons learnt is evidence based and comprehensive. Stakeholders
are well defined and the ICR endorses their participation in various segments of the project cycle.

Some of the shortcomings noted in the ICR are as follows.
Lack of clarity of the term “framework project”
The ICR refers to the subject project being a ‘framework project’ 12 times but does not clearly define it. This creates
ambiguity in understanding the concept and the project approach. The ICR suggests but not make explicit the
equivalence between a 'framework project' and a demand-driven project (see ICR, pages 5 and 11), which the Project
Team equated.

Inadequate justification of Bank and Borrower Performance
There was limited explanation of the delays and the response of both the Bank and the borrower to how these were
handled and what, if anything, could have been done to keep the project on target.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
