                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26253

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-30160)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                                ALBANIA

                                                 FOR A

                   RECOVERY PROGRAM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                                01/21/2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2003)
               Currency Unit = ALL
                       LEK1 = US$ 0.00841
                        US$ 1 = LEK118.8

(Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal, November 7, 1997)

             Currency Unit = ALL
                      LEK1 = US$ 0.007
                     US$ 1 = LEK143.7

                   FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1 - December 31




       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


       ADR     -       Alternative Dispute Resolution
       ATM     -       Accounting and Treasury Management
       BART -          Bank Asset Resolution Trust
       BoA     -       Bank of Albania
       CAS     -       Country Assistance Strategy
       CEO     -       Chief Executive Officer
       CoM     -       Council of Ministers
       DOPA -          Department of Public Administration
       FSAC -          Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
       FSIBTA          Financial Sector Institutional Building Technical
                       Assistance
       EAP     -       Emergency Assistance Program
       EC      -       European Commission
       ECSPF -         Europe and Central Asia Private and Financial Sector
                       Development Unit
       ERP     -       Economic Recovery Program
       ESAF -          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
       EU      -       European Union
       IAS     -       International Accounting Standards
       IDA     -       International Development Association
       IFC     -       International Finance Corporation
       IMF     -       International Monetary Fund
       LCA     -       Loan Collection Agency
       MoF     -       Ministry of Finance
       NCB     -       National Commercial Bank
       PAR     -       Public Administration Reform
       PIU     -       Project Implementation Unit
       RCB     -       Rural Commercial Bank

            RPTA -          Recovery Program Technical Assistance
            RTGS -          Real Time Gross Settlement
            SB     -        State-owned bank
            SvB    -        Savings Bank



                 Vice President:    Johannes Linn
      Country Manager/Director:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
       Sector Manager/Director:     Khaled Sherif/Paul Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Hormoz Aghdaey/Greta Minxhozi

                                           ALBANIA
                            Recovery Program Technical Assistance


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Technical Assistance Program for Unwinding Insolvent Fundraisers

Project ID: P054384                                                      Project Name: Recovery Program Technical
                                                                         Assistance
Team Leader: Greta Minxhozi                                              TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Recovery Program Technical Assistance                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-30160
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (51%); Banking (33%); Law and
                            justice (13%); Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement
                            (3%)
                  Theme: Law reform (P); Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms
                            (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P);
                            Regulation and competition policy (P); Administrative and civil
                            service reform (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/12/1997                                        Effective: 03/19/1998
   Appraisal:    10/29/1997                                            MTR:
    Approval:    12/09/1997                                         Closing: 12/31/2000               10/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ALBANIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Johannes F. Linn                               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager:                 Paul J. Siegelbaum                             Lajos Bokros
Team Leader at ICR:             Greta Minxhozi                                 Tunc Uyanik
ICR Primary Author:             Greta Minxhozi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the Recovery Program Technical Assistance (RPTA) Project was to provide
assistance to the Government of Albania (The Government) in areas critical for the resumption of sustained
economic growth by supporting high priority activities under the Economic Recovery Program (ERP). As
part of a broader effort, the project provided support for institution-building and policy/program
formulation to facilitate efficient adoption of future assistance from the international donor community.
The three key areas that the project supported through its components were:
l Financial sector
l Public policy and economic management
l Project management and implementation

Importance to the Country. The RPTA, as an integral part of the ERP, contributed to Albania's economic
recovery, in particular to a better functioning banking system, and in strengthening of the institutional
capacity of the public administration, thus helping to restore public confidence in Government institutions,
confidence that was lost as a result of economic and political developments that brought the collapse of the
pyramid schemes (See Section 10). During 1992-95, economic growth averaged 8-9 percent a year. The
collapse of the pyramid schemes, which began in 1996 and accelerated through the early part of 1997,
resulted in a serious macroeconomic shock and widespread civil unrest. GDP in 1997 declined by 7 percent
and inflation soared from single digits to 42 percent. The liabilities resulting from the schemes amounted to
an estimated 50 percent of GDP, or roughly US$1.4 billion. When the Bank appraised the project at the
end of 1997, the banking sector was in distress. The three state-owned banks were insolvent because of
large problem portfolios and financial intermediation to the private sector was minimal. Public sector
management capability and legal authority were limited. There was a critical need to: (a) manage
immediate reforms necessary in the financial sector; (b) strengthen the legal and administrative framework
for private sector development; and (c) rebuild public services in response to social needs.

Consistency with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Bank prepared the RPTA project
on an accelerated basis, in response to the crisis. A new CAS had not yet been prepared; however, the
Bank had taken the lead in preparing a paper on recovery and growth in Albania, which provided the
strategic context for the economic recovery program supported by the donor community. This program
focused on simultaneous improvements in the areas of governance, institution-building, and
economic/social policy to restore confidence in the Government and create conditions for economic growth.
The Bank had an ongoing dialogue on banking sector reform and supported this reform through two earlier
operations; the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (EFSAC), approved in FY 1995, and the
Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform approved in FY 1993. Prior to the 1997 crisis, the
implementation of banking sector reforms had slowed down. However, in its aftermath, the commitment
and determination of the new government gave a new momentum to the reforms that Bank had been
promoting. The RPTA Project aimed to play a pivotal role in the Economic Recovery Program as an early
source of technical assistance to help the Government further these reforms and achieve key economic
growth targets. It complemented the Rehabilitation Project, which provided US$25 million in balance of
payments support linked to improvements in governance, financial sector operations, and social services.

Clarity and Realism of Objectives. The project's objectives were clear and realistic. They addressed the
Government's need for emergency assistance and were broad enough to allow the Bank to respond to
changing government demands. The design of the project's three components was appropriate for meeting
the objectives, corresponding to the key areas of Albania's recovery program. The project focused on the
restructuring/divestiture of state-owned banks combined with improvements to the banking system's



                                                    - 2 -

infrastructure and supervision. The second objective focused on catalytic actions in the public
administration and judicial sectors to establish the groundwork for follow-up projects specific to these
areas. The performance indicators for the project were appropriate, and included timelines for having key
advisors in place and deadlines for major reform actions in the banking sector. Furthermore, the
commitment of the Government was high, making the achievement of the objectives likely.

Complexity, Implementation Capacity, and Risk.              The project was straightforward in design but
ambitious in its scope of expected achievements. Also, since its execution involved several government
ministries, the project was challenging for the relatively new staff of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
However, the technical assistance that the project provided was sufficient to bring the management of the
project within the PIU's reach. The project's overall risk rating at appraisal was "substantial." The main
risks faced in meeting development objectives were: (a) adverse economic conditions; (b) breakdown of
the rule of law; (c) loss of political support for the implementation of banking sector strategy; and (d) lack
of cooperation by the management of the state-owned banks in the privatization/liquidation process. The
risk mitigation measures were appropriate and effective. They included: (a) dialogue with the Government
at the highest levels; (b) the selection of strong chief executive officers for the banks with the authority to
dismiss management for inadequate performance; and (c) the provision of a remedies clause in the legal
agreements allowing the Bank to withdraw from the project if reforms veered off track.


3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:

Overview. The project's components were closely aligned to its objectives.              The Financial Sector
Component supported the Government in the priority activities of banking sector restructuring and
strengthening. The Public Policy and Economic Management Component supported the secondary
objective, which was institution-building for policy formulation and public management to make efficient
use of the large amount of donor assistance that Albania was expected to receive. The project's
contribution in this area was limited to initiating activities in public administration and judicial reform,
while separate projects in these areas were under preparation.              The Project Implementation and
Management Component provided support to the PIU of RPTA to develop the capacity of new staff.

Financial Sector Component (US$3.38 million). This component provided assistance in implementing
financial sector reforms in the Government's recovery program. There were two sub-components. The
first was a bank restructuring and divestiture sub-component, consisting of assistance for: (a) liquidating
the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB); (b) privatizing the National Commercial Bank; (c) narrowing the
operations of Savings Bank, through a governance contract that prohibited further lending; and (d)
establishing a "work out agency" to collect on the non-performing assets received from the state-owned
banks. The second was assistance for: (a) improving accounting practices; (b) establishing a modern
payments system, and (c) strengthening banking system regulation and supervision.




                                                       - 3 -

Public Policy and Economic Management Component (US$1.96 million). This component consisted of
advisory services and equipment to: (a) increase the Government's capacity to formulate and implement the
public policy reforms necessary to bring about sustainable economic growth; (b) provide initial support for
an extensive program of public administration reform; (c) improve foreign and domestic debt management;
and (d) review alternatives for dispute resolution through the judicial system. Other donors were expected
to eventually take up some of these activities, freeing funds for other project-related activities.

 Project Management and Implementation Component (US$0.16 million). This component consisted of
expert services to strengthen the capacity of the PIU, to perform its implementation and monitoring
activities. In addition, the component provided short-term assistance with: (a) procurement, particularly
during the early stages of the project; (b) the preparation of annual audits for the project's accounts; and
(c) any other support, as needed, for effective and efficient project management.



3.4 Revised Components:
The Bank amended the project's Credit Agreement in order to allocate US$0.56 million equivalent to
supplement a donor-funded program for the resolution of the pyramid schemes. Section 5.2 discusses this
amendment and the program that the reallocation supported. In addition, the Bank agreed to the use of
US$0.38 million equivalent to initiate activities for the Treasury Modernization System, which was part of
the subsequently approved Public Administration Reform Project. The funding of these activities did not
require formal amendment because they were within the scope of the project's objectives.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no quality at entry assessment for the project. The ICR finds the quality satisfactory. The
project responded to the critical need for technical assistance in the implementation of the ERP and
complemented the Rehabilitation Credit. Though the appraisal of the project took place in less than a
month, the project's design benefited from a clear strategic framework. It also built upon a considerable
ongoing dialogue on financial sector reform that the project helped accelerate, given the Government's
commitment and determination in a crisis environment. The project also took account of the lessons
learned from the previous Reform TA Project - the need for flexibility in the allocation of funds,
considering the changing political environment; and the creation of a high-level, ad hoc committee to
minimize delays due to lengthy administrative procedures.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory, substantially achieving its objectives without major
shortcomings. The project played a crucial role in helping the Government manage the
internationally-funded Economic Recovery Program and followed through on the financial sector reform
program outlined in the IDA-financed Albania Rehabilitation Credit. It also helped initiate reforms in the
public administration and the judiciary framework. The impact of the project on institutional development
was high, as discussed in Section 4.4, due to flexibility in project design, intense supervision and the
Government's sustained commitment to the project despite political changes during the project's
implementation period.

The project could, however, only address some of the key and most urgent problems in the financial and
banking sector as well as in public administration. The remainder and the continuation of what started
under the RPTA, was followed under specific projects in each of these areas. That is also a fact that
proves the project's high sustainability. While the privatization of the National Commercial Bank (NCB)



                                                     - 4 -

took longer than scheduled, the original schedule of one year, in hindsight, was overly optimistic.
Privatization completion in a little over two years was in fact a considerable achievement, taking into
account that it was a first-time privatization of a state-owned bank in Albania and it took place in a
post-conflict environment. The overall value-added of IDA support, as anticipated at project appraisal, was
to help restore public confidence in the Government's economic policies, the banking sector's restructuring
and public administration. At the same time, the project helped attract funding from other international
donors, who had indicated that the resumption of their activities in Albania depended on the Bank and the
IMF taking a lead role.

Objective 1: Assist the Government by supporting high-priority activities under the Economic
Recovery Program (ERP).

Outcome: The project substantially achieved this objective. As described in section 4.2, it attained all
related key output indicators. Its technical assistance helped the Government to: (a) liquidate the RCB; (b)
privatize the NCB; and (c) improve the performance of the Savings Bank. The project helped to strengthen
the banking system both institutionally and technically. Its advisory services helped set up the Bank Asset
Resolution Trust (BART) for        resolving the non-performing loan portfolios received from the three
state-owned banks. The project also supported the development of an automated inter-bank payment
system, which will substantially improve the banking system's efficiency by reducing transaction times and
costs.

Objective 2:     Support institution-building and policy/program formulation to facilitate efficient
adoption of future assistance from the international donor community.

Outcome: The project substantially met this secondary objective. It provided broad institution-building
support to the Office of the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers, and the Department of Public
Administration. The project also contributed to both public sector and judicial reforms by complementing
key components of other Bank projects in these areas, notably: (a) the computerization of central Treasury
functions; (b) the establishment and operation of a Registry of Secured Charges; and (c) assistance to
improve the civil service salary structure and the legal framework for commercial disputes.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Financial Sector Reform


Output 1: Bank Restructuring/Divestiture of State-Owned Banks

The project met all four key indicators for the restructuring/divestiture of state-owned banks, the project's
main output. First, it financed a foreign chief executive officer for NCB to help prepare the bank for
privatization. Second, it provided assistance for liquidating RCB and preparing NCB for privatization by
the end of December 1998. The liquidation of RCB took place ahead of schedule, in December 1997. The
project's advisory services prepared NCB for privatization according to schedule. However, the actual
privatization of the bank was not complete until April 2000, when a consortium of investors purchased it.
The consortium consisted of Kentbank of Turkey, with 60 percent of the shares, and EBRD and
International Finance Corporation each with a 20 percent share.           Third, the project supported the
implementation of a governance contract for Savings Bank, which placed a moratorium on the bank's
lending activities and initiated restructuring of the bank in preparation for privatization. This contract
came into force, in May 1998. Fourth, the project financed audits of RCB and NCB for 1997, which were


                                                     - 5 -

completed with a slight delay.

Output 2: Improved Collection of Non-Performing Loans

The main indicator of this output was the establishment of an agency to resolve the non-performing loan
portfolios and the transfer of these portfolios to the agency by the end of March 1998. The project helped
establish the agency close to the original schedule. The Albanian Parliament approved the Law on BART in
April 1998. The non-performing portfolio of RCB was transferred to BART soon after the agency's
creation. The RPTA project financed the services of a resident advisor, who began his assignment shortly
after passage of the law. The advisor assisted BART's management in preparing a strategy, a business
plan, and operational guidelines. The non-performing portfolio of NCB was transferred to BART in July
2000, a few months after its privatization. This transfer was later than originally envisaged due to the
delay in the bank's privatization. The transfer of the non-performing portfolio of Savings Bank was
completed by end 2002. In total, BART administers 18,574 loans with a total obligation of around
32.4 bln lek (the principal accounts for 62 percent of the total portfolio). As of the end of 2002,
9.2 percent of the total portfolio was fully repaid and restructured.

Output 3: Strengthening of Banking Infrastructure

The main indicator of this output was the initiation of an improved payments system through the
establishment of a modern, automated system for the settlement of large-value payments. The project
provided advisors to the Bank of Albania for the preparation of user requirements for an Accounting and
Treasury Management System (ATM) and a Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system and the related
bidding documents, which required special technical expertise. The Bank agreed to finance this assistance
from the RPTA project also. The follow-up, IDA-financed, Financial Sector Institution-Building Technical
Assistance (FSIBTA) Project is supporting the implementation of this system.

Component 2: Public Policy and Economic Management

Output 1: Strengthened Public Policy and Program Formulation

The main indicator of this output was the appointment of high-level advisors to assist in formulating
policies and programs in support of the Economic Recovery Program. The project provided advisors to the
Office of the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers, and the Department of Public Administration. An
advisor to the Office of the Prime Minister was provided from 1998 until July 2001. The advisor provided
extensive policy and strategic advice including assistance to the Government in the negotiation of debt
restructuring with the Paris Club. The short-term advisor to the Council of Ministers assisted in the
development of improved legislative procedures. The Department of Public Administration also received
short-term advisory services to help design and implement a plan to improve the department's overall
operation and management capabilities. In addition to advisory services, the project also supported a salary
survey for the design of a new civil service salary structure and financed the consulting services, computers
and equipment to support the improved functioning of the Treasury. The Public Administration Reform
Technical Assistance (PAR) Project is providing follow-up support for these activities. Furthermore, the
project supported the development of the Secured Transactions Registry by financing the software
development, associated hardware, and local consultants to help the Registry's initial operations. The
Registry began operation in January 2001 and to date has recorded over 4000 registrations. It now
operates under a department of the Ministry of Finance. The Registry receives an average of 15-20
registrations per day and covers its own operating costs.



                                                     - 6 -

Output 2: Creation of a Debt Management/Monitoring System

This activity was dropped from the project. A United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) project
financed this component instead and the RPTA project's funds were reallocated to other components. The
UNDP-financed project has helped the development of a database for debt monitoring as well as training in
debt management for staff of the Ministry of Finance.

Output 3: Formulation of a Strategy for Commercial Dispute Arbitration/ Resolution

This activity was dropped from the project because the formulation of this strategy and the related Dispute
Resolution Center were included in the IDA-financed Legal and Judicial Reform Project, which was
approved after the RPTA Project. The RPTA funds were used instead for a diagnostic assessment to
improve court and case management. The project financed a consultant to conduct a detailed analysis of
the operations of the Tirana District Court, the Tirana Court of Appeal, and the High Court. On the basis
of this analysis, the consultants prepared detailed recommendations for policy reforms, technical assistance
and equipment needed to achieve the objectives.

Component 3: Project Management and Implementation

Output: None specified at appraisal.

The project also supported improvements to the accounting and financial management system of the PIU. A
new Project Management System began operation in March 2000. PIU staff ­ the PIU director, the
financial manager, procurement manager, and others ­ received overseas training in procurement and
financial management. At the outset of the project, the PIU was a specialized unit within the Ministry of
Finance. However, during project implementation, the Government decided to establish a contractual
relationship between all PIUs in Albania and the related Ministries, so that PIUs became free-standing,
project-financed units. This new arrangement increased the responsibility and accountability of the PIU
and helped to motivate the manager and staff.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As a technical assistance operation, there was no calculation of net present value/economic rate-of- return
at appraisal. Therefore, this section is not applicable to this project.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
As a technical assistance operation, there was no calculation of a financial rate of return at appraisal.
Therefore, this section is not applicable to this project.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was high for several reasons. First, its advisory services
helped successive new governments implement major institutional changes in the financial sector. Just two
and a half years after the project began, the Government had relinquished control of two out of three
insolvent state-owned banks, established tight governance of the third bank, in preparation for divestiture;
and set up an agency to resolve non-performing loans. Second, the project jump started reform in the
public administration and judicial sectors, which became the focus of subsequent IDA-financed projects.



                                                     - 7 -

Third, it provided critical assistance to enable the operation of the Registry of Secured Transactions, an
essential institution for fostering financial intermediation.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Changes of Government during Project Implementation. During the project's implementation there were
four changes of Government. Although the commitment of the various governments to the economic
recovery program did not change, each successive government required a transition to become familiar with
the program in general and with the RPTA components in particular. This resulted in some delays in
project implementation, especially with regard to the components related to public administration and
judiciary reform.

Impact of the Kosovo Conflict. In 1998, tensions in Kosovo erupted into violent confrontations between
the ethnic Albanians and the Serbs. The resulting conflict led to an influx of Kosovar refugees into Albania
during 1999. This conflict constrained the Government's administrative capacity, diverting its attention
from other matters but it did not derail the reform process. However, it caused delays in the progress of
various components, in particular on the banking sector reform.

Developments in International Financial Markets. There was a general slowdown of activity in
international financial markets beginning in 1998. This slowdown, combined with political risk perceptions,
may have limited the interest of investors in purchasing the NCB, contributing to the delay in the bank's
privatization.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Commitment to the Recovery Program and Reform. The Government showed considerable commitment
to the Recovery Program that the project supported and was proactive in improving the use of funds
available for this program, including those from the project. The Government took important fiscal
measures to reassert control of the country. Its efforts to resolve the pyramid schemes in a transparent
manner helped boost public confidence in government. During the project's implementation period, there
were significant achievements in several major CAS objectives, notably the introduction of a medium-term
expenditure framework and the establishment of the foundation for judicial and public administration
reform.

Allocation of IDA Funds to the Program for Unwinding Insolvent Fundraisers (Pyramid Schemes).
As noted in Section 3.4, the Bank amended the IDA Credit Agreement to allow a reallocation of funds to
meet a shortfall in financing the technical assistance program for unwinding the pyramid schemes and other
insolvent fundraisers. This program, estimated to have a total cost of US$7.2 million, received financial
support from the Government of Albania as well as from major multilateral and bilateral donors, including
the World Bank, the European Community, Greece, Italy, Switzerland and the United States (See Section
10 and Annex 8). The reallocation had no adverse impact on other project activities, for which alternative
funding sources had become available.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Procurement, Project Coordination, and Reporting. The PIU's professionalism and dedication to the
project resulted in highly satisfactory resolution of complicated procurement issues and coordination of the


                                                       - 8 -

project's activities among beneficiaries in several branches of the Government.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The actual cost of the project was US$5.1 million equivalent, about 92 percent of the estimated cost of
US$5.5 million equivalent at appraisal. The lower cost resulted substantially from exchange rate
fluctuations between the SDR and the US dollar. Regarding financing, the IDA Credit of SDR 3.7 million
(US$5.0 million equivalent) was almost 100 percent disbursed, with actual disbursements amounting to
US$ 4.93 million. The small amount that remained in the Credit account after final reconciliation of
accounts (less than US$7,000) was cancelled. The Government provided the additional US$0.18 million.
Annex 2 provides the details on project costs and financing.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project's objectives is likely. The overall outcome of the project was
satisfactory. The institutional development and the Government's commitment to the project's
objectives have been high. Since 1998, the macroeconomic situation has been relatively stable.
Furthermore, as described in Section 6.2, the Bank has established clearly-defined, follow-up
adjustment and technical assistance operations that build on achievements under the RPTA
Project. Given the Government's continuous determination to build on reforms, despite political
instability, the possibility of a reversal in achievements to date is low.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The divestiture of the state from the banking sector along with further institutional and technical
strengthening of the financial sector will continue with ongoing Bank support. The IDA-financed
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) is supporting the Government's program to
consolidate reforms in the financial sector and promote better engagement of the sector in the
development of the Albanian economy. The Government is pursuing efforts to privatize Savings
Bank and has taken steps to strengthen the operations of BART. In May 2002, the Albanian
Parliament adopted a new law for BART, providing the agency with a clear mandate to resolve
the non-performing loan portfolio by the end of 2005. The FSIBTA Project is providing the
technical assistance needed to implement further financial sector reforms. The IDA-financed PAR
Project and the Legal and Judicial Reform Project, both approved in FY 2000, are building on
work begun under RPTA in the public administration/judicial sectors to improve governance
through reforms in public policy, public administration and legal framework.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance was satisfactory. The Bank and the Borrower prepared, appraised, and negotiated
the project on an emergency basis in less than one month. This was possible because of extensive earlier
work in the financial sector and the agreement of all stakeholders on the reform program. The program was
comprehensive, supporting: (a) short and medium-term adjustment to recover from the 1997 crisis and (b)
technical assistance to help the Government implement adjustment operations as well as establish the
institutional framework for sustainable economic development over the long term. The project's prompt
preparation and appraisal reflected an exceptional effort and commitment and would not have been possible
without the strong support of the Country Unit and its management.



                                                     - 9 -

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance in supervision was satisfactory. A Quality of Supervision Assessment conducted
in June 2000, rated the project's supervision as satisfactory and the adequacy of supervision inputs as
highly satisfactory. The Bank's intensive oversight of key elements of the program, especially the banking
system divestiture/restructuring component, made it possible to achieve the project's objectives in a
difficult post-conflict environment. Bank staff demonstrated flexibility during implementation, maintaining
the overall strategic direction of reform but responding to evolving priorities and re-allocating funding as
necessary. The formal supervision missions, shown in Annex 4, were supplemented by frequent technical
missions. There was a strong collaboration between the RPTA project team and the teams of parallel
projects in public administration and judicial reform. The project's successful outcome also benefited from
the continuity of Bank staff, given the involvement of the same team in the appraisal and supervision of the
project, as well as in the design of follow-up projects in the financial sector. The preparation of supervision
reports took place on a timely basis and the supervision team included staff with extensive financial sector
and operations experience. The supervision of this operation was transferred to the country office in 2002,
in line with the Region's decentralization policy. This has allowed closer liaison with country counterparts
on a daily basis.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The expertise of the project team and its continuity from
project inception to completion made a considerable contribution to the project's satisfactory outcome.
Furthermore, the Bank's regional management also acknowledged the team for the successful privatization
of the NCB. The intensity of the team's supervision efforts was highly satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was extremely cooperative in identifying technical assistance needs and making prompt
decisions needed to facilitate the accelerated approval process for the project. This was accomplished by
the active involvement of the highest level of government officials as well as their appointed representatives
at the working level.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance was satisfactory. There was extensive cooperation among the Bank, the
Government and the Bank of Albania during project preparation, which continued through the
implementation phase. While frequent changes of the government resulted in some project delays, overall
they did not alter the direction of the recovery program or the Government's commitment to it. The
Government gave a high priority to the project, especially to activities related to the banking sector. After
taking office in 1997, the Government embarked on an ambitious program, taking difficult decisions to
cease all lending activities of the state-owned banks and divest itself from the banking sector. The
Government, by the end of the project, owned only one of the three state-owned banks in existence at the
time of project appraisal. The Government is currently pursuing efforts for the privatization of the third
bank. The Bank of Albania has strengthened the regulatory framework, which now reflects many
international and regional standards considered best practice.




                                                    - 10 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the PIU was highly satisfactory. It resolved a number of complicated procurement
issues, consultant contracts and coordination problems among the various governmental             institutions
involved in project's implementation. The PIU prepared regular progress reports on procurement and
financial management issues. It also produced satisfactory project portfolio audits. The PIU went through a
transition during the project's implementation period. Originally part of the Ministry of Finance, at the end
of the project, the PIU had independent status, with appropriate staffing and the necessary technical
expertise. The professionalism of the PIU's management enabled it to overcome problems that arose with
changes of government during the project's implementation period. The PIU has accumulated considerable
experience and has become a model for project implementation, providing training and advice to other PIUs
in Albania on the management of IDA-financed projects.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. Despite several changes in administration,
successive governments did not waver from their commitment to the project. The PIU, new and
inexperienced at the outset of the project, developed an expertise in project management that enhanced the
outcome of the RPTA project. The PIU also helped improve the implementation of other projects through
its active role in knowledge transfer to other PIUs managing IDA-financed projects in Albania.


8. Lessons Learned

In a post conflict environment, a clear strategic framework and rapid restoration of security provides a
solid foundation for project development.        The RPTA project had clear goals of assisting a new
government implement major structural reforms in both financial sector and public administration. The
broad nature of its objectives, was important, particularly during the early years of the project, as it
allowed the project to respond to evolving government needs. The Bank's presence played a catalytic role
in the resumption of assistance by donor agencies. Furthermore, the project's advisory services provided an
anchor of stability and continuity during successive governments.

A strong Government commitment to reform can result in major sectoral changes in a relatively short
period of time. Within about two years, the Government, with Bank assistance, was able to bring about a
major transformation of all three state-owned         banks and establish the foundation for a sound,
commercially-based banking system. The strong Government commitment to reform and ownership of the
project, despite several changes in government, were critical elements in the project's success.

 Continuity of the project team and close Bank supervision in a broad-based technical assistance
operation can be critical factors in maintaining the momentum of a reform program. The Bank
Quality of Supervision assessment has rated the adequacy of the RPTA project's supervision inputs as
highly satisfactory. The intensity of supervision was particularly important given the lack of experience of
the new government at the outset of the project. It also helped to maintain the momentum of the project
during several changes of government. Moreover, the continuity of the project team--during appraisal,
supervision, and the preparation of follow-up projects ­ allowed for a significant level of consolidation and
consistency in the implementation of a financial sector reform strategy, through several changes in
government.




                                                    - 11 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
IDA Credit: 3016-ALB
Implementation Completion Report

Project Objective
The main objective of the project was to provide assistance to the Government of Albania in key
areas critical for the resumption of sustained economic growth by supporting high priority
activities under the economic recovery program being undertaken by the Government.

Project Components

1.      Financial Sector
        -       Restructuring/divestiture of state owned banks
        -       Strengthening of banking infrastructure

2.      Public Policy/Economic Management
        -       Public Policy Formulation, debt management, public administration reform
        -       Judicial system

3.      Project management and implementation




                                                - 12 -

Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

In general the project objectives set forth at project preparation were satisfactory achieved. The
technical assistance provided under the project was very important in supporting the Economic
Recovery Program undertaken by the Government after the collapse of the pyramid schemes
during 1997.

The project's outputs related to the reform in the Financial Sector were satisfactory. The main
achievements under this component were: (i) privatization of NCB; (ii) Liquidation of RCB and
establishment of the Bank Asset Resolution Trust for resolving the bad loan portfolio; and (iii)
improvement of the Savings Bank Management.

The privatization of NCB was an important achievement of the Project considering that it took
place in a post-conflict environment and was a positive message to attract other foreign investors.
It helped in the strengthening of the private banking sector in Albania by increasing competition.
It contributed in shifting the responsibility of lending decisions to private hands and professional
managers.

The establishment of BART to resolve the non performing loans of the former RCB and then
NCB and Savings Bank, was a very important factor in improving the functioning of the banking
system in Albania, especially lending activities, which had been a high-risk activity for the banks,
due to the unstable political situation and the payment mentality of the borrowers. It assisted the
privatization of state-owned banks through cleaning up the balance sheets of those banks. We
believe that the establishment of BART enhanced the payment discipline in the economy through
strengthening of the creditors rights, which allows the banking sector to better assess and make
lending decisions.

The technical assistance provided to the Savings Bank of Albania through the Management
Contract and the appointment of a Chief Operational Officer and a Chief Accounting Officer
contributed in strengthening the bank's management. It also helped during the restructuring
process in the view of upcoming privatization.

The project provided significant support to the Office of Prime Minister and Department of Public
Administration in institutional building and policy/program formulation. The technical assistance
provided for the public administration reform and judicial reform established the bases for the
preparation of separate Bank projects in these areas. As part of the public sector reform, the
project contributed in the first phase of the program to strengthening of Treasury Functions. It
also helped in the establishment and operation of a Registry of Secured Charges. A major
achievement under the public administration component was the establishment of the new salary
system for civil servants in central public administration which significantly improved the
professional level public administration and made it more attractive to qualified personnel.

We believe that the new arrangement of the PIU as an autonomous entity, working on behalf of



                                                 - 13 -

the Ministry of Finance (MoF) under contractual relations, and other beneficiary institutions
involved in the ongoing projects has significantly improved the project implementation. The
establishment of terms of reference and job descriptions for the PIU staff has strengthened PIU
capacities as well as the internal organization and control. The PIU staff, relatively new at the
beginning of the project, gained significant experience, especially in dealing with complex
long-term consultancy contracts and resolving many technical and procurement issues during
project implementation. Considering the complexity and flexibility of this project, a stronger PIU
was a key factor in an effective coordination between different aspects and institutions involved in
the project. However, we believe that the remainder of the institutions that benefited from the
project, should be more responsible in respect to the evaluation of outputs and sustainability of
technical assistance. They should be fully involved in the designing of the objectives and in the
scope of the consultancy services and monitoring the performance and outputs of the consultants.


The flexibility in project design and broad objectives allowed the Government to assess needs
even during the course of the project implementation. In fact the planed assistance for Debt
Management was dropped from the project as a UNDP project was financing this activity. The
project funds were reallocated to finance the Program for Unwinding Insolvent Fund Raisers,
which was a high priority of the Government.




                                               - 14 -

Project Component 1: Financial Sector

Planed cost and disbursements
Sub-component                                  Original allocation     Disbursement
                                               (US$M)                  (US$M)
Bank restructuring/divestiture                 2.60                    2.66
Strengthening of banking infrastructure        0.40                    0.26
                   Total                       3.00                    2.92

Achievement of Objectives

   The main achievements under this component are the following:

   l Audit of the stated owned banks according to IAS
   l Liquidation of the RCB and placement of the bad assets in Loan Collection Agency
   l Successful privatization of the NCB
   l Restructuring of the Savings Bank and strengthening of the management in view of
       privatization
   l Establishment of the Loan Collection Agency
   l Strengthening of Bank of Albania accounting through IAS audit for the years 1999, 2000
       and 2001
   l Designing of functional requirements for the ATM System and RTGS Payment System
       followed by the preparation of quite complicated Bidding Documents for both information
       systems.
   l The technical assistance during bid evaluation and supervision was a key factor in the
       successful implementation of both systems under the FSIBTA project.


Project Component 2: Public Policy and Economic Management.

Planed cost and disbursements

Sub-component                                  Original allocation     Disbursement
                                               (US$M)                  (US$M)
Public Policy Formulation, debt                1.35                    1.21
management, public administration reform
Judicial System                                0.50                    0.68
Total                                          1.85                    1.89

Achievement of Objectives

The main achievements under this component are the following:
   l Design of the ministry blueprint and improvement of ministry operation through practical



                                              - 15 -

       guidelines to aid ministries in identifying functions that should be removed from their
       portfolio.
   l Preparation for implementation of activities that will be supported by the PAR project
       including drafting of terms of reference (TORS) for technical assistance related to:
       implementation of the civil service act, improving management capacities throughout the
       administration, meeting training needs.
   l Improvement of DOPA management capacities and ability to carry out major
       responsibilities such as implementation of the Civil Service Act.
   l Establishment of a database on the level of salaries in public and private sector which
       made possible the designing and implementation of a new salary system for the civil
       servants in central public administration.
   l Establishment of guidelines for Methods and Implementation of Legislative Drafting
   l Establishment and functioning of the Registry of Securing Charges
   l Strengthening of Treasury function including:
   -   Implementation of the new budget classification and other short-term improvements -
   `quick-wins';
   -   Training of the Treasury IT department staff and the Tirana Office end-users;
   -   Blueprint and modernization plan for the Treasury and the overall public finance system;
   -   Functional and IT architectural design of the future Treasury system;
   -   Preparation of Bidding Documents for the procurement of a Treasury and Accounting
   package                    software;
   -   Computer equipment and furniture for the newly established IT Department in the
   Ministry of Finance.


Project Component 3: Project Management and Implementation

Planed cost and disbursements
Sub-component                                   Original allocation        Disbursement
                                                (US$M)                     (US$M)
Strengthening of the PIU                        0.10                       0.06
Incremental operating cost                      0.05                       0.04
Total                                           0.15                       0.10



Achievement of Objectives

The main achievements under this component are the following:

   l New status of the PIU. The establishment of the PIU as an autonomous entity, working on
       behalf of the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and other beneficiary Institutions involved in the
       ongoing projects has significantly improved the project implementation. The role of the
       PIU as a coordinator of activities and institutions is stronger and more efficient. The
       establishment of ToR and Job Descriptions for the PIU staff has strengthened the PIU
       capacities and internal organization. The increase in the level of staff remuneration



                                               - 16 -

        compared with public administration has avoided the frequent staff turnover (considering
        the non permanent status of the PIU).

    l The establishment of the new financial management system based on PMR has strengthen
        the project financial management and reporting capacities of the PIU.                   The
        computerization of the project accounting has significantly improved the quality and
        accuracy of the project financial statements and their audit.

    l The training provided under the project to the PIU Procurement Manager and Financial
        Manager in their respective areas has contributed to the building of strong and sustainable
        capacities in view of upcoming projects.



(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

This ICR includes a discussion (Annex 8) of the international program for unwinding/resolution
the pyramid schemes financed through donors trust funds and administered by the World Bank
under the"Unwinding Insolvent Fundraiser" program. This program was not initially part of the
project, but at a later stage funding from the project was made available to fill the financing gap.
It has been agreed that in lieu of a separate completion memorandum, the ICR for the RPTA
Project would incorporate a brief account of the program financed by these funds.




                                               - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Key performance indicators                                 Actual
Project Development Objective: Support actions Same as at appraisal.
critical for short-term economic recovery and facilitate
resumption of medium term growth

Output Indicators Determined at Appraisal

Restructuring/Divestiture of State Banks:

 (a) Foreign CEO in place for NCB and RCB and
comprehensive work plan agreed                            The foreign CEO was appointed in the NCB to guide,
                                                          direct, control and supervise the activities of the bank's
                                                          operating managers.       Under the same consultant
                                                          contract, a privatization advisor assisted the MOF with
                                                          the privatization of NCB.



                                                          RCB was        liquidated, in   December 1997,        and
(b) Preparation of RCB for closure by 6/30/1998 and       privatization of NCB was finalized in April 2000.
of NCB for privatization/ liquidation by 12/31/98


                                                          In May 1998, the Savings Bank signed a Governance
(c) Governance contract in place for Savings Bank         Contract, for a period of two years, with the MOF and
                                                          the Bank of Albania.



                                                          The auditors for the financial audit of the NCB and
(d) Appointment of auditors with audited financial        Savings Bank of Albania for 1997, were appointed in
statements of 1997 by 6/98                                May 1998 and they delivered their final audit report on
                                                          October 21, 1998. In May of 1999, there was also a
                                                          special audit of the portfolio of the RCB that was
                                                          transferred to BART.




                                                          The Government created the BART in May 1998.

(d) Work- out unit functioning and bad loan portfolio     BART received the RCB Bank loan portfolio shortly

transferred to this unit by 3/31/98                       thereafter and the non-performing loan portfolio of
                                                          NCB by the end of July, 2000 after the bank's
                                                          privatization.



                                                          The advisor to the Bank of Albania for preparation of
                                                          the user requirements for establishment of the ATM and
Banking           infrastructure        strengthening:    RTGS systems was selected in November 1999.
Implementation of payment system initiated                Advisory services for procurement and evaluation
                                                          process continued during the year 2000 and 2001.




                                                       - 18 -

                                                      The advisor to the Prime Minster of Albania was
                                                      appointed in January 1998. At the Government's
Strengthening     of       public   policy/program request, his tenure was extended until July 2001. The
formulation: appointment of experts and advisors.     project supported public administration reform by
                                                      funding: (i) a survey of the salaries for civil service,
                                                      private   sector  and    donor-funded    positions;  (ii)
                                                      appointment of a long-term periodic advisor to the
                                                      Department     of  Public    Administration;   and   (ii)
                                                      appointment of a short-term advisor to the Council of
                                                      Ministers on Legislative Drafting.




Debt management/monitoring system:                    This component was dropped from the project and
Debt reporting started                                financed by the UNDP.




Strategy        for       commercial         dispute  This activity was dropped from the project and is
resolution/arbitration and dispute resolution review  supported under the Judicial and Legal Reform Project
completed                                             through   the   support    for  the  Support    for  the
                                                      establishment of the Alternative Dispute Resolution
                                                      Center.



Additional Outputs

                                                      The    Albanian    Parliament approved     the Secured
Support for the Registry of Secured Charges.          Transactions Law in April 2000 and the Government
                                                      established the Secured Transaction Registry in May
                                                      2000. The project provided temporary financial support
                                                      for the operation of the Registry , which was an integral
                                                      part of creating a legal framework to foster financial
                                                      intermediation.




Support for a study on court and case management.     The study was completed in July 2000 and is being used
                                                      as part of the judicial reform process supported by the
                                                      Judicial Reform Project.


Support for resolving the pyramid schemes.            At the Government's request, the project provided funds
                                                      to meet part of the funding gap to cover final payments
                                                      due to the auditors and administrators of pyramid
                                                      schemes.

Support for strengthening Albania's Treasury The project provided funds for consulting services to
functions.                                            develop a modernized Treasury system, given the lack
                                                      of sufficient funding under the Public Administration
                                                      Reform (PAR) Project.




                                                   - 19 -

- 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Costs by Component (US$ Million Equivalent)
Component                                      Appraisal    Amended     Actual/ICR
                                               Estimate     Estimate    Estimate
Financial Sector
Restructuring/Divestiture of state-owned banks          2.93        2.93        2.68
Banking Infrastructure and Supervision                  0.45        0.40        0.28
Public Policy/Economic Management
Public Policy/ Economic advisory services               0.68        0.37        0.37
Public administration/ Civil Service                    0.53        0.91        0.89
Debt Management                                         0.21        0.00        0.00
Judicial System (Alternate Dispute Resolution)          0.54        0.12        0.12
Resolution of the Pyramid Schemes                                   0.67        0.67
Project Management/Implementation
Strengthening of the Project Implementation             0.10        0.06        0.06
Unit
Incremental Operating Cost                              0.06        0.04        0.04
                                                        5.50        5.50        5.11



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB            NCB                 2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                               0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00      0.00
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.40           0.00           0.50           0.00      0.90
                                      (0.40)          (0.00)        (0.40)         (0.00)     (0.80)
3. Services                            0.00           0.00           4.50           0.00      4.50
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)        (4.10)         (0.00)     (4.10)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00           0.00           0.10           0.00      0.10
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.10)         (0.00)     (0.10)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00      0.00
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00      0.00
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                               0.40           0.00           5.10           0.00      5.50
                                      (0.40)          (0.00)        (4.60)         (0.00)     (5.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                               0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00      0.00
                                      (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)    (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00           0.00           0.32          0.00      0.32



                                                   - 21 -

                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.27)            (0.00)           (0.27)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              4.69             0.00              4.69
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.56)            (0.00)           (4.56)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.10             0.00              0.10
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                0.00               0.00              5.11             0.00              5.11
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.93)            (0.00)           (4.93)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (US$ million equivalent)
Component                                            Appraisal                   Actual/
                                                     Estimate                    ICR
                                                                                 Estimate
                                                            IDA Govt.                    IDA         Govt.
Financial Sector
Restructuring/divestiture of state-owned banks              2.60            0.33          2.68           --
Banking Infrastructure and Supervision                      0.40            0.05          0.26        0.02
Public Policy/Economic Management
Public Policy/ Economic advisory services                   0.65            0.03          0.37
Public administration/ Civil Service                        0.50            0.03          0.85        0.04
Debt management                                             0.20            0.01             --          --
Judicial System (ADR)                                       0.50            0.04          0.12
Resolution of the Pyramid Schemes                              --              --         0.56        0.11
Project Management/Implementation
Strengthening of the Project Implementation                 0.15            0.01          0.05        0.01
Unit
Incremental Operating Cost of the Project                      --              --         0.04           --
Implementation Unit
                                                            5.00            0.50          4.93        0.18




                                                       - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/12/1997                3    BANKING SPECIALIST (1);SR        S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);SR
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/02/1997                4    BANKING                          S               S
                                             SPECIALIST(2);SR
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
                                             CONSULTANT (1)


 Supervision

              05/15/1998                3    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              11/09/1998                4    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1); SR.
                                             FINANCIAL SPEC (1); SR.
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              06/28/1999                4    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             BANKING SPECIALIST (2);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              11/12/1999                3    SR. FINANCIAL SPECIALIST         S               S
                                             (2); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              03/10/2000                4    TASK LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SECTOR SPEC.
                                             (2); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              09/23/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SECTOR (1);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              02/09/2001                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PTL/BANKING SECTOR (1);
                                             CONSULTANT - FIN.SECT.
                                             (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1)


 ICR

              07/20/2001                3     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                           S
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                              FINANCIAL SECTOR SPEC.
                                              (1)




                                              - 24 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                        US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                           NA
  Appraisal/Negotiation                               N A                               133,902
  Supervision                                          NA                               358,750
  ICR                                                  NA                                15,000
  Total                                                                                 507,652
The project was appraised on an emergency basis and the costs of appraisal and negotiations include the cost of identification
and loan preparation.




                                                          - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Preparation

Report of a Preparation Mission, September 12, 1997

Project Appraisal

Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 3.7 Million to Albania
for a Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project, November 17, 1997.

Project Supervision Documents

Project Status Reports and Aide Memoires:

May 15, 1998
November 19, 1998
June 28, 1999
November 12 1999
March 10, 2000
September 23, 2000
February 9, 2001

Related Project Documents

Report and Recommendation of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors on a Proposed
Rehabilitation Credit to Albania, Report No. P-7186-ALB, November 13, 1997.

Implementation Completion Report, Albania: Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(Credit 2649-AL) and Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform (Credit 2492- AL) ,
December 28, 1998.

Memorandum of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to
the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy for the World Bank Group for the
Republic of Albania, April 14, 1998.

Albania: Legal and Judicial Reform Project, Project Appraisal Document, Project ID No.
P057182, March 1, 2000.

Albania: Public Administration Reform Project, Project Appraisal Document, Project ID No.
P0069939.

Albania: Financial Sector Institution Building Technical Assistance, Project Appraisal Document,
Project ID P069079, May 5, 2000.




                                               - 28 -

Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to
the Executive Directors on a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit in the Amount of SDR 12
Million (US$15 Million Equivalent) to Albania, May 23, 2002.

Albania: Public Administration Reform Technical Assistance Project, Aide Memoire, Supervision
Mission, December 10-18, 2002.

Other Documents

The Rise and Fall of the Pyramid Schemes in Albania, by Chris Jarvis, IMF Staff Papers Volume
47, No. 1, International Monetary Fund (2000).




                                              - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Technical Assistance Program for Unwinding Insolvent Fundraisers

Technical Assistance Program for Unwinding Insolvent Fundraisers

Following the collapse of pyramid schemes in early 1997, the Government demonstrated a strong
commitment to winding down these 17 schemes and requested assistance from the international
donor community to help in their resolution. This was one element of the Government's overall
effort to restore public order and confidence in the government. At an International Donor
Conference of 31 July 1997, the donor community pledged major support for this effort and for
the resolution of the pyramid schemes. This constituted the resumption of donor's support and
financial assistance to Albania after the 1997 crisis. IDA and the IMF were mandated to represent
the donors in monitoring the implementation of this effort. The resulting program was linked to
the IDA-financed Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform and, in addition to the funds
from this operation (US$1,200,000), included support from five other major bilateral and
multilateral donors (European Commission ­ Euro 1,200,000, the United States ­ US$1,500,000,
Italy ­ US$1,000,000, Greece ­ US$1,100,000, and Switzerland ­ US$100,000) as well as from
the Government.

The Government's program for the winding down of the schemes included, inter alia, the
following activities: (i) seizing the assets of the entities involved; (ii) auditing the accounts of
these entities; (iii) recovering and liquidating the companies' remaining assets; and (iv)
redistributing the recovered assets to depositors in proportion to their original deposits.

 The Pyramid Schemes

 Why They Developed. The root of the pyramid investment schemes was the desire for high financial returns under the lack
 of an adequate regulatory environment for market development and limited financial intermediation. Three state banks in
 Albania dominated the deposit-taking market, holding 90 percent of the population's deposits. While the interest rates of
 these banks were acceptable, the payments system was deficient, with long inter-bank transaction times, ranging from 5-15
 days. In this environment, several trading companies began borrowing directly from the public at very attractive interest
 rates. Some of these companies saw that money-raising on its own was a very profitable enterprises and eventually became
 pyramid schemes. Their success in this type of fund raising led to an outbreak of "pure" pyramid schemes.


 How They Operated. The typical pyramid investment scheme operated on the promise of high returns in a short period of
 time using the funds of later investors to pay artificially high returns to the early investors. News of the returns spread by
 word of mouth or advertising. More and more people invested. The scheme used the payments from later investors to pay
 interest and sometimes principal to the early investors. A reputation for performance developed based on the scheme's
 record for payment, not its structure and feasibility.

  Why They Fell. By the second half of 1996, some schemes were offering monthly interest rates of 40-50 percent, resulting in a
 dramatic increase in deposits. The schemes ultimately collapsed when the interest and principal due to the early investors
 exceeded the money the scheme was able to attract from new investors. An estimated 60 percent of all Albanian families lost
 their life savings through such schemes.



The program was executed by the Government, represented by the Ministry of Finance. The
procurement of all consultants was carried out in accordance with World Bank guidelines. The
program was jump-started with the help of existing funding from the ongoing Technical
Assistance Project for Economic Reform. As the respective agreements with the different donors



                                                         - 30 -

were finalized, these initial funds were augmented.

The funds covered two major contracts. One, for an original amount of US$4.7 million, with
Deloitte & Touche, was to handle the administration of the five largest schemes. The other, for a
total original amount of $2.4 million, was with PricewaterhouseCoopers, which covered the audit
of all 17 schemes and the administration of the 12 smaller schemes. In addition, a contract of
approximately US$82,500 was awarded to Andsell, an international public relations company, to
handle the public information/awareness campaign. The original completion date for the work
was December 1998. However, largely due to the 1998 Kosovo crisis, the contracts of the two
major auditing firms had to be extended as the auditors were unable to complete their work within
the original schedule. The work was completed by mid-2000. Final reports were submitted to the
Government and were found to be satisfactory.

The initial donor contribution towards the program was US$6.23 million, including US$1.2
million from the IDA Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform (Credit 2492-AL). This
initial   contribution  was     to  finance  the   costs  of  hiring   independent,   international
auditing/accounting firms to be appointed as auditors of the schemes and act as administrators of
the overall program. However, additional work was required which increased the amount of the
consultant contracts by about US$900,000. The increase was mostly in the contract with Deloitte
& Touche for the asset administration of five most problematic schemes. Due to many
unexpected events, Deloitte was not able to sell the assets of these companies within the agreed
timeframe. In order to complete the assignment, they asked for an amendment of the contract.
Another reason was that the contract with Andsell, the public relations company, which was not
initially foreseen, became an important element in the transparency process.

In agreement with IDA and the other donors, the contracts were amended to cover this increase
and the corresponding shortfall in the total amount of funding available. As a result, a new
financing plan was established in December 1999. Additional contributions to this plan were as
follows: US$100,000 from Italy; US$150,000 from the United States; and US$300,000 from the
Government's 1999 budget. The Bank initially reallocated US$340,000 from the Recovery
Program Technical Assistance Project, (Credit 3016) and later increased this amount by
US$220,000, to bring the total amount to US$560,000. The Bank provided this additional
amount because in the final settlement of accounts, the Government was still facing a shortfall of a
little over US$200,000. This was in part because a contribution of Euro 136,000, anticipated
from the European Union did not materialize, and in part because the December 1999 estimate fell
short of actual needs due to exchange rate fluctuations. Table 10.1 lists the total contributions to
the program and Table 10.2 lists the three contractors and the amounts they received.


Table 10.1. Donor Contributions to the Pyramid Schemes

Source of Funds           Initial        Additional          Total             Actual
                       contribution     contribution      contribution    disbursements
                          (US$)            (US$)             (US$)              (US$)
United States              1,500,000          150,000           1,650,000         1,650,000
(TF 021627)


                                                - 31 -

Italy                        1,000,000              100,000           1,100,000            1,100,000
(TF 021624)
Switzerland                    100,000                     0            100,000              100,000
(SWTZ 37473)
Greece                       1,100,000                     0           1,100,000           1,100,000
(TF 021623)
European Union*              1,329,596                     0          1,329,596            1,258,297
(TF021626)
IDA**                        1,200,000              560,000           1,760,000            1,718,631
Government of                         0             300,000             300,000              300,000
Albania
Total                       6,229,596           1,110,000             7,339596             7,226,928

* Difference in original contribution and actual disbursement a result of exchange rate fluctuations between
the Euro and the US$.
** Difference in original and additional contributions and actual disbursement a result of exchange rate
fluctuations between the US$ and SDR.

Table 2. Contract Amounts

        Consulting Firm             Total Contract (US$)
Deloitte Touche                                   4,775,290
PricewaterhouseCoopers                             2,369,150
Andsell                                               82,448
Total                                             7,226,928

The foreign administrators delivered their report on the administration and auditing of the pyramid
schemes to the Government of Albania, the donor community, and other institutions. In June
2000, a discussion of these conclusions with the World Bank took place in Washington. The
international financial institutions commended the Government for its determination and efforts to
wind down the pyramid schemes in a transparent manner, which helped open the door for Albania
to obtain funding for investments required to support the country's economic recovery.

The report concluded that there were 24 insolvent fundraisers and charity foundations altogether.
Nearly 1.8 million creditors, or 95 percent of the country's labor force, had investments with these
fundraisers. The total liabilities of these fundraisers amounted to about US$1.4 billion.The former
administrators of the 24 pyramid schemes are under legal and criminal prosecution. Out of 24
fund-raisers that have been charged, 17 pyramid schemes have been investigated and sent for
court judgment. The investigation of the remaining seven small fundraisers is ongoing. About 10
of the ex-administrators have been sentenced by the courts (imprisonment from 10-20 years). Of
the original US$1.4 billion owed, the creditors received about 40 percent in interest payments,
leaving a remaining debt of US$780 million to be administered. Of this total, recovery amounted
to about US$200 million or 28 percent.




                                                    - 32 -

- 33 -

