Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17164-ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
FOR A
RECOVERY PROGRAM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 17, 1997
Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 7, 1997)
Currency Unit = Lek
Lek 1 = US$0.007
US$1   Lek 143.7
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR  -        Alternative Dispute Resolution
BoA   -       Bank of Albania
CEO   -       Chief Executive Officer
EAP   -       Emergency Assistance Program
EC    -       European Commission
ECSPF -       Europe and Central Asia Private and Financial
Sector Development Unit
ERP   -      Economic Recovery Program
ESAF  -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU    -       European Union
IAS   -       International Accounting Standards
IDA   -       International Development Association
IMF   -       International Monetary Fund
MoF   -       Ministry of Finance
NCB   -       National Commercial Bank
PIU    -      Project Implementation Unit
RCB   -       Rural Commercial Bank
SB    -       State-owned bank
SOE   -       Statement of Expenditure
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Amtraud Hartmann
Sector Director: Lajos Bokros
Program Team Leader: Tunc UJyanik



Albania
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators       2
B. Strategic Context                                                          2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  5
C. Project Description Summary                                                5
1. Project components                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project       5
3. Benefits and target population                                      5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                       6
D. Project Rationale                                                          6
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection          6
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies   7
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                 7
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                    7
5. Value added of IDA support in this project                          8
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                   8
I. Economic                                                           8
2. Financial                                                           8
3. Technical                                                           8
4. Institutional                                                       8
5. Social                                                              8
6. Environmental assessment                                            9
7. Participatory approach                                              9
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                   9
1. Sustainability                                                     9
2. Critical risks                                                     10
3. Possible controversial aspects                                     10



G. Main Credit Conditions                                                     10
1. Effectiveness conditions                                           10
2. Other                                                               11
H. Readiness for Implementation                                               11
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                              11
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangemrents
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangernents
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance



Albania
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Albania, Croatia Country Unit
Date: November 17, 1997                             Program Team Leader: Tunc Uyanik
Country Director: Arntraud Hartmann         Sector Director: Lajos Bokros
ProjectID: PE-54384    Sector: Multi Sector         Program Objective Category: Financial Sector and
Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Credit      Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                [] Loan       [X] Credit      [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 3.7 m
Proposed terms:                        []  Multicurrency       [ ]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          []  Standard Variable  [ ]  Fixed           [     LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: standard IDA
Service charge: standard IDA
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                           Local             Foreign            Total
Government/SBs                                      0.5                 -                0.5
Cofinanciers**                                       -**
IDA                                                  -                  5.0              5.0
Total        0.5                 5.0              5.5
** Cofinancing has been requested but not yet identified
Borrower: Albania
Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):             1998       1999       2000    2001
Annual             1.0        1.9        1.6     0.5
Cumulative            1.0        2.9         4.5     5.0
Project implementation period: 3 years  Expected effectiveness date: 01/15/98    Expected closing date: 12/31/2000



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
The main objective of the proposed project is to provide assistance to the Government of Albania in key areas
critical for the resumption of sustained economic growth by supporting high priority activities under the economic
recovery program (ERP) being undertaken by the Government. The project will also, as part of a broader effort,
support institution-building and policy/program formulation which will facilitate efficient adoption of future
assistance from the international donor community.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: P-6058-ALB       Date of latest CAS discussion: September 14, 1993
There is no current CAS for Albania; a new one is under preparation.
The Recent Crisis. Following an impressive transition record with real growth reaching around 9 percent for four
consecutive years between 1993 and 1996, and inflation tamed fi-om 240 percent per annum at end-1992 to 6
percent at end 1995, Albania descended into near anarchy and civil war in the early months of 1997, triggered by
the collapse of the pyramid schemes. The pyramid schemes, some of which started out as companies with real
investments while others were pyramid schemes from the start, mushroomed to enormous dimensions in the course
of 1996. Total liabilities of these schemes, including accrued interest (which escalated to extremely high rates
ranging from 8 to 50 percent per month shortly before the collapse), are estimated to have reached around 50
percent of GDP. The collapse of the schemes began in late 1996 and accelerated in the early months of 1997.
Widespread rioting and civil unrest ensued. The civil disorder led to over 1,500 deaths, widespread looting,
including the theft of over half a million guns and major damage to buildings and infrastructure. The general lack
of security which prevailed severely disrupted economic and social activities. The arrival of the multinational
protection force in mid-April helped improve the security situation, but large parts of the country, especially in the
south, remained outside of the government control.
The economic fall-out from the crisis was severe. While agriculture was little affected, supply-side disruptions
reduced output in construction and industry. The loss of wealth in the failed financial schemes depressed domestic
demand. International trade slowed markedly, remittances from abroad (which had swelled to as much as 16
percent of GDP in 1996) dropped sharply, and the flow of foreign aid dried up. Output is expected to fall by about
8 percent in 1997. By end-June 1997, the Lek had depreciated by over 40 percent from its end-1996 level, although
the Government did manage to avoid depletion of the foreign exchange reserves, which were maintained at around
US$280 million. Reflecting the sharp currency depreciation and the supply shocks, inflation rose from 17 percent
during 1996 to 28 percent during the first half of 1997.
A new Government took office in July and immediately initiated a return towards normalcy. Within days of the
Government taking office, the new parliament lifted the state of emergency and passed legislation permitting
administrators from foreign accounting firms to be appointed to audit and wind up the pyramid schemes. The
Government initiated strong measures to restore security in the country, including reorganizing and retraining the
police force with the help of western donors, and collecting looted arms from the civilians. These measures have
enabled the Govermment to regain control of major highways and cities, notwithstanding the departure of the
multinational protection force in mid-August.  Although security along the borders is yet to be fully restored,
cooperation with the neighboring countries has led to improvement in tax collection. As a result of these efforts,
economic activity and trade has started to recover. By late October, the Lek had appreciated by 28 percent from its
pre-election level.
Donor Response Strategy: Following the civil unrest and the near economic collapse of early 1997, the donor
community has moved rapidly to assist Albania in the preparation of a Recovery program outlining priority areas
for policy reforms and investments in the post-crisis period. The Bank took the lead in drafting a paper that was
completed jointly by the EC and EBRD, in consultation with the IMF: Directions for Recovery and Growth - An
Initial Assessment. The Recovery Program, structured around three main themes (governance, institution building
and civil society; economic and social policies; and reviving of economic activities), has been designed to put the



3
country back on the path of sustainable economic growth, and it was endorsed by the donor community at the Rome
Conference on July 31. At the Rome Conference, it was also agreed that a Donors' Conference would be held as
soon as the new Government reached an agreement on a suitable program with the IMF.
Albania's Recovery Program focuses on urgent macroeconomic stabilization issues, it revisits medium-term
adjustment and sector strategies that were "abandoned" in the growing political turmoil of 1996 and 1997, and it
also focuses on the dire need for institutional strengthening. The Program envisages two stages for the country's
recovery. The first stage involves implementation of a set of initial measures to undertake macroeconomic
stabilization, and a limited number of high priority structural reforms. The conditionality of this first stage is built
around the six-month program under the IMF's Emergency Assistance Program (EAP), which was approved by the
IMF's Board on November 7, 1997. The second stage of recovery will be based on a three-year Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement, which is expected to follow the EAP in early 1998. The
Government gave a strong commitment for negotiating an ESAF-supported program next year. As customary, the
comprehensive Policy Framework Paper (PFP) which will accompany the ESAF will provide the main
conditionality of the second stage of donor assistance to Albania after the crisis. It is expected to deal with
remaining structural reforms in the financial sector; fiscal management, including further customs and tax measures;
public investment and expenditure management; public administration and civil service reforms; judicial reforms,
institution building, remaining privatization issues, and other steps to improve the climate for doing business by the
private sector.
After all the prerequisites for post-crisis assistance were met, and the Government reached substantive agreement
with the IMF on the EAP, a Donors' Conference was called jointly by the EC and the Bank in Brussels on October
22. The main purpose of the Conference was to seek pledges from Albania's key donors for funding required to
carry out the Recovery Program. The Conference successfully elicited donors pledges of some US$100 million for
extraordinary balance of payments and budgetary support, US$80 million for immediate sector investment and
technical assistance priorities, and more than half of the US$887 million required to finance medium-term sector
investment and technical assistance program identified by the Govermment, EC, the Bank and EBRD. Donors also
pledged additional contributions for the technical assistance program to help wind up the pyramid schemes.
The Bank announced, in Brussels, its own proposed assistance to Albania in support of recovery, including
US$900,000 for the technical assistance program for the pyramid schemes which is cofinanced by a Trust Fund
supported by seven donors; US$25 million in new balance of payments support under the Rehabilitation Credit;
together with US$5 million under this proposed Technical Assistance Credit to provide support for implementing
and designing reforms in key areas, such as the financial sector, public sector management, civil service and the
judiciary. An additional US$27 million will be provided through a proposed program (Private Industry Recovery
Project and a Second Health Project). The Bank is also contributing to the funding of the balance of payment
requirements through second tranches of two previously approved adjustment operations, the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit -- ASAC (AL-PE-8256) and the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit EFSAC (AL-
PE-8257). The second tranche of the ASAC is being readied for release, and the release of the second tranche of the
EFSAC will follow shortly. These two tranches will, together with cofnancing of US$8.5 million from the OECF,
provide US$20.5 million.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues: The formal banking sector is dominated by three state-owned banks (SBs), all of which are in
serious financial distress. To date, they have engaged in only minimal financial intermediation to the private sector,
they do not apply a uniform accounting system and do not have international audits. Furthermore, the overall quality
of lending portfolio is very bad, with estimates that up to 80 percent of the portfolio should be classified as doubtful.
The banks have not been aggressive in loan collection and the weakness of the judicial process makes it especially
difficult to collect. The recent crisis has caused this situation to worsen, with loan collection dropping even further
than the already low levels, in part because of the widespread disruption of economic activities and the general
breakdown in governance, resulting in even more debtors defaulting on their loans. There is a need to rapidly
increase competition in, and improve performance of, the banking system through greater private sector
participation.' This could be achieved through privatization or liquidation of the SBs coupled with measures to
In addition to the SBs, there are six very small foreign or joint venture banks, accounting for about 12 percent of total



4
encourage new, privately owned and sound banks. In addition, adequate institutional and infrastructure support is
needed to ensure that the private banks will conduct banking businesses in accordance with commercial principles.
This should include strengthening the legal and judicial framework, banking supervision and regulations, and
financial infrastructure.
On the economic management front, the new Government is attempting to restore order and the rule of law in a
post-conflict situation. It needs to restore public confidence, which was never strong but was seriously shaken by
the collapse of the pyramid schemes. Its capacity for economic management including policy formulation and
implementation is very limited. It has an insufficient number of senior experienced policy makers and they are
overextended. At the same time, the public administration is overstaftled and civil service is largely non-performing
because wages are very low and incentives are lacking. Extensive public administration reform is needed to address
these issues, including downsizing the overall administration, improving capacity and incentives, providing training
and improving facilities. The IMF EAP provides for substantial downsizing of the public administration. Further
improvements, such as skill enhancement and training, improved incentives and better working conditions need to
be addressed as key elements of civil service reform.
With regard to the judiciary, it is in need of fundamental reform.  The judiciary is poorly paid and lacks
professionalism, with most judges having had at most six months' training. Its independence is not adequately
protected, and it does not perform in accordance with established commercial legal and ethical standards. In
general, public opinion of and confidence in the judicial system is poor. Furthermore most judges do not have
access to copies of laws and the basic infrastructure for the court system is inadequate.
Government strategy: The Government's program emphasizes reforms in the financial sector and the strengthening
of the public sector to perform intrinsic public sector functions. The Government's reform program in the financial
sector involves restructuring, privatization and liquidation of SBs and taking steps for the development of the
private banking system. In view of the mounting losses of all three- SBs and very low likelihood that the current
managers of the banks will be able to turn them around into profitable banks engaged in commercial lending, the
Government has decided to close the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB); and prepare the National Commercial Bank
(NCB) for privatization or liquidation if privatization is not successful. In addition, it plans to define a strategy to
turn the Savings Bank into a "narrow" bank which will not engage in any lending. The Government also plans to
establish a work-out entity in which the bad loan portfolio of the SBs will be placed and which will be responsible
for collection. The Rehabilitation Credit and the EAP provide for liquidation of RCB by June 1998 and for the
privatization or liquidation of NCB by end-1998.
In addition, the Government's program will include: (i) strengthening of the legal and judicial framework including
amendments to and strict enforcement of the Banking Law (particularly with regard to the issuance of bank
licenses), the Collateral Law and the Bankruptcy Law; (ii) strengthening banking supervision through increasing the
number of qualified bank supervisors in the Bank of Albania (BoA); further development and implementation of
prudential regulations in accordance with international standards; implementation of international accounting
standards; and strengthening of on-site and off-site supervision; and (iii) developing and strengthening banking
infrastructure, including the payments system, accounting and audits, and establishing a national credit information
system.
In the arena of overall economic management, the Government is taking steps to improve security in the country
and to restore major public administration functions, including those of essential public institutions, such as tax
collection, customs and border controls. It plans a phased approach to public administration reform with the overall
objective of creating a professional, modern civil service, with shared values appropriate to a democracy acting
under the rule of law. In the medium term, it will try to focus government administration on core functions
including policy formulation, legislation preparation, fnancial management and ensuring the delivery of
government services.
assets in the banking sector. These banks have no branch network, are engaged in negligible domestic credit intermediation and
focus mainly on foreign exchange transactions and trade financing.



5
Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Given the urgency of the current situation in the country, the project will provide readily available funds for placing
specialists for administering and advising banks, helping design policies and implement measures in the various
sectors discussed above, carrying out high priority studies and for the most urgent training needs of medium- to
high-level public officials. The project will also assist in public policy making at the highest level in government.
In short, the project will provide assistance in support of Albania's post-crisis recovery program. This will require
that the project be managed with flexibility, allocating resources to the highest priority undertakings, the sequencing
of which may have to be adjusted during implementation. This flexibility will be a key to the project's success, as it
would allow both the Government and IDA to respond to the evolving needs of Albania's recovery in the next
phases of its transition to a well-functioning market economy. The project will help the Government implement
policy measures, incorporated in its program supported by the IMF's Post-Conflict Emergency Assistance Program
and the Rehabilitation Credit, as they relate to the divestiture of the RCB and NCB through time-bound contracts for
foreign Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) and to the strengthening of the operations of Savings Bank. This will be
accomplished through the provision of assistance to: support the SBs in adopting stringent cost-reduction measures;
rationalizing operations; maintaining severe restrictions, and an expected ban, on new lending; creating a work-out
entity for their bad loan portfolios; and introducing international accounting and audits standards. The project will
also support the re-establishing of economic management in critical areas, with emphasis on improved governance
and helping to create an environment conducive to private sector growth. The major effort on public administration
reform and strengthening the judiciary will be addressed in the proposed IMF ESAF and future complementary IDA
operations. This project will support elements of civil service reform and strengthening the judiciary in key areas in
preparation for this larger future involvement. The assistance provided in the proposed project to review dispute
resolution alternatives, such as mediation and arbitration, is one element of this broader support.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                 Categor        Cost (US$M)   % of       IDA-      % of IDA-
Total   financing   financing
(US$M       _
1. Financial sector:
- Restructuring/divestiture  Technical assistance  2.93        53       2.60         89
of state-owned banks       (TA)
- Strengthening banking    TA/goods           0.45             8        0.40         89
infrastructure
2. Public Policy/Economic
Management
- Public policy formulation,   TA/goods       1.42            26        1.35         95
debt management, public
administration reform
- Judicial system          TA/goods           0.54             10       0.50         93
3. Project management and     TA/goods            0.16             3        0.15         94
implementation                                I             I        I           I
Total 5.50            100       5.00         91
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The proposed project will support the Government's program to reform the banking sector and help improve the
Government's capacity in economic management, which will help establish the foundation for the resumption of
economic growth and private sector development. With regard to public administration, the project will provide
support to strengthen public institutions in the areas of public debt management, economic policy and program
formulation, as well as to strengthen the judicial framework.
3. Benefits and target population
The proposed project aims at minimizing the fiscal cost of the banking sector reform program by curtailing the



6
current loss-making operations of the SBs, by taking actions leading to divestiture, and by stopping new lending, as
well as by initiating an aggressive loan collection program. Strengthening banking infrastructure and prudential
banking practices and encouraging the development of private banks will, in the medium-term, help increase
financial intermediation and will help place the banking sector on a, sounder footing. This, in turn, together with
support for commercial judicial reform will contribute to the creation of an environment conducive to private sector
development. Other benefits include improved economic management, through better economic policy and
program formulation, improved debt management and aid coordination and strengthened public institutions which
will, among others, help the Government in its efforts to combat corruption and will also help increase the flow of
support from the donor community, on which Albania will depend for some time.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
The implementation period of the proposed credit will extend over 3 years, covering the medium-term recovery
program. The executing agency will be the Ministry of Finance (MoF), with the Director of the Debt Department
being the main counterpart. The existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU), in the Debt Department, will be
responsible for the day-to-day administration and has considerable experience in the implementation of IDA-
financed projects. The project will provide assistance to strengthen the PIU in project administration including
record keeping, and in handling the procurement of equipment and engagement of local and foreign consultants.
Flexibility has been built into the project design to allow funds to be allocated, with IDA's prior approval, for
priority needs as they emerge in a dynamic environment. To facilitate decisions in this regard, an ad hoc committee,
chaired by the Minister of Finance, with the participation of the Minister of State for Economic Development and
Cooperation, and the Minister of State for Institutional Reform, has been established. This committee will meet as
needed, particularly to make urgent decisions, in consultation with IDA, on the priority allocation of funds and to
resolve any inter-agency coordination issues. For IDA, supervision will be carried out by the ECSPF, with
participation of staff from the Resident Mission in Albania.
Project records and accounts will be maintained by the PIU to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the operations and expenditures for each project activity. The accounts will be consolidated annually into
financial statements for the project as a whole. Supporting documentation will be maintained by the PIU and will
be made available to IDA's supervision missions and independent auditors as required. For expenditures incurred
on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), all records providing evidence for such expenditures will be
retained by the PIU until at least one year after the IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account is made, whichever is later. Project
records and accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, will be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, in accordance with appropriate accounting princiiples that are consistently applied. Terms of
reference for auditors and reports will be approved by IDA. Audit reports will be furnished to IDA within six
months after the close of the Government's fiscal year.
Monitoring of project implementation will be carried out by the PIU. The PIU will provide IDA with semi-annual
reports on project progress, by April 30 and October 31 of each year, beginning in 1998. These reports will
measure progress against achievement of the performance indicators, agreed with IDA, listed in Annex 1. In
addition, the PIU will provide interim progress reports within one month of the end of every calendar trimester.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
The Government has requested that IDA provide immediate advice amd assistance in the critical areas associated
with its ERP. IDA has responded by preparing on an urgent basis post-conflict assistance through the Rehabilitation
Credit which will provide balance of payments support. The proposed project complements this support by
providing technical assistance to help implement necessary undertakings in key areas of banking sector reform, and
economic and public policy management. Financing from other donors was also considered but is not readily
available at this time. Cofmancing for various activities has, however, been requested from international donors and
if this materializes some of the components could be modified by allocating resources to additional or expanded
activities within the scope of the proposed project. Support under the project for banking sector reform (including
the financing of foreign CEOs for NCB amd RCB) has been designed to address the consequences of past failures



7
of the Government to implement similar strategies using local governance and reflects the Government's strong
preference to proceed in this manner. However, these interventions, as provided for in the terms of reference, will
be limited to strictly stipulated time periods, which will not be extended.
2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by IDA and other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                   Project              Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(IDA-financed projects only)
Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
IDA-financed
Policy-based lending      EFSAC                                    S                  S
Rehabilitation Credit                  FY98
Structural Adjustment Credit          FY99
Institutional development  TA for Economic Reform                  S                  S
Policy advice
Judicial Reform                      FY98-99
Public Administration Reform         FY98-99
Other development agencies
IMF                       Post-conflict Emergency         October 1997
Assistance Program
ESAF                           Planned (March 1998)
EC/EU-Phare               Banking sector TA               Ongoing
Public administration          Ongoing and planned
US (including USAID)      Technical assistance to MoF, BoA   Ongoing and planned
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Implementation of the ongoing Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform (Credit 2492) continues to be
satisfactory although it has been slower than anticipated and has been interrupted by the recent events in Albania.
The development objectives of this project remain relevant, in spite of the changing environment. With the
flexibility under this ongoing project and the funds remaining in the Credit account, the Bank was in a position to
commit US$900,000 for technical assistance for the resolution of the pyramid schemes last August, thus providing
seed money for a US$6.5 million program that six other donors decided to support following the Bank's
commitment. A weakness of this project was the absence of an effective mechanism to enable decisions relating to
project activities (which span different sectors and different ministries) to be taken in a timely fashion, without
being subject to lengthy administrative procedures. The proposed project takes these lessons into account by
providing flexibility in the allocation of funds and by establishing the high-level ad hoc committee.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has requested IDA support through this project on an urgent basis. There is a clear recognition on
the part of the Government that prompt action in reform of the banking sector as well as in the areas of economic
management and public administration reform are prerequisites to the resumption of economic growth and private
sector development. The assistance provided through this project will help the Government meet targets agreed
with the IMF under the EAP and will start laying the foundation for meeting anticipated targets of a medium-term
IMF program, proposed for early 1998.



8
5. Value added of IDA support in this project.
IDA's support in this project adds value by contributing to the restoration of confidence in the Government's
economic policies, banking sector restructuring and public administration. Other donors have also indicated that
they depend on IDA and the IMF for taking the lead in resuming activities in Albania in the post-conflict situation.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic: Not applicable
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV and FRR: not applicable
The proposed project is expected to augment the Government's capacity to: (i) resolve issues relating to the SBs; (ii)
strengthen the fnancial sector and encourage private banking; (iii) promote financial intermediation; and (iv) build
on the foundations for increased private sector development.
Fiscal impact: The proposed project is expected to assist in: (i) minimizing the fiscal impact of financial sector
restructuring by curtailing the losses incurred by the SBs; and (ii) increasing the flow of international financial
assistance by improved economic management and policy formulation.
3. Technical:
The project will ensure that the Government of Albania has access to high-quality expertise of speedily recruited
international consultants.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Finance will be the main executing agency. Several other key ministries, as well as the Council of
Ministers, the Prime Minister's Office, the Bank of Albania and the state-owned banks, will also be involved in
executing different project components. These agencies are, however, institutionally weak with a very thin
management layer. The proposed project will help build up the institutional capacity through implementation
assistance, expert policy advice, institution building and training. In particular, the project will strengthen the
capacity of the highest levels of Government in the key executing agencies to formulate and implement policies and
programs to carry out extensive reforms articulated in the Government's economic recovery program.
b. Project management:
The PIU has substantial experience in project administration, particularly in procurement, disbursement, and
accounting procedures. The project will provide funding for strengthening the PIU, including the recruitment of
technical staff, a record keeper and short-term support to assist in the heavy load of procurement activities
anticipated in the early months of project implementation. The high-level ad hoc committee will meet as necessary
to resolve any inter-agency or resource allocation issues. With regard to financial management, although the
Borrower's capacity is limited, accounting and controls under ongoing IDA-financed projects, which are
administered by the PIU, have been satisfactory. The record-keeping system it has established for other IDA-
financed projects is satisfactory and will be used for this operation. In addition, the assistant and record-keeper
proposed under this project will help strengthen the PIU to further improve the timeliness in preparation and
reliability of accounting records and procedures. During implementation, a review will be made of the need for
additional measures to be followed to strengthen financial management, and a detailed plan prepared for their
introduction, with assistance from  the Regional Accounting and Auditing Advisor.  In addition, financial
management on a broader scale will be one of the key topics to be discussed in the context of the next Country
Portfolio and Programming Review which is expected to be held in FY98.
5. Social: Not applicable



9
6. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category  []A    []B    [x] C
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Due to the short time for project preparation, extensive consultations could not be held with the wide range of
stakeholders. However, discussions were held with representatives of the government agencies, BoA and SBs. In
addition, the bank restructuring/divestiture program has been designed with a view to protecting deposits in the SBs,
which will benefit the public in general.
b. Other key stakeholders:
see above. In addition, extensive discussions have been held with the international donor community, which
continues to look to the Bank to provide a leadership role in the financial sector.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The proposed project aims to improve financial sector and macroeconomic management and strengthen the legal
framework needed to facilitate private sector development. Although it focuses on the short- to medium-term
priority needs, they are all essential elements which must be present to contribute to sustainable long-term growth of
the Albanian economy. It is also anticipated that the proposed structural adjustment credit and specific investment
operations will provide considerable follow up in areas addressed by this project.



10
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating         Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
Political instability and wavering government     S      Associated conditionality in other IDA
commitment                                               operations and the IMF program.
Government ownership of reform program
Adverse macroeconomic conditions; deterioration of  S    Donor involvement; economic and public
business activity and breakdown of the rule of law       policy/ programming advice
Lack of cooperation of SB management and          S      Strong CEO and provisions to dismiss
continued adherence to agreed work programs              management for lack of performance
Loss of political support for Government to       H      Dialogue with the highest levels of Government,
implement its strategy for the banking sector            plus coordination with IMF and other donors
Failure of Government to implement agreed strategy  H    Provision of a mechanism (Remedies Clause) to
for the banking sector                                   allow IDA to withdraw from the project at an
early stage, if reforms go off track
Inaccurate and incomplete financial information   M      Technical support plus conditionality under
provided by the SBs and their failure to adopt the       associated operations
standard Chart of Accounts
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to Outputs"
Inappropriate choice of CEOs/management and       M       Comprehensive terms of reference and close
other advisers                                           monitoring of selection process
Delays in appointment of experts and in project   M      Appropriate project management and PIU
implementation                                           strengthening; early initiation of procedures to
select main experts
Lack of inter-agency cooperation                  S       Establishment of high-level ad hoc committee
Overall Risk Rating                S      Building in flexibility in project design
Intense project supervision and continued high
J___________level dialogue
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Possible controversial aspects are as follows:
(i)  closure or liquidation of state-owned banks;
(ii) severe limitation on SB lending (together with the current low level of intermediation through the
existing private banks);
(iii) aggressive actions to recover outstanding and overdue loans; and
(iv) hiring/cooperating with high-cost international experts.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
No special conditions



11
2. Other [ according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreement.]:
The project execution covenants in the Development Credit Agreement require that: (i) an Ad Hoc Committee, with
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, be maintained; (ii) the PIU be maintained with adequate staff, satisfactory
to IDA, to carry out the project; (iii) the PIU will provide to IDA monitoring reports, assessing progress against the
performance indicators, by end April and October of each year, and (iv) the Borrower review these reports with IDA
within about one month of the above date and agree on any changes to be made to ensure achievement of the project
objectives. The remedies covenant provides IDA with an exit mechanism if: (i) the Borrower fails to establish, in
accordance with the terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, a debt workout entity by March 31, 1998; and (ii) the
Borrower fails to close the operations of RCB by June 30, 1998.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The Government is ready to implement the project, with the PIU handling the day-to-day administration. Terms of
reference for the main assignments for bank restructuring/divestiture and audits of the state-owned banks have been
agreed with the Government.
A General Procurement Notice has been published in Development Business and procurement has been initiated for
the bank reform component. The Government has already initiated the program by the appointment to NCB and
RCB of local administrators, with terms of reference agreed with IDA.
The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Program Team Leader: Tunc Uyanik
Sector irec or: Lajos  s
CounADirector: Arntraud Hartmann






12
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Albania: Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
Narrative Summary            Key Performance         Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                              (Goal to Bank Mission)
Project Development                                                                   (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                                                                            Political and
Support actions critical for                                                          macroeconomic stability
short-term economic recovery                                                          Continued Government
and set ground for resumption                                                         commitment
of medium-tern growth
Outputs:                                                                              (Outputs to Objective)
Restructuring/Divestiture of    Foreign CEOs in place for  Periodic reports of CEO to MoF  Cooperation of bank
SBs:                        NCB and RCB and compre-    and IDA, progress reports and    management
hensive work plan agreed    supervision missions         Continued adherence to
agreed work programs
Preparation of RCB for      same                         Political support for and
closure by 6/30/98 and of                                will of Government to
NCB for privatization/                                   implement its strategy for
liquidation by 12/31/98                                  the financial sector
Governance contract in place                             same
for Savings Bank
Appointment of auditors     Auditors' reports            Chart of accounts adopted;
Audited financial statements                             accurate, complete financial
of 1997 accounts by 6/98                                 information available
Improved collection of bad   Work out unit functioning;  Portfolio audit report       Macroeconomic conditions
loans                       bad loan portfolio transferred                            stabilize; business activity
to this unit by 3/31/98                                  and the rule of law improve
Banking infrastructure      Implementation of payment    Progress reports and
strengthened                 system initiated           supervision missions
2. Improved economic
management:
Strengthened public          Experts and advisors       Progress reports and          Continued Government
policy/program formulation   appointed                   supervision missions         commitment
Debt management/monitoring   Debt reporting started      External and public debt reports
system
Strategy for commercial      Dispute resolution review  Progress reports and
dispute resolution/arbitration    completed              supervision missions



13
Project Components/sub-      Inputs: (budgetfor each      Monitoring and Evaluation      (Components to Outputs)
components (see Annex 2for    component) (ISS millions)
project description)
Financial Sector Reform
Restructuring/divestiture of          2.60             Progress reports and           Timely appointment of
SBs                                                    supervision missions           capable CEOs/management
Strengthening bank                    0.40             same
infrastructure
Economic Management/Public
Policy
Public policy formulation,            1.35             same                           Timely appointment of
debt management, public                                                               qualified advisers
administration reform
Judicial system (ADR)                 0.50             same
Project                                  0.15             Progress reports, disbursement   Timely decisions
Management/lImplementation                                reports and supervision missions  Strong inter-agency
cooperation from various
entities involved in
implementation



14
Annex 2
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
Project Description
(a)    Project Component 1 - US$3.38 million (total cost of component): Financial Sector
1.     The financial sector component of the proposed project focuses on the state-owned banks, to provide
technical assistance to implement measures in the Government's recovery program which is supported by the
proposed Rehabilitation Credit and the IMF Post-Conflict Emergency Assistance Program. It has been designed in
coordination with the IMF and other multilateral donors. Support from other donors has been requested and
although no cofinancing has yet been secured, this could materialize at a later date. This component has been
designed to help the Government of Albania strengthen the functioning of the formal financial system, to provide
support to resolve the problems of the three troubled state-owned banks, improve public confidence in the banking
sector and establish the framework to foster the growth of private banks. It will include the following sub-
components:
1.1    Bank Restructuring/Divestiture (US$2.93 million)
The Government's reform program for the state-owned banks involves restructuring, privatization and
liquidation. In view of the mounting losses of all three banks and very low likelihood that the current managers of
the banks will be able to turn them around into profitable banks engaged in commercial lending, the Government
has decided to close the RCB; and prepare the NCB for privatization or liquidation if privatization is not successful.
It also plans to define a strategy to turn the Savings Bank into a "narrow" bank which would not engage in lending.
Furthermore, the Government plans to establish a work-out entity in which the bad assets of three banks will be
placed. The work-out unit will be responsible for the collection of bad loans. The proposed project will support
each of these programs as described below.
Rural Commercial Bank. The Government and the Bank of Albania have already frozen all lending, new
capital expenditures and new business activities for the RCB. The Government has appointed an Albanian
administrator/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) for the RCB with the mandate to liquidate the bank. Liquidation of
the RCB will involve placement of deposits in other state banks or the private banks backed by good assets (cash,
treasury bills and foreign deposits), and placement of bad assets in a work-out agency which the Government plans
to establish by March 1998. If the bank is not closed by January 1998, the Government plans to enter into a
contract with a foreign CEO who will assume full control of the RCB and will continue the liquidation process, to
be completed by mid-1998. This sub-component will provide the expert services required to complete the closure
of RCB. Terms of reference for both the local administrator/CEO and the foreign consultant have been agreed with
IDA.
National Commercial Bank. The project will assist the Government in preparing NCB for privatization,
including financing a contract with a foreign CEO/administrator by January 1998 to assume full control of the bank
and to prepare the bank for privatization. This sub-component also provides support to the NCB, under the
direction of the foreign CEO, for expert advice in strengthening bank operations such as branch management,
accounting, internal controls, treasury, and management information systems, and to the MoF on bank privatization,
as well as a provision for a statutory audit of the 1997 accounts, in accordance with international accounting
standards (IAS). Pending appointment of the foreign CEO, to minimize continuing losses of the bank, the
Government has appointed an Albanian CEO/administrator, who will carry out holding actions on the bank. Bad
assets will be placed in the work-out agency once it is established. The foreign CEO, with support from short-term
banking experts, will continue with the holding actions on the bank while also attempting to privatize the bank.
Periodic evaluation of progress achieved by the bank will be made against time-bound performance criteria. If the
NCB is not privatized by end-1998, it will be liquidated at that time. Terms of reference for both the local and
foreign administrator/CEO and for the statutory audit have been agreed with IDA.



15
Savings Bank. The Government plans to rationalize the operations of the Savings Bank. Transforming this
bank into a "narrow" bank that will not engage in lending is envisaged. The Government will conclude a
governance contract with the management of the Savings Bank to implement these objectives. The project will
support this effort by financing, in accordance with terms of reference to be agreed with IDA, a contract with a
reputable foreign bank to prepare the bank for privatization, including the introduction of sound and prudent
banking practices; identification of core business activities; and divestiture of loss-making operations.  This
assistance will be coordinated with EU-Phare and will complement its ongoing support to strengthen the operations
of the Savings Bank. The bad assets of the bank, which have increased tremendously since the transfer of many bad
loans from the RCB and the NCB at the end of 1996, are expected to be placed in the work-out agency. It is also
intended that the fiscal function of the bank will be separated out within the bank in order to get a clearer picture of
the cost and profitability of the bank's businesses. Provision is made under this sub-component for a statutory audit
of the 1997 accounts and for privatization advisers to help the Government achieve its goal of privatizing the bank
by end- 1999.
Work Out Agency. As mentioned above, the state-owned banks have serious problems with bad loans
which have an implicit fiscal cost. By transferring these non-performing assets to a work-out agency, the
Government intends to initiate an aggressive loan collection program to improve the repayment record and reduce
the eventual cost to the budget. This sub-component will support the Government's plan to establish this work-out
agency, and could also include the establishment of a national non-performing loan registry system. It will finance
expert services and equipment needed for the start up and functioning of this agency (including the design of
procedures) and of the loan registration system, as well as an audit of the transferred loan portfolio.
1.2    Banking Infrastructure and Supervision (US$0.45 million)
Modernization of banking infrastructure and strengthening of banking supervision are also elements of the
Government's strategy for financial sector reform. The proposed project supports the Government's program in this
regard by providing assistance to strengthen bank accounting practices, improving the payment system and
strengthening banking supervision and regulation.
Chart of accounts. Considerable work has already been done, with support from EU-Phare, to prepare a
standard chart of accounts. To supplement this program, this sub-component will provide expert services and
training for the SBs to enable them to produce accounts in accordance with the standard reporting requirements of
the new chart of accounts.
Payment System. The current payment system is rudimentary. The Bank of Albania has established a
Clearing Department for inter-bank payment settlement and exchange, and a basic courier service transports
documents between the headquarters and district offices of the Bank of Albania.  The system is, however, very
slow, inadequate for development of a modern banking system and is an impediment to private sector development
and growth. Individuals are generally reluctant to use the SBs as a means of payment because the inefficiency of
the payment system makes it difficult to transfer money or to recover funds in a reasonable period of time. From
the business point of view, the lack of an efficient payment system makes it impossible to implement a reliable cash
management policy. Bilateral technical assistance is expected to be provided to design a simple modern payment
system. This sub-component includes a provision for equipment to begin the implementation of this system.
Banking Regulation and Supervision. The legal and regulatory framework of the banking sector needs
special attention by the authorities. In particular, strict enforcement of the banking law regarding the issue and
removal of licenses is very important to help in the growth of a private banking system. The supervisory capacity of
the Bank of Albania also needs to be strengthened. It is currently receiving support from USAID/Treasury,
primarily in the area of off-site supervision. The project could supplement this assistance effort by providing expert
services, as needed, to strengthen and implement legislation and to help establish an on-site supervision capacity.



16
(b)    Project Component 2 - US$1.96 million (total cost of component): Public Policy and Economic
Management
2.      The ability of the State to assert power legitimately throughout the economy and country has always been
weak but has been steadily eroding, no doubt contributing to the recent crisis, which in turn further undermined the
legitimacy of the State and severely weakened its capacities. The Government, which came into power in July 1997,
faces a tremendous challenge to establish a credible and effective government with full authority over the country,
restore public security and promote trust in public authority and the rule of law. However, high-level officials are
new to government, institutions are weak, capacity to formulate and implement policies and programs is limited and
there is no professional civil service. There is a need to strengthen the regulatory, administrative, judicial and
macro-economic framework necessary for private sector activity to take place in a socially and environmentally
responsible way; and rebuild many of the public services to respond to social needs. The Government recognizes
the huge challenges it faces and that it will be unable to realize its goals without extensive external assistance. It has
therefore requested immediate assistance from IDA to support its efforts. In response to this request, this component
will provide expert advice in key areas such as public policy/program formulation, civil service reform, debt
management and judicial reform. In addition, it includes a provision to finance expert services for other priority
activities, identified during project implementation, that are critical for the execution of the ERP. Through support
for economic policy reform and for strengthening public institutions, this component could also contribute to the
Government's efforts to combat corruption.
2.1    Public Policy and Economic Advisory Services (US$0.68 million)
This sub-component will finance expert services and related equipment to help increase the capacity of the
Government to formulate and implement public policy/program reforms needed to help create the conditions for
sustained economic growth. It will provide institutional development support in this area for the Prime Minister's
Office through expert services to advise on day-to-day matters relating to stabilization issues, public policy
management, relations with the donor community and other issues related to economic development, as well as
support for other key ministries or the Council of Ministers which will be defined, in agreement with IDA, during
project implementation.
2.2    Public Administration/Civil Service (US$0.53 million)
A well functioning public administration is necessary for economic recovery and growth. In Albania the
legal framework for an efficient and responsive public administration is not yet complete. New legislation and
regulations are required to establish a professional and independent civil service, effective territorial administration,
core financial and personnel systems, an independent judiciary, and also appropriate oversight bodies. Moreover
reforms are necessary to the machinery of government, the central policy making process, the roles and functions of
ministries, and the management of the civil service. The Government is working on a phased plan of reform the
objective of which is to establish an administration which will provide an appropriate policy framework for a
market economy, and deliver core government services honestly, efficiently and effectively. The latter requires,
above all, a well managed, motivated and professional civil service. This sub-component includes expert services
and associated equipment to provide the Government (primarily the Department of Public Administration in the
Office of the Prime Minister) assistance to develop and initiate implementation of its public administration reform
program.
2.3    Debt Management (US$0.21 million)
Currently external debt and aid data are maintained in different ways by several different entities. The
information is incomplete and coordination between these entities has been insufficient. This sub-component will
help enhance the management of economic policy through improved information about external debt. It will:
provide assistance to review legislation for foreign debt management and recommend amendments for improving it;
and establish a functioning and reliable debt management and monitoring system to create a unified data base, with



17
information on foreign aid flows into the economy as well as information on domestic debt, to provide accurate,
comprehensive and timely information on total external and domestic debt liabilities.
2.4    Judicial System (US$0.54 million)
A serious impediment to both private and financial sector development in Albania is the absence of a
competent and timely judicial dispute resolution system. The courts are lacking basic infrastructure, judges are
poorly trained, and the decision process is unreliable. In order to cornplement judicial reform measures to be
pursued under other Bank interventions, this sub-component will review alternatives to dispute resolution through
the judicial system, including arbitration and commercial mediation. The review will include recommendations for
the implementation of an alternative dispute resolution (ADR)/commercial mediation strategy and for the training of
arbitrators and mediators. The sub-component will also finance technical assistance for the establishment of a pilot
arbitration and mediation service.
(c)    Project Component 3 - US$0.16 million (total cost of component): Project Management and
Implementation
3.     The proposed project will provide resources to strengthen the PIU, which is operating with only two staff,
so that it can more effectively carry out its project implementation and monitoring activities. This will include the
services of technical staff and a record keeper. Throughout the project peirod, particularly during the early months
of implementation, it will also finance short-term procurement assistance, the annual audits of the project accounts
and other support required for smooth and efficient implementation.



18
Annex 3
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                            Local            Foreign        Total
------US $ million--------------------
1. Financial Sector                                           0.38              3.00         3.38
1.1    Restructuring/divestiture of state-owned banks         0.33              2.60         2.93
1.2    Banking infrastructure and supervision                 0.05              0.40         0.45
2. Public Policy/Economic Management                          0.11              1.85         1.96
2.1    Public Policy/Economic advisory services               0.03              0.65         0.68
2.2    Public administration/Civil service                    0.03              0.50         0.53
2.3    Debt management                                        0.01              0.20         0.21
2.4    Judicial System (ADR)                                  0.04              0.50         0.54
3.     Project Management/lImplementation                     0.01              0.15         0.16
Strengthening the PIU                                  0.01             0.15          0.16
Total Project Cost                                            0.50              5.00         5.50
Note:
No contingencies are included in the total project cost, given the short implementation period and
the non-physical nature of most of the items to be financed.
Costs exclude duties and taxes, which will be financed by the Government



19
Annex 4
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Not applicable



20
Annex 5
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
Financial Summary
Local          Foreign           Total
US$m   %   US$m   %   US$m  %
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IDA                                                       5.0              5.0      91
Co-fmanciers**                                             **
Government/SBs                            0.5              -               0.5        9
Total                                  0.5      9       5.0     91       5.5     100
* * No cofinancing has been identified at this time, however, donor assistance has been requested and
could be added later.



l



21
Annex 6
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement will be handled by the existing PIU. It has developed extensive procurement
experience through its administration of other IDA Credits and is capable of managing procurement for this
project. Procurement of goods will be done according to the provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996). The only
contract for which international competitive bidding is expected is for equipment to help establish a simple
payments system, for a cost of up to about US$400,000. Goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000
equivalent per contract, and not exceeding US$300,000 in the aggregate, will be procured through
international shopping. National shopping will be used for goods estimated to cost below US$50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 100,000.
Selection of consultants will be done according to the provisions of the: "Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997). Quality and cost-based
selection (QCBS) will be used for consultant services contracts expected to total about US$2,000,000
equivalent (for bank restructuring/divestiture and commercial dispute resolution). The least-cost selection
(LCS) process will be used for contracts totaling about US$300,000 (for IAS bank audits). Selection based
on consultants qualification, single source selection and procedures for selection of individual consultants
will be used in other cases (for contracts totaling about US$1,900,000). For complex time-based
assignments and for contracts based on a lump-sum contract, the standard form of contract for consultant
services issued by the World Bank will be used.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods: Procurement documentation for goods estimated to cost more than US$100,000
equivalent per contract will require prior review by IDA.
Consultants' Services: All procurement documentation for consultants, given the need to closely
monitor the quality of the experts services, will require prior review by IDA.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements will be administered by the PIU. The proceeds of the IDA credit will finance 100
percent of eligible direct foreign exchange expenditures for goods and 100 percent of expenditures for
consultants' services and training. The total Credit is expected to be disbursed over 2.5 years, with project
completion by June 30, 2000. The Closing Date will be December 31, 2000.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
Disbursements for expenditures for goods procured under contracts below US$100,000 equivalent
and for consulting services under contracts below US$100,000 equivalent for firms, and below US$50,000
equivalent for individuals, will be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation to
support these expenditures will be retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by IDA of the audit
report for the year in which the last disbursement was made, and will be made available to the Bank and



22
the auditors on request. Withdrawal applications for payments against other contracts and which require
IDA's prior review will be fully documented.
Special account
To facilitate project implementation, the PIU will open and maintain a Special Account, in US
dollars, with the Central Bank or an acceptable commercial bank, on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA. The authorized allocation of the Special Account will be US$500,000 equivalent. At the start of the
project, the Special Account deposit will be limited to US$250,000, and the remaining portion of the
authorized allocation could be requested only after cumulative disbursements reach a level of
US$ 1,000,000 equivalent. Withdrawal applications for the replenishment of the Special Account should be
sent to IDA on a quarterly basis, or when the balance of the Special Account is equal to about half of the
initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first. These applications will have to be
supported by appropriate supporting documentation, including a copy of the monthly bank statement of the
Special Account, as well as its reconciliation with the Special Account transactions.



23
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                       Procurement Method                    Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB         Other      N.R.F
2. Goods                         0.4                      0.5          --           0.9
(0.4)                   (0.4)                     (0.8)
3. Services
Consultants                                        4.5         --           4.5
(4.1)                    (4.1)
Training                                           0.1         --           0.1
(0.1)                    (0.1)
itail                          0.4                      5.1         --           5.5
(0.4)                   (4.6)                     (5.0)
Note:   N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
"Other" includes the following: Goods (office technology, equipment and supplies) which will be
procured through Intemnational (US$300,000) or National Shopping (US$100,000); Consultants
services, who will be hired in accordance with the Banks Guidelines for the Use of Consultants;
Training will be carried out by consultants. Figures exclude taxes and duties.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit



24
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value           Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)               Mlethod               Prior Review/
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
US $ thousands                                   US $ millions
1. Goods
> 200          ICB                     All             0.4
100 - 200        IS                      All            0.2
< 100          IS
< 50           NS
2. Services
Firms                           > 200           QCBS                    All             2.0
< 200          LCS                     All             0.3
Individuals                      > 50           Selection of Individual    All          0.9
Consultants - Consultant
Guidelines, Section V
<50            Selection of Individual    All         1.0
Consultants - Consultant
Guidelines, Section V
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:        4.8



25
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in          Financing Percentage
US$million
Goods                                              0.6         100% of foreign, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally)
Consultant services and related expenditures       4.0         100%
Training                                           0.1         100%
Unallocated                                        0.3
Total        5.0



26
Annex 7
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                                     Planned                 Actual
lUS$235,000
B. Project Schedule                                   fPlanned                Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                    1 month
First Bank mission (identification/preparation)     09/10/1997              09/15/1997
Appraisal mission 1/                                10/29/1997              10/29/1997
Negotiations                                         10/30/1997             10/30/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                       01/15/1998              01/15/1998
1/ Prepared an accelerated basis. Negotiations immediately followed conclusion of apprai
Prepared by: Bank staff and consultants given the urgency of this operation
Preparation assistance: Consultants (UK Know-How Fund)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Rochelle Hilton                                       Operations
Hormoz Aghdaey                                        Banking operations
Vinod Goel                                            Banking specialist
Naushad Khan                                          Procurement
Julius Varallyay                                      Country Officer
Helena Tang                                          Economist
Ahmed Jehani                                          Legal
Greta Minxhozi                                       Local operational support



27
Annex 8
Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Other
Albania - Directions for Recovery and Growth: An Initial Assessment (World Bank, EC and
EBRD), July 1997
Albania - Sector Investment and Technical Assistance Programs for Recovery (World Bank, EC,
EBRD), October 1997
Terms of Reference:    Bank CEOs/Administrators
Savings Bank Governance
Statutory Audit
Work out unit
including electronic files.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Albania
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Dif ference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions               and actual           Last ARPP
Credit   Fiscal                                                                                                         disbursements a/   Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      No.       Year          Borrower                  Purpose
IBRD     IDA  Cancellations       Undisbursed    Orig   Frm Rev'd  Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 2
Active Loans
IDA25240   1993  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    AGRIC. SECTOR ADJ. C             0.00   20.00         0.00                5.86       5.49      0.00      S          U
IDA24990   1993  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    TRANSPORT/INFRASTRUC             0.00    18.00        0.00                5.39       4.86      0.00      S          S
IDA24920    1993  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    TECIINICAL ASST.                0.00    4.00         0.00                1.30       1.10      0.00      S          S
IDA26330   1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    SCHOOL REHAB. AND CA             0.00     9.60        0.00                3.40       3.13      0.00      S          S
IDA26100   1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    DURRES WATER SUPPLY              0.00   11.60         0.00                6.49       6.31      0.00     S           S
IDA25440   1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    LABOR MARKET DEVELOP             0.00     5.40        0.00               2.47        2.32      0.00      S          S
IDA25430   1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    SOCIAL SAFETY NET                0.00     5.50        0.00                1.44       1.31      0.00      S          S
IDA25340   1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    HOUSING                          0.00    15.00        0.00                1.72       1.25      0.00      U          U
IDA27320   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    RURAL ROADS                      0.00    15.00        0.00              10.94       11.96      0.00     HS         HS
IDA26800   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    RURAL DEVELOPMENT                0.00     6.00        0.00                2.38       2.55      0.00      S          S
IDA26770   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    POWER LOSS REDUCFION             0.00     5.00        0.00                 .03        .04      0.00      S          S
IDA26590   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    HEALTH SERVICES REMA             0.00    12.40        0.00                8.58       8.98      0.00      S          S
IDA26520   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    IRRIGATION REHABILIT             0.00    10.00        0.00                1.55       1.30      0.00     HS         HS
IDA26490   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    EFSAC                            0.00    15.00        0.00                7.45       7.40     0.00 o                S
IDA26460   1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZ.             0.00     4.00        0.00                1.75       1.66      0.00      S         HS
IDA28880   1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    NATIONAL ROADS                   0.00    25.00        0.00              22.86       23.77      0.00     HS         HS
IDA28460   1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    FORESTRY                         0.00     8.00        0.00                6.77       7.13      0.00      S          U
IDA28260   1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    POWER TRANSM. & DIST             0.00   29.50         0.00              23.91       26.39     0.0o       s          s
ID.A2795s    1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    AGROPROCESSIuG DEVEL           0.00     6.00        0.00               4.44        4.70      0.00      U          U
IDA27700   1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA    URBAN WORKS & MICRO              0.00     4.00        0.00               2.00        2.37      0.00      S          S
Total                                                                                   0.00  229.00         0.00              120.73     124.02      0.00
A:tive Loans         Closed Loins             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and-IDA):               104.57                 44.96            149.53
of which has been repaid:                 0.00                  0.00              0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               229.00                 43.50            272.50
AImounit sold:                                  0.00                  0.00               0.00
Of which repaid:                             0.00                  0.00              0.00
Total Undisbursed:                            120.73                   .01            120.74
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disburseiuents to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,
MU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



29
Albania
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              rFC
FY Approval             Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Eauitv y  uasi  Partic
1997            ALBANIA FUND             0.00     1.50    0.00    0.00
1996            BORA                     1.60      .40    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:            1.60    1.90    0.00    0.00






30
Albania at a glance                                                                10/1197
Europe &   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central  middle-
Albania      Asia  income        Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                           3.3       479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                               820      2.180     1,750                Lifeexpectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                  2.7     1,043    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (3%)                                          0.2       0.3       1.4      GNP                               Gross
Labor force (36)                                         0.8       0.5       1.8     per                               primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                              capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (36 of population)              20
Urban population ('6 oftotal/population)                 39         65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73         68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Ive births)                  30         26       41                Accass to safe water
Child malnutrtion (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (%6 of populahion)
Illiteracy (% of,population age 15+)                                                I ..   ..        i
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    98         97      104                 Albana
Male                                                   98         97      105           -     Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 99         97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1995     1996
Economic ratlos'
GOP (billions USS)                              ..       2.0       2.4       2.7
Gross domestic investment/GOP                   ..    30.4        21.0      20.5             Openness of eoonomy
Exports of goods and services/GDP                ..    16.2       12.5      12.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       ..    28.3       -1.0      -6.8
Gross national savings/GDP                       ..    30.1       14.7      11.4
Current account balance/GDP                      ..    -1.9       46.4      -9.2                     . 
interest paymentslGOP                           ..        ..       0.4       0.4    tSavings                       Investment
Total debVGDP                                    ..       ..      40.1      37.5
Total debt servicelexports                      ..        ..        1.5      2.3
Present value of debtVGDP                       ..        .       32.6
Present value of debVexports                    ..        ..     196.7                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1996       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                  -     Albania
GDP                                          6-0.9       8.9       9.1                         Lower-middle-income grup
GNP per capita                         ..       ..       9.7       7.6                     -e
Exports of goods and services          ..       ..    27.4        12.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985       1996     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                           Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                             27.9       55.9     55.4    , 200-
Industry                                                34.9      21.3      21.1     15-                  A
Manufacturing                                   .        .         ..       ..    '-
Services                                         .      37.2      22.7      23.5     5so
Pnvate consumption                               .     62.6       87.4      94.2      5090         92   93   94   95    5'
General government consumption                  ..       9.2       13.6     12.6                   GDI   -->-GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..    18.4        34.5      39.9
1976-85  1986.96      1996      1996
(average annual growth)                                                              Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                              3.5       10.6      8.1     200 -
Industry                                        ..    -9.1         16.4     23.4
Manufacturing                                       .              ..       ..
Services                                        ..      2.5        7.6      12.9    '                     \
so-
Pnvate consumption                              ..       0.1       1.1      19.9
General government consumption                           0.0       9.2       2.8
Gross domestic investment                       ..    -0.1        28.5       5.2      40 -
Imports of goods and services                   ..        ..       5.6      26.5            -Exports   ---Imports
Gross national product                           ..      0.0       11.3      9.2
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



31
Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prict9s                                                  199S               hfbtlon (%)
(% change)                                                                           2S0 _
Consumer prices                                                    7.8      12.7    200 _
Implicit GDP deflator                                    0.4       9.8      14.6
Government iOnance
(% of GDP)                                                                             9     s11   92   e93   54   95    go
Current revenue                                         50.6      23.9      18.3
Current budget balance                                 24.4       -1.9      -7.5             -     GOP da. -O--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 - 1.8    -10.4    -11.9
TRADE
(millions USS)                                171      191        196      134       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                     304        205      229      1.00o
Chromium and derivatives                                                                                                 T
Tobacco                                                                              SaoC_
Manufactures                                                                         coo-
Total imports (cif)                                     345        679      921
,Fuel and energy                                                                     2D 
Capital goods                                                                           __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Export price index (1987a100) t0   91  92  93  94  s5  96
Import price index (1987-100)
Terms of trade (1987slOO)                       E.xpors .lImpon
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1NS        1996    1196
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GOP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services                           319        302      338       0_
Imports of goods and servcs                             383        836    1,073          _90  91   92   93  94  .15_S    9s
Resource balance                                        -44       -534      -735     -10 -
Net income                                                1         53       61      40-
Net current transfers                                     6        327      428     -30
Current account balance.                                                               -
before officiel transfes                               -37      -181      -249
Financing items (net)                                    20        207      297
Changes in net reserves                                  17        -26       -48     - -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mit. USS)              *       83        265      323
Conversion rate (loca/USS)                       *       8.6      92.8    104.5
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                               971    1.009
IBRDO                                                              0        0                              B
IDA                                                               91      122                              12
Total debt service                                                  10       20                                  4 D
IBRO                                                              0        0
IDA                                           I.        .                   1.2
Composition of net resource flows
Official grant4                                                  l 116    80
Official creditors                                                35       40             G                      F
Private creditors                                                 -2        '5           641               /    6t
Foreign direct investment                                         89       97
Portfolio equity                                                   0        0
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                                       38       62       A.IBRD                      E - ilateral
Disbursements                                                     43       32       8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                               0        0      C -IMF                       G - Short-tenm
Net flows                                                         43       312
Interest payments                                                  1        1
Net transfers                                                     43       311
Development Economics                                                                                                 10/11/97



