Report No. PID5744
Project Name                 Albania-Recovery Program Technical Assistance
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Multi-sector
Project ID                       ALPE54384
Borrower                         Albania
Implementing Agency              Project Implementation Unit
Ministry of Finance, Tirana, Albania
Tel: 355 42 279 41
Fax:    355 42 279 41
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           October 24, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         October 29, 1997
Projected Board Date             December 9, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      Objectives
The main objective of the proposed project is to provide assistance
to the Government of Albania in key areas critical for the resumption of
sustained economic growth through support to high priority activities
under the economic recovery program (ERP) being undertaken by the
Government.
2.      The project would also, as part of a broader effort, support
institution-building and policy/program formulation which would
facilitate future assistance from the international donor community.
Description
3.      The project would complement the proposed Rehabilitation Credit.
It would provide support for the Government's ERP in the following
areas: (a) reform of the financial sector through assistance for bank
restructuring/divestiture and for strengthening banking infrastructure
and supervision; (b) assistance for improving public policy formulation
and economic management through institutional development/advisory
services for public policy makers, support for public administration
reform, strengthening debt management, and support for judicial
reform; and in addition (c) project management and implementation.
Financing
4.
Local            Foreign         Total
US$m            US$m             US$m



Financing Sources
IDA                                           5.0              5.0
Co-financiers **                              **
Government/SOBs              0.5               -              0.5
Total                        0.5              5.0             5.5
** No cofinancing has been identified at this time, however,
donor assistance has been requested and could be added later.
Implementation
5.      The implementation period of the proposed credit extends over
3 years, covering the Government's medium-term recovery program. The
executing agency would be the Ministry of Finance (MoF), with the
Director of the Debt Department being the main counterpart for the
project. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), in the Debt Department
will be responsible for the day-to-day administration. Because of the
need for extensive inter-agency coordination and the emergency nature of
much of the assistance, the project would finance a qualified national
consultant as a full-time project manager, reporting to the Director
of the Debt Department. Furthermore, flexibility has been built into
the project design to allow funds to be allocated, with IDA's prior
approval, for priority needs as they emerge in a dynamic environment
and if donor financing becomes available for planned activities.
To facilitate decisions in this regard, an ad hoc committee, chaired
by the Minister of Finance, with the participation of the Minister of
State for Economic Development and Cooperation, and the Minister of
State for Institutional Reform, is expected to be established. This
committee will meet as needed, particularly to make urgent decisions,
in consultation with IDA, on the priority allocation of funds and to
resolve any inter-agency coordination issues.
Sustainability
6.      The proposed project aims to improve financial sector and
macroeconomic management and strengthen the legal framework needed to
facilitate private sector development. Although it focuses on the
short- to medium-term priority needs, they are all essential elements
which must be present to contribute to sustainable long-term growth
of the Albanian economy. It is also anticipated that the a
proposed structural adjustment credit and specific investment
operations will provide considerable follow up in areas addressed
by this project.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
7.      Implementation of the ongoing Technical Assistance
Project for Economic Reform (Credit 2492) continues to be
satisfactory although it has been slower than anticipated and has
been interrupted by the recent events in Albania. The development
objectives of this project remain relevant. A weakness of
this project was the absence of an effective mechanism to enable
decisions relating to project activities (which span different sectors
and different ministries) to be taken in a timely fashion, without being
subject to lengthy administrative procedures. The proposed
-2 -



project takes these lessons into account. The project design is
flexible to cover critical but not yet defined technical assistance
needs when other sources of financing are not available, and provides
for a high-level ad hoc committee to meet periodically to make timely
decisions, with IDA's approval, on the allocation of funds for priority
actions and resolve any coordination issues.
Poverty Category
8.      Not applicable
Environmental Aspects
9.      Not applicable
Program Objective Categories
10.     Financial sector development and economic management
Contact Point                    Rochelle Hilton, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473 2547
Fax No.:         (202) 522 0073
Note:     This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank Infoshop week ending November 14, 1997.
- 3 -



