Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3016 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 19, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3016 ALB 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 1997, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
Page  2
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty (30) days, or (b) at any time, the Association 
determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the 
Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any 
contract to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were  engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the 
Credit during the procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Credit Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall 
remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may, by 
notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect 
to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit 
shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Ad Hoc Committee" means the Committee established for the purpose of 
Project coordination in accordance with Cabinet Decision No. 3369, dated November 17, 
1997, comprising the Ministers of State for Economic Development Coordination, the 
Minister of State for Institutional Reform and the Minister of Finance as Chairman; 
(b)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established within the Debt 
Department of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower; and
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
Page  3
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2008 and ending November 1, 2037. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years  
the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to 
access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred,  provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5)  years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Page  4
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
furnish to the Association on or about April 30 and October 31 of each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by May 31 and November 30 of each year, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall: 
(a) maintain the Ad Hoc Committee with terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(b) maintain the PIU with adequate staffing, powers and functions satisfactory 
to the Association. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each 
Page  5
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower shall have failed to establish a debt work-out entity in 
accordance with terms of reference satisfacctory to the Association by March 31, 1998; 
and
(b)
The Borrower shall have failed to close the operations of its Rural 
Commercial Bank by June 30, 1998. 
ARTICLE VI 
Termination 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bulvardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana , Albania
Cable address: 
Telex:
4295 KomplanAB
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  6
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ Petrit Bushati 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Arntraud Hartmann 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
TABLE WAS DONE IN COLUMN FORMAT
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower ;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, services and 
training with consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and 
with individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in: (a) supporting activities in key 
areas critical for the resumption of sustained economic growth under the Albanian 
economic recovery program; and (b) supporting institution building efforts and policy 
formulation in order to facilitate future assistance from international donors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Financial Sector
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment for: (a) bank 
restructuring and bank divestiture; (ii) banking infrastructure; and (iii) bank 
supervision and regulation.
Page  7
Part B:
Public Policy and Economic Management
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment for: (i) public 
policy formulation; (ii) economic management; (iii) public administration reform; (iv) 
debt management; and (v) pilot activity for judicial reform.
Part C:
Project Management Implementation
The provision of consultants’ services, training and equipment to the PIU.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. Preference 
for domestically manufactured goods The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the 
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory 
of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract awarded on the basis of Part B of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  8
(b)
With respect to each contract awarded on the basis of Part C of this 
Schedule and estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract;
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) 
and 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
 General 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing activity under Parts A and C of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for financial sector, economic management and judicial reform 
activities under Parts A and B of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for financial sector, economic management and public policy, 
procurement and judicial reform under the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  9
(a)
With respect to all contracts for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have 
been given.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account  
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 730,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
Page  10
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions. 
