Report No. PID11523
Project Name             Bolivia-Second Programmatic Structural
Adjustment Credit for Decentralization
(PSAC II)
Region                   Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                   Poverty Reduction and Economic
Management/Finance,
Private Sector, and Infrastructure
Project ID               P081402
Implementing
Agency                   Ministry of Finance
Palacio de las Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Date PID Prepared        December 2, 2002
Appraisal (planned)      December 18, 2002
Board Date (planned)     January 21, 2002
1.       Background. The Government of Bolivia has been a pioneer in promoting
decentralization reforms in their governance structure, beginning with the
approval of the Law of Popular Participation in 1994, which gave more
autonomy and accountability to the country's 310 municipalities, and the
subsequent passage of the Administrative Decentralization Law in 1995, which
defined regional departments (prefectures) as deconcentrated arms of the
central administration responsible for regional development. The 2001
National Dialogue Law establishes a direct link between the Government's PRS
and municipal responsibilities, provides them with additional funding, and
extends the framework of social control to other actors at the local,
departmental, and national levels. The law determines the distribution of
HIPC II funds to municipalities under a poverty-based formula, through semi-
conditional, partly earmarked transfers.
2.      In 2001, in response to the implementation of the Government's
decentralization agenda, the Association and greater donor community active
in Bolivia prepared a first PSAC. This operation aimed to improving delivery
of public sector services, particularly for the poor, through (a) an increase
of the efficiency, transparency and accountability of Bolivia's decentralized
government system, and (b) an improvement in the capacity of the
decentralized government system to deliver these services. The overarching
lesson learned from the experience of the first PSAC to date is that, while
implementation of the program supported by the first PSAC has been, in
general, satisfactory, and basic institutional arrangements for
decentralization established at the outset of the program are in place, the
measures supported under the first operation have not put in place a
sufficient regime of incentives and administrative controls to address the
most critical threat to the decentralization approach, the continued growth
in the stock of subnational debt.
3.      Project Objectives and Description. Bolivia has taken important steps in
the design of a program to streamline the functioning of decentralized public



service delivery and adapt the public sector's institutional framework for
local development and poverty reduction. Nonetheless, important challenges
remain, and the proposed operation comes at a time of looming fiscal crisis,
in part the result of the unfinished decentralization reform agenda. The core
of the proposed operation is a series of immediate measures to stem the
rising tide of subnational debt at a time of economic uncertainty. The
overall goals of these decentralizing reform are to (i) improve the
regulatory and institutional framework for decentralization; (ii) strengthen
governance and enhance community participation; (iii) support fiscal
discipline at the subnational level; and (iv) continue efforts to strengthen
fiduciary management and institutional capacity of all levels of government.
Specifically, the proposed operation aims to (i) establish the conditions for
stimulating the generation of local resources; (ii) strengthen local
expenditure autonomy; (iii) strengthen constraints on borrowing, improving
upon the debt restructuring measures adopted as part of the first PSAC
through market mechanisms to furthering the emergence of Bolivia's nascent
subnational credit market; and (iv) put in place key measures to enhance the
transparency of local finances. Among other important aspects, the proposed
operation supports (a) the fiscal decentralization of the health and water
and sanitation sectors through intergovernmental results-based agreements;
(b) the introduction of external financial assessments of local governments
and externally determined creditworthiness capacity; (c) the introduction of
credit ratings for subnational governments and loan loss provisioning by the
financial sector for lending to municipalities and the introduction of limits
on the withholding of government transfers as debt guarantees; and (d) the
regular disclosure of key municipal finance data.
4.       Project Cost and Financing. The proposed PSAC will be made to the
Republic of Bolivia, represented by the Ministry of Finance. The Credit will
be released in a single tranche of SDR 15.1 (US$ 20 million equivalent) at
standard IDA terms.
5.       Rationale for IDA Involvement. Institutional reforms focused on
decentralization, transparency, and accountability are the core of the
reforms to be supported by the PSAC II, and IDA has been deeply involved in
the ongoing dialogue between the Government and the international community.
The reforms build upon the significant work undertaken in improving the
institutional reform agenda supported through the Bank's exiting
Institutional Reform Project (IRP) and Financial Decentralization and
Accountability Project (ILACO).
6.       Project Implementation. The implementation of the reform agenda is
supported by a range of local stakeholders within government and with the
Bank and greater donor community operating in Bolivia.
7.       Environmental Aspects. No environmental issues are raised by the
proposed operation. As a condition of disbursement, the Government will
finalize operational manuals for the newly established National Social and
Public Investment Fund and for the National Fund for Regional Development
which include detailed procedures on environmental management.
8.       Contact Information
The InfoShop
-2-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager: Fernando Rojas / David Sislen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-7963 / (202) 458-0305
Fax: (202) 522-3552
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
December 13, 2002.
-3-



