                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY




                                                         Report No. 31034




                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (IDA- Cr No.37860)

                                        ON A

                                      CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR18 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA

                                     FOR THE

           SECOND PROGRAMMATIC STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                             FOR DECENTRALIZATION




                                DECEMBER 29, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                  List of Acronyms and Abbreviations

CAD     Decentralization Analysis Committee, Comité de Análisis de
        Descentralización
CDAPs   Comites Departamentales de Aprobación de Proyectos
DUF     Unified Directorate of the Funds
FIS     Fondo Inversión Social
FNDR    National Fund for Regional Development, Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
        Regional
FPS     Productive and Social Investment Fund, Fondo de Inversion Productiva y
        Social
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
HIPC    Highly Indebted Poverty Countries
IADB    Inter-American Development Bank
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
PNC     National Compensation Policy
PRF     Debt Rescheduling Program, Programa de Reprogramación Financiera
PSAC    Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit
SIGMA   Integrated Financial Management System
UDF     Fiscal Decentralization Unit, Unidad de Descentralización Fiscal
VIPFE   Vice-Ministry of Public Investment and External Financing, Vice-
        Ministerio de Inversión Pública y Financiamiento Externo




                                                                              2

                    Second Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit
                                   For Decentralization (PSAC II)


Operation ID: P081402                                                 Operation Name: Second Programmatic
                                                                      Structural Adjustment Credit for
                                                                      Decentralization
Team Leader: Edgardo Mosqueira                                        TL Unit: LCSPS
                                                                      Report Date: December 29, 2004

   1. Program Data

                  Name:     Second Programmatic Structural Adjustment                L/C Number:     IDA
                            Credit for Decentralization                                    37860
  Country/Department:       Bolivia                                                       Region:    Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

      Sector/subsector: Sub-national government (60%), Central government (30%),
                            Capital Market (5%), Power (5%)
                 Theme: Decentralization

KEY DATES
                                                                                Original              Revised/Actual
   PCD/PD:        11/11/02                                        Effective:    06/26/03              06/26/03
  Appraisal:      01/13/03                                            MTR:
   Approval:      06/17/03                                         Closing:     01/31/04              01/31/04



  Borrower/Implementing Agency:            Republic of Bolivia / Ministry of Finance
                     Other Partners:



STAFF                           Current                                         At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                               David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                 Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:                 Ronald E. Myers                                 Ronald E. Myers
Team Leader at ICR:             Edgardo Mosqueira                               Edgardo Mosqueira
ICR Primary Author:             Jonas Frank, Edgardo
                                Mosqueira

   2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)



                                          Outcome: U (Unsatisfactory)
                                      Sustainability: U (Unsatisfactory)
               Institutional Development Impact: U (Unsatisfactory)
                               Bank Performance: S (Satisfactory)
                          Borrower Performance: U (Unsatisfactory)




                                                                                                           3

                                              QAG (if available)       ICR
                            Quality at Entry: Marginally Satisfactory  U
               Operation at Risk at Any Time: No




    3. Program Description

a. Concise description of the overall program, citing any changes since the previous
    operation.

a.1) The Program

The Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC) series supports the Bolivian
Government in its efforts to improve the efficiency, transparency, and accountability of
Bolivia's decentralized government system, and to improve the capacity of the
decentralized system to deliver public services, especially to the poor. In 2001, in
response to the challenges posed by the Government's decentralization agenda, the World
Bank and the donor community active in Bolivia prepared the first, two-tranche PSAC,
which established a unifying instrument for aligning donor support in the areas of fiscal
and administrative decentralization. A single-tranche PSAC II followed in April 2003,
with the aim of consolidating and deepening the reform program within the context of a
complex and difficult macroeconomic and political situation.

The specific challenges and objectives of the PSAC program as originally conceived are
grouped below, divided into 11 categories.

Improve the institutional and regulatory framework for decentralization according
to principles of subsidiarity through: (1) redefining the roles and responsibilities across
all levels of public administration; (2) reforming the intergovernmental fiscal transfer
system and financing mechanism; (3) transparent and consistent criteria for the allocation
of funds for public services provision; (4) access to information regarding government
programs for local and community development; and (5) improved accountability of the
public sector. Regarding objective (5), the expected results of the program include: (a) a
clear definition of roles and responsibilities at all three levels of government, enabling
them to provide better services; (b) reduction of horizontal and vertical imbalances; (c)
improving tax administration by municipalities and increasing revenues by 10 percent
and 20 percent in 2004 and 2005, respectively; (d) allocating investment funds based on
formula-driven nondiscretionary rules with poverty criteria; (e) local governments and
communities with access to information on the allocation of investment funds and its
criteria; (d) reduction of discretionary transfers from the Productive and Social
Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversion Productiva y Social, FPS) allocations; (e)
mechanisms to facilitate citizen filing of complaints; (f) local communities with access to
municipal finances and government programs for local and community development,
including the requirements for access to programs; and (g) more effective and efficient




                                                                                         4

use of public resources, and financial assessments of 15 large municipalities produced by
international firms by end 2005.

Enhance community participation and social control in local management through:
(6) adopting means for community groups, especially the poor and indigenous peoples, to
effectively participate in local affairs and exert social control; (7) increasing
compatibility of political and administrative divisions and indigenous territories; (8)
increasing citizen participation in large urban municipalities to promote efficiency in
public expenditure through the creation of mancomunidades (associations of
municipalities to organize common services). Regarding objective (8), the expected
results include: (a) social control exerted by local communities for the provision of
resources for investment and service delivery and flexible participatory planning
procedures in place building upon indigenous or local community practices; (b)
delimitation of political­administrative territories compatible with indigenous territories
and more participation of indigenous communities in local governance; and (c) increased
participation of citizens to promote public expenditure efficiency.

Restore fiscal discipline: (9) promote fiscal discipline and debt control of local
governments through the generation of positive primary current account balances and
compliance with creditworthiness criteria. The expected results include municipalities
with positive current accounts balances, reduction of municipal debt by 5 percent by end
2003 and 10 percent by end 2004, new debt stock limits complied with by municipalities
by end 2005, and transfer of municipal risk to creditors.

Strengthen the financial and institutional capacity of decentralized public
administration to deliver services through: (10) enhancing institutional capacity at all
levels of government to implement and steer the decentralization process, including
municipal capacity to manage local finances and deliver public services; and (11)
improving availability of credit financing for municipalities. Regarding this objective,
the expected results include: rational use of technical assistance by municipalities;
revenues raised locally are higher; resource allocation has been improved and local public
services are better provided; increased citizen participation, including private sector
participation in the provision of public services; and municipalities increase access to
credit markets including private capital markets, to finance their investment programs.

a.2) The Operation

At the beginning of 2003, the economic, political, and social situation in Bolivia became
extremely fragile and critical. In 2002 the fiscal deficit had reached 8.5 percent of gross
domestic product (GDP). Fiscal deterioration was the result of the high cost of pension
reform, weak domestic demand, which translated into lower tax receipts, a lack of
domestic fuel price adjustments, and unplanned wage increases. Increasing financing
needs led the Government to borrow substantially in the domestic markets, but the
Treasury still faced liquidity shortfalls during the first semester of 2003 in the amount of
1 percent of GDP. This adverse macro and fiscal situation was exacerbated by a still
deficient decentralized intergovernmental framework.         Social demands for improved



                                                                                          5

public services were generating more fiscal pressure from municipalities, and the
growing municipal debt in turn contributed to the fragility of the overall fiscal situation of
the Central Government. Violent social unrest broke out in February 2003.

In this difficult context, the challenge to the Bank was to improve the decentralized
system and thereby prevent a further weakening of the fiscal position of the national
government, while also helping meet the country's serious financing needs. The PSAC II
operation was therefore prepared rapidly, with the aim of deepening and consolidating
the reform path initiated under the PSAC I.

Although the PSAC II sought to maintain the overall structure and promise of the initial
11 issues, the emphasis of the reforms shifted. The operation sought to facilitate the
transition from the initial programmatic vision established by the former administration
under the first PSAC to the new Government's evolving vision of decentralization policy.
Following the logical framework developed under the first operation, the PSAC II tried to
establish a path through actions aimed at enhancing the advances reached by the PSAC I,
and maintaining the trajectory of reforms defined in the program.

The main characteristics of the operation are: (a) it was prepared in a difficult political
and social environment, with strong regional demands for service delivery improvements
in a context of a very limited fiscal space; (b) actions included in the operation were
basically process events that represented modest but feasible and necessary measures to
support the new Government's decentralization agenda; and (c) the operation's rationale
was to support the critical next steps for a system that had been declared decentralized,
but in reality remained only partially so. Some of these "next steps" included the transfer
to the municipalities of limited local autonomy for tax policy, clarifying the roles and
responsibilities of the levels of the public sector in one specific pilot sector to set the
stage for greater clarity across service sectors, and the involvement of international credit
rating agencies and auditors in assessing the financial well-being of municipalities.

The main changes between the two operations were:

    · Modifications in issues and actions.         Issues 1 (aimed at the framework of
        expenditure responsibilities) and 2 (intergovernmental fiscal framework) were
        combined in recognition that a clear definition of roles and responsibilities is
        linked to the reform of intergovernmental fiscal relations. However, this decision
        underscored     the   importance     of   balancing    revenue    and    expenditure
        decentralization. As a consequence of the difficult political and social situation,
        no actions were considered for issues 7 and 8, both related with citizen
        participation in the design of districts' political demarcation and the management
        of urban municipalities.

    · Change in operation's focus. The ambitious goals of the PSAC I operation
        established a very complex framework to be implemented by 24 agencies and
        coordinated by the implementing agency, the Fiscal Decentralization Unit
        (Unidad de Descentralización Fiscal, UDF).           The PSAC II operation gave



                                                                                            6

       priority to issues of local financial and fiscal management. However, some
       actions were included to promote accountability and transparency in the
       management of decentralized agencies.

    · Change in counterparts and implementing agency. Because the operation's focus
       required cross-sectoral coordination, the Vice-Ministry of Public Investment and
       External Financing (Vice-Ministerio de Inversión Pública y Financiamiento
       Externo, VIPFE) was selected as the implementing agency.

    · Limited donor coordination. One of the core elements in the design of PSAC I
       was close donor coordination, which became institutionalized through a basket
       fund that was financed by several international donors.         In this case, Bank
       management decided that the need to provide timely financial support to the
       government warranted preparation of the operation quickly. While donors were
       consulted and kept apprised of the operation, co-financing (with its inevitable
       delays) was not sought.

    · Downsized and single tranche. Reflecting the high risks to the government, its
       program, and this project, the operation was reduced in size to US$25 million, and
       made into a single-tranche disbursement. This would better reflect the more
       limited extent of possible reforms, and better ensure policy implementation.


    4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

The evaluation of the achievement of PSAC II objectives and outputs must consider that
the operation was designed and implemented in a highly complex institutional context.

During project preparation, the Government elected in August 2002 was in the process of
defining its own decentralization strategy, and it was in the interest of the Government,
the Bank, and donors to reach agreement between the Government strategy and the
programmatic approach established in the program. The Government was also facing
strong and growing political and social pressures to improve service delivery at the
decentralized levels of government, but its fiscal situation did not allow it to provide
much support, and in its absence higher municipal indebtedness was a major risk.

Soon after the operation went to the World Bank's Board, a series of political and
economic events undermined the ability of the government to implement a fully
articulated decentralization program.      Reforms were in effect frozen, and some
backtracking occurred.

All the actions included in the policy matrix for disbursement were undertaken by the
borrower before loan approval.      These represented important policy improvements.
Among other reforms, a new legal and regulatory framework, and a policy for transparent
information about municipality finances, were established, and are in place. This has
created the legal basis and information framework for independent financial audits and



                                                                                       7

external credit ratings, the use of which would bring market discipline to municipal
borrowing and enhance the transparency of local finances. However, the new legal and
regulatory framework, and publishing of transparent information about municipal
finances, have not been implemented. A political and social crisis (culminating in civil
unrest and violence in October 2003) changed the political agenda of the former
Government, and established a new agenda for the new Government (the Vice President
having taken office in November 2003 following the resignation and flight of the
President). As such, the former Government did not have political space and opportunity
to implement the legal framework, and the new Government faced a changed landscape
for its political and social agenda, which now includes the discussion of new
decentralization arrangements in the Constitutional Assembly that will be elected in
2005.

Taking into consideration the unforeseen events that occurred shortly after loan approval,
the PSAC II outcome (considered as both the approval and implementation of a set of
reforms to create a new legal and regulatory framework and increase conditions for
transparency in municipal finances) must be rated as Unsatisfactory, its sustainability as
Unlikely, and its Institutional Development Impact as Unsatisfactory.


Specific Actions Included in the Policy Matrix, How they Were Achieved, and their
Impact on the PSAC Development Objectives

Issues 1 and 2: Redefinition of roles and responsibilities across the three levels of
public administration, especially between municipalities and prefectures, for the
provision of public services, linked to the reform of intergovernmental fiscal
relations.

Prior Action: The Ministry of Hydrocarbons and Energy Resolution has approved a
Ministerial Resolution clarifying the roles and responsibilities of the different levels of
public administration in the provision of rural electrification services, including
network extensions, mini-networks, and off-network systems in rural areas.

A principal goal of PSAC II was to use a pilot sector--the rural electricity sector--for
realigning functions across the national, departmental, and municipal levels. Ministerial
Resolution 013 was adopted in April 2003 as a prior action to provide the Ministry the
legal (and political) basis to push for clear delineation of functions in the rural
electrification sector. According to the Resolution, municipalities are in charge of the
distribution of rural electricity; the prefectures (intermediate level) are in charge of the
generation of electricity, thereby taking advantage of economies of scale; and the national
level is responsible for regulation and macro planning.               This framework of
responsibilities builds on Supreme Decree No. 24772 of August 1997.

The definition of responsibilities among the different levels of government improved the
regulatory framework and solved problems created by previous decisions related to
decentralization that concentrated the responsibilities at the municipal level, preventing



                                                                                          8

economies of scale. The new legal framework has also created a bottom-up mechanism
for sector investment planning, which includes the participation of municipalities and
prefectures in the design of local electrification investment plans. This change in the
responsibilities framework is working in practice, and has facilitated the design and
implementation of new programs such as the Decentralized Infrastructure for Rural
Transformation Project financed by the Bank.

However, other sector reforms are required to complete an adequate regulatory
framework. These include investment regulations to clarify private and public sector
roles and property rights on infrastructure.

Contribution to the overall program objectives: Moderate. A strategic decision was
taken during project design to focus on this one sector because the political situation in
Bolivia was not judged to be conducive to congressional approval of the draft law of
government roles and competences prepared under PSAC I.              PSAC II successfully
piloted the new framework for decentralization in an important sector. Based on this
model, similar reforms will need to be implemented in other important service sectors,
such as education and health.

Prior Action:     The Government, through the Ministry of Finance, has issued a
Supreme Resolution simplifying procedures at the Ministry of Finance for approving
municipal proposals to modify the rates and structures of local taxes and fees.

Since the end of 2003, the Ministry of Finance automatically accepts all municipal
proposals to change the tabla de valores before sending them to Congress.               The
Subsecretary of Public Credit still reviews the proposals for technical consistency and
advises municipalities where it deems necessary. The procedural change has allowed
municipalities to prepare and send their tabla de valores at the beginning of the year, and
to apply new tax values during the two first trimesters of the year, improving tax
collection. The reforms implemented substitute detailed and often slow ex ante controls
and approvals previously required from the Ministry of Finance.

Contribution to the overall program objectives: Moderate. It was impossible to
verify improvements in municipal property tax collection rates of all 311 municipalities.
However, it was possible to verify the property tax collection for the main 11
municipalities   enrolled   in   the   Debt    Rescheduling    Program     (Programa     de
Reprogramación Financiera, PRF). These local governments represent the highest
proportion of municipal budgets and the highest collection of property tax. In 2002, these
municipalities collected 97.2 million Bolivianos compared to 100.4 million Bolivianos in
2003. Therefore, no significant improvement was achieved at the end of 2003 (a sample
of municipal land tax collection shows it in Annex Table 1). However, by September
2004, property tax collection in these municipalities reached 90 percent of the taxes
collected for 2003, suggesting that total revenue for 2004 will be significantly higher.

Issue 3: Transparent and consistent criteria for the allocation of funds for the
provision of public services.



                                                                                         9

Prior Action: The FPS has modified its Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Bank.
FPS has introduced a program of business process reengineering to improve
operational efficiency and reduce costs.

The Productive and Social Investment Fund (FPS) co-finances social and productive
projects requested by municipal governments that fulfill the Fund's requirements.
However, administrative inefficiency slowed the disbursement of external and domestic
investment funds to municipalities. Under PSAC II, FPS's Operations Manual was
revised, and the agency has introduced internal reforms to streamline administrative
procedures and allow for faster disbursement of resources to municipalities. According
to information provided by the FPS, the average processing time of municipal requests is
now down from 400 days to 120 days, which represents an important reduction in
administrative steps and time.        The impact of the streamlined process in FPS
disbursement is important: the average monthly disbursement since June 2004 has
doubled to US$5 million from US$2.5 million during 2003. At the same time, the
challenge remains to fine-tune the matching grant system in order to signal more strongly
to municipalities the investment priorities of the nation, and to reassess the validity of an
investment instrument relying exclusively on demand-side financing.

Contribution to the overall program objectives: Moderate/Substantial. Increases in
investment flows to municipalities are a very tangible positive result from PSAC II
reforms.    Additional improvements could be reached through the strengthening of
municipality capabilities for the preparation of projects. With the cooperation of the
donor community, specialized technical assistance has been put in place to overcome this
obstacle, a good example of Bank/donor coordination.

Prior Action: The Government has set in operation a system to quantify discretionary
transfers by municipality.

The Government collected the information about discretionary transfers (transfers that are
not part of the National Compensation Policy). However, the information was not used
to make discounts on the amounts delivered through the PNC. The main reason for this
was the irregular resource flow to the FPS (in part due to the problematic fiscal situation
of the government, and in part due to mismanagement in the Fund), and the political
negative reactions that the discounts would have generated. A discount of transfers
would have further weakened the financial incentives provided by the FPS, and was
therefore not pursued.

Contribution to the overall program objectives:            Poor.    As highlighted by the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of PSAC I, there is a trend in allocating
resources to poorer municipalities, which is a positive trend (Annex Figure 3). There are
no additional data available to verify whether this trend persists (because the
quantification of discretionary transfers has not been published).




                                                                                          10

Prior Action:     The FPS has contracted an external, private firm to manage an
anticorruption and antifraud hotline.

An anticorruption hotline was established and is managed by a private firm. It remains
active and is linked directly to the FPS Executive Director's office. All claims are in
parallel reported to the Presidential Anti-Corruption Delegation (Delegación Presidencial
para la Lucha contra la Anti-Corruption), an institutional arrangement that guarantees
checks and balances, as well as neutrality in filing the claims. The hotline is being used
by communities to lodge complaints and request information.

Contribution to the overall program objectives: Moderate. The implementation of
this action represents a radical change in the transparency of the public funds for
decentralization management. Because there had been no adequate channels to denounce
corruption or follow up on even well-publicized cases of irregularities, the hotline and the
participation of the Presidential Anti-Corruption Delegation have created a first
mechanism for accountability in the allocation and use of the funds. FPS has also
advanced with other internal reforms aimed at achieving more efficiency and
transparency in municipal investment. Anticorruption efforts have led to the dismissal of
staff.

Although some progress in reforming and improving the FPS and facilitating municipal
access to investment funds has been achieved, there are two concerns that have been
raised both by the Unified Directorate of the Funds (DUF) and the donor community:
first, whether an investment system based exclusively on the demand-side is still
effective or whether the Central Government needs to steer municipal investment; and
second, whether FPS can move toward results-based disbursement. The reforms being
implemented (with, among other things, the decentralization of the project cycle to well-
performing municipalities) would lay the foundation to achieve this in the future. Both
aspects need further discussion and close attention from authorities, donors, and civil
society.

Issue 4: Access to information regarding government programs for local and
community development.

Prior Action: The Government has completed a study surveying local community
knowledge and understanding of the National Compensation Program and subnational
credit.

FPS operational rules have been disseminated through several means (television,
newspapers, brochures). Information was tailored to the needs of the target population.
The surveys conducted (through the private firm MKS Marketing) showed an improved
knowledge of the FPS programs.

Prior Action: The Government has implemented a pilot program in 36 municipalities,
publishing municipal financial information in a manner easily understandable by the
public.



                                                                                         11

Contribution to the overall program objectives: Poor. Although knowledge on FPS
functioning has been disseminated to municipal employees, easily understood municipal
financial information has yet to be published, undermining the transparency goals of the
operation. The pilot program did not complete the design and preparation of easily
understood information for public dissemination.

Issue 5: Accountability of the public sector.

Prior action: The Government has issued a Supreme Decree requiring daily disclosure
via the Internet, of municipal co-participation amounts and co-participation
interception withholding by source and type of credit beginning in July 2003.

The Ministry of Finance issued the Supreme Decree and published via Internet some
municipal co-participation amounts and co-participation interception withholding
(www.vmtcp.hacienda.gov.bo). However, publication of information did not go beyond
July 2003, and the information was presented only on a monthly basis (not on a daily
basis, as required by the operation). Government commitment to transparency was
therefore not sustained.

Contribution to the overall program objectives: Poor. Although publication of
intergovernmental fiscal data is not up to date along the lines required by the PSAC II,
the Ministry of Finance is creating a new centralized database (Centro de Riesgos), which
will contain all relevant municipal data, including subnational debt indicators. There is
no additional information about the expected operation of this Centro de Riesgos.

Prior Action: The DUF has issued a Board Resolution requiring that the 15 most
populous municipalities undergo an annual financial assessment by a private and
accredited auditing agency, as a prerequisite for accessing public and private credit.
The DUF will publish the financial assessments annually.

Although the government issued a Supreme Decree (No. 26155) that gave it a legal
mandate to proceed, the DUF instead has taken the budget information of municipalities
enrolled in the PRF--validated by the Ministry of Finance--to conduct a financial
assessment. This information was available for only 9 of the 15 municipalities, and no
proper auditing was performed.

Contribution to the overall program objectives: Poor. These actions are at the core
of the PSAC II operation because one of its key objectives was to enhance municipal
accountability. The main obstacles to the continuity and implementation of both actions,
as explained by the Government, were the lack of adequate information and political
resistance from municipalities. This situation confirms, at least on this specific issue,
that: (a) project design should have used a results-oriented approach instead of the
procedural steps included in the matrix to promote the implementation of the actions; (b)
a deeper analysis of stakeholder commitment and the political economy of reform was
necessary; and (c) linking the reforms to the expansion of the integrated financial



                                                                                      12

management system (SIGMA) in municipalities should have been considered as part of
the operation. Finally, the commitment of the Central Government to these reforms was
not sustained.

In this context, it is also worthwhile noting that to date, the SIGMA, promoted by PSAC
I, is only functioning in the La Paz municipality, and the vast majority of local
governments have no automated reporting tool that can be used for monitoring purposes
at the central level.     A project financed by the Inter-American Development Bank
(IADB) will support the implementation of the SIGMA in 20 of the most important
municipalities. Had World Bank financing of the successful SIGMA process (begun in
the early 1990s) been continued, the SIGMA system arguably would have been in place
more broadly, and in time to effectively support the PSAC program.

Issue 6: Means for community groups, especially the poor and indigenous peoples,
to effectively participate in local affairs and exert social control.

Prior Action:      The DUF has issued a Board Resolution establishing Comites
Departamentales de Aprobación de Proyectos (Departmental Project Committees,
CDAPs) to bring citizen oversight to the functioning of the National Compensation
Policy.

The Board Resolution was issued and Departmental Project Committees operate in all
departments (verified through protocols of committee sessions). The Committees are in
charge of approving municipal investment projects, which contributes to an effective
deconcentration of FPS management.             Committees are made up of municipal
representatives, Social Vigilance Committees, a delegate of the departmental Prefectura,
a civil society representative, and technical advisors.

Contribution to the overall program objectives:               Moderate/Substantial.  The
Committees have contributed to fostering the participatory approach of the FPS, but need
further strengthening.      A decision by the Supreme Court on the legality of the
Departmental Project Committees is still pending and cannot be expected before 2005.

Prior Action: The Government has signed contracts with 118 municipalities, financing
social control efforts by Vigilance Committees.

Through these contracts the government set up a means of financing social control efforts
by Vigilance Committees in order to overcome one of the main obstacles to effective
popular participation. It has provided financial resources to a series of nongovernmental
organizations that channel these funds to Vigilance Committees.            This approach,
however, has proven ineffective. The main obstacle is the lack of use by the Vigilance
Committees of the support offered. The majority of the Committees refused to accept the
funds on the grounds that these resources create accountability toward the Central
Government, although one of the core principles of the Bolivian decentralization
approach was precisely to establish truly independent social control mechanisms.
Internal conflicts in the Committees have also prevented implementation of the program.



                                                                                      13

Contribution to the overall program objectives: Moderate. Because enhancement of
community participation and social control in local management are important objectives
of the program, the partial implementation of the actions under this subcomponent
negatively affects program outcomes. The reluctance of Vigilance Committees to accept
Government financial support should have been analyzed during project design as part of
the analysis of the stakeholders. The Government did not find alternative approaches
after program effectiveness to resolve Vigilance Committees' opposition, which
demonstrates a lack of Government's commitment to this reform. This situation, together
with the lack of actions related to issue 7 (compatibility of political and administrative
divisions and indigenous territories) and issue 8 (participation in large municipalities and
the design of models for managing mancomunidades) demonstrates that the PSAC II
operation focused on the implementation of measures related to community participation,
which were not a high priority for the Central Government.

Issue 9: Fiscal discipline and debt control of local governments

Prior Action: The Government has issued a Supreme Decree with the following
measures: (a) by July 2003, municipalities with more than 50,000 inhabitants must
have a credit rating by a private sector credit-rating agency as a prerequisite for access
to credit; (b) the Ministry of Finance must certify the indebtedness capacity of
municipalities that do not exceed the existing debt stock and debt service limits
(20/200); and (c) withholding of municipal co-participation transfers for outstanding
debt must be limited to 50 percent of the value of co-participation transfers.

The Supreme Decree was approved, but the credit ratings have not been implemented. In
the case of the certification of indebtedness capacity, no significant progress has been
made. The Ministry of Finance is still formulating a suitable methodology for this
purpose. However, the co-participation withholding has been reduced to the required 50
percent level.

Prior Action: The Ministry of Finance has issued a Supreme Resolution specifying the
types of and procedures for applying sanctions on municipalities not in compliance
with PRF agreements.

The PRF program adopted Resolution No. 122, specifying the sanctions to be adopted for
noncompliance with rules. Noncompliance refers, for instance, to failing to deliver
information, for arrears, for generating excessive floating debt, and for contracting new
debt without previous authorization from the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of
Finance, however, was not able to enforce the sanctions.             The reasons for this
underperformance are in the apparent impracticability of sanctions (for instance, stopping
of disbursements) that were not graduated, and therefore did not constitute a credible
threat and incentive for municipalities.

Contribution to the overall program objectives: Poor. Actions to establish external
and independent credit ratings for municipalities jointly with actions to require



                                                                                         14

independent financial audits were the main elements of the PSAC II design to bring
market discipline to local borrowing and complement the insufficient results of
administrative debt controls. Their objective was also to establish incentives to reduce
moral hazard and the likelihood of continued bailouts of overindebted municipalities by
the Central Government.        The failure in the implementation of this market-based
mechanism for debt control and transparency negatively affects program outputs. It also
left the PRF as the single instrument to enhance fiscal discipline and debt control of local
governments.

The PRF program, the implementation of which was promoted by the PSAC I, has
nevertheless prevented a greater subnational debt crisis that would have further weakened
the economic performance of the country. The Central Government was able to sanction
the fiscally imprudent behavior of a number of large and medium-sized municipalities by
intercepting intergovernmental transfers and by reallocating municipal expenditures
toward debt amortizations. This was precedent-setting in an environment otherwise
characterized by weak fiscal discipline. Although subnational debt indicators do not
indicate positive progress for all municipalities, the PRF program was an important step
forward because it has created conditions which will, among others things, allow
authorities to pursue the adoption of a Fiscal Responsibility Law.

The PRF program is monitored with three key indicators, which have the following
results for 2003 (details in the Annex):

    · (i) Primary current balances: In 2003, municipalities displayed substantially
        lower current account balances when compared to 2002. Their overall fiscal
        position has weakened (Annex Table 2).

    · (ii) Debt stock relative to current revenue: Most municipalities, including the
        three most populous (La Paz, Santa Cruz, and Cochabamba), have not met the
        targets for 2003, but have a higher debt stock (Annex Table 3).

    · (iii) Debt service relative to current revenue: All municipalities have lower debt
        service indicators when compared to 2002 (Annex Table 4).

This analysis reveals that although some progress has been achieved, there is continuing
pressure to incur excessive debt. Particularly worrisome is the fact that the situation of
the most populous municipalities remains critical, a condition that may under some
circumstances affect overall national fiscal stability.

This casts doubts on the decision of the government to close down the PRF program as
originally foreseen in PSAC I (where a sunset clause was included). This will rule out
opportunities for the Central Government to perform administrative controls and carry
out close and tight monitoring.

It is unlikely that market incentives can fill this gap and provide the conditions that are
necessary to discipline those municipalities not in compliance with the debt limits. The



                                                                                         15

information base (Centro de Riesgos) that is currently established by the Ministry of
Finance, and which is aimed at providing critical financial information on municipalities,
in particular for the private sector, is supposed to fill this gap. There is (anecdotal)
evidence that the private sector is hesitant to lend to municipalities under the current
conditions, or that it would only do so provided the PRF program is still in place.
Therefore, one of the key goals of the PSAC I and II--to transfer credit risk to
creditors--has not been achieved.

Issue 10: Institutional capacity at all levels of government to implement and steer
the decentralization process, including municipal capacity to manage local finances
and deliver public services.

Prior Action: The Ministries of Sustainable Development, Municipal Development,
and Finance have signed a Multi-Ministerial Resolution establishing the Comité de
Análisis de Descentralización (CAD).

The CAD was created as a mechanism to coordinate decentralization policies among
sector ministries. It has, however, not held more than six sessions. A decentralization
policy was debated but never enacted.        A draft document was prepared but not
disseminated. The CAD has proved ineffective for bringing about a stable and effective
institutional framework for decentralization, a situation that was compounded by the
political and economic crisis of 2003, which added to the problem.            The Central
Government office responsible for decentralization was changed five times during 2003
due to political and social problems. This was one of the main factors that prevented the
consolidation of CAD.

Contribution to the overall program objectives: Moderate. This situation points to
deeper problems affecting the institutional framework for decentralization in Bolivia.
Currently three entities are working in parallel by establishing (implicit or explicit)
decentralization policies: (a) the Ministry of Popular Participation, which has
traditionally held a leadership role; (b) the Ministry of Finance, which was the
counterpart for the PSACs and is eager to achieve a sound fiscal stance; (c) and the newly
created Sub-Commission for Decentralization and State Reform within the Constitutional
Assembly. Although some coordination among these three entities has been established,
the institutional framework would need to be fine-tuned, consolidated, and probably also
formalized to be effective in the current decentralization debate, in which the election of
regional governments and the distribution of gas revenue among the departments are the
core issues.

Issue 11: Availability of credit financing for municipalities.

Prior Action: The DUF has issued a Board Resolution requiring that the National
Fund for Regional Development (Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional, FNDR)
make credit provisions based on municipal credit ratings.




                                                                                        16

The resolution was approved, but the FNDR was not able to make the required credit
provisions. The main reason for this is that the FNDR has a negative spread, lending to
municipalities at lower interest rates than it pays. Given the overall fiscal situation of the
government, continued subsidies to FNDR were impossible. One of the goals of the
PSAC was to attain stronger participation of the private sector in municipal credit, but
this has not been achieved.

This underperformance reveals the severe management problems of the FNDR. It is an
underfunded institution generating increasing losses. A recent audit performed by a
private auditing agency attests to substantial shortcomings in terms of transparency.
Political interference is still strong and undermines the goal of fiscal discipline.

Contribution to overall program objectives: Poor. Recognizing the serious problems
afflicting the FNDR, the government and the DUF have taken steps to reform the agency.
Its new director is strongly committed to transparency and efficiency. Among the
alternatives being discussed in the DUF is to intervene FNDR and establish a board with
private sector experience to run the FNDR like a private bank and thereby use market
incentives. Although this may not necessarily be the only effective way to improve the
fund's management, it is clear that the reform of the FNDR is one of the key obstacles for
Bolivia to achieving efficient and accountable decentralization.

Status of the Triggers to Advance to PSAC III

The following chart shows the status of project's triggers:

Trigger                               Status
Maintenance of an appropriate Will be judged prior to preparation of new loan.
macroeconomic framework.
Publication of the Government's A draft strategy was prepared by the Government,
comprehensive         Medium-Term but political changes prevent its publication.
Decentralization Strategy.            Political changes have determined the election of a
                                      new Constitutional Assembly in 2005, and one of its
                                      main issues and mandates will be to develop a new
                                      decentralization strategy.
Evidence that 100% approvals are Trigger is fulfilled.
given (by the Ministry of Finance)
of municipal proposals for changes
to the tables de valores.
Evidence that at least 2 large The Ministry of Finance is currently formulating the
municipalities       (>      50,000 methodology to carry out the ratings.            Under
inhabitants) have been rated by positive circumstances the municipal ratings could
international rating agencies.        be conducted by the end of 2004.
The completion of at least 5 The auditing of municipalities has not been
external financial assessments by performed. The municipal elections taking place at
external auditors.                    the end of 2004 provide another barrier to
                                      implement this trigger/condition in a timely fashion.

    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome



                                                                                            17

There are at least four major factors that have negatively affected implementation:
· Uneven resource flow to implementing agencies. In large part, this is due to the
    severe and sustained economic and fiscal crisis in Bolivia.

· Political pressures in the midst of debates on regional autonomy. This was a major
    factor impacting fiscal responsibility, in particular on the Debt Rescheduling
    Program. The Prefecturas, as deconcentrated branches of the Central Government on
    the regional level, provided bailouts to municipalities. Faced with regional demands
    for more autonomy, the Central Government was often unable or unwilling to impose
    effective sanctions because their application would have increased political and social
    problems.

· Changes in government.          Following the change of government in late 2003,
    authorities were not able to design an institutional framework for coordinated
    implementation of decentralization policies.          This has negatively affected
    effectiveness of the program. This situation was compounded by the fact that the
    design of PSAC II implied a change in counterparts and implementing agencies, from
    the Unidad de Descentralización Fiscal (UDF) to VIPFE.

· Lack of reform support from municipalities. Some of the actions included in the
    operation required the participation of the municipal governments. The Central
    Government delivered the decisions and executed the actions required for reform
    implementation, but in many cases did not find the required and needed participation
    of municipal authorities.


    6. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank Performance: Satisfactory

Under conditions of economic, political, and social instability, a team composed of
knowledgeable staff, working under extreme time pressure, responded quickly to the
request from the government for Bank support. The team held discussions with a new
Government that was designing its decentralization strategy, used the critical situation to
promote the continuity of the overall decentralization program, and put in place an
operation in less than two months.

Following the logical framework developed under the first operation, PSAC II tried to
enhance the advances reached by PSAC I, and maintain the trajectory of reforms defined
in the program. Some of the critical characteristics of the operation are: (a) actions
included in the operation were basically process events, which represent modest but
necessary steps to support the new Government in its decentralization agenda; (b) the
operation was designed in a difficult political and social environment, with strong
regional demands for service delivery improvements in a context of a very limited fiscal
space; (c) the operation's rationale was to support the critical next steps for a system that



                                                                                          18

has been declared decentralized, but in reality remains only partially so; and (d) the
lessons learned from PSAC I were not yet distilled at the time of the project preparation,
so design deficiencies in PSAC I could not be fully addressed in PSAC II.

The operation included specific responses to the precarious financial position of Bolivia's
large municipalities, which represented a threat to overall macroeconomic stability. It
helped maintain the overall reform goals and gave time and support to the Government to
refine its own decentralization strategy. In line with a reduced reform agenda, the loan
size was cut. Additionally, the number of tranches was reduced to one, conditioned on
prior actions, given the recognized risks and uncertainties. The single-tranch approach
implied the delivery of all the actions before credit approval, limiting the supervision
activities scope to the confirmation of the delivery of all the actions before credit
disbursement.

The operation was prepared in isolation from the donor community, and this affected
donor relations negatively in the short run. However, as indicated, subsequent synergies
between the Bank operation and specific technical assistance support from the donors
have demonstrated good results in the implementation of specific components of this
operation.

In any event, the operation proved to be too ambitious.              This reflects, however,
subsequent political and social developments (serious violence leading to the resignation
of the President, and widespread fears of domestic anarchy) that could not have been
anticipated by the Bank. This situation undoubtedly impacted local commitment as the
authorities struggled to maintain order and the semblance of a constitutional government.
Bank financing provided by PSAC II may in the long run, as part of a concerted effort by
international financial institutions to assist the country, be seen as critical to providing the
fiscal space to maintain democratic options, better ensure relative social peace, and
sustain the Bank's ability to protect and extend poverty alleviation efforts, especially in
smaller municipalities.

Borrower Performance: Unsatisfactory

The evaluation of borrower performance needs to be made taking into consideration the
lack of political, economic, and social stability in Bolivia during implementation of the
project.   Some of the most significant shortcomings in the implementation of the
government's decentralization policy can be explained as a consequence of the fiscal
problems, the political pressure, demands for regional autonomy, and the lack of
commitment of municipalities:

Unsustainability of reforms. Commitment in the course of implementation waivered.
Progress of reform, in particular, in key areas such as the Debt Restructuring Program
(PRF), was irregular, or there were explicit reversals.

Deficient   institutional    framework.         Responsibilities   for    implementation      of
decentralization were not well defined within the Central Government.                 This has



                                                                                             19

negatively affected the coordination of implementation among the roughly 20 agencies
involved.  The government was not able to establish a clear and coherent policy
framework for decentralization.


   7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s)

Should the Government and the World Bank consider moving ahead with a third
programmatic operation (PSAC III), the following key lessons and findings should be
addressed:

   · Program effectiveness is greatest in the area of the intergovernmental fiscal
       framework. As the reforms in the different components ("issues") advance, it
       becomes clear that a programmatic approach is better suited to handle fiscal
       problems rather than addressing participatory reforms.       In fact, the greatest
       achievement of the two PSAC loans are related to the control of subnational debt
       and the promotion of fiscal responsibility, although much remains to be done to
       implement this, and the reforms have suffered explicit reversals.

   · Timing and objectives of the operation need to be more modest. Making
       decentralization the main tool in antipoverty policies was risky and
       overambitious. Also, an adjustment program should address reforms that can be
       implemented and completed within a medium-term framework.

   · The scope of the operation improperly excluded the intermediate level.         The
       departmental level lies at the core of decentralization in Bolivia.          The
       constitutional reform process during 2004­05 will likely lead to the election of
       departmental authorities that could perpetuate the deficiencies of this level of
       government. Reforming only the municipal level is too narrow a focus, and limits
       the potential impact of a programmatic adjustment program.

   · In programmatic operations the counterpart institutions should remain the same.
       The PSAC II operation established a change in the counterpart, from the Fiscal
       Decentralization Unit (UDF) to the Vice-Ministry of Public Investment and
       External Finance (VIPFE).       This has considerably negatively affected the
       continuity of the actions.

   · Technical assistance is required in parallel to the adjustment operation.        A
       structural adjustment operation involving a complex process of change, such as
       decentralization, is difficult to implement without sustained and continuous
       dialogue and technical assistance. A technical assistance program designed in
       parallel to the adjustment loan could have ensured a better and more effective
       application of reforms.




                                                                                      20

                                                                                             Data Annex


Figure 1. Horizontal Imbalances and Fiscal Capacity (per Capita GDP
in thousand Bolivianos), 1999 and 2002

                                       12

                                       10

    Bolivianos)                               8
                                                                                                                                1999
                                              6                                                                                 2002

               thousand                       4

                       (in                    2

                          GDP                 0

                                                 osi                                              a
                             Capita                                      Paz
                                              Pot                Beni                                        Cruz
                                                                       La                     Tarij  Oruro
                                                                            Average                               Pando
                                   Per           Chuquisaca                                            Santa
                                                                              Cochabamba

                                                                              Departamentos


Source: World Bank calculations based on information provided by INE (2004).




Figure 2. Increase in Resources (in absolute terms) for Municipalities through HIPC
Transfers Compared to Co-participation Transfers, 2002

                                              250%                                                                        233%



                                              200%



                                              150%



                                       Percent100%
                                                                                71%                        76%
                                                                                           66%     66%
                                                                                                                   54%
                                                      46%
                                               50%                       42%
                                                                30%



                                               0%

                                                       Z                  A      SI                        I
                                                  LA PA                                                           IJA
                                                          NTA CRUZ    BAMB   POTO         ACA
                                                                                       UIS     ORURO     BEN    TAR    PANDO

                                                        SA          CHA
                                                                  CO               CHUQ

                                                                                   Departamentos


Source: FNDR (2004).




                                                                                                                                        21

Figure 3. Percentage of Investment by the FPS Municipal Category (projection
for 2004)


              40.00%

              35.00%

              30.00%

              25.00%
                                                                         1.- Ex-FIS
              20.00%                                                     2.- P.N.C.

    Percentage15.00%

              10.00%

               5.00%

               0.00%
                       I        II       III        IV     V
                                  Municipal Category

FIS = Fondo Inversión Social (eliminated).
Note: Does not include spending item "Miscellaneous."
Source: FPS.




Table 1. Municipal Land Tax in a Sample of Municipalities*,
2001­04 (in current Bolivianos)
                         2001        2002           2003  2004 (proj.)
La Paz               107,495,213 128,621,164 140,162,898 146,308,676
Santa Cruz            49,605,332 60,396,676 65,699,988 97,968,030
Cochabamba            44,603,566 48,483,312 53,577,972 77,657,966
Tarija                 5,184,857  9,230,410      9,257,531 8,663,592
Trinidad               1,380,079  2,324,968      2,233,474 5,607,301
Quillacollo            3,350,281  3,852,166      4,549,479 10,635,166
Guayaramerin            390,234    462,506        376,971   615,043
Portachuelo             288,938    202,886        235,543   381,385
Villazon                640,662    589,187        711,318  1,101,308
Rurrenabaque            224,316    376,540        220,206   288,993
Cotoca                  428,012    659,624        429,291   769,544
*Municipalities enrolled in the PRF program.
Source: PRF (2004).




                                                                                      22

Table 2.       Primary Current Account Balances* of Municipalities within the Debt
Restructuring Program, 2000­03 (in current million Bolivianos)
Institution          Date of      Upon     Target Execution Target Execution Target Execution
                   Signature Signing**       for       2001        2002     2002   2003    2003
                                            2001
La Paz              10/5/2000      33.7     123.1       71.9       68.8      98.2   4.2    -15.6
Santa Cruz          11/8/2000     -33.9     93.2       -58.8       175.7     69.2  110.4   0.04
Cochabamba          11/8/2000     -70.1     91.0        52.8       111.3     46.5  -84.4   0.04
Tarija              12/5/2000      8.9       8.6         4.0        3.6       9.9  -26.1 -0.000,6
Trinidad            3/16/2001      -5.4     -19.5       -1.7       -9.8       3.7   -8.2  0.005
Quillacollo         10/9/2001     -11.2      -6.3       -3.6        7.0       1.5   12.3  0.008
Guayaramerín        8/1/2001       -0.6      1.8         2.8        2.2       2.0   2.8   0.000,1
Portachuelo         5/31/2002      1.9                              0.9       1.3   1.0   0.000,6
Villazón            7/10/2002      0.4                              3.5       3.2   4.0     n.d.
Rurrenabaque       11/12/2002      0.2                                              0.5     n.d.
Cotoca              12/7/2002      2.8                              4.7       1.3   4.6   0.000,1
Pref. Tarija        6/3/2002      507.9                            -36.0     48.0  -88.5    0.1
* Total Revenue minus expenditures, without interest.
** Indicator reflects value in December in year prior to the start of the PRF.
Source: PRF (2004).




Table 3. Evolution of Debt Stock in Relation to Current Revenue in Municipalities of the
Debt Restructuring Program, 2000­03
   Institution       Date of      Upon     Target Execution Target Execution Target Execution
                   Signature Signing*        for       2001        2002     2002   2003  2003
                                            2001
La Paz              10/5/2000     181       139         147         175      140   150    182
Santa Cruz          11/8/2000     152       202         236         123      261   175    189
Cochabamba          11/8/2000     158       258         340         244      348   360    413
Tarija              12/5/2000     126       150         153         146      128   121    142
Trinidad            3/16/2001     314       327         365        299       241   234    227
Quillacollo         10/9/2001      69       284         295         173      293   114    254
Guayaramerín        8/1/2001      136       145         224         117      219   212    196
Portachuelo         5/31/2002     244                               266      270   217    256
Villazón            7/10/2002     511                               319      316   238    n.d.
Rurrenabaque       11/12/2002     182                                              136    n.d.
Cotoca              12/7/2002     196                               211      208   161    183
Pref.Tarija         6/3/2002      218                               323      307   335    313
* Indicator shows value in December of year prior to initiating the PRF program.
Source: PRF (2004).




                                                                                                 23

Table 4. Evolution of Debt Service in Proportion to Current Revenue in Municipalities of
the Debt Restructuring Program, 2000­02
   Institution      Date of    Upon      Target      Exe-    Target     Exe-   Target Execution
                  Signature Signing*       for     cution      2002    cution  2003    2003
                                          2001       2001               2002
La Paz            10/5/2000      24        56         45        40       35     10       11
Santa Cruz        11/8/2000      39        86         62        49       72     44       32
Cochabamba        11/8/2000      20        93        104        69       84     121      74
Tarija            12/5/2000      20        57         43        44       19      8       6
Trinidad          3/16/2001     141        138       139        37       20     27       22
Quillacollo       10/9/2001      21        107        42        52       73     36       35
Guayaramerín       8/1/2001      27        84         26        25       24     54       5
Portachuelo       5/31/2002      23                             37       32     21       11
Villazón          7/10/2002      0                              79       52     32      n.d.
Rurrenabaque      11/12/2002     37                                             34      n.d.
Cotoca            12/7/2002      36                             73       42     47       9
Pref.Tarija      6/3/2002        10                             34       24     22       27
*Indicator shows value in December of year prior to initiating the PRF program.
Source: PRF (2004).




                                                                                                24

