Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3786-BO  
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit for Decentralization) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 23, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3786-BO 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) The Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
March 18, 2003, (hereinafter called the Letter of Development Policy), describing a program 
of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the 
Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association 
in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in a 
single tranche as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CAD” means ‘
Comité de Análisis de Descentralización
’, a committee 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Multi-Ministerial Resolution No. 001/2002, dated 
November 12, 2002, to oversee the Borrower’s decentralization policies; 
 
(b) “CDAPs” 
means 
‘
Comités Departamentales de Aprobación de Proyectos
’, 
departmental committees established and operating under the laws of the Borrower for the 
approval of FPS investment projects (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
 
(d) 
“DUF” means ‘
Directorio Único de Fondos
’, the Unified Directorate of 
Funds within the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of sustainable development, established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower; 
 
(e) “FNDR” 
means 
‘
Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional’
,
the Bo
rrower’s 
national fund for regional development established, pursuant to Law No. 926, dated March 
25, 1987, as the agency responsible for investment credit financing to Municipalities and 
Prefectures (both as hereinafter defined) in the Borrower’s territory; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(f) 
“FPS” means ‘
Fondo Nacional de Inversión Productiva y Social’
,
the 
Borrower’s national productive and social investment fund established by the Borrower, 
pursuant to Supreme Decree No. 25984 dated November 16, 2000, and to Law No. 2235, 
dated March 31, 2001, as the agency responsible for implementing the National 
Compensation Policy (as hereinafter defined);  
 
(g) 
“FPS Operational Manual” means the operational manual adopted by FPS in 
connection with the Program, including procedures on monitoring, supervision and auditing 
of FPS procedures, effective distribution of FPS’ resources and eligibility criteria for 
municipal grant operations; 
 
(h) 
“Municipality” means any of the municipal governments in the Borrower’s 
territory; 
 
(i) 
“National Compensation Policy” means the Borrower’s policy set forth in 
Articles 1 through 10 of Supreme Decree No. 25984 of November 16, 2000, that defines the 
Borrower’s approach to financing priority programs and projects at the local level; 
 
(j) 
“Prefecture” means any of the departmental administrations in the 
Borrower’s territory; 
 
(k) 
 “PRF” means ‘
Programa de Readecuación Financiera’
,
the Borrower’s 
financial restructuring plan for the Borrower’s public sector, governed by Decree No. 25737, 
dated April 14, 2000; and 
 
(l) 
“PRF Agreements” means any or all of the agreements to be entered into 
between a Municipality and the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of finance for the purposes of 
carrying out the financial restructuring plan for the Borrower’s public sector adopted 
pursuant to Decree No. 25737 of April 14, 2000. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR18,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit 
Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All 
Page  5
-
4
-
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit 
Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall 
have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount 
equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such 
amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by 
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as 
of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter, pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each 
year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2013, and ending February 
Page  6
-
5
-
15, 2023.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 
2023, shall be five percent (5%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive 
years  the level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to 
access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, 
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms 
of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent 
with the objectives of the Program. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action 
or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Association, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
(d) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action 
listed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination  
 
Section 5.01. The date September 22, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
 
Palacio de las Comunicaciones, Piso 19 
 
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n 
 
La Paz, Bolivia 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
 
FINANZA 
 
La 
Paz, 
Bolivia     (591-2) 
235-9955 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
By /s/ Jaime Aparicio Otero 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ David de Ferranti 
 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  11
-
10 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;  
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall 
have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party);  
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Page  13
-
12 - 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to 
this Agreement 
 
1. 
Ministerial Resolution No. 013 has been issued on April 28, 2003, by the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Services and Public Works, clarifying the roles and responsibilities 
of the different levels of public administration in the provision of rural electrification 
services, including network extensions, mini-networks, and off-network systems in rural 
areas. 
 
2. 
Supreme Resolution No. 221487 has been issued by the Borrower on January 20, 
2003, to simplify procedures at the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance for approving municipal 
proposals to modify the rates and structures of local taxes and fees. 
 
3. 
The FPS Operational Manual has been modified by the Borrower in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association, so as to simplify financing, project evaluation and safeguard  
policies. 
 
4. 
 
FPS has contracted an external private firm to manage an anti-corruption and anti-
fraud hotline. 
 
5. 
Supreme Decree No. 26868 has been issued on December 17, 2002, by the 
Borrower to require: (i) monthly disclosure from July 1, 2003, of gross and net 
governmental fiscal transfers to municipalities; (ii) private credit rating for municipalities 
with more than 50,000 inhabitants as a prerequisite for access to credit; (iii) certification by 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance of municipalities which do not exceed the legal existing 
debt stock and debt service limits; and (iv) a limit no greater than 50% on the withholdings 
by the Borrower on governmental fiscal transfers to municipalities. 
 
6. 
DUF has issued Resolution No. 081/02 on November 26, 2002, requiring that the 15 
largest municipalities in terms of population undergo annual financial assessments 
conducted by a private and accredited auditing agency as a prerequisite for accessing public 
and private credit (and also requiring that these assessments be annually published). 
 
7. 
DUF has issued Resolution No. 083/02 on November 26, 2002, establishing bylaws 
for CDAPs. 
 
8. 
Supreme Resolution No. 122 has been issued by the Borrower on March 18, 2003, 
to define sanctions and related procedures to be applied to municipalities not in compliance 
with PRF Agreements. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
9. 
The Borrower has established the CAD. 
 
10. 
DUF has issued Resolution No. 082/02 on November 26, 2002, requiring that 
FNDR make credit provisions based on municipal credit ratings. 
 
