Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
LA4). z 3q6- 1IJA
lhpsut No. Z-0641-TM
REPORIT AN  REi E lO
OF m
PREIBEN  OF TE
IIER MTONL MmN FORL REONTCTOAMD DEVELOnE
Iro c
ECUTM  DIRECTORS
ON A PRMSoPe LOAN
Ml TM ADUT ET TOS $13.4 ILLION
TO TUE
RZPUBLIC OF TMNISIA
FOR A
MIniN  TECHICAL ASSISTANC  PROJECT
Agut 15, 1983
jTlk  1_mnt  1 s resictgkboetl d my bec ulq byrc ts dy in the perfoee  f at
t11 Ie    ui  olb cltes am otm odmwb be &1doS- odwdw  Wadi Bnkatiord.



cuuRuECM EQUzvALus
Currency Unit - Tmnisian Dinar (TD)
US $1.00  -'.D.650
TDl.OO - US $1.54
Fiscal Year
January   - December 31
ABBRETIlONS
BDET     -   Econmic Development Bank of Tunisia (lamque de
DSveloppement Econoique de Tunisie)
CPG      -   Gafsa Phosphate Compay (Compagnie des Phosphates de
Gafsa)
DG       -   Depart of Xnes and Geology (D0partement des Nins
et de la Ggologie)
GDP     -   Gross Domestic Product
KIU:    -   Potassium Chloride
K20     -   Potassim Oxide (nutrient element in potash fertilizers)
Om      -   National Minin  Office (Office National des Mines)
P205     -   Phosphoru Pentoxide (mntrient elemet in phosphate
fertilizers)
SDICS   -   Development Compay of the Chemical ndustries of the
South (Socidte de DGveloppement des Industries Chimiques
du Sud)
SOP     -   Potassium Sulphate
tpy     -   metric tons per year



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KMINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IAN AND PRWECT SUIRAAY
Borrower: '       bGovernment of the Reptblic-of Tunisia
Beneficiaries:  (a)  Gafsa Phosphate Company (CPG) for phosphate component
(b) National Mining Office (OM) and CPC for potash component
(c) o01 for injing policy component
Amount:          US $13.4 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee
Terms;           17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Onlending:       The Government would onlend US $10.3 million to CPG at
10.5 percent interest for 17 years, including 4 years of
grace.
Project Description;
The project would support the Government's objective of
rationalizing and developing the mining industry by proviaing
consultancy services for the following project components;
(a) Phosphate. The efficiency and profitability oi CPG's
existing operations would be improved, and feasibility
studies on four open pit deposits prepared;
(b) Potash. This component would lay the ground for the
establishment of a potentially important new export
in4tustry.  A first phase would develop technical and economic
information on three potash deposits in Southern Tunisia to
identify the optimal configuration of a potash project. In a
second phase, the feasibility of the option selected in Phase
I would be studied in detail and investment proposals
prepared; and
(c) Mining Policy. This component -ould analyze and define
the role of 01M in mineral exploration and development, and
define organizational, staffing and budgetary requirements to
help ONK meet its objectives. The component would enhance
the ability of the Government and ONH to plan and implement a
rational mining exploration policy.
Benefits and Risks;:  he project would (a) help reestablish the profitability
and evaluate CPG's most promising investment projects to
lay the ground for efficient output expansion of the
phosphate industry, thus contributing to the
diversification of economic growth and exports; (b) lay
the ground for the establishment of a potash industry, a
potentially important new export industry; and (c)
improve the institutional framework for exploration
policy.
' This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank althori..'tion.



- (ii) -
Potential project risks relate to the coiitment of CPG
to the project in case of changes in managemnRt, and to
the uncertainty of the potash feasibility studies
leading to viable investment projects. Both of these
risks are snmll due to (a) the widespread awareness in
CPG and Government of the long-standing deficiencies in
the company Which cannot be properly addressed without
outside assistance and (b) the promising results of the
preliminary work already done to produce potassium
sulphate (a premium potash product) from Tunisian brines.
Estimated Project Cost:          Local             Foreign               Total
Phosphate
Organization Studies              0.5                1.7                  2.2
Training                          0.4                1.0                  1.4
Feasibility Studies               0.8                4.2                  5.0
Subtotal   1.7                6.9                  8.6
Potash
Phase I
Studies                 1.9                 3.5                 5.4
Equipment               1.3                 2.0                 3.3
Phase II
Studies                 1.0                 0.8                 1.8
Equipment               0.5                 0.3                 0.8
Subtotal   4.7                6.6                 11.3
mining Policy                     0.1                0.2                  0.3
Total Base Cost              6.5                13.7                 20.2
Physical Contingencies J1        0.5                 1.3                  1.8
Price Contingencies /1            0.7                1.9                  2.6
Total Project Cost           7.7                16.9                24.6
Front-end Fee on Bank loan        -                  0.0 /2               0.0 /2
Total Financing Required     7.7 /3             16.9                24.6 /3
/1  Does not include contingencies for French-financed part of Phase I of
potash component (Zarzis) for which the full cost is included in the base
cost of that component.
/2  $33,416
/3  Includes about $0.5 million in taxes and duties.



- (iii) -
Financing Plan:                   Local            Foreign              Total
million
Government                        5.4                 -                   5.4
CPG                               2.3                0.2                  2.5
US Trade and Dev't Program         -                 0.2                  0.2
Mixed French credit                                  3.1                  3.1
Bank                                                13.4                 13.4
Total                         7.7               16.9                 24.6
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY    1984    1985    1986    1987
$ zillion--
Annual                                 2.1     5.5     4.7       1.1
Cumulative                             2.1     7.6    12.3      13.4
Staff Appraisal Report; None
Naps; IBRD No. 10273R2
IBRD No. 17363
IBRD No. 17120



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE 1B.D
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the Republic of Tunisia for the equivalent of US $13.4 million to help finance
a mining technical assistance project. The loan, which includes a capitalized
front-end fee of 0.25 percent on the Bank loan, would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government of Tunisia would onlend the equivalent of $10.3 million of the loan
to Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa at 10.5 percent interest per annum, for 17
years including 4 years of grace. Cofinancing has been obtained in the form of
a mixed credit from France equivalent to $3.1 million and a $0.2 million grant
from the US Trade and Development Program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.       A special economic report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86)" was prepared by two economic missions which visited
Tunisia in October 1981 and March 1982. A draft of the report served as a
basis for discussions with the Government on macroeconomic policies and
sectoral investment programs. The final version of the report (No. 4137-TUN)
includes a main volume dated March 16, 1983, and a second volume on sectoral
aspects dated June 29, 1983. This part reflects the report's findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I.
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Only three percent of arable
land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject
to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas. While the known
exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and the
phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality, there have recently been
promising indications of new hydrocarbon reserves, although it is too early to
assess their exact potential. The country also has considerable tourism
potential, and efforts have been made during the last decade to develop it
rapidly.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the
infant mortality rate declined from 150 in the early 1960s to 90 at the end of
the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from under 15 percent to about 62
percent, and average caloric supply per capita increased from about 80 to 115
percent of minimum standard requirements. An active family planning policy
pursued by the Government led to a decrease in fertility and birth rates.
/1  Part I is substantially the same as Part I of President's Report
No. P-3573-TUN of May 10, 1983, for a Foundry Kodernization and Expansion
Project.



- 2 -
However, since at the same time mortality rates also decreased, the annual
natural demographic growth rate decreased only slightly from 2.6 percent in the
1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s. Moreover, after 1976, the net emigration of
Tunisians abroad was sharply reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC
countries and Libya.
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tunisians in
the labor force. ro accelerate job creation, more than half of the total
investments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive
sectors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors,
however, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They
provided 53 percent of the country's foreign exciange earnings in 1982 while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 19 percent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976, not
so much in terms of overall growth as in terms of the underlying growth
factors: output in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average
below the demographic rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather
conditions; textile production and tourism development grew at a slower pace
than projected mainly because of difficulties in European markets. By
contrast, manufacturing industry other than textiles, as well as energy,
phosphate processing, construction, and construction materials expanded at a
fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particularly
in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favorable from 1976
to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace than exports, and the
terms of trade improved significantly due to sharply higher post-1974 export
prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap remained relatively small,
and domestic savings financed on average over 76 percent of investment, which
increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP for 1972-76 to 30 percent for
1977-81. The current account deficit averaged $450 million per year (1977-81),
and was easily financed; graat aid and private investments (mainly for oil
exploration) provided about 30 percent, while the remainder was mainly covered
by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus, during the 1970s total foreign debt
increased little relative to GDP, and the debt service ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and
redistributing domestic resources. Central Government revenues were equivalent
to about one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these
revenues was saved, and public savings financed close to Cwo-thirds of total
Government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation
permitted a rapid increase in payments to private consumers and public
enterprises. Such tranfers, including those for social security, accounted for
19 percent of total current budget outlays and over 7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved,
except for the employment target, and open and hidden unemployment remains a
zerious problem for the Tunisian economy at present. The actual GDP growth
fell short by 1.2 percentage points of the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a.,
mainly because of poor performance in agriculture, while the investment
objective of $9.8 billion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, was fully



met. Completion of some large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion
of the oil refinery) was, however, delayed, but private sector investments,
both foreign and national, exceeded Plan targets.  Although job creation
objectives were achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except construction,
these sectors could only absorb 90 percent of new job seekers at a time when
migration to Libya and Europe slowed down. The overall unemployment rate,
estimated at about 12 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not
declined.
10.      In 1982, the current economic situation suffered a series of setbacks,
and GDP increased by only 1.5 percent in constant prices. Three factors
accounted for this poor performance: adverse weather conditions which depressed
agricultural output and consequently, agro-industrial output; recession in
aurope which reduced exports, particularly chemicals and tourism; and
exceptional technical problems in key intermediate industries. The slowdown in
output, coupled with a large increase in minimum wages and some price
liberalization led to an unusually high inflation (13.7 percent) in 1982. On
the balance of payments side, despite the fall in petroleum prices, the current
account deficit did not exceed the level foreseen for 1982 in the Sixth Plan,
because the volume of petroleum exports was higher than expected. However,
this deficit still reflects a substantial deterioration compared to earlier
years. It was covered, in equal parts, by a substantial inflow of direct
foreign investment and by medium and long-term credits at relatively favorable
terms.
i1.      Medium-term Prospects.  The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) was
approved by the Parliament in July 1982. The main objectives are employment
generation, export promotion, and more rapid growth in the three least
developed regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and South).
Sectoral priority is to be given to agriculture, engineering industries, and
tourism.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth during this period and beyond
will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural gas sector.
Oil and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging. Based on
known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields that
recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil and gas
production would at best be stabilized at about its present annual level of 5-6
million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade. Barring large new
oil or gas discoveries, and given the rapid rise in domestic demand for energy,
Tunisia will have to face the consequences of a decline in energy revenues.
The Government considers that the situation requires immediate policy changes
and has introduced the most urgent ones in the Sixth Plan. By introducing
these changes on time, Tunisia expects to reduce the associated economic and
social strains, and avoid major balance-of-payments problems.
13.      The Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growth objective in the range of 5.9
to 6.1 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growth rate will be
difficult to achieve in view of the poor 1982 performance. Projected growth of
traditional exports (tourism, textiles, and phosphate-based chemicals) is
insufficient to compensate for the projected decline in oil export revenues;
these exports should be supplemented by new ones, in particular engineering
products. Produc.ion diversification and export promotion will, however, take
time to bear fruit. The Plan strategy therefore rightly aims at containing
domestic demand in order to control import growth. The macroeconomic scenario



- 4 -
assumes no improvement in terms of trade, as was brought about by oil price
rises in 1973-74 and in 1979-80. This would not only affect the external
account but also result in slower growth of domestic savings, particularly
public savings.
14.      Consequently, the Sixth Plan projects a drop in the fixed investment
rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 25 percent for the Plan period.
This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant prices relative to
the Fifth Plan investment. A major objective is to correct recent capital
intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation of investments.
More resources would be allocated to small and medium manufacturing enterprises
in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the unemployment problem and
reduce income disparities between rural and urban areas. Since June 1981, a new
set of policy measures has targeted the incentive system toward this objective.
The Investment Code was modified to offer free industrial zones and direct
subsidies to job creation for new projects in underdeveloped regions, and a
Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and Household Workshops was created. In order to
promote a more efficient technical and financial management of the public and
private modern sectors, the Plan assigns a major role in project promotion and
supervision to an expanded network of new development banks (two opened in 1981
and three in 1982); they are joint ventures with foreign investors and should
alleviate the pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of public
investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment of the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation, and
public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a
better-adjusted fiscal system should be used to restrain final consumption and
stimulate savings. As first encouraging steps in 1981 and in early 1982,
sizeable price increases in energy and agricultural products were implemented,
and the whole interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving
accounts and term deposits and industrial lending rates being increased by 1.5
to 2 points. There was a sizeable increase of the legal minimum wage (30
percent) in March 1982, mainly to improve the low-wage earners' living
conditions, but the Government recognizes that overall wage and salary policies
should keep labor cost increases (including social costs chargeable to
enterprises) in line with productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia
wants to stimulate tourism, and improve its international competitiveness for
exports of manufactured goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive since
independence, and the country has come a long way towards meeting the basic
needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent of GDP
is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the young and
regional pockets of poverty still present serious social problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total
population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but remained the same in some rural
zones in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor agricultural
performance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and the interior
(West) widened, in part because the system of price controls and subsidies as
well as budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The Government



is using the forthcoming Plan to focus on the zones of poverty, with a view to
eradicating them before the end of this century. Reducing the demographic
growth rate is considered an important factor in this endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprehensive education system provides free access to all students, and the
gross enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary education, and 30
percent for secondary education. The performance of the system could, however,
be improved by expanding vocational training programs, improving their relevance
and responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs of the poor and
rural groups.
19.      Public health services are second among social expenditures, and their
overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital
statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the
availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services
have concentrated largely on curative medicine, and the medical referral system
is not functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor are often excluded.
Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality remains high
relative to middle-income countries.
20.      In the Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing and water
supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs (health,
shelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the ecouomy (training). In
education, two reforms are under discussion; the first one would provide a
nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second would create
polytechnical high schools combining basic and technical education. In health,
the Sixth Plan allocates more resources to preventive medicine and nutrition
education. Finally, as regards housing, public subsidized programs will be
directed to the neediest population groups. The housing demand from households
above the minimum standard income limit will be satisfied by the private sector.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  During the second half of the
1970s, the growth of foreign borrowing was modest and a growing share of foreign
funds was provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. Foreign loan
commitments averaged about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of which in the
form of official assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came
from bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada,
and some oil-surplus countries. About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by
the Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing
terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1982, debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated it about g3.5 billion, or 44 percent of GNP; because
exports declined substantially, debt service was 16 percent of exports of goods
and services, as compared with 13 percent in 1981.
22.      The current account deficit reached $690 million in 1982, and is
projected to grow to about $1.0 billion i. 1986. New loan commitments from
abroad, projected at $1.2 billion per year on average (at present dollar
exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, with ODA providing half of
the total. The external debt-service ratio is not expected to increase above
its present level until 1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely
implementation of policy changes to curb domestic demand, promote exports, and



- 6 -
improve public sector savings. It should be noted, however, that the Sixth Plan
recommends a low growth scenario in order to preserve the country's relatively
high financial stability and creditworthiness. This objective is even more
crucial if the country is to succeed in mobilizing the large inflows of direct
foreign capital assumed in the Plan. Foreign investments were small during most
of the 1970s but have gained momentum during the last three years in line with
Increased activities in the oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign
investors in manufacturing. Such investments have increased from *lOU million
in 1976 to about $350 million in 19al, and have been equivalent to 10 percent of
total investments for 1977-81. The Plan's growth scenario estimates that about
15 percent of total investment could bt financed by direct foreign investment,
equivalent to an annual inflow of g400 million. The newly created development
banks (para. 14) are expected to play a &ignificant role in this context.
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook in the medium term will
depend on developments in the hydrocarbon sector and on the policy changes to be
initiated during the next few years. In the 1983 Budget Law, the Government
reiterates its determination to implement all needed policy measures to preserve
macroeconomic equilibrium. Considering its long record of prudent and skillful
balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good grounds to
assume that it will formulate and implement the necessary policy changes and
will continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending. The Bank's close
dialogue with the Government en several policy aspects at the macro and micro
levels will be pursued in connection with the implementation of the Sixth
Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISLA /1
25.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia fifty-seven loans and
eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to *1,200.6 million and $70.0 million
(net of cancellations) of which thirty-two loans and credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments as of March 31, 1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. Project implementation is generally satisfactory. As of March 31,
1983, overall disbursements amounted to 53 percent of appraisal estimates, which
compares favorably with other countries in the region. Disbursement performance
for irrigation, industrial finance and port projects has generally been above
the country average, while larger than average disbursement delays have been
experienced for agricultural credit, education, highway, urban and fisheries
projects, due to project specific problems that are being addressed through
supervision missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors, important
institutional improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have been
created or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related
sectors or subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to: (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular emphasis
on rural areas, and on operations targeted to low-income population groups; (c)
promote export-oriented policies, technological changes and improvements in
/1 Part II is substantially the same as Fart II of President's Report No.
P-3573-TUN of May 10, 1983, for a Foundry Modernization and Expansion
Project.



labor productivity; and (d) provide selective support for the development of
basic infrastructure and for institution building in key public services. An
important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in the
timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through missions and advice
by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAD Cooperative Program, the use of
the Bank's Project Preparation Facility, and a Technical Assistance project
(para. 27). The Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts to
increase th. mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing for
the projects it assists. The latter is particularly important in view of the
extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
27.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development, and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 32 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunicia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 28
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 23 percent, and industrial and
hotel financing, mostly through the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia (BDET),
17 percent of total commitments. In addition, in September 1982, the Bank made
a first loan for technical assistance aimed at improving the Government's
capability for project identification and preparation.
28.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts in
key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development. It will also assist projects which address the needs of the least
developed regions of the country, develop research capabilities, increase
productivity, and help reduce the gap between income groups, and between urban
and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to employment creation,
institution building, and agricultural development. In addition to the proposed
mining technical assistance project, proposed future lending would include
projects for agricultural research and extension, regional development, rural
health, water supply and electrification, export industry, energy, and urban
development.
29.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. It
will be centered on the analysis of economic issues and policies related to the
necessary adaptation process from a petroleum exporting to a petroleum importing
country. This analysis, which was included in the special economic report
entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)"
(No. 4137-TUN), dated March 16, 1983, will be pursued by ar  ?dating economic
mission tentatively scheduled for early 1984. Further economic and sector work
will include a review of industrial employment creation issues, a study of the
finarcial system, and reviews of the education and management training,
transport, energy and construction materials sectors.
30.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 28 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1979-1981. Their share in total debt outstanding
and disbursed at the end of 1981 (including loans from private sources) was 12
percent and their share in debt service during 1981 was 9 percent. The share of
the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt is expected to remain at
about 10 percent and their share in the debt service to increase to about 13
percent through 1986.



31.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagaie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest in
tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliare RYK (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminum fluoride
from local fl-lorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated tourism
development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled $9.9 million, as
of March 31, 1983. Currently, IFC is considering a fertilizer project which
would produce phosphoric acid for export.
PART [II - THE MINING SECTOR
32.      Ihe Mining Sector.  Im 1981, Tunisia's mining sector (excluding
hydrocarbons) accounted for 1.6 percent of the country's GDP, employed 1 percent
of the labor force and contributed 2.2 percent of commodity exports. However,
in several depressed regions of Tunisia, the sector is important as a provider
of employment and, directly and indirectly (through export-oriented processing
industries), it takes the second place (after oil) in the country's commodity
export trade (10 percent of exports).
33.      Phosphates are the most important mineral resource of Tunisia. They
have been extracted since the turn of the century in the Gafsa/Ketlaoui area of
Southern Tunisia. Reserves, of a low grade, are estimated at 1.6 billion tons.
Production of 28-percent P205-grade phosphate rock amounted to 7.4 million
tons (or 4.7 million of beneficiated marketable rock) in 1982 of which about
three quarters were processed locally to phosphoric acid or fertilizers for
export. Additional promising phosphate reserves in Northern Tunisia estimated
at 1 billion tons of 13-percent P205-grade are under investigation for
future development, near Sra Ouertane in the area of Le Kef.
34.      The Tunisian phosphate processing industry is among the largest and
most efficient of its kind in the world. It started in the mid-1960s in the
coastal towns of Gabes and Sfax, in response to the trend in international trade
towards processed phosphates rather than low-value phosphate rock. The industry
grew rapidly in the 1970s selling $335 million worth of products by 1981.
Further expansion is planned during the 1980s. This will lead to an increase in
its requirements of beneficiated phosphate rock from 3.3 million tons in 1982 to
6.2 million tonE in 1990. In view of the technical complexity of the industry
and proposed project component, a Technical Background paper is attached
(Attachment I, Part I).
35.      Other exploited minerals, ribeit of minor importance, are lead, zinc,
fluorspar, baryte and iron ore. &-oong the minerals which are not yet exploited,
potash and other salts show the most promising prospects. Potash occurs,
dissolved as brines, in three salt lakes in Southern and South-Eastern Tunisia,
the largest of which is the Chott El Jerid, with estimated reserves (expressed
in terms of potassium sulphate) of 50 million to-as. The El Helah lake near
Zarzis in the South-East contains an estimated 9 million tons of rcserves and
El Adibate, also in the South-East, about 4 to 6 million tons.
36.      Although the brines in these lakes contain a mixture of potassLum and
other salts, potash is most likely to be produced in the form of potassium
sulphate (SOP). About 96 percent of all potash produced in the world is used as
fertilizer. Most of the potash (about 85 percent) is produced as potassium
chloride (KCI); only about 5 percent is in the form of SOP. Because of
particular agronomic advantages (certain plants are more responsive in yields



and quality to SOP than to KC1; chlorine-based fertilizers are undesirable in
saline soils), SOP coummands a premium price in international fertilizer trade
over other potassium salts, averaging twice the price of KCl (in terms of plant
nutrient content) over the past five years. World demand for SOP is expected to
outstrip supply by the early l990s, which would tend to lead to a furthe.
strengthening of prices. Despite a growing internal Tunisian demand for
potassium fertilizer, any production would be heavily export-oriented because
the Einimum size of economic production would far exceed domestic requirements.
Advantages for Tunisia in the production of SOP over competitors would be the
relatively favorable location vis-a-vis main cousumption areas in Europe (France
and Greece) and N,rth Africa (Morocco and Algeria), as well as the possibility
of processing brines rather than mined rock and, as a result of the composition
of the brines, of producing SOP directly from the brines without the expensive
processing of potassium chloride with the use of sulphuric acid. The Technical
Background paper attached provides details on the potash industry and proposed
project component (Attachment I, Part II).
37.      Institutional Framework. The Ministry of National Economy, through its
Department of Mines and Geology (DiG), oversees the mining sector. State-owned
operating companies such as the Gafsa Phosphate Company (CPG), carry out
exploration in the vicinity of their operating mines. In other areas, the
National Mining Office (ONM), which has autonomous status outside the Government
structure, undertakes exploration. After promising deposits are identified,
corporations are usually created to continue the preparatory work up to the
investment stage. Such a pre-investment company is workirng on the phousphate
deposits of Sra Ouertane (para. 33), and another (the Development Company of the
Chemical Industries of the South - SDICS) is working on the potash deposits near
Zarzis (para. 35).
36.      Bank Role in Mining. The Bank has extended a $23.3 million loan to CPY
(Ln. 1042-TUN of October 1, 1974) to finance development of the Sehib
underground mine and beneficiation facilities. The project was expected to
prcluce two million tons per year of phosphate rock at low cost using four
"long-wall" production units, a new mining technology for Tunisia.  A new
washing plant was to beneficiate the rock so produced. Instead, mine output
reached about 300,000 tons from one trial long-vall system in 1982, and the
washing plant has to be fed supplemental rock from another mine in the vicinity
and is only operating at 50 percent capacity. Project objectives were not aet
mainly because of organization and management weaknesses Which prevented CPG
from mastering the difficulties associated with the introductxon of the
long-wall technology. While the trials have demonstrated that this technology
is technically feasible for Tunisian rock, they also demonstrated that effective
logistic support in the form of appropriate maintenance, cost and spare part
control systems is an essential precondition for such a method to be successful
in the long term. No plans exist at present to equip the Sehib mine with
further long-wall machines. However, effective organizational and logistic
systems are equally important for improving the efficiency of CPG's existing
operations and preparing the way for expanding production through low cost open
pit mining. The phosphate component of the proposed project includes technical
assistance for introducing such systems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.      Background.  The proposed project was identified during the course of
Bank supervision of the Gafsa Phosphate project (para. 38) and discussions on



- 10 -
the Government's draft Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) during the first half of
1982, and was prepared by the Government, CPG. ONM and SDICS. The phosphate and
mining policy components of the project were appraised in December 1982 and the
potash component in February 1983. Negotiations were aeld in Washington from
July 8 to 15, 1983. The Tunisian delegation was led by Mr. mohsen Zerelli,
Director of Mines and Geology of the Ministry of National Economy and included
the President and Director General of CPG, Mr. Mohamed El Fadhel Khalil, a
representative of the Ministry of Planning, senior staff of CPG, the President
aud Director General of SDIGZ and a representative of ON!. The main features of
the project are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Maps showing the project locations are attached.
40.      Project Objective.  The objective of the project is to assist the
Government in developing its mining potential by (i) improving the efficiency of
the largest mining company in the country; (i--) studying the feasibility of
exploiting new phosphate and potash deposits; and (iii) improving the
institutional framework for the formulation of mining exploration policy.
41.      The project would provide technical assistance, in the form of
consultants' services and related equipment, for three components: phosphate,
potash, and mining policy.
42.      Phosphate. The phosphate component (described in detail in
Attachment I, para. 19-24, and in Attachment II, p.l) would help reestablish CPG
as a financially viable company by improving existing operations. It would, by
evaluating the company's amost promising investment projects, lay the ground for
efficient output expansion in the 1980s with a view to supporting the continuous
growth of Tunisia's dynamic phosphate processing industry. It would consist of
the following actions and studies, including training of CPG staff:
a) Financial organization and management, cost control and monitoring.
CPG's financial organization and management system would be analyzed with a view
to increasing its effectiveness and a comprehensive cost control and monitoring
system would be established.
b) Underground mine improvements. The operation of CPG's underground mines
would be reviewed in order to define attainable capacities and identify
inefficiencies.
c) Reorganization of spare parts management. The existing services would be
reviewed and a computerized inventory management system for mining equipment
spare parts introduced.
d) Reorganization of personnel administration. The existing system would be
reviewed, and a computerized payroll system implemented.
e) Maintenance improvements. Central workshop personnel would be trained in
the repair and maintenance of specialized nine equipment, and instrumentation
personnel would be trained in the maintenance of process control equipment.
f) Rehabilitation of beneficiation plants and material handling. A
feasibility scudy would be carried out with subsequent engineering and
supervision for rehabilitating the washing plants at Metlaoui and M'Dilla,
currently operating below capacity, as well as for improving CPG's material
handling facilities at M'Dilla.



- IL -
g) Operations improvement and expansion of Kef Eschfair. This open pit mine
accounts for one third of CPG's mine capacity. A study would analyze the
reasons for the present underutilization of capacity and develop and implement
procedures for maintenance, cost control and training. A feasibility study and
preLiminary engineering on expanding the mine capacity from 2.5 million tons per
year (tpy) to 3.6 million tpy would also be carried out.
h) Feasibility stu.dies on new mines.  Feasibility studies on new open pit
mines would be carried out as follows: (i) at Dijellabia (90 million tons
deposit), a detailed feasibility study, based on preliminary work conducted with
the assistance of the US company of Morrison-Knudsen since 1980, would
investigate dragline mining and beneficiation by flotation; (ii) at Oum El
Khecheb (45 million tons deposit) and Sehib South (20 million tons deposit),
optimal mine output and feasibility would be studied. Production rates of 1.1
to 2.2 million tpy of washable ore from each deposit and 1.3 million tpy of
floatable ore from Sehib South are being considered.
43.      Potash. The potash component (described in detail in Attachment I,
paras. 40-44, and Attachment II, p. 2) would help the Government evaluate the
potential of three deposits at Chott El Jerid, Zarzis and El Adibate (paras. 35
and 36), with a view to permitting an investment decision on a possible potash
production project. It is expected that this project would be oriented towards
export markets. Actions to be taken would consist of (i) analyzing existing
data on brines, geology and pumping tests to provide reliable estimates of the
size and composition of the reserves; (ii) conducting laboratory and pilet plant
tests on the brines to identify the optimal processing method; (iii) if
warranted by a review of the actions under (i) and (ii), preparing a detailed
feasibility study and engineering for a full-scale project; and (iv)
investigating the market for potassium chloride and sulphate as well as
by-products.
44.      The potash component vould be implemented in two phases, with the
second phase carried out if the first phase has confirmed a potentially economic
potash fertilizer project. During Phase I, the potential of each of the three
deposits would be analyzed, including the possibility of integrating the Zarzis
and El Adibate operations iu view of their proximity and the relatively s-a11
size of the El Adibate deposit. Phase I vould be concluded with a comparative
techno-economic evaluation of potash production at the three sites considering,
as possibilities, a full-scale project at Zarzis alone, Zarzis and El Adibate
together, or Chott El Jerid alone to determine the optimal project location and
configuration.  Phase II would include the detailed feasibility study and basic
engineering of the potash development project selected under Phase I. covering
all technical, economic and financial aspects. During Phase I, a market study
would identify the most likely markets for Tunisian potash products and forecast
future price behavior in these markets. During Phase II, detailed market,
marketing and distribution analysis for potash products would be undertaken.
45.      Mining Policy.  The Department of Mines and Geology (DMG) oversees
mining sector development and the National Mining Office (ONM) is responsible
for exploration, including mapping and geophysical and geochemical work for all
minerals other than phosphates and salts. The sector suffers from the lack of a
clearly-defined exploration policy and strategy. The mining policy component of
the project would analyze and define (i) guidelines for data collection,
analysis and evaluation; (ii) criteria for exploration policies and investment
priorities; and (iii) staffing and training requirements, organizational



- 12 -
requirements and budgetary implications of any recommended measures. The
results of this study would enhance the ability of DMG and ONK to evaluate
mining prospects and to plan and implement a rational mining exploration policy.
46.      ImILementing Agencies and Project Implementation.  The implementation
of the project would require the involvement of several companies and Government
agencies (Attachment II; Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (a); and Project
Agreement, Section 2.01). The implementing agencies would be assisted by
consultants. All consultants to be financed under the proposed Bank loan (this
excludes the consultants for the Zarzis study who are financed by nou-Bank
sources) would be selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Assurances to
that effect were obtained at negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 (c) and
Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (b)). The phosphate component would be
implemented by CPG, which was created about one hundred years ago to exploit the
phosphate reserves of the Gafsa/Metlaoui area in Southern Tunisia (para. 33).
Nearly all of its shares are now owned by Government or state-owned
institutions. The company operates 7 underground and 2 open pit mines and 14
beneficiation plants. Financial statements and performance indicators of the
coiipany are summarized in Attachment I, Tables 1-3. During the 1975-82 period,
mine production increased by 35 percent mainly due to the opening of two new
open pit mines. Investment for replacement, rehabilitation and expansion during
this period totalled the equivalent of $600 million. This is about double the
investment per ton of output required by its foreign competitors reflecting both
the relatively low quality of the rock and inefficiencies in operation. While
unit costs of productioa in constant dollars have not increased, a 40 percent
increase has been observed since 1975 in constant Dinar terms, and present unit
costs are about 20 to 40 percent above that of the company's major competitors.
As a result, the company has suffered severe financial losses since 1977. which
were covered from reserves and Government equity contributions. In addition to
the low quality of the rock and the heavy depreciation and financial charges of
previous investments, the major reasons for CPG's high production costs are (i)
reliance on underground mining (about 50 percent of output); (ii) low
productivity and capacqty utilization rates, primarily due to ineffective
introduction of underground and open pit mechanization (para. 38) and inadequate
maintenance and operating procedures; and (iii) emplo-yjent of surplus labor for
social reasons (the company has a labor force of about 14,000 and is the only
major industrial employer in a particularly depressed region of the country).
47.      To help CPG regain its financial viability an understanding was reached
with the company during negotiations on a corporate plan aimiag at the company's
operational and financial restructuring. The corporate plan contains
year-by-year operational and financial targets which would reestablish the
company's viability fully by 1987. The company's performance in the light of
these indicators and targets would be closely monitored by the company and the
Bank (para_ 58). These targets include Ci) reducing unit production cost by 9
nercent in real terms as compared to 1982; (ii) increasing underground nine
Iroductivity by 10 percent; (iii) reaching full capacity utilization at Kef
Eschfair, the company's largest open pit mine; (iv) increasing phosphate
recovery in the washing plants by 4 percent; and (v) reducing consumable stocks
by 30 percent, by eliminating obsolete and non-standardized stocks. Additional
measures include an agreement by the company to renegotiate its contracts with
the railways and electricity companies and the local phosphate processing
companies with a view to obtaining more favorable transport and power rates and
higher phosphate prices, as well as to retire gradually its excessive labor
force. The technical assistance operations included in the project are an



- 13 -
integral part of the company's corporate plan. In particular, training of
equipment operators and maintenance personnel is expected to increase
productivity and improve equipment utilization rates in both mines and plants.
Further, reorganization of production tasks to remove bottlenecks and improved
cost control and monitoring of operations is expected to increase efficiency.
In addition, the gradual shift to open pit mining is expected to reduce
production cost in the long term.
48.      To improve the financial structure of the company, *Lts major
shareholders and creditors, the Government and the Central Bank, have earlier
this year converted into equity $13 million equivalent of long-term debt owed to
the Government and another $13 million equivalent of short-term debt owed to the
Central Bank. They further agreed to inject into the company $30 million
equivalent as new equity and convert $16.5 million equivalent of short-term debt
into equity oy December 31. 1983. in addition, the Social Security Fund agreed
to convert to long-term debt about $31 million equivalent of overdue
contributions by the company to the Fund. These measures constitute a
substantial effort by the company, its shareholders and creditors to reestablish
the company's financial equilibrium. Together with the operational improvements
mentioned above, they would allow the company to achieve a current ratio of 1.2
by December 31, 1986 and a debt/equity ratio of 60:40 by December 31, 1987.
Assurances that the company would achieve these ratios by these dates were
obtained during negotiations (Project Agreement, Sections 4.04 and 4.05). In
addition, the corporate plan agreed with the company sets targets for these
ratios in the intervening years and further specifies that in future investments
the company will seek financing terms which do not exceed a debt equity ratio of
60:40 for new projects and 50:50 for replacement and renewal investments. The
company also provided assurances that it would obtain Bank approval for
investments exceeding in aggregate $20 million in any one year during the
implementation of the project (Project Agreement, Section 4.03 (b)). The
existing Loan Agreement with CPG (Ln. 1042-TUN of October 1, 1974) would be
amended to reflect the above modifications in the financial and investment
limitation covenants (Project Agreement, Section 6.01).
49.      CPG has agreed with the Bank on the terms of reference for the studies
under the phosphate component and on the timetable for their execution. It has
started the process of selecting consultants. The implementation of the first
study (on Djellabia, para. 42 (h)(i)) is expected to commence in the second half
of 1983 and to be completed by early 1984. The remainder of the studies are
expected to commence by the beginning of 1984 and to be completed by the second
half of 1986. CPG has already established a project unit and appointed a
project coordinator/administrator who is supported by eight department and
section managers and three engineers, all with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank. The project unit staff would be responsible for
coordinating site activities, contracting and supervising consultants, and cost
monitoring. Assurances were obtained from CPG during negotiations that it will
maintain a project unit to carry out the phosphate component of the project,
with staffing, powers, functions, facilities and a work program satisfactory to
the Bank (Project Agreement, Section 2.03).
50.      The potash component would be implemented under the overall
responsibility of the DMG. A project unit has been created in DMG for this
purpose which would coordinate the actions and studies to be carried out under
Phase I of this component and prepare recommendations for the Phase II work.
The project unit would also be in charg- 'f a marketing study to be carried out



- 14 -
under the project.   Assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations that it will maintain this unit during project execution and
provide it with staff (including a full-time project manager, a geologist and an
economist) and equipment satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Sectiou 3.03
(a)). The project unit i-ould be assisted in its tasks through technical
advisory services from an engineering consultancy company experienced in the
exploitation of potash-rich brines (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 (b)(i)). This
company would assist DMG in consolidating and comparing the results of the Phase
I work on the different deposits and determine the optimal potash project scope
and location, based on the findings of the studies of the various deposits and
the preliminary market study. Assurances were obtained from the Government at
negotiations that it will furnish to the Bank for its .approval, on the basis of
a review of the actions under Phase I of the potash component, a plan for the
execution of the detailed feasibility study and basic engineering under Phase
II, and carry out such plan according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.07 (a)). Agreement between the Government and the
Bank on such plan would be a condition of disbursement under the loan against
expenditures for Phase II (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4 (b)(i)).
51.      Direct responsibility for the implementation of the Zarzis component
would lie with SDICS, for the El Adibate component with ON1, and for the Chott
El Jerid component with CPG, which has ex-plored the potash potential of this
deposit for OM since 1977 using its laboratory facilities nearby. All these
organizations have operating project units for this purpose. Assurances were
obtained from the Government during negotiations that it will maintain the units
at SDICS and ONK, and from CPG that it will maintain the unit at CPG during
project execution and provide them with staff and equipment satisfactory to the
Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (b) and Project Agreement, Section 2.03).
52.      SDICS has already retained the services of the consortium Mines de
Potasse d'Alsace/Spie Batignolles for the work on the Zarzis deposits.  The
terms of reference for the works at El Adibate and Chott El Jerid and the
timetable for their execution have been agreed upon with the Bank. ONM and CPG
would be assisted in the execution of these works by consultants experienced in
hydrogeology and potash brine processing. The procurement of geological survey
and laboratory testing equipment to support the consultant work would commence
in the second half of 1983, and the surveys and tests on El Adibate and Chott El
Jerid as well as the preliminary market study in early 1984. The tests at
Zarzis are already underway. The basic design on all three deposits will
commence in early 1985 and be completed by the end of 1985. This would provide
the basis for a comparative techno-economic evaluation of the three sites to
permit work on the selected project location and configuration to be conducted
in 1986.
53.      The mining policy component would be implemented by DMG with the
assistance of ON. Terms of reference and a timetable of execution for the
study were agreed with the Bank during negotiations. The study would be
implemented in the first half of 1984. DMG would appoint a coordinator and ONH
would appoint a project manager, both with experience and qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank, to *xecute the study with the help of consultants, as
conditions of disbursement i;f the category of the proposed loan allocated to
this component (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(c) and (d) and Schedule I, para. 4
(b) (ii)).



- 15 -
Project Costs and Financing Plan
54.      Total cost of the project, including about *0.5 million of taxes and
duties, is estimated at $24.6 million, of which $16.9 million in foreign
exchange. Base cost estimates are at mid-1983 level. The project cost provides
for adequate physical (about 12 percent) and price contingencies (4 percent for
6 months of 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985 and b percent for
1986 for foreign cost, and 5 percent for 6 months of 1983, 9 percent for 1984, 8
percent for 1985 and thereafter for local cost). The costs in man-months are
suutmarized below.  They include fees, subsistance and travel.   Because of tie
highly technical nature of the vorks, local consultants are unlikely to play a
major role.
Foreia nLocal  /1
Man-months    $7Man-month       Man-months      $/Man-month
Phosphate            603            12,700           357              2,000
Potash               360           13,600          5,000 /2             700
Mining Policy         12           12,700              7              2,000
55.      The proposed Bank loan of $13.4 million would be made to the Government
for a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate. The Government would onlend $10.3 million of the Bank
loan to CPG for those parts of the project that are to be implemented by CPG
(phosphate and part of potash component), at the same terms as the Bank loan,
except that the interest rate would be fixed at 10.5 percent per annum for the
duration of the subsidiary loan (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)). The
execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and UPG would
be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01). The Government would make available to ONK on a grant basis the proceeds
of the loan allocated to the potash component (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02
(b)). The Government would carry the interest rate risk on the loan, but would
pass on the foreign exchange risk pertaining to the onlent portion of the Bank
loan to CPG. The Bank loan would finance the estimated foreign exchaage cost of
the project and the front-end fee of $33,416, except for part of the foreign
exchange cost of the Djellabia feasibility study for which UPG has obtained a
$0.2 million grant from the US Trade and Development Program and to which the
company will contribute an additional g0.2 million from its own resources, and
the foreign exchange cost for the Phase I study on Zarzis for which SDICS has
obtained foreign financing arranged for by the French contractor amounting to
$3.1 million equivalent. To expedite project implementation, retroactive
financing of up to g1.3 million is proposed for urgent works for which the
implementing agencies have or will have entered into commitments with
consultants before the expected signature of the proposed loan, but after August
1, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4 (a)). The Bank would have the
right to refinance the funds provided by it under the phosphate or potash
components of the project should any of the feasibility studies fina.nced under
this project lead to a new Bank loan for a development project (Loan Agreement,
Preamble (B)).
/1 Counterpart staff in implementing agencies.
/2 The local staff for the potash component would be involved mainly in
supporting, often unskilled, services.



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursements
56.      The geological survey and laboratory testing equipment for the potash
works at El Adibate and Chott El Jerid would be procured by ONM and CPG,
respectively, under international competitive bidding, except for items
costing less than $100,000 up to an aggregate of $850,000, which would be
procured under limited international tendering (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, C).
57.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of four years
against the full foreign expenditures of foreign consultants and imported
equipment and 90 percent of local expenditures of local consultants and local
expenditures for locally purchased equipment. The closing date of the loan
would be December 31, 1987.
Monitoring and Reporting
58.      A detailed implementation schedule for each project activity has been
agreed with the Government and CPG during negotiations. In addition, a system
of key technical and financial indicators and targets was defined with CPG
during negotiations which will help the company monitor its operations and
agreed upon operational and financial yearly targets. Assurances were
obtained from CPG durirg negotiations that it will maintain until project
completion such a system of indicators and targets acceptable to the Bank, and
submit to the Bank, starting January 1, 1984, quarterly progress reports in
terms of such indicators and targets, and, starting September 30, 1984,
production plans of the company for the following year (Project Agreement,
Section 3.05). In addition, to follow closely its investment program, CPG
will submit to the Bank by September 30 of each year, annually updated
satisfactory five-year investment plans and financial projections (Project
Agreement, Section 4.03 (a)). The implementing institutions would report to
the Bank on the progress of the project through status reports in a sunmary
fashion monthly and in detail quarterly, which would be forwarded to the Bank
by DMG and CPG (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06 (b)(iii) and (iv) and Project
Agreement, Section 2.05 (b)(iii) and (iv)). CPG would furnish to the Bank for
its review the recommendations and conclusions of the phosphate studies within
one month after their completion, and DMG of Phase II of the potash
feasibility study and the mining exploration policy study within three months
after their completion, and consult with the Bank on follow up actions (Loan -
Agreement, Section 3.07 (b) and Project Agreement, Section 2.0b).
Furthermore, CPG and DMG would4, within six months after the closing date,
prepare project completion reports on their respective components summar1zing
the results of the project (]oan Agreement, Section 3.06 (d) and Project
Agreement Section 2.05 (d)).
Accounts and Audit
59.      Project accounts would be kept by DMG, ONM and SDICS.  The accounts
of CPG and the project account of SDICS would be audited by private
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The project accounts of DMG and
ONM would be audited by the General Financial Audit Service, an independent
agency functionally attached to the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with
criteria and procedures agreed upon with the Bank. Certified copies of
accounts and the auditors' annual reports thereon, would be sent to the Bank
within six months of the end of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02
and Project Agreement, Section 4.02).



- 17 -
Benefits and Risks
60.      The project would help the Government develop the country's mining
potential aiy improvIng the efficiency of Tunisia's largest mining company and
preparing for the expansion of its output, by studying the feasibility of the
establishment of a potash industry and by improving the institutional
framework for administering and setting mining exploration policy. It would
thus contribute to the diversification of economic growth and exports.
61.      Potential risks relate to the commitment of the phosphate company to
the project in case of changes ih management, and to thte uncertainty of the
potash feasibility studies leading to a viable investment project. While the
possibility of changes in CPG's top management during project execution cannot
be excluded, the Government is determined to address the company's
long-standing deficiencies to reduce the drain on the Government budget and
make full use of the economic potential of this important mineral resource.
At the same time, both the Government and CPG recognize that company staff
alone do net have the expertise to resolve the problems without outside
assistance. The proposed project is expected to initiate the managerial and
structural changes required to develop a competitive Tunisian phosphate mining
industry. As regards the risk of the potash studies not leading to a viable
investment project, this is considered limited given the promising results of
preliminary work already done to produce directly potassium sulphate from
Tunisian brines.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AITHORITY
62.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special features of the draft Loan and
Project Agreements are referred to in the text, and listed in Section III of
Annex III. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government of Tunisia and Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa would be a special
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (draft Loan Agreement, Section
6.01). Conditions of disbursement would be (i) Bank approval of a plan for
the execution, and the extent of execution, of a detailed feasibility study on
a possible potash development project, for disbursements against consultants
and equipment for such a study and (ii) the assignment by DMG of a senior
staff member as coordinator and by ONK of a project manager, for disbursements
against consultants for the mdining policy study (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, para 4 (b)). Through Article VI of the Project Agreement, the
requirements of Sections 4.03(b), 4.04, 4.05 and 4.06 of the Project Agreement
are made applicable to the Loan Agreement between the Bank and CPG for the
Gafsa Phosphate Project.
63.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOKMENDATION
64.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 15, 1983
Washington, D. C.



- 19 -
Attachment I
Page 1 of 14
TUNISIA
MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Technical Background
I. PHOSPHATE MINING AND PROCESSING - THE SECTOR AND PROJECT COMPONENT
A. The World Phosphate Industry
1.        Phosphorus is one of the three main plant nutrients--nitrogen,
phosphorus and potash--used extensively to increase agricultural
production. About 90 percent of all phosphate rock produced is
converted into phosphate fertilizers. The remaining 10 percent goes into
other phosphate chemical products such as detergents, insecticides and
animal feeds.
2.        Phosphate Rock.  In 1982, world phosphate rock production was
about 125 million tons, with the USA (39 million tons), the USSR (27
million tons), and Morocco (18 million tons) accounting for about 67
percent of world production. About 80 million tons of world rock
production were consumed by the producing countries, while 44 million tons,
or 35 percent of total production, were traded internationally. It is
estimated that in 19B2, the two major exporters, Morocco (14.0 million
tons) and the USA (9.9 million tons) together accounted for 55 percent of
world phosphate rock exports. They were followed by the USSR, Jordan,
Togo, Senegal and other small producers. In 1981 and 1982, the phosphate
markets were negatively affected by the difficult economic conditions
prevailing worldwide. Export demand for rock fell by about 12 percent in
1981 and 4 percent in 1982, and phosphate stocks reached record levels.
However, given the agricultural requirements for phosphate fertilizers,
total world demand for phosphates is expected to increase at 4 percent
p.a. over the next decade. With economics increasingly favoring location
of phosphate fertilizer production near the mines, world export trade of
rock is expected to grow at a rate of about 2 percent p.a. or less, whereas
intermediate and finished products would grow at 7 percent p.a.
3.        Phosphoric Acid and Phosphate Fertilizer.  About 70 percent of
the world's phosphate fertilizers are produced in the form of concentrated
fertilizers such as triple superphosphate (TSP) or diammonium phosphate
(DAP). Phosphoric acid is the key intermediate product in the manufacture
of these fertilizers. Tn 1982, the world's installed production capacity
for phosphoric acid was 32 million nutrient tons (P2O5 equivalent).
Phosphoric acid production in that year was 20.5 million nutrient tons or
about 64 percent of installed capacity. About 72 percent of this amount
was consumed locally; ibout 15 percent was used to produce finished
products such as TSP and DAP for export; and about 14 percent was exported
directly as phosphoric acid--the USA (0.90 million tons), Morocco (0.65
million tons) and Tunisia (0.31 million tons) together accounted for 66
percent of the world phosphoric acid exports.



- 20 -
Attachment I
Page 2 of 14
4.        Finished phosphate fertilizers are used mainly in the
industrialized countries which account for 83 percent of world
consumption. World demand for phosphate fertilizers has been static for
the last three years or so, reflecting the depressed state of world
agriculture. As a result, there was a 3.5 million nutrient tons surplus
supply in 1981/82 and phosphate fertilizer prices are currently very
depressed (their lowest level in real terms over 20 years). However since
depleted phosphates from the soil must be replaced, as the world economic
situation recovers the growth of world phosphate fertilizer demand is
expected to resume, albeit at a lower rate (para. 2) than the 6.2 percent
p.a. average over the last 20 years. There will be relatively little
growth in industrialized countries where phosphate utilization levels are
already high, but high growth rates are likely in South America, Asia and
Eastern Europe. Planned increases in capacity are sufficient to satisfy
demand only until 1987, and in this strengthened market prices are likely
to increase in real terms.
W'lorld Phosphate Fertilizers Supply/Demand Balance
(in million nutrient tons)
1981/82 a/  1982/83  1984/85  1986/87  1988/89  1990/91
Supply              35.03       36.76    39.30    41.10    41.10 b/ 41.10 b/
Demand              31.56       33.46    36.98    39.68    43.52    47.74
Surplus (Deficit)   3.47         3.30      2.32      1.42    (2.42)   (6.64)
a/ Actual.
h/ On the basis of planned projects only.
5.        In order to meet this growing demand, there will be a need to
build the equivalent of 4-5 new large phosphate fertilizer plants each
year. Most of these plants will be built in countries with phosphate rock
reserves, with Morocco and the USA undoubtedly playing a leading role.
Additional supplies will nevertheless be required from other sources.
6.        Changing Phosphate Trade Patterns.  During the past 20 years, the
production share of different phosphate products has changed significantly.
Improvements in production process technology and increasing freight costs
caused the relative share of simple low-concentration products to decline,
while the share of high concentration phosphoric acid-based products
increased to account for about 70 percent of total phosphate supply in 1980
as compared with 11 percent in 1956. This trend is expected to continue
and about 80 percent of the increase in phosphate consumption between 1980
and 1990 is likely to be derived from phosphoric acid.
7.        Until a few years ago, phosphate fertilizer trade originated
almost entirely from producers in industrialized countries which, with the
exception of the USA, imported phosphate rock at relatively low prices and



- 21 -
Attachment I
Page 3 of 14
processed it into phosphoric acid and finished fertilizers. It is now
increasingly difficult for importers of rock to produce phosphoric acid
that can compete with acid produced in vertically integrated operations
near the mines. Accordingly, most new plants, particularly export-oriented
facilities, are likely to be built near phosphate mines. As a result,
demand in the export markets for phosphoric acid and processed fertilizers
is expected to increase at a much higher rate over the next decade than
that for rock exports. Industry sources forecast that by 1985 phosphate
intermediates will comprise about 33 percent of the total phosphate trade
as compared to 8 percent in 1967 and 25 percent in 1979.
B. The Phosphate Industry in Tunisia
8.        Phosphate rock was first discovered in south-west Tunisia in 1886
(Map IBRD 17363) and mining started in 1896 following the creation of tile
Gafsa Phosphate Company (CPG). In the mid-1960's, because of the
relatively low grade of its rock compared to internationally traded rock,
Tunisia started converting it to intermediate phosphoric acid for export,
in order to increase its intrinsic value. Tunisia's proximity to Europe,
the largest processed phosphate market, gives it a freight advantage of
US$30 to $40 per ton of product (47 percent P205 for TSP and DAP; 54
percent P205 for phosphoric acid), compared to the USA. This advantage,
which more than offsets a disadvantage of US$8 to $15 per ton of rock (28
percent P205) in higher mining costs, allows Tunisia to be competitive in
the Mediterranean Basin and the Middle East. In fact until 1982, Tunisia
was second only to the USA in phosphate exports, holding about 10 percent
of the international trade. Realizing its advantages, Tunisia has built
one of the largest and most efficient phosphate processing industries in
the world with experienced technical people, good management and internal
know-how to suit the processing industry to the special charateristics of
its rock. Unfortunately, the phosphate mines, exclusively run by CPG, have
not kept pace with the development of the processing industry.
Nevertheless, there are large reserves of rock with new, easier to mine,
open pit deposits that can ensure the future with a more competitive
,supply. Bearing in mind that the end product from which Tunisia draws its
economic benefits is processed phosphate, it is necesssary to improve
efficiency in existing mines and evaluate the prospect for future
deposits.
9.        The Phosphate Fertilizer Industry in Tunisia.  Tunisia was the
first North African rock phosphate producer to process domestic rock for
export. The growing international market for intermediate and finished
phosphate fertilizers has encouraged Tunisia to steadily increase its
output of processed products and by 1982 about 65 percent of phosphate rock
produced was processed before export. The 1972-81 decade saw dynamic
development of the Tunisian fertilizer industry. Revenues from the sector
increased from US$30 million in 1972 to US$335 million in 1981. The first
phosphoric acid plant (116,000 tpy P205) of Industries Chimiques
Maghrebines (ICM) came on stream in 1972 at Gabes. By the end of the 1970s
additional aggregate capacities of 560,000 tpy P205 as phosphoric acid,



- 22 -
Attachment I
Page 4 of 14
143,000 tpy P205 as TSP and 330,000 tpy P205 as DAP, were set up in the
country. In November 1982, a third phosphoric acid plant with a capacity
of 165,000 tpy P205 came on stream at the Gabes complex of ICK. The
industry today consists principally of (i) three companies with production
facilities located at Gabes: IC, Societe Arabe des Engrais Phosphates et
Azotes (SAEPA), and Engrais de Gabes (EDG); (ii) one company with
production facilities located at Sfax: Societe Industrielle d'Acide
Phosphorique et d'Engrais (SIAPE); Ciii) one company with a plant located
at Tunis: Societe Tunisienne d'Engrais Chimiques (STEC); and (iv) one
company with a plant to be located at Gafsa: Industries Chimiques de Gafsa
(ICG). Purchase of raw materials for all the companies and exports of
phosphoric acid are managed centrally.
10.       It is anticipated that the current decade will see more moderate
growth. The VIth Plan (1982-86) forecasts that production volume of the
sector will increase at about b-7 percent p.a.  Employment wili tend to
stabilize since new developments can utilize existing personnel. Only a
few new projects are expected to commence operation during the VIth Plan.
A, new complex, managed by ICOG is scheduled to start production by 1985,
with a capacity of 160,000 tiy P205 as phosphoric acid and 184,000 tpy P205
as TSP. In addition, two new units for the production of 400,000 tpy DAP
and 450,000 tpy NPK complex fertilizers are to be built at the EDG plant,
in Gabes, by 1985.
11.       The Tunisian fertilizer industry is sensitive to international
trends particularly in regard to raw material and product prices. About 80
percent of the total production costs of fertilizers are for raw materials
such as sulphur, rock and ammonia. Under the VIth Plan, special
consideration will be given to projects for domestic production of
gas-based ammonia and sulphuric acid, thus teducing the dependence of the
phosphate industry on imported products.
12.       The Tunisian fertilizer industry has already reached a high Ievel
of technical competence and should be able to achieve the production levels
envisaged by the Plan. The main constraints to f-ur,her development are the
low grade of Tunisian rock and the high mining costs. Particularly as
cheaper rock-producing competitors such as Morocco and Jordan inctease
their exports, the Tunisian fertilizer industry can survive in the longer
term only if the rock can be produced competitively. Efforts in this
direction are being given priority by the Government and are part of the
proposed project.
13.      The Phosphate Mining Industry in Tunisia.  At present, CPG is the
only operating phosphate mining company in Tunisia and is owned 99 percent
by the State and its organizations. In 198', a new phosphate company,
(Societe d'Etudes de Phosphates de Sra Ouertane) was created to study the
extensive new cpen pit deposits at Sra Ouertane, located in the northern
Kef region. Extensive exploitation of Sra Ouertane is not expected until
the next decade.



- 23 -
Attachment I
Page 5 of 14
14.       CPG operates 9 mines and 14 beneficiation plants within 60 km of
Gafsa (Map IBRD 10273R2). CPG's operating installatiors and facilities
include:
(a)   Mines: 7 underground mines at M'Dilla, Sehib, Hetlaoui, Redeyef,
M'Rata, Moulares, Kalaa Djerda (accounting for 50 percent of
CPG's 1982 mine output) and 2 open pit mines at Kef Eschfair and
Oum El Khecheb Islets (accounting for 35-percent of 1982 mine
output). Underground mining uses room and pillar, sublevel
caving and longuall methods with a widely varying degree of
mechanization. The 2 open pit mines which started production in
1978 and 1980 are based on truck and shovel methods. Open pit
mining is supplemented by contract mining (accounting for 15
percent of 1982 mine output); and
(b)   Beneficiation Plants:  8 washing plants located at M'Dilla,
Sehib, Moulares, Kef Eschfair and Metlaoui (accounting for about
three quarters of CPG's installed beneficiation capacity) and 6
air classification and drying units at Moulares, Redeyef and
Kalaa Djerda, with a total installed beneficiation capacity c.f 12
million tpy. Over the past decade, beneficiation capacity was
underutilized by 30-35 percent, mostly because mine output
remained far below design capacity and production targets.
15.       In the period 1975-82, mine and plant output increased by 35 and
47 percent, respectively. Meanwhile, CPG's unit production costs remained
level in constant dollar terms but increased by 40 percent in constant
Dinar terms. CPG's 1982 unit production cost of US$39/ton of marketable
phosphate was 20 to 40 percent higher than the cost of its competitors.
Consequently, with rock sale prices averaging US$32/ton, CPG has realized
losses since 1977 (Table 1!. This has been in contrast to the rapid output
increases achieved by investing up to US$600 million during 1975-82 for
replacement, rehabilitation and expansion (Table 2). These investments
included rapid mechanization amongst which the opening of two new open pit
mines and the construction of associated beneficiation plants.
Nevertheless, ineffective introduction of mechanization not coupled with
the proper training, organization, maintenance, control and operating
procedures; continued heavy reliance on underground mining; and the burden
of surplus labor have prevented CPG from reaping the benefits of its heavy
and untimely investments. In addition, the 65-68 percent BPL rock produced
by CPG contrasts with the higher grade of its competitors such as Togo and
Senegal (79-80 percent BPL), Jordan (73-74 percent BPL) Florida and Morocco
(70-72 percent BPL). However, Tunisia by conceiving its phosphate sector
as a processing sector, with phosphoric acid plants specially designed to
treat the characteristics of this rock, has been able to circumvent the
quality problem of its rock and in fact commands a premium for the high
quality of its processed products.



- 24 -
Attachment I
Page 6 of 14
16.       The Market for Tunisian Phosphate Rock. Tunisian rock is used
both for -direct application as fertilizer and as feedstock for phosphate
derivatives. With the build up of the domestic processing industry during
the early 1970s, CPG's sales of phosphate rock for local processing grew
from 1.2 million tons in 1973 to 3.3 million tons in 1982, or 74 percent of
total sales in that year. As to future market prospects, the major
structural change taking place at present in the world phosphate export
market (para. 2) will impact on Tunisia. As Tunisia is already well
established in the processed phosphate industry, it should benefit from a
rapid growtb of processed phosphates, provided rock can be made available
in the right quantity at a reasonable price. The phosphate processing
industry assumes that two plants, ICG and SIAPE, will be completed and be
in operation by 1985 and 1987, respectively, and that thereafter through
the 1990s one large-scale plant will come on stream for processed
phosphates about every three years. As a result, domestic demand for rock
would reach 5.0 million tons by 1985 and 6.2 million tons by 1990. In view
of the limited 2 percent p.a. export growth prospects for phosphate rock in
general and the difficult processing characteristics of Tunisian rock, an
export market of 1.6 million tons by 1985 and 1.8 million tons by 1990
could at most be expected for CPG's output.
17.       In summary, market prospects for Tunisian rock, i.e. CPG output,
call for nearly a doubling of output by 1990 and about a 2.0 million ton
increase by 1985 as detailed below.
Sales of Tunisian Beneficiated Phosphate Rock
(Million tons)
1973  1974  1981  1982  1985  1990
Lotal Processing Industry       1.2   1.3   3.1   3.3   5.0   6.2
Export Sales                    2.2   2.4   1.1   1.2   1.6   1.8
Total                      3.4   3.7   4.2   4.5   6.6   8.0
18.       The most promising mines for major expansions are the Djellabia,
Kef Eschfair, Oum El Khecheb and Sehib South open pit mines of CPG and the
Sra Ouertane deposit. However, since exploitation from the new Sra
Ouertane deposit will remain marginal during the coming 10 years because of
special beneficiation circuitry that needs to be developed, CPG plans to
assess and implement rock phosphate expansions at the other mines for the
immediate future.
C. The Phosphate Component of the Project
19.       The phosphate component of the proposed project is designed to
assist CPG to address the development objectives of the VIth Plan, i.e., to
improve productivity, output and unit costs of existing installations and
complete preinvestment studies for possible expansions. During the
implementation of Loan 1042-TUN, CPG's major managerial weaknesses were



- 25 -
Attachment I
Page 7 of 14
recognized. The urgent need for major improvements Ln investment decision
making and project management , on the one hand, and maintenance, control
and operating procedures, on the other, became evident and were discussed
between CPG and the Bank. CPG and the Government agreed with the
assessment and requested Bank financial assistance to help CPG to meet the
main objectives of the VIth Plan. The phosphate component of the proposed
project comprises the following:
20.       Organization and Management:  Four specific areas of
organizational, and management improvement will receive attention:
(a) Financial Organization and Management, Cost Control and
Monitoring: The overall organizational structure of CPG
will be reviewed and proposals for a more efficient
organizational structure worked out. A computerized
management information and cost control system will be
worked out and implemented. The work wll be carried
out over a period of 18 months and will require an
estimated 35 man-months of which 20 will be on site;
gb) Underground Mine Improvements:  The operation of all
CPG's underground mines will be reviewed to identify
areas of inefficiency. Proposals will be worked out to
increase efficiency through better organization and
control of undergound operations.   A dialogue between
the consultant and CPG will be maintained for the
implementation and follow-up of the recommendations.
The work will be carried out over a period of 2 years
and will require an estimated 26 man-months of which 20
will be on site;
(c) Reorganization of Spare Parts Management is urgent in
order to liquidate the antiquated, unusable stocks and
adjust CPG's management to the demands of equipment-
intensive open pit mining (trucks, shovels, bulldozers)
and mechanical underground mining (Load-Haul-Dump
machines, drills). Existing services will be reviewed
and a computerized inventory management system
introduced for mining equipment spare parts. The work
will be carried out over a period of 2 years and will
require an estimated 49 man-months of which 37 will be
on site; and
(d)  Reorganization of Personnel Administration will address
present delays and inconsistencies of personnel
administration services. Computerization of the
payroll system will be introduced along with training
by a team of up to 3 experts. The work will he carried
out over a period of 2 years and will require an
estimated 22 man-months on site.



- 26 -
Attachment I
Page 8 of 14
21.       Maintenance Improvemeats:  CPG has a new central workshop with
adequate equipment, but workers are still unfamiliar with the repair and
overhaul of larger engines and hydraulics. Proper maintenance of process
control equipment is another area where expertise is insufficient.
Accordingly, (i) central workshop personnel will be trained over a period
of 2 years by about 8 maintenance specialists for the different equipment
recently introduced by CPG in open pits and mechanized underground mines
and (ii) plant instrumentation personnel, in particular maintenance
personnel for plant process control equipment, will be trained over a
one-year period by 3 process control technicians.
22.       Rehabilitation of Beneficiation Plants and Materials Handling:
The old washing plants at Metlaoui and M'Dilla operate at a 60 percent
utilization rate producing uneven quality rock. Furthermore, inadequate
rock feed handling facilities at the M'Dilla washing pL'nts are causing
inefficiencies in production as well as adversely affecting product
quality.  Indications are that investments in ore feet handling systems and
instrumentation are more economical than the installation of new
beneficiation capacity. Under the proposed projecc, washing plant experts
will evaluate the feasibility of plant rehabilitation and carry out
subsequent engineering and supervision. CPG will consult with the Bank on
the consultant's feasibility report prior to proceeding with rehabVlitation
investments.
23.       Operations Improvement and Expansion Study of Kef Eschfair:  Kef
Eschfair, CPG's first and largest open pit mine started operation in 1978.
Situated on 70 million tons proven reserves, the mine was designed for an
output of 2.5 million tpy using trucks and shovels. Production reached 1.8
million tons in 1981 and remained at that level in 1982. The major reasons
for the low utilization rate are difficulties in Ci) providing the
consistent maintenance support required, (ii) enforcing operating
discipline, and (iii) implementing cost consciousness and control. As Kef
Eschfair accounts for one third of CPG's mine capacity and reserves allow
for expansion in the immediate future, improvements at Kef Eschfair have
both immediate and longer-term significance. The proposed study for Kef
Eschfair will analyze the major reasons for the present production
shortfalls and develop procedures and operator training programs required
to improve operations to design capacity.  The most urgent training-of
mobile equipment operators and maintenance personnel--will start
immediately upon contract effectiveness to forestall further production
declines. When production shortcomings are identified and are being
remedied, a feasibility study and preliminary engineering for an expansion
of up to 3.6 million tons will be carried out. The Kef Eschfair component
work will require an estimated 174 man-months of which 115 will be on site
and will be implemented during a 3-year period.
24.       Feasibility Studies on New Mines:  Whereas the activities
described above are directed towards lowering CPG's production costs and
improving existing operations and CPG's financial viability, CPG's
extensive reserves and good market prospects call not only for
consolidation but also expansion. Under the proposed phosphate component,
therefore, feasibility studies will be completed for the development of 3
new open pit deposits:



- 27 -
Attachment I
Page 9 of 14
(a) Diellabia Feasibility Study will examine the
feasibility of dragline mining and beneficiation by
flotation. Proven reserves at Djellabia are 40 million
tons of washable-grade ore and 50 million tons of
flotation-grade ore. The feasibility study was
contracted in 1980 with Morrison-Knudsen following Bank
procedures, with cofinancing from USAID and Loan
1042-TU. Preliminary mine/plant design alternatives
involving one or two draglines, hydroclassifiers and a
flotation unit to produce about 0.7 to 2.9 million tpy
beneficiated rock have been developed. The remaining
detailed feasibility study should be completed by early
1984; and
(b) Oum El Khecheb/Sehib South Feasibility Study will
evaluate the 45 million ton Oum El Khecheb deposit
northeast of Metlaoui and the 20 million ton Sehib
South deposit south of Djellabia. In view of their
similar geological structure and the coordination
needed, the two deposits will be studied together.
Production rates of 1.1-2.2 million tpy of washable ore
from each deposit are being considered. Additional
reserves of floatable ore at Sehib South will be
studied for 1.3 million tpy of additional production.
Optimal mine output and viability of the deposits will
depend on the need to exploit a major portion of the
reserves by open pit. Consultants experienced in open
pit mining will be retained to complete the feasibility
study by mid-1986.
II. POTASH - SECTOR AND PROJECT COMPONENT DESCRIPTIONS
A.  The World Potash Industry
25.       About 96 percent of all the potash mined in the world is used as
fertilizer.  The remainder is used for various industrial applications
(detergents, textiles, glass and ceramics, catalysts, alkaline batteries,
etc.). Potash resources are currently mined in the following eleven
countries:  the USSR, Canada, Federal Republic of Germany, German
Democratic Republic, USA, France, Israel, Jordan, Spain, the United
Kingdom, and Italy. Their total production is currently equivalent to
about 27 million tpy of nutrient (120). Most of the industrial operations
for potash production are based on underground bedded deposits of potash
minerals, from which the ore is extracted by conventional hard rock mining
methods, except in two locations where solution mining technology is
employed. Naturally occurring brines provide the raw material in five
potash refineries (out of the world total of 63). About 85 percent of the
potash industry output is in the form of potassium chloride (KCI, 60
percent K20).  Potassium sulphate (SOP, 50 percent K20) accounts for a



- 28 -
Attachment I
Page 10 of 14
further 5 percent, with the rest consisting of partly crude and partly
refined lower grade salts with K2O content ranging between 15 and 45
percent.
26.       Over the last two decades, world demand for potash fertilizers
has increased at an average annual growth rate of about 6 percent.
However, during the 1980s, demand is expected to grow at lower rates of
about 4 percent per year, bringing K20 demand to about 35 million tons per
year by 1990. Consumption growth rates of between 7 and 8 percent p.a. are
expected in Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, while more moderate
growth rates of between 2 and 3 percent are expected in the industrialized
countries in Europe and North America, which already consume potash
intensively.
27.     Potash in Tunisia is most likely to be produced in the form of
SOP. Even though it contains about 20 percent less nutrient than KC1,
SOP's selling price is higher since it is preferred for (i) crops which are
sensitive to chlorine-based materials (e.g., tobacco and green-house
vegetables) or which give improved yields and products when sulphate is
available (e.g. citrus, grapes, potatoes, vegetables, etc.); and (ii) crops
in saline soils where additional presence of chloride is undesirable. Most
Mediterranean countries contain such areas.
28.       SOP Production.  SOP is manufactured by either of the following
two commercial processes: (i) from ore or brine containing potassium
sulphate or a mixture of potassium chloride and magnesium/calcium sulphate
by physico-chemical separation processes; and (ii) from potassium chloride
by chemical processing with sulphuric acid at high temperatures. The
latter process (Mannheim process) requires large amounts of energy and of
(costly) sulphuric acid. It also produces a highly toxic by-product which
presents serious and costly disposal problems.
29.       World production capacity of SOP is currently about 1.4 million
tpy K20. About 60 percent of this capacity is based on chemical
transformation of potassium chloride (Mannheim process). Belgium and Spain
produce about 60 percent and 13 percent,respectively, of the world SOP
production. No new large-scale SOP production project has been implemented
in recent years nor is there any known firm new project for SOP
production. The major reasons for this lack of new projects are first, the
rather stable demand for SOP during the last decade, and, second, the
limited and unreliable spot market for hydrochloric acid, the by-product of
the Mannheim SOP process the disposal of which, as mentioned above, is
costly and difficult.
30.       SOP Trade.  International trade of SOP accounts for about 0.7
million tpy K20 or about 50 percent of production. While Canada and the
USSR dominate the world KCl trade, Europe dominates the world SOP trade:
the production capacity of Belgium and West Germany amount to about 35
percent of world capacity, and they supply about two-thirds of the
internationally traded potassium sulphate. Currently, the main SOP
importing areas are Northern Europe and the Mediterranean region (50
percent of world trade) and Asia (25 percent).



- 29 -
Attachment I
Page 11 of 14
31.       SOP Demand.  World SOP demand reached 1.4 million tons in 1982.
SOP demand grew at an average rate of 2.5 percent p.a. in the past decade,
with the highest growth experienced in Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia.
World SOP consumption growth is expected to slow and stabilize at about 2
percent p.a. up to 1995. This would bring total SOP demand to about 1.8
million tons of K20 in that year. This compares with a world capacity of
1.4 million tons (para. 29). Consequently, a tight supply/demand balance
is expected to occur by then unless new production capacity is set up.
32.       SOP Price Outlook.  Historically, SOP prices have tended to
increase at least at the same rate as those of KCl when market conditions
were improving, and to stabilize more quickly when market conditions were
worsening. As noted above (para. 27) SOP is sold at a premium over KCl:
during the last five years the SOP/KCl price ratio has averaged 2:1 on a
nutrient basis. It is expected that this ratio will continue to prevail
during the next decade. As KCl prices are forecast to average about
US$100-125/ton fob, SOP prices are expected to average about US$165-210/ton
fob during that period (in 1983 terms).
B. Prospects for Future SOP Production in Tunisia
33.       Tunisia is geographically well located with respect to the main
areas of SOP consumption: the Mediterranean region and East Europe.
Tunisian production based on extraction and processing of brines
containing sulphates would avoid the cost of mining potash ores. In
addition, it has reasonably good prospects of being competitive with
chemically-derived SOP, as Tunisian brines can be processed to SOP without
the use of sulfuric acid.
34.       While nitrogen and phosphate usage in Tunisia has reached
reasonable levels, potash utilization still remains very low. Potash is
used mostly in the form of SOP with some limited quantities of potassium
nitrate. Both are now totally imported and are mainly used for vegetable
and citrus production. About 9,500 tons of potassium salts were imported
in 1981. Even if potash demand were to increase significantly over the
next decade, it appears unlikely that domestic demand will increase to
levels that would justify a potash project for domestic use only. Thus any
potash production facilities resulting from the proposed project would have
to be export-oriented. Nevertheless, the substitution of potash imports,
which now require foreign exchange expenditures of about US$1.2 million per
year (forecast to increase to US$6 million by 1990), will be a desirable
benefit from an eventual potash producing project.
C. The Potash Component of the Project
35.       History.  Potash brines occur in Tunisia in three major salt
lakes (Map IBRD 17120 attached): El Melah (near the port of Zarzis), !l
Adibate (about 65 kilometers from Zarzis), and Chott El Jerid (in South-
West Tunisia). Past geological and geochemical studies (para. 38 below)
carried out on the 150 km2 El Melah lake have confirmed that the potash



- 30 -
Attachment I
Page 12 of 14
brines which occur in the aquifer situated between two impermeable layers
contains large, and substantially homogeneous amounts of SOP. The potash
reserves at EL Melah are estimated to be about 9 million tons expressed as
potassium sulphate.
36.       The El Adibate lake covers an area of about 100 km2.  Only
preliminary exploration work has been carried out by the Office National
des Mines (ONM). Analyses of the brine based on samples collected near the
surface indicate close similarity with the Zarzis brines. Preliminary
estimates place the potash reserves at 4 to 6 million tons, again expressed
as potassium sulphate.   However, additional exploration work and treatment
tests are necessary before knowledge on the El Adibate brines will be
comparable with information available on the Zarzis brines.
37.       Chott El Jerid, the largest of the nalt lakes in the Algerian-
Tunisian south, is a synclinal depression of marine origin located close to
the Algerian border and immediately south of the Gafsa phosphate area. The
lake covers an area of about 5,000 km2. Preliminary exploration work was
carried out in 1949 by Mines de Potasse d'Alsace (MDPA) of France and in
1966 by Occidental Petroleum Corporation (OPC) of the USA on the northern
accessible areas of the depression. A more extensive exploration program
on Chott El Jerid was initiated in 1977 by CPG. Based on work carried out
sG far, potash reserves at Chott El Jerid are preliminarily estimated to be
over 50 million tons expressed as potassium sulphate.
38.       The most comprehensive studies have been carried out on the
Zarzis deposit. The first industrial facility to exploit the brines of
Zarzis was set up for the production of 2,000 tpy of bromine. These faci-
lities also produced limited quantities of KCl and common salt. The Zarzis
deposit was also studied between 1940 and 1946 by MDPA to produce potash,
but a project never materialized due to lack of detailed information on
available reserves. In 1960, ONM studied intensively the hydrogeological,
geochemical and climatological aspects and carried out solar evaporation
tests in pilot solar pans. The program was completed in 1971, but the
project was never implemented. New interest in exploiting the Zarzis
brines developed in 1980 out of the Government's plans to develop the
southeastern region of Tunisia. Possible production of potash was
considered an effective way to create a development center in that area. A
new company, the Societe de Development des Industries Chimiques du Sud
(SDICS) was formed in early 1981 to promote the Zarzis potash project and,
later on, possibly to operate the complex. Partners in the above
enterprise include several Government-owned fertilizer companies. SDICS
contracted Dorchem International and Jacobs Engineering (USA) in May 1981
to analyze the technical aspects for producing SOP. Based on laboratory
tests carried out by Dorchem and Jacobs, a process suitable for the Zarzis
brines has been identified, consisting of the following steps: (a) the
brines will be concentrated in open pans using solar evaporation during
which about 80 percent of the sodium chloride (common salt) will be
precipitated; (b) the residual brines will be desulphatized by thermic
treatment (c) further precipitation of carnallite will take place in a



- 31 -
Attachment I
Page 13 of 14
second section of the solar evaporation pans; (d) KCl will be recovered
from the carnallite by decomposition and flotation; (e) KCl and kieserite
will be -hemically converted into shoenite; and (f) SOP will be produced by
centrifugation of shoenite, followed by drying and compaction.
39.       The above process is capable of producing SOP without using
sulfuric acid, thus reducing significantly overall SOP production costs.
Significant quantities of common salt are obtained-as a by-product.
Production of other by-products, such as magnesium chloride and bromine, is
also possible but requires further studies.  Based on the above laboratory
tests, SDICS has tentatively proposed production of 140,000 tpy of SOP from
the Zarzis deposit. The capacity proposed by SDICS is small by industry
standards and a project based in Zarzis alone is thus likely to be only
marginally economical. The Government has consequently proposed the
execution of studies under this component of the proposed project. The
component will develop adequate technical and economic information on the
El Adibate and Chott el Jerid deposits so that the economics of a larger
project can be evaluated, either as an integrated Zarzis-El Adibate project
or as a large Chott El Jerid stand-alone project.
Project Description
40.       The studies in this component would be carried out in two phases,
and will concern the Zarzis, El Adibate and Chott El Jerid deposits.
41.       Phase I.  At Zarzis, the Phase I work will include (a) a critical
analysis of the existing data on the deposits, geological surveys, pumping
tests and geochemical analysis to provide reliable estimates of exploitable
potash reserves; (b) laboratory and pilot plant tests to determine the most
suitable technology to process the sulphate rich brines; (c) definition of
the process parameters (material and energy balances and operating
conditions); (d) determination of the transport requirements for the full
scale project inputs and outputs; and (e) assessment of the technical and
economic viability of the full scale project. At El Adibate, the Phase I
work will include (a) drillings, pumping tests and geochemical analysis of
brines; (b) laboratory and pilot tests of treatment of brines to determine
the most suitable processing technology and Cc) on the basis of (a) and (b)
above and of the results of the concurrent work on Zarzis, preliminary
basic engineering to integrate processing of the brine from Zarzis and El
Adibate in one single potash production plant.  At Chott El Jerid, the
Phase I work will be similar to the work to be carried out at El Adibate,
but, considering the distance between Chott El Jerid and the other two
deposits and the size of reserves at Chott El Jerid, the exploitation of
Chott El Jerid will be studied on the basis of a possible stand-alone full
scale potash project.
42.       During Phase I, a market study will identify the most likely
markets for Tunisian potash products and forecast future price behavior in
these markets. Comparative technoeconomic evaluations of potash production



- 32 -
Attachment I
Page 14 of 14
at the three sites would then be conducted, taking into account the optimal
full scale project at Zarzis alone, Zarzis and El Adibate together, or
Chott El Jerid alone, to determine the most economic location and project
configuration. Phase II work would be initiated only if this optimal full
scale project is economically attractive.
43.       Phase II.  This Phase will finalize the feasibility study and
basic engineering of the full-scale potash project selected in Phase I.
The primary emphasis of the Phase II work would be to optimize the SOP
production process and technology, provide detailed market, marketing and
distribution analysis, and confirm the financial and economic viability of
the full-scale project on the basis of the selected option.
44.       The activities under this potash component will be implemented so
as to minimize time and cost: (i) information from the three deposits will
be gathered and coordinated so that an early evaluation of the prospects
for a viable potash project would be available at the earliest and (ii)
Phase I pilot brine tests from El Adibate and Chott El Jerid will be
carried out at the Zarzis pilot plant, thus reducing the cost of the
overall equipment required. In addition, most of the equipment utilized in
Phase I for geological exploration, and laboratory and pilot plant tests,
on each of the three deposits will be shifted to study the selected
alternative during Phase II.



- 33 -
Attachment I
Table 1
TUNISIA
MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CPG-Historical Income Statements, 1975-82
(D Million)
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981  1982
Sales Revenues
Gross Sales of Phosphates  55.6   46.5   43.0   39.4   41.8   75.5   81.8   88.1
Discounts                    (4.4)  (5.1)  (2.2)  (1.1)  (0.6)  (2.4)    -         -
Sales of By-Products and
Other Revenues             1.2    1.2    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.5    1.7    2.2
Net Revenues    52.4   42.6   41.8   39.3   42.2   74.6   83.5   90.3
Direct and Indirect Costs
Salaries and Wages           13.4   15.5   17.6   20.1   21.3   24.1   29.2   35.3
Purch. of Consumable Goods  9.2    9.5    9.4   13.2   12.7   13.3   23.1   27.4
Purch. of Outside Services  5.7    5.2    5.0    4.6    6.0    7.2    9.5    9.7
Transportation                5.6    6.8    8.6    9.9   10.0   13.3   14.3   14.5
Depreciation & Amort.         2.8    4.4    5.6    7.0   12.9   16.3   20.5   27.6
Other                         1.0    1.3    1.4    2.0    4.5    6.4   10.7    7.7
Less:
Self-constructed assets  (3.7)  (4.3)  (5.7)  (7.0)  (5.4)  (3.0)  (3.7)  (4.3)
Incr. phosphates inv.   (10.6)   4.0    3.4    0.2   (3.9)   1.0  (14.3)  (0.5)
Iner. cons. goods inv.   (1.8)  (1.4)  (1.4)  (2.4)  (1.8)   1.0   (6.6)  (7.9)
Total Costs               21.6   41.0   43.9   47.6   56.3   79.6   82.7  109.5
Operating Income               30.8    1.6   (2.1)  (8.3) (14.1)  (5.0)   0.8  (19.2)
Prior Period Adjustments       (1.5)  (0.5)   1.1   (0.3)  (1.6)  (0.3)   1.5    1.1
Extraordinary Items            (0.6)   0.4    0.1   (0.4)  (0.8)  (0.5)  (0.4)  (1.5)
Taxes                         (15.4)  (0.4)  (0.4)  (0.5)  (0.4)  (0.5)  (0.6)  (0.6)
Net Income (Loss)              13.3    1.1   (1.3)  (9.5) (16.9)  (6.3)   1.3  (20.2)
Average Exchange Rate
(D/US$)                        0.40   0.43   0.43   0.42   0.41   0.41   0.49  0.60



- 34 -
Attachment I
Table 2
TUNISIA
MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CPG-Historical Balance Sheets, 1975-82
(D Million)
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981  1982
ASSETS                         71.9   85.2   98.9  165.1  182.6  194.7  245.2  293.8
_ = _                              . -        -l 
Current Assets               43.4   38.9   32.1   45.4   35.7   40.3   63.9   95.8
Cash and Bank              14.1    9.9    6.7    3.9    4.6    7.4    3.1   21.9
Receivables                 6.6    8.1   11.6   16.0    9.4   13.2   20.2   24.9
Available Capital           5.0    5.0      -     9.5      -       -      -
Phosphate Inventories    13.0    9.5    6.0    5.8    9.7    8.7   23.0   23.5
Con. Goods Inventories    4.7    6.4    7.8   10.2   12.0   11.0   17.6   25.5
Fixed Assets                 24.2   37.6   57.4  109.2  137.1  145.5  164.8  172.8
Gross Fixed Assets         44.9   64.1   88.5  146.8  186.6  210.6  250.4  285.4
Less: Depreciation        (20.7) (26.5) (31.1) (37.6) (49.5) (65.1) (85.6)(112.6)
Other Assets                  4.3    8.7    9.4   10.5    9.8    8.9   16.5   25.2
LIABILITIES & EQUITY           71.9   85.2   98.9  165.1  182.6  194.7  245.2  293.8
Current Liabilities          15.9   22.1   27.3   50.5   47.5   52.4   88.6  121.6
Current Maturity of LTD   0.6    1.3    2.6    R.0    6.3    8.9   21.9   23.3
Payables                   15.3   20.8   24.7   42.5   41.2   43.5   66.7   98.3
Long-Term Debt                4.4    7.7   14.9   50.9   84.4   97.7   98.2  127.8
Principal                   4.4    7.7   14.9   50.9   84.4   97.7   91.0  110.1
Interest Allocation          -      -       -      -       -       -     7.2   17.7
Equity                       51.6   55.4   56.7   63.7   50.7   44.6   58.4   44,4
Capital                    12.7   14.5   17.5   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   39.0
Reserves                   38.4   33.6   38.1   28.7   12.0    6.1    7.1  (11.5)
Provisions                  0.5    7.3    1.1    5.0    8.7    8.5   21.3   16.9



- 35 -
Attachment I
Table 3
TUNISIA
MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PRDJECT
CPG Key Performance Indicators
Average
Annual
Growth
(X)
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1975-82
I. Mines
Million tons
Production          5.5    4.8    5.1    5.9    6.5    7.7    8.5    7.4    4.3
- Underground       4.2    4.0    4.1    4.2    4.2    4.6    4.2    3.6   (2.2)
- Open pit          1.3    0.8    1.0    1.7    2.3    3.2   4.3    3.8   16.6
II. Beneficiation Plants
Million tons
Production          3.2    3.3    3.6    3.7    4.1    4.5    4.9    4.7    5.6
1II. Financial Indicators
Production Cost
Current US$/ton    25      26     26     30     36      43     40     39    6.6
1975 US$/ton       25     26      24     23     25      27     27     27    1
Net Income
TD million       13.3    1.1   (1.3)  (9.5) (16.9)  (6.3)   1.3  (20.2)
Gross Fixed Assets
TD million       44.9   64.1   88.5  146.8  186.6  210.6  25U.4  285.4   30.2
Current Ratio       2.7    1.8    1.2    0.9    0.8    0.8    0.7    0.8
Debt:Equity Ratio /a
8:92  14;86  21:79  46;54  67:33  73:27  71;29  80:20
/a   Debt excludes interest allocation and portion wt drawa down,
equity excludes provisions.



- 36 -
Attachment II
Page 1 of 2
TUNISIA
MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECr
Phosapate and Mining Policy Components
Ian-monEh and Cost Estimates
Man-months               Cost (Million)
Foreigm       Local                                    Iuplmnting
Consultants   Staff         Foreign  Local   Total      Agency
Phosphate Component
1. Financial Organiza-
tion and Manage-
ent, Cost Control
and iMbitoring          35         20           0.4      0.1     0.5         CPG
2.    derground Nine
Improvements            26         20           0.4     0.1      0.5         CPG
3.  Reorganization of
Spare Parts
Management              49         37           0.6      0.2     0.8         CPG
4. Reorganization of
Personnel Adminis-
tration                 22         22           0.3     0.1      0.4         GPG
5.  Training for Central
Workshops Maintenance   72         69           0.8     0.3      1.1         CPG
6. Training for Plant
Instrumentation
Maintenance             22         22           0.2      0.1     0.3         CPG
7. Rehabilitation of
Beneficiation Plants
and Materials Handling  74         30           0.8     0.1      0.9         CPG
8.  Operations Improvement
and Expansion of
Kef Eschfair           174        115           1.9     0.5      2.4         CPG
9.  Djellabia Feasibility
Study                   51          4           0.7     0.1     0.8          CPG
10. Oum El Rhecheb/
Sehi:, South
Feasibility Study       78         18           0.8     0.1      0.9         CPG
Mining Policy Component
OEK Organization Study  12          7           0.2     0.1      0.3         01N3
Base Cost                                       7.1     1.8      8.9
Physical contingencies                      1.0     0.2      1.2
Price contingencies                         1.6     0.4     2.0
Total Components Cost                           9.7     2.4    12.1
-    _m



- 37 -                           Attachment II
Page 2 of Z
TUNISIA
iM4NUG IECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Potash Component
Nan-mouth and Cost Estimates
an-months            Cost (Million)       Implerenting
Foreign       Local   Foreign  Local Total       Agency
consultants Staff
Phase I
Zarzis; Personnel          221        1,110      2.3     0.7    3.0         SDICS
Equipment                                0.8     0.7    1.5
El Adibate: Personnel       24          800      0.3     0.4    0.7        OM
Equipment                           0.6      0.4    1.0
Chott El Jerid; Personnel    4       1,056       0.1     0.6    0.7         CPG
Equipment                       0.6      0.2    0.8
Technical Adv.
Services               69          -        0.7      0.2    0.9         DuG
Prelim. Market Study        4          -         0.1      -     0.1         DHG
Phase II: Feasibility Study
Personnel                 38        2,034       0.8     1.0    1.8         t.b.d. /1
Equipment                                       0.3     0.5    0.8
Base Cost                                       6.6     4.7   11.3
Physical canting. /2                         0.3     0.3    0.6
Price conting. /2                            0.3     0.3    0.6
Total Component Cost                             7.2     5.3   12.5
==   =2=
/1 To be determined in the light of results of Phase I studies.
12 Does not include contingencies for Phase I of Zarzis for which the full cost
is included in base cost for this component.



-38-
TABLE  3&                                      lag.  ot 
TUNISIA               - snoam. intcaac DM 
TMIXSIA                          RZFZRMM GROWS  CuEucm  ABUS) la
MOST                     0S UX'? snarg  lb   -
i,t&  zot  S T   b             SUE  Ia               RUS EE
1960t      L9701-b               X.AESfTNT .AIA &ID EAST   LAr. AMRIC & CAlm
URA (S_SAD Sll. U)
TOTAL                             163.6      163.6       163.6
ACUIIOTURAL                        69.6       70.3       72.5                .
mm r  OFfla MS)                     210.0       370.0     1420.0            1360.0                  2b.2
zmm aooim  ma aNnxr
(KILOGRAIS OF CAL VUUImVALET)     173.0      361.0      652.0             810.4                  1607.6
AmazONX -M vITAL STATSTI
POFtLAfLOIIsl-UAR (EtNOSANOS)   4221.0      51;7.0     6s*.0
Mt36  POCWLATION Cr OF TOrAL)      36.0       :J.5       52.9              47.4                    65.9
POPULaTION  FIWECf .
P0PULJLTIoS iN SEA. 2000 WILL)                          10.L
STATIDA? POPLATIO  (KaLL)                               19.5
YEAt STATIGMAV POt. 3EAOD                             210                  .
PoPULATOaS DEnHrT
1 SQ. Xm.                        2S.8       31.3       3d.9              36.0                    35.6
pM Sq. lc. At. LAW               60.7       7Z.s       37.5             449.0                    93.2
POPULATION ae sTR        C(2)
0-14 URS                        43.4       46.2       40.7              43.9                    40.1
15-4  IRS                        52.5       50.0       55.6              52.3                    55.8
65 AND ABOVE                     4.2         3.8        3.7               3.3                     4.1
POPLATIN  CW5I  RATE (Z)
TarAL                             I.SJc     1t9/k       2.2/c             2.9                     2.3
URBAN                             3.2        3.t        4*C               4.6                     3.7
RME 31TH RATE (PR TWOUS)          'LI         40.6       34.Z              42.5                    31.5
CRUDE DEATA RAE  (MM TOS)        Z2.O         16.6        9.1              t2.0                     8.1
CROSS itEPRUCTION RATE             3.5         3.2        2.5               3.0                     2.0
FA-MILY PLAnING
ACCEflORS. ANNAL 0cno)             .        29.2      180.9
sE  CZ0F MARRE fl)                 -.       10.0       21.3
00RAN  Romez  meo
-VX  OF FWD psOD  MER cAPr
C L969-fl-00)                    97.0        91.0      127.0              97.5                   113.0
Pa CAPITA surmx OF
CALORES (X OF RUIRDEr)           63.0       3o.0      116.0             1OZ.3                   111.3
PROTEIS (GRamS FERt DT)         52.0       57.0       74.0              7Z.O                    ST.9
or WItCH ANMAL am PULSE         13.0       14.0       23.014            17.8                    34.1
CHL  (CAES 1-4) DEATH RATE        36.1        24.5        9.1              15.2                     5.3
Sanu
LIFE  [PECT. AT IX1 (TEAS)        48.1        56.2       60.6              57.2                    66.6
IWASr TW. RATrE (PM TROUS)       158.9       131.3       *7.6             104.Z                    6Z.6
ACCESS TO SAFE AIAEI (CAOP)
TOrAL                                       49.0       63.0/ f           59.3                    64.5
URBAN                            -       ~~~~~~~~97T. t-E T-6.9                    77.8
t.                                 .          ..        z.0s.f           37.5                    44.3
ACCESS TO ECRETA DISPOSAL
CZ 07 POPLATION)
TOTAL                                        7 40        ..                ..                    56.6
URNs                              .,       loe.o        2.0J                                     69.8
RUAL                               .        34.0         .- .                                    29.8
POPULATION PER PHMISCAI         10030.0     5930.0     3690.0            3536.0                  1"76.0
OrP.     NURSING PERSON.                     730.0   . 90.0        n     L20.7                   101.2
POr. m  aosPmTAL M
TOTAL                           410.0      610.0      66.0              643.3                   477.0
URsAr                           23.0t     310.0      330.0/h           565.0                   67.5
RURAL                          1o0S.Z:    1270.0      1230.0           2462.0                  1921.6
ADISSIOS PER HOSPITAL               ..        24.1       Z5.Ob            Z6.4                    27.Z
AVERACE SIZE OF IMNJSEIWD
onL.                               ..        M.1ix      5.51.
URBAN                             .,         S.17t      5.5/'
RURAL                                        S. 5.171    5.                 ...
AVERAGE NO. OF FERSONS/IW
TTAl                                         3.21t      3.l..
URBAN                             ..         2.7r       2..
RURAL                             ..         3.0        3.
ACCESS TD ELECI. CX OF WELLIGS)
TAL                               ..        t4.0l      316.21            46.2
URBAN                             .. ..               6682               7.6
RURAL                             ..                    6.0J             16.1



- 39 -
TABLE 34                                       Tag  2  f 6
TCSISIA                - SOCAL INDICATORS DATA  E
TUSLS                               RE mUE CGROPS (EIGUD AVERGS) a
OST REW1T ESTWIAE) lb
i,r9b    RECENT           IDDLE INCOIE          HIDn Ito
V          197    ES       1S    B. AFRICA a MD EAST   LAT. afICA &  utsB
ADJUSTED ESROLLEST RTIOS
PR.MAR:   MOTSL                   66.0      101.0       103.0              89.6                   to0.a
MLE                    86.0       121.0      113.0              106.1                   106.3
FEMALE                 43.0       80.0        U.0                72.1                   103.6
SECO4OAr: TOTAL                   12.0       23.0        27.0              41.7                    40.0
MALE                   19x0       33.0        34.0              52.8                    38.6
FEMLE                   5.0        D.O        20.0              31.2                    41.2
VOCATXOla. CI OF SECONDARY)        23.5        11.1        27.3              10.3                    34.0
PUPIL-TEACHEK RATO
PRIMARY                           61.0       47.0        39.0              31.9                    30.7
SECONDAR                          16.0       28.0        20.0              23.3                    16.7
ADULT LrERACY  RE (Z)              15.5        24.0/1      42.0              43.3                    79.5
amo
PASSEXCEt CBS/MIOUSASD MOP         10.S        13.0        18.31             18.0                    45.6
RADIO RECEIVERSlTHOoSAD POP        40.3        75.7       157.C             138.1                   228.2
TV REECVERSXTIAOUSABD POP           0.1        14.0        47.1              45.6                   108.3
SEUSPAPER C-DAM. GENERAL
IsrERESr) CIRCULATIOS
PEt THoUSAND PoPULATIOa           18.6        15.9        43.6              31.0                    64.1
WIND    ANNUM. ATTENDANCE/CArlT     1.6          ..         1.51d             1.7                     2.9
OTAL LAOR FORCE (TUOUS)           *138.0     1215.0      1693.0                _
FEMALE (PERCET)                   6.0         7.7        8.4               10.7                    24.8
ACRICULTUIJE (PERCEST)            56.0       50.0        35.0              42.5                    31.3
10U0TW  (PERCENT)                18.0        21.0        32.0              27.8                    Z3.9
PARTICIPAnTI RATE (PEACENZ)
TOTAL                            27.0        23.7        25.9              25.6                    31.3
MALE                             50.2        44.2        46.9              45.4                    49.8
FEMLLE                            3.3         3.6         4.4               5.6                    14.8
ECOOMIC DEPENUENCY RATIO            1.8         2.1         1.7               1.8                     1.4
inacUi nhnIShRIIaiu
PERCENT OF RIVATE INCME
RECEIVED BT
BIGUlESr S OF iDUBSEOLDS           ..          ..        17.0/1
LOUESr 2r   OF rMSWLDS             .6 O.
LOWES  4GM OF aOUSEHOLllS                                IKE 1.7              ..
CSTIAMA    ABSOLUTE POVERTY INC0l-
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URA8N                                                   Z ..   2040/d     276.1                   289.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        97-07            177.1                   184.5
ESTLMATZD RELATIVE POVERTY INCOM
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBA                               .           .        193.0/d           400.0                   5195.
RURaL                                           .       193.07r           283 3                   372.1
ESTMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERrt INCOlME LEVEL CZ)
URBAr                              ,,          ,,        20-0/d            22_0
RURAL                              *-           *        15.07d            30.8
rOT AVAILABLE
rOT APPLICABLE
N O T ES
/a  The group aerages for each indicator are poplatiorweighted arithmetic mans. Coverage of eontrie, ang the
Indicators depends on avalLabLiity of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted. -Data for 1960 refer to aty year between 1959 and 1961; -Dats for 1970  betwe   1969 and
1971; and data for -Most Recent Estimate between 1979 and 19B1.
Ic  Due to emigration. population growth rate Ls loser thn  rate of natural increase; /d 1977; Ia 1982; /f Access to
piped water only; hL 1962; lh 1976; /1 1966; IL 1975.
May 1583



AME! I
owtlta Wr SOIAL amzcca9=
Maltas  4 ~h.  the, tat. Ate den. in salm    gaueotly jaftast a  nfPL achesicettae aft eeUeh. is asati alaV I. -An   ski they at ace hetesote.l
ra.piS.   km.  t aw tat at me.salfttW d"Ahitta- as  a-anL. nft bY dtttsa                     teta  to attaat.S te tate  lb. daeo%.utstu,mra
dianeth  af.s ot sagu9ttude  litcase 55.d. .in cheesseta  -toe" SAW. itilei-  Wtest.. eoftdia.
g:ef.ca g..". - (I) the mag edtryBM Of  tlb. ejthit mter ad CZ). mdaul stat SIt. uei5.t higher ca- Lice eta. Lb. eSsay ussa . the
iS -a  -ar   luaans fs- ~usk tare  Ott I*Vflar  ara  idesJ4. title  cc.. ki   Mstc-  af Pidd. test" .  sheaa-.  _ laa . a  tumtacatt
at Ilathe.). 1. ch. ret.iua  tsar d-at sh  eca    -   psaultic  ueigtta  aftbakitt  na   tes aid  tadicata a-t ski  aMy .td ejaitil  aS Lb. Fat"1aa  S.a
awak   to  las at FI. dirtsta  ti, ay   --tim   at entic                  thea tadit-tt  digsad  -  Lb. .emketbUte, .5 dat sAd I aL sutlas. smtac ha et he
esalf   imral-be isla.. L -t tAd    asd   a.aaus'. Th*u  aemtam  'ar olt naSal to ep*tirg  a   sk. .1-r   ua Itt-ar 015 tIe. dam the en-try saa
-fralatia stalol.
San Cthkt.cS  P...                                                                           is!rprs                       L epltla. dtcilad by ula&e at waettase
'.&- Talt .esata a.- caaalttat    Ia& ar.a   talad ataia  tic0.                          -jtIMjfC5s   a assetA Actet at ehierate  IgallI.
li las nti  dat.                                                                     Petaulet   -e  *On..- Ye-, - tepalalia  dt.tdd by anr  f at satitog
AUV W Xa im  d9ata4.                                                                    5n4ca`Ltta`st AMunttal ted - cata7 L. aaria. w~ ~aftrual r-kFalttta  (ate.
.p"d-, -W  '" k.0- sagdald   If  WI-; tIma -c,                         snal  dad   y  n.r.sctnaf.   tkmk                       d
-7    W   ercat   -a  W-te. -V ran-rc  Cslat0 salt...                       calal  5           -ptaf   LIaits.. a-ata .lAIAs-.ta  s- Cal adf
tic, tlt,0 as inkjac                                                                       by at tau.t me  hyktia. qas-btat.o- stantta  pe-ta           tty easIAd2a
rar  an atC lataed   ta  hptea., an.  t51t55 hetalt  asl
M!M innrte 50C           `i.-daal asnsac  tmaeae   at -nttat                                 astrt neat..,       ~ at  na &It eaetafd by a ahiutacas (hVa bya asset-
l.str  aay tte;aslltatt. arleatt. aesurt a- asd ot             hydr -,  ss           -.tl-.it   -n.  H.idi.. al.) Stat dIet se-Palmt~ astCadataa  aft
asd Saetha-at ekar -tl  t. ht.  at mat ceatnala  Per sPanta                                ar.sd  a ttoitd sda.m At adlaa  l-atet-lt     rat adattstsc  sasa.
tic,. tilt, ad tIco data.                                                                    b asIan kept    -,-e   Nalfte pntatpattaua-L h.apilttt   act nA1a
iepsas  tit .w ra. kestlate Aas citak 'ad eserety 5555,5.
iMPLCin  -e WITALS. mtari C9                                                                 iSettettas kapitate  a  tast        at,1 clef tana
?Ta1  Pet,  ltieIiam                Vt) - U .1 laZy 1; s1no. ito0. as mas1                ataali  jrlhetat           - finkL sb-r                 C.adtats   ta     dittermie
fnta  peaatn  ~tit 5tn) - SatLa.tats-tttp~at.
Cra.  npa-tatla  prajactiu   -   heat a. tan                                    -Itt al  ..  A hearda a  tadge  at  at aa anh  takft"Ad hi
as -  as ehet a.Letts  af   -tatLtttc   a                       t  uiettaett.la   e a.
rca.  3p.jitt  winner  feq Vdrtottep ra.e  eap- at tkaSn.i ratasaapra.    at   sa   ftrrla.a
Cflta iae    i-.  .t.a   Isala Ilan egnelay ".tahtt.tg a: ira                          datlgs   rpctaeky.   -It tl.mu ask."  maenta   tataa
nine-~ th  saln  Seq tittt tt.n.t.. hem  shea= tIeLa                                   n.s      trn._
eal.ie  dVFke ti tuiLttkty  -aetiM  -  lace  t.. Aad  a.t fatty                      Akeen1 tEl-WIte Tst Ln"rE" if  -elIrta  - neat. ta.,a  resa  -
VI-"a-k     g- patiae.Cta   mats  ti thia ntakgd -  as thee a..-                       (E-1tta1 die!Liarhaatttt  Wa 111titan  ta Ad a.-pARAN,l
etAcaa=     . ..atsy AVI fnrtktty --cS. fe. anont..&  Psaet.                           ItccI  shs   dsa  ednurkga t-a-eatty.
-V W-Z     hi a"e-Lta    papiata  Itet  In -   at
alas.VF`   intnet a. .inI ta the. leatt rat, ca ae thefte                          XStai-n%,
.... 1tas. neat- sel    It.Tt       -t tt -.L,  Th.y l,terfAtlty rant                pjec.d tiettseat tetia
tint.. atlb  pnaaataa  L. the pea last aft the ia    eCdicta.. at                        psat  hat -dm ft t      ig eerne  battle It  rtars f.atdaa; tar
eat                                                                                                                                 C-tP-.e"kstnI  esa     hesa    ctar  tc  spst      el        lc  h   t  tatt ik - an.V
taatuea 6l0. liP0, ad   aIN As.-                                                   aerLe.  aaLTy ft it 1a 0?paata.  itaals   an 
ftastasta. e Ftt _str  tnica   - O.ttdsa tC~i.t   ari --     ttua. aae (S.-latdecis,  furikattispea.alhaanllde
stae Pa.t. trc  mal Iseneec) .  toa  .u%)  rntre7a  atka.                                 ntiaasy.Ml anucrar  ue.d.:.   7u ,.0   ahn  itec.
rurlaa. tactlae  seC  r)                      . aa      n-    ra  ruts. .1 ara       ae  ittra   rat  (necOl     Itrt  Sa.lt. (al.t  re   S   ne   at
Pitt peettla  iii. til-,  a - Ls data.                                                iamw--1
he-deittal    -llI, aft.-It   -VAw    L aIUD.una.era-     as .plt                      hasUrls  me  Iheadaeini).   lcpaftsntraa   ft
list.                                                                                    tt-aac  rurtnr  a. -atrl.a   i  er  n   smatla  i  n
fiettt Flmla-elft.  .a  t                        Aamft - at  us a ac"terat                 ic  a  hi ft-ia; dots furrao   er  I   sh  tial    m    n
ft Uttecoatdes  alas aeptc  ai a-eat tall  ala-Sr.,                                      caari.  ahetle  tlkeoIaa.
aries-                                                                                 TV macet's (P.r tl-aasi neultail   TV if  teae  ter lcdcac .t
salT? lat.-ae  ncari                  tf  a-at- rae-irm. a  --rln                          m-.aalste e P."      acau  P",..e.Ic; atu        atanuT Vt satsars
us   a  rid-sarc.te  !S-*nena ai cr  tshsere  drcs  I.      .caetln  ndI'eaeda  ectritc.i  Vt male a    I.-rcil
_1urce  .su  .a  a_  arfti.                                                       a.-s.ra....(..      ear.taa,a  aruaiue -  Sim se  ncc
ant a- t?eirl.s                                                             . straIts taut .ari. e-s.t lacpsu  aa-ase  ,driict - a psftird
tan!eaaeau  Utu  ceflta    statseuttaaf   dtah  (P.I I  neaao  tnfi  alas a matP.-.LNItF
iaid a le- Cotua   erha Vuasitc..4can Leety7 sit  ee                                    CaaaFr.  Siu&  t ecur  ear -a"'&sf mm- t         l-wfthe adar f-&t
ru- t Ca.-bli ate12   -Pidd)  TI-adate Pslrtia.. a  -h rnt I.-P.,  VIt mtt.1,.-Wil-Va1    "                                                    L         
-Pad-. ma"ctest1 a e. rsft.ra  rrtreelatto; tl-1-. li-s, ad. litI.   ia.170"L" 
data.                                                                                a.aae l  StinIT1_   .          A_f          -P. .a..9. I  o-E
Fu  ait   art  isoai  tearreo uS raatr.a%te -1Cauneted VVSi  -.; Ft--. -.r P---Mndm .f taroLsilly- 1teta  1ena-  hid atts aa
aa5 nmaI toa citrim-e tau  aPs,.tla.. neattate  int.    arc tor                          Ietneaftult,- yt  ha:- etU=le  lea-elsm       , uct         tc,  atls
da.   aLable1 enianka cautia dVI slac erdrla.IileLasuaai  et all-7 is r  w t                                                Wtlot -"ts.sne   -tamila arc [sat
eaeci  ueaeai Ia .mak.(A   inc .apt  tnes    1ud  -osIma   p tad, urids              sich.; lilt, tita4i-   ae
aslctydlAkLe   - amtrLu  laeiutniita by Cs" eo5e. tiyagt,                             tsi       ptetf  it tait cl.,  irce  tic  til aC_         lis  data
.L ad  -          dllilta    --I aaitttac aft it-ti -W 20 sce-t Cur  -Ae                 ?a.ats (erit)  -I.ha  tn  ta olal. , netur   ,naaasi
at        flF1.f    % l.nakt taut; tll.l5  lil  aS list d196t.1 a                                 0 eturc.d   ant aft. ILI   -   %areaad -1tl t'. fta1ut taas  lila.
i. ;alt   a$ atr uaddt Loai - d'gs)       - -    -Fe.k   -ta - AtprcIt                 liltAat li- da-        -      1       U.-               9    -.A
a- a-sal at ta  se day -      at C.a 0.  laud I tethf a, iFAD .                        rarccinchaten Itrel --~ _ c.a,  t. tdtns-rsttoa
attaLrnd  .       t.u   aitraeaardpa   20-Js... atanti ad                                secaucas19  i  nc..t19mae aid feat  na wlata ft alt  Aso tmatt
at aloak   Ln . -       ceeeta   b  mtkd -tau;  b1y-s tAt0 ta th                          anttat-Caaataet. au
.br    itldlni;ll-S   ita   list de.                                               ccaus  auas  sec - . P-ca at -rakst. artie  p1 a              40 p5me  I
"Or rEet   I-cent. cuel Ia -tain  ld- S.   ~- Ntt  ap.a  sad                              theL.  leas  taus   a
PMttS Tilt! CAOvWt
tiae Setta  neta   tea)-a                    eei   ait.  midts aftumlati  aburlec tacana 4t.se  lse  Wit), at-4-1t-    a,adrua
aetryutIe) -  percaeama   t ihear sp-tatet  naaats    aa                              --In.  ne  at lb. caar. thee tate  lu dartad isa  the sra
sati  ace a pa&Lt  t.ateh  as etAs1un licead asuceIetl  inta_                            lant u.ta ftjcuna  tar hahe- ca  us  li ta hiuraara
ienoft the haikUd di ma taut to asd a dteeapertlel pin at
dlopunel -  paTta.t.maa .1 thets rueafta- fei             t.-n.    sc  dtaeiaa
1- 1 lck. th  catLLtata  of 4te,-it. alIt as raten   F_ .au  - attnei  ad itit   ee. 0ttlaaa
esneA     = ac-aI by acesb-ha.utm    lb.  ma .  511                                                         F_rat  d-iat. ASd Pstja-lam   maasa



- 41 -
ANNZEK I
Page 4 of 6
UsrIA - ECO UCc INDICAlTORS
Population: 6.5 milaion (mid-1981)
GOP per Capita; $1,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                          (at 1980 prices)
(million US8                         Actual                                      Projected
Indicator                   at carr nt prices)
19BZ           1977    1978    1?79    1980    1981    1982        1983     1984    1985    1986
RATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestie product 1/           7.905.9           5.3     7.1     7.1     6.0     5.0      1.5        7.3      6.0     5.3     5.6
Agriculture                       1,005.6        -10.2      4.5    -4.8     6.1     6.6   -8.7         11.5      4.0     3.9     3.7
Industry                         2Z485.0           9.8      9.0    11.9     9.9     1.6     0.0         7.5      7.3     7.0     6.7
Servicee                          3,370.7          5.6      7.4     8.7     3.9     8.3     4.9         6.3      6.1     5.9     5.7
Consumption                         6297.6          10.4     5.8     4.6     9.9     7.2     4.7         6.9      7.3     6.2     3.9
Gross investment                   237D.1            6.9    12.9     3.9     5.8    14.5   -3.7         -0.4      1.2     1.0     1.8
Exports of goods and NFS           2903.3            5.5     8.2    23.3    0.7      3.0   -6.5         20.4      7.2    8.3    13.7
Imports of goods sd NFS             3,665.1         16.7      9.6    14.3     7.2    13.0   -3.2         11.8      6.3     5.9     7.4
Gross national product              7,948.2           5.8     7.9     7.5     6.5     5.2     1.6         7.2      5.9     5.6     5.3
Cross national savings              1,650.6         -7.2    14.8    21.8   -7.2    -1.1   -10.8           8.2      0.5     3.1    11.5
PRICES
CDP deflator                                         76.0    80.1    88.3  100.0   110.9  124.9
Exchange rate                                        2.33    2.40    2.46    2.47    2.03    1.69
Share of GDP at uarket prices (Z)                             Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)                                       (at constant prices)
1971      1976      1981      1982      1986      1991            1971-76    1976-81    1981-86    1986-91
Gross dometic product 1/  100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0    100.0              8.8         6.0        5.3        4.9
Agriculture             18.8      18.1       13.6      12.7      12.5      11.7             8.2        0.4         2.7        3.5
Industry                Z0.6      Z5.9      32.1      31.4       30.9      32.2            10.2        7.8         5.7        5.8
Services                47.7      42.9      41.3      42.6       43.6      43.9             8.3        7.2         5.8        5.1
Consumption                 82.0      77.5      76.8       79.7      81.5      78.4             9.6         7.5        5.6        3.8
Gross investment            20.0      30.4      32.2       30.0      25.9      25.5             14.1        8.6        0.6        4.2
Exports of goods and UPS    23.8      29.1      42.1       36.7      41.4      41.3             5.6         7.9        8.2        6.3
imports of goods and NFS    25.3      37.1      51.1      46.4       48.9      45.1            13.1        12.1        5.6        4.0
Gross national product      99.6      9B.7      100.9     100.5      99.6      99.2             8.5         6.5        5.4        4.9
Net factor income           -0.4      -1.3       0.9       0.5       -0.4      -0.8             -          -           -          -
Gross national savings      17.6      21.1      24.1       20.9      18.0      20.8             2.9         3.4        2.9        8.8
As 2 of GDP
(at current prices)
1971    _ 1976 _ 1981         1982
PUBLIC FWNAICE
Current revenue                                            21.4      24.2      30.0      32.6
Current expenditure                                        18.9      18.5      22.4      24.9
Surplus (*) or deficit                                      2.5       5.7       7.5       7.6
Capital expenditure                                         6.9      11.4       9.2       9.8
Foreign financing                                           3.2       1.7       1.4       1.9
1971-76        1976-81        1981-86        1986-91
OlHER INDICATORS
CNP growth rate (2)                                        8.4            6.5            5.0            4.9
GNP per capita grovth rate tS)                             5.4            3.1            2.7            2.3
IcO?                                                      2.7             5.4            6.0            5.4
Marginal savings rate                                     24.0           26.0           12.2            24.4
Import elasticity                                          1.51           2.02           1.06           0.82
/1 CDP at market prices and components at factor cost.
EMENA CP 11-C
KHy 1983



-42 -                                                     NEXI
Page S ot e
TOUISA - gErBl TRUE
Population: 6.5 milion (mid-1951)
GNP per Capita: $1.420 (1981)
ADIRIM& GcrOWt SctS
Sount                                           (at 1980 Prce.)
(amllion us$                           Actual                                frolecL e
IndLcator               at current prLces)
1982             1977   IS78   1979   1980   1981   1982    1Yd3   19db    19oW    1Y98
msETUL TRADE
Nercbhadiso exports           1,989.2              9.7    9.b   20.7    0.3    3.3   .4.e    28.U    7.1    8.8  l.u
Crude oil                     Mb6.8              2.    L2.8   1Z.4    0.2   -8.8  -22.4    37.u   -.8    1.8   -U.L
Other primry                   97.3             4.9  -15.7   25.l  -11.9   -0.e  -17.9          8.2     .3    #.A    8.z
lanufacturma                1025.1               6.8   10.4   33.3    3.6   20.3   15.2    19.3   14.1   13.2   2b.J y/
lNrcbmodise import.           3,2b3.9             14.1   10.7   15.7    7.7    9.5   -5.5    12.3    o.L    5.e    7.7
Food                          367.4             9s.     7.7   39.o   -b.8   14.3   -5.0         4.7    2.7      .3    3.0
Petrolem                      383.1             13.8   15.1    9.7   13.5    4.9  -34.7    8b.2   11.3    8.2  21. 21
VAcbineiy and aquip.t         648.5              5.5   IS4   -2.b   -4.4    4.1   -2.4    -3.e   -4.7    U.U    u.0
Others                       1.666.9            2l.b    e.5   24.9   15.3    u.0    5.b         8.Z    7.8    7.0    s.0
Price Index
yP3r,E5
bport price index                               54.8   58.7   75.5  IU.0  117.4   U2.9   IZ2.7  131.9  141.9   bL.w
lmport price index                              72.b   76.b   85.3  1w.u  114.x   Ul.2   131.8  143.3  135.3  17.4
Term  of trade index                            75.5   70.b   58.5  100.0  102.8   Wl.4    9J.1   9Z.U     L.3   9u.7
Compositieo of Nercandzae Trade CZ)                    Average Anual Iocreaae uJ3
(at current prices)                               (-coeotac prces)
1971   197b   1981   198Z   198    191              1971-7I    97  a1  1981-38   Y190-91
Exports                      100.0   10U.0   o0.o  IU.U  100.0  luu.0                 4.1        8.8      1e.z        i.7
Crude oil                 24.5   40.9   51.5   43.b   34.1   28.7                 4.b        5.8        1.2      -0.1
Otber priuary              19.2   13.      5.0    4.9    4.4    4.3              -5.4       -1.9       12.7       i.1
muwfacturec               56.3   45.7   43.5   51.5   81.5   b7.0                 6.4       14.1       17.8       8.1
Import                       100.0   I.o  .0 100.0          1u0.o  10u.0             1J.1       11.5       5.>        3.9
Food                      21.2   12.3   11.2   11.3   10.1    8.3                 0.b       11.9        2.8      -5.3
petroleum                  3.9   11.1   19.    11.7   zz.7   30.8                29.2       10.9        9.7       8.8
mahbinery and Equipment    30.1   31.9   25.2   25.9   17.4   12.8                13.5       8.7       -1.2      -1I0
others                    44.8   X4.7   44.6   51.1   49.8   50.3                 .8       13.5        7.b       4.8
Share of Trad vith          Share of Trade mthb        Sar of Trade With           Sbare of Trade VwCh
endustrial Countries (1)    DdlopOng CLLtriea (2)         1      tare (r )     Centrally Planoed Contries tiA
1970    1975    s9O         1S7t    1973    *s W 1     S70 CZ)7                     197e    973   19oU
DIRECTION OF TRAM
Expot              70e     60.1    85.7         4.9    21.7    25.4       13.9   11.1    4.6            9.4     .1    U.
imports            85.9    79.5    81.8         7.1    10.9      7.7       0.7    6.J    7.5           b.      3.1    3.c
1/ Constant price date at 19W0 prices.
2/ Increane in refining capcity.
DlN  CP AC
Nay 198j



- 43 -
Pegs 6 of 6
B t i Pi      RZt AL CAPITAL AlD DEBT
amI 11   5 at currnt pricas
Population: 6.5 millio  (mid-1981)
GlP per Capita; $1,420 (19813
Actual 1/                                          Projeeted
1971     1976      1979      1980     1931      1932          1963      1914    1986       1991
BaLANC OP PAYNTS
net sport. of good. & service.              -57.4   -417.0   -356.0   -47Z.6   -614.6  -718.4            -787.9   -938.9 -1,02B.5  -1,350.0
Export. of goods  * serviea               469.4  1,479.5  3,t37.5  3,912.3  3,948.4  3,333.9          3,801.3  4.352.6  6,023.9  11,107.4
Imports of goode A services               526.8  1.,96.5  3.493.5  4.384.9  4,633.0  4,057.3          4,589.7  5.291.5  7.052.4  12,242.4
Net transfers 2/                             5Z.0     52.7      61.0    100.0      38.5    25.4            32.4      32.4    Z4.3       24.0
Current account balance                      -5.4   -364.3   -295.0   -372.6   -646.1  -693.0            -755.5   -906.5 -1.004.2  -I,111.0
Direct private inveatmnt                     27.6    102.6      50.9    236.0    367.2   33B.6            300.0    350.0   400.0       500.0
XLT loana (net)                              55.3    167.8    479.3    322.8    232.7   354.4             545.7    669.3   773.4       871.0
Officisl                                   59.2    130.4    190.6    272.7    249.3   351.8             49.6    422.6   465.1        659.6
Private                                    -3.9     37.4    288.7      50.1      32.9      2.6           96.1    246.7   308.3       211.4
Other capital                                13.7     55.2   -111.3    121.3    101.9        -              -         -       -          -
Chag in reserves                            -91.2     38.7   -123.9    -64.9   -105.7        -            -90.2   -112.8  -169.2    - 60.0
Intemational reserves                       114.8    304.5    415.5    455.7    458.2   473.5             568.7    681.5   997.3    2.u6.5
Resarwa am montha of imports                  2.6      2.2       1.6      1.4       1.4      1.4            1.5       1.5     1.7        Z.0
Actual 1/
t971    1976      1979     1980      1981      1982
GROSS DIS3URSEUINTS
Official granta                              35.5    50.2      50.7     41.5      20.3      25.4
Gros disbursements of ML? loan.             105.Z   229.5    628.8    533.9    585.1    699.7
Conceasional                                 61.0   104.0    139.5    216.3    236.3    329.2
Bilateral                                  52.8    95.1    138.7    196.2    230.3    230.0
IDA                                        4.3      8.9       0.2      1.0       1.1      0.5
Ocher multilateral                          3.4     0.0       0.6     19.1       4.9      98.7
Uon-coocesional                              44.2   125.5    489.3    317.6    348.8    370.5
Private                                    28.8    60.1    370.7    188.4    199.8    226.9
Official xport credits                      3.2     9.9      49.5      55.5     47.0      37.4
-RD                                        12.2    25.3      55.4     51.1      69.4      83.4
Other multilateral                           -     30.2      13.7      22.6     32.6      22.8
EUTERL DET
Debt Out-tnding and Disbursed               619.5  1,166.5  2.981.8  3.172.5  3.171.0  3,525.3
Official                                  440.0   971.9  1.823.0  2,017.6  2,133.9  :.485.6
IBRD                                     39.3   127.9    232.0    269.0    319.5    379.8
IDA                                      21.1    64.1      67.3     67.9      67.5      67.4
Other                                   379.6   779.9  1.523.7  1.680.7  1.744.9  Z.033.4
Private                                   179.5   194.6  1.158.8  1,154.9  1,037.1  1.039.7
Undisbursed dabt                            352.5  1,110.3   1.738.2  1.803.5  1.673.5  1,698.0
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                  69.8    98.6    311.8    426.6    506.8    553.4
interest                                   19.9    36.9    162.2    215.5    204.4    208.0
Payments as S aports                         14.9     6.7       9.9      10.9     12.8      16.6
Paymants aa 2 COP                            4.1       2.2      4.3      4.9       6.1       7.0
Average interest rate of new Lov n  (2)       4.9     5.4       7.1      6.9       8.3       6.8
Official                                   4.6      4.3       5.6      5.9       6.9       -
Private                                     6.1     7.9       9.8      10.5     12.7       -
Average maturity of nem Loina (year)         23.3    16.6      15.8      17.2     15.4      16.9
Official                                   26.2    20.4      19.4      19.4     18.2       -
Private                                    13.8     8.6       9.2      9.2       5.8       -
An   of Debt Outstanding
at End of Moat Recent
Year (1981)
DEST STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (2S
Amortization due within 5 years                                   37.7
Amortization due vithin 10 years                                  65.6
interest structure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within firat year                                    4.3
1/ Preliminary estimate, for 1982.
2/ Including grants.
EME  CP 2C
May 1983



-    -4
ANNEX IL
Page 1 oe 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPGtRATONS IN tUNISIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOAXS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1983) *l
Us$ Million
Loan or                                                                                                 Amount (less
Credit                                                                                                  Cancellation)
Ntuber      Year             Borrower                      Purpose                             Bank       IDA d/  Undisbursed
Thirty-two Loans and Credita Fully Disbursed                                                  277.85      69.96
1068        1974      Republic of Tunisia            Irrigation Rehabilitation                 12.20                   0.94
1155        1975      Republic of Tuniia             Third Education                            8.60                   3.62
1188        1975      Republic of Tuniaia            Second Highways                           28.00                  12.55
1340        1976      Banque Nationale de Tunisia  Second Agricultural Credit                  12.00                   0.40
1431        1977      Republic of Tuniaia            Irrigation Development                    42.00                  1O.69
1445        1977      SONEDE                         Fourth Water Supply                       21.00                   4.00
1504        1977      BDET                           Development Finance Company               30.00                   2.65
1505        1977      Republic of Tunisia            Small-Scale Industry Development           5.00                   1.41
1601        1978      Republic of Tunisia            Rural Road. (Third Highways)              32.00                  21.41
1675         1979     Republic of Tunisia            Second Urban Sewerage                     26.50                 l1.39
1702        1979      SONEDE                         Fifth Water Supply                        25.00                   2.59
1705         1979     Republic of Tunisia            Second Urban Development                  19.00                  15.20
1746         1979     Republic of Tunisia            Second Fisheries                          28.50                  22.8b
1796         1980     Republic of Tunisia            Southern Irrigation                       25.UU                  22.5b
1797        1980      Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                                  42.50                  14.49
1841        1980      Republic of Tuniaia            Fourth Highways                           3b.50                  32.41
1864        1980      Societe Tunisienne de
1'Electricitd et du Gax        Second Natural Gas Pipeline               37.00                 23.51
1885        1980      Banque Nationale de Tuniaie  Third Agricultural Credit                   30.00                  25.28
1961        1981      Republic of Tunisia            Fourth Education                          Z6.00                  25.73
1969        1981      Republic of Tunisia            Small-Scale Industry Development          30.00                  29.92
1997        1981      Republic of Tunisia            Northwest Rural Development               24.00                  21.4b
2003        1981      Societe Tunisienne de
1'Electricitd et du Gaz       Third Power                               41.50                  40.33
2005         1981     Republic of Tunisia            HeaLth and Population                     12.50                  12.45
2012        1981      Republic of Tunisia            Textile Rehabilitation                    l.6bO                  12.43
2052         1981     Republic of Tunisia            Grain Distribution and Storage            42.00                  41.7b
2108        1982      Republic of Tunisia            Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)               35.50                  35.50
2113        1982      BDET                           Electrical and Mechanical Industries   30.50                     30.50
2134         1982     SONEDE                         Sixth Wacer Supply                        30.50                  24.96
2157        1982      Republic of Tunisia            Irrigation Development                    22.00                  21.67
2197         1982     Republic of Tunisia            Technical Assistance                       4.50                   4.50
2223 b/     1983      Republic of Tunisia            Urban Development III                     25.00                  25.00
2230 bl      1983     Republic of Tunisia            Education V                               27.00                  27.00
2234 c/     1983      RepubLic of Tunisia            Central Tunisia Irrigation                16.50                  16.50
TOTAL                                                                 ,l124.75     69.96      bO4.31
Of which has been repaid                                                124.02       7.41
Total now outstanding                                                  1000.73     62.55
Amount Sold                           14.33
of which has been repaid             14.23                               0.10
Total now held by Bank and IDA d/                                      1000.83     62.55
Total Undisbursed                                                       604.31                bO4.31
a/  Does not include the Third Urban Sewerage Project, Loan 2255-TUN of $34 million, the Sfax Flood Protection Project. Loan
2289-TUN of $25 million and the SOFONECA Foundry Modernization and Rehabilitation Project. Loan 2301-TUN of $Lb1.
million, all signed on June 16, 1983, and not yet effective.
b/  Signed on January 11, 1983; not yet effective.
c/  Signed on February 28, 1983; not yet effective
d/  Prior to exchange rate adjustment



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of Mareb 31, 1983)
Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligator                     Type of Business      La-=  Equity   Total
1962     NPK Engrais                  Fertilizers             2.0    1.5      3.5
1966     Socidte Nat. dIluvest.       Dev. Finance Co.               0.6      0.6
(now BDET)
1969     COFIT (Tourism)              Dev. Finance Co.        8.0    2.2     10.2
1970     Socidte Nat. d'Invest.       Dev. Finance Co.               0.6      0.6
(now BDET)
1973     Socidtd Touristique          Tourism                 1.6    0.3      1.9
et Hoteligre RYK S5
1975     Societe d'Etudes et          Tourism                2.5    0.6       3.1
de Diveloppesent de
Sousse-Nord
1974     Industries Chimiques         Chemicals                      0.6      0.b
du Fluor
1978     BDET                         Dev. Finance Co.               1.2      1.2
Total Gross Comaitments                            14.1    7.6      21.7
Less Cancellations,                                10.0    1.8      11.8
Terminations, Repayments,
and Sales
Total Commitments now                               4.1    5.8       9.9
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                   0.0    0.0       0.0



- 46 -               ANNEX II
page 3 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1|
Ln. 1068: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Irrigation rehabilitation works in the Medjerda area are complete.
However, farmers are not fully using the available water resources due to
limited distribution hours, and unwillingness of farmers to irrigate at
night. In the Nebhana area, rehabilitation investments have been
satisfactorily completed. Credit demand for basins and storage
facilities was less than originally expected, and a grading and packing
station was not built because of lack of capacity on the part of the
cooperative which was to construct and manage it. Production of
off-season vegetables under greenhouses is encouraging. The undisbursed
balance of $560,611.61 was cancelled on June 30, 1983.
La. 1155; Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983.
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education policy and priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently
amended to reduce the number of manual work training (ITM) centers to be
equipped under the project, expand the teachers' training component for
ITH, and increase technical assistance. As a result, the Bank loan was
reduced by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, covering the full foreign
exchange cost of the amended project. Disbursements are in progress for
commitments made prior to the Closing Date. An undisbursed balance is
expected to be cancelled.
Lu. 1188; Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date;
September 30, 1983.
Civil works on the Tunis-Bizerte highway and on the Haimamet-Korba
road in Nabeul have been completed. The remaining construction works on of -;
roads are well-advanced. The Sfax by-pass under Lot 8 on which there is a
difficult problem of expropriation will not be undertaken as part of the
project.  All studies under the project have been completed and their resul s
are being implemented.  A loan balance, due to appreciation of the dollar
since loan approval, may be cancelled.
1/      These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 47 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Ln. 1340:      Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date; December 31, 1982.
S- bloans to commercial farmers, agro-industrial investors and small
and medium farmers were fully used. Project implementation for the
establishment of date palm plantations has improved and is now progressing
satisfactorily. However, due to start-up delays, works will not be
completed before Spring 1984. Some investments vill have to be financed
under the Third Credit Project (1885-TUN). An undisbursed balance of
$98,640.42 was cancelled on June 30, 1983.
Ln. 1431;      Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness; July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is smoothly
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is completed and in operation. The first
filling-up of the reservoir has progressed well. The power plant is
expected to be in operation shortly. After some initial delays,
construction of the Nedjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal is proceeding
more rapidly and completion by the end of 1983 seems possible. The
reinforcement in the water supply of the SONEDE grid during the peak
consumption period (June/July) would be possible now that works on the 1,400
ha Testour perimeter are ready, and irrigation is scheduled to start during
the current cropping season. Works on the Medjez el Bab perimeter of 3,800
ha are now progressing satisfactorily, and are expected to be completed by
the end of 1983. Contracts for works for the Safeguard of Citrus
Plantations subproject in the Cap Bon area have all been awarded; the
anticipated completion date is end-1983. This subproject is experiencing
important cost overruns, and discussions are underway with the Government to
resolve this problem.
Ln. 1445:      Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
Most of the project facilities are now completed and in operation.
Disbursements including release of retention monies to contractors will be
completed in early 1984.



- 48 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of a Seventh Loan to
Bangue de Developpement Econoamiue de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $3u.u million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness;  October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
Both loans are fully committed. Under the project, BDET is giving
priority in its financing to projects which are located in the less
developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high
labor intensity or export-orientation. Under the Small Scale Industries
(SSI) pilot project, the comuercial banks' initial reluctance to utilize
Bank funds for SSI financing has subsided. Considerable progress has been
made by the Tunisian authorities toward setting up a comprehensive program
delivered by Tunisian and foreign technical assistance experts, specifically
catering to the needs of SSI. A new project approved by the Bank in May
1981 supports this program (see below Ln. 1969).
Ln. 1601:      Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30,L 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the eleven provinces. The
complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
progressing satisfactorily, with the exception of the use of credit for
agro-industries which has generated little interest.
Ln. 1675;       Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness; August 31, 1979;
Closing-Date: December 31, 1984.
Works under construction are progressing satisfactorily, although
three stormwater collectors need to be retendered as bids were considerably
higher than anticipated and additional local funds had to be allocated.
Thirty-one contracts have been awarded for a total dollar equivalent of
$50.2 million. Bank's commitments amount to $20.8 million. Tenders for
civil works of the Choutrana Treatment Plaut are being evaluated. This
component would be about one and one-half years behind schedule.
Ln. 1702:      Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan ol May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness; October 19, 979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The execution of the project is progressing well and should be
completed by mid-1983. Most of the project facilities are already in
operation.



- 49-                           ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Lu. 1705;       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness; December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Responsibility for project implementation was transferred from the
Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Housing following the creation of
the latter in 1981. About 60Z of the civil works are now completed. They
are advancing well in Sfax but less satifactorily in Tunis due to managerial
problems and budgetary constraints. Difficulties related to site
acquisition cost overruns are being resolved. Responsibility for the
implementation of the solid waste component was transferred recently from
the District of Tunis to the Hatior,al Sewerage Authority (ONAS). The
technical assistance and studies are advancing well. A two-year extension
of the Closing Date is envisaged to allow the time for settlement of
management and budgetary issues, and full implementation of the Tunis
component.
Lu. 1746:      Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date;
June 30, 1985.
Port infrastructure construction is well underway at all sites and
general progress is satisfactory. Procurement of boat hulls is underway
although more than two years behind schedule mainly due to management
problems. Contracts for the purchase of boat engines have been signed and
cold storage and ice making plants for existing ports have been procured.
Civil works superstructure at three new ports is underway.
Ln. 1796:      Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness;z September 30, 1980;
Closing Date; June 30, 1986.
After a slow start in 1980, the project has gradually developed
momentum and is now progressing satisfactorily. However, delays already
experienced will set back the completion date of civil works from 1983 to
1985. Work is underway on 13 of the 16 project Arimeters. The other three
are expected to start in 1983. The agricultural impact of rehabilitation is
already noticeable.
La. 1797:      Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness; June 25, 1980; Closing Date; June 30,
1985.
Civil works at la Goulette are progressing satisfactorily. About
two-thirds of the cellular caissons for the quay have been precast and
positioning is underway. Passenger terminal construction is behind
schedule, but the project's completion date of June 30, 1984 is unaltered.
A request to finance rehabilitation of the port access road from the loan
was received by the Bank and is currently being reviewed. Civil works at



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Sfax are near completion, with some dredging left in the RoRo berth area,
and further works to be done to modernize the salt export berth and to build
the new access road. Execution of the contract for construction of
buildings and utilities incurred some delays. Full completion of the
contract is due by September 1983. Supervision is satisfactory in both
ports. Implementation of training programs for port personnel has started,
technical assistance being provided by UNCTAD. Execution of the study on
workshops reorganization and maintenance procedures started in January 1983.
Ln. 1841:      Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness; November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
The rehabilitation program is progressing well. The 1982 action
plan for maintenance is being implemented, and tenders are being analysed
for civil works for the 1983 program. Road maintenance equipment has been
delivered.
Ln. 1864:      Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: December 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
The original project scope was modified because of uncertainties
related to the purcha-e of gas from Algeria; the project has been redesigned
to utilize royalty gas from the Algeria/Italy intercontinental pipeline as a
substitute for premiui. liquid fuel products. The pipeline distribution
system to be constructed under the project is expecred to be completed by
mid-1983. The conversion to gas program of the consumers is progressing,
albeit with some delays. Agreement between Algeria and Italy on the gas
price was reached in early 1983 and gas supplies are expected to start in
the second half of 1983.
L.. 1885:      Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is financing part of the agricultural three-year
lending program of BNT (Banque Nationale de sunisie) for medium and
loug-term credit to small and medium farmers, production and service
cooperatives, commercial farmers and agro-industries. Disbursements have
started for production cooperatives, commercial farmers and agro-
industries. However, because Government funds have also been available for
similar purposes to farmers under other programs whLch, unlike the
Bank-financed program, offer subsidies, disbursements are belov the expected
level. Also. little progress has been achieved in resolving priority credit
problems.



- 51 -                         ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Ln. 1961;      Fourth Education Project; US$26 million loan of Nay 18. 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is devoted to skilled
worker and apprentice training, is proceeding satisfactorily. The staff
recruitment and training plan progressed slowly but improvement is underway
in connection with the reorganization of the project's executing agency.
Construction lags behind appraisal estimates with delays varying from six
(Phase II) to nine months (Phase III). However, these delays are being
reduced as the equipment contracts have been awarded for Phase I and tenders
for Phase II are scheduled for August 1983.
LB. 1969:      Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness; July 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small-scale industries through financial and technical
assistance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of
Tunisia and made available to small entrepreneurs through participating
banks. The remainder of the loan ($0.65 million) would strengthen the
appraisal and SSI technical assistance capacity of the Investment Promotion
Agency responsible for screening eligible subprojects. $1.6 million has
been committed to date.
LT. 1997;      Northwest Rural DeveloE!mnt Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness; Narch 23. 1982; Closing
Date; September 30, 1987.
The project is designed to help finance a five-year time slice of
the Government's 15 year development program for the Northwest Region
through the establishment of institutions which could implement the program,
and the development of extension, research, credit, and livestock services.
The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil conservation and
forestry activities, together with productive infrastructure works. Project
implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Lu. 2003;      Third Power Project; US$41.5 million loan of July 15, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: April 21, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrification,
and in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting to the
national network about 35,000 new customers living in about 650 villages
situated in 15 Governorates, and improving the supply of electricity in
about 60 towns. Project implementation is progressing very well. However
disbursements are behind appraisal estimates due to a revision in the
procurement procedures which were not in compliance with Bank guidelines.



- 52-                          ANNBE  II
Page 9 of 12
Lu. 2005:      Health and Population Project; US$12.5 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness; March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective health, family planniag and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's managemenat capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and health education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train health personnel. All project
activities are well coordinated and project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily and according to schedule.
Lu. 2012:      Textile Rehabilitation Project; US$18.6 million loan of
October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness; May 7, 1982; Closing
Date; December 31, 1984.
Equipment procured under bilateral financing as well as major
productive machines financed under the Bank loan have recently been
commissioned and are running on three shifts . Technical assistance to the
SOGITEX group is progressing satisfactorily. Financial performance of the
primary beneficiary of the Bank loan (SITEX) continues to be satisfactory.
Ln. 2052:      Grain Distribution and Storage Project; US$42.0 million loan
of October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness; April 2, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31. 1986.
The project is designed to strengthen grain storage capacity;
reduce congestion, handling costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the
main Tunisian seaports, and the cost of transport and handling of grain;
strengthen the technicai capacity and financial anagement of the Office of
Cereals (OC); and lay the groundwork for further modernization of the system
of collection, storage and transport of domestic grain. The invitation to
bid for construction of silos has been delayed about a year and a half and
has not yet been issued as a result of OC's difficulties in recruiting
consulting engineers. Ihis recruitment is now well underway. Procurement
by SNCFT of rail hopper cars and materials for construction of silo railway
sidings is underway. Consultants for technical assistance in management and
finance have been recruited by OC.
Lu. 2108:      Fifth Highway Project; USg 35.5 million loan of May 14,
1982; Date of Effectiveness; April 21, 1983; Closing Date;
December 31, 1987.
The project will help the Government continue its efforts to
provide farmers with improved roads, support services, and farm credit.
Some 1,200 kilometers on about 100 road sections throughout the country will
be improved, 55 extennion centers will be constructed and equipped, and



- 53-                          ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
credit will be provided. Consultant services to assist the Highway
Department and the Ministry of Agriculture will also be provided. The
Project Coordinating Committee has been establisbed.
La. 2113;      Electrical and Hechanical Industrie_s Project; US$ 30.5
million loan of May 14, 1982; Date of Effectiveness;
')ecember 2, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The Banque de D4veloppement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) provides
a $28 million credit line for supporting priority electrical and mechanical
industries and for general purpose lending to industry in Tunisia. The
remainder of this loan is being used by the Tunisian Government to provide
technical assistance in setting up a Technical Center for Mechanical
Industries, and a National Institute of Standardization and Quality Control
for manufacturing industries, and in conducting a study on effective
protection.
La. 2134:      Sixth Water Supply Project; US$ 30.5 million loan of May 14,
1982; Date of Effectiveness; October 20, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project provides for the expansion and improvement of water
supply systems in about 150 rural centers. It also includes the provision
of credit facilities to help finance individual house connections and the
installation of 80,000 meters for these connections. Seventeen subprojects
that would be implemented in 37 rural centers and financed under the loan
have already been selected by SONEDE and approved by the Bank. Civil works
contracts for a total amount of $4.2 million have been placed for ten of the
subprojects; works on these contracts are underway. Bidding for the
remaining subprojects and equipment is also underway. So far, credit
facilities have been extended to 31,900 customers for a total amount of
*10.5 million.
Lu. 2157;      Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development Project; US$ 22.0
million loan of June 8, 1982; Date of Effectiveness;
February 1, 1983; Closing Date; December 31, 1988.
The project will provide funds for a development project in which
emphasis will be placed on improving irrigation works and marketing
facilities in the regions of Medjerda near Tunis and Nebhana near Sousse.
The implementing agencies, the Medjerda Valley Development Agency (OKVVM)
and the Nebhana Development Agency (OMIVAN), expect to increase the
production of vegetables, fruit, forage, industrial crops, livestock and
milk. The project will also provide farm access roads, fruit and vegetable
processing centers, cold stores and milk collection centers. The project
has just started and the OMIVAN component is progressing well, although
there are some delays in recruiting consultants. The OMJVVM component has
been slow in starting due to Government budget allocation difficulties.



- 54 -                         ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Ln. 2197:      Technical Assistance Project; USt 4.5 million loan of October
29, 1982; Date of Effectivenese: May 5, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project will provide technical assistance to the agriculture,
industry and energy sectors through the provision of experts and training to
ti) increase the number and improve the quality of investment projects; (ii)
strengthen local project preparation capabilities; (iii) provide a sound
empirical base for the formulation of sector-wide policies; and (iv)
reinforce institution-building efforts. In spite of delays in loan
effectiveness, implementation of the project has started with training for
Tunisians in energy conservation and with the signing of the first
consultant contracts for agricultural studies.
Lu. 2223:      Third Urban Development; USS 25.0 million Loan of January
11, 1983; Planned Date of Effectiveness; October 12, 1983;
Closing Date; June 30, 1990.
The project consists of: (i) comprehensive upgrading in four
settlements; (ii) a sites and services/housing credit scheme in three of
these settlements; (iii) a pilot program of upgrading and reconstruction of
the Hafsia neighborhocd in the Medina of Tunis; and (iv) technical
assistance for project implementation, institution building, and
pre-investment studies. Of the five project sites, three are in Greater
Tunis and two are in the Northwest region. The executing agency (ARRU) is
now fully staffed to implement the project and some of the technical
assistance experts in place.
Lo. 2230:      Fifth Education Project; US1   27 million Loan of January 11.
1983; Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 12, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The project will improve the planning and management capacity o0
the Ministry of Agriculture (MDA) and assist the Ministry of Education (MOE)
in expandi-k its primary school teacher training capacity.  It consists of;
equipping and providing technical assistance to the Bureau of Agricultural
Education Studies and Planning under MOA; providing didactic and farming
equipment to six high level technical training institutions, four
agricultural secondary schools, fifteen agricultural training centers; and
providing equipment and technical assistance to the National Agricultural
Instructor Training Center. It will also construct and equip four new
primary school teacher training colleges under the MOE and finance studies
on the country's needs for middle and higher-level technicians in view of
designing appropriate methods and systems for their training. The project
unit is already in place and equipment lists are in the final stage of
preparation for ICB. Civil works for the MOA component are slightly ahead
of schedule while drawings for the MOE as well as the studies components are
slightly behind schedule.



- 55 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Lu. 2234;      Central Tunisia Irrigation Project; US. 16.5 million Loan oi
February 28, 1983; Planned Date of Effectiveness;
September 28, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1990.
Central Tunisia, one of the least developed parts of the country,
receives low and irregular rainfall. The project will focus on better use
of existing resources and will create new public irrigation perimeters only
where resources are under-exploited.  About 1,600 of the project area's
5,900 shallow wells and 37 of the 51 public irrigation perimeters will be
rehabilitated. Steps to initiate project activities are progressing well.
Ln. 2255:      Third Urban Sewerage Project; US$34.0 million Loan of
June 16, 1983; Planned date of Effectiveness: October 17.
1983; Closing Date; December 31, 1989.
This project will help rehabilitate and expand the existing
sewerage and stormwater systems, including the provision of severage
treatment, in 30 urban centers.  Construction is expected to start in
autumn.
Lu. 2289:      Sfax Flood Protection Project US$25.0 million Loan of June 16,
1983; Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 17,1983; Closing
Date; June 30, 1989.
This project will rehabilitate and extend existing water courses,
and provide a belt canal in Sfax and minor flood protection works in
neighboring villages. Some of the most urgent repair works, which have to
be completed before the 1983 rainy season, have already been started. Bid
documents for other works should be ready by the end of 1983.
Lu. 2301:      SOFOMECA Foundry Modernization and Rehabilitation Project;
US$16.8 million Loan of June 16, 1983; Planned Date of
Effectiveness; October 17, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31,1986.
This project will help meet the growing demand for foundry products
a         in Tunsia, and improve the quality and cost competitiveness of castings,
thus creating also a sound basis for exports. It consists of (i)
modernization of SOFONECA's existing iron and steel foundry; (ii)
installation of a new fully-equipped foundry for mechanical castings; and
(iii) construction of a sand treatment plant to supply Tunisian foundries
and other industrial users with high-quality sand. Project implementation
has started with the signing of the first equipment contracts for the
mechanization component. The technical specifications for the new foundry
and sand plant are under preparation.



- 56 -
ANNEX III
TUNISIT
MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of key events
(a) Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:              10 months (February - December 1982)
(b) The agencies which
prepared the project:             Government, CPG, ONM and SDICS
(c) Project first identified
by the Bank;                      February 1982
(d) Date of Bank
appraisal missions:               December 1982 (phosphate and mning
policy) and
February 1983 (potash)
Ce) Negotiations:                     July 8 - 15, 1983
(f) Planned date of
loan effectiveness:               December 1983
Section II: Special Bank :mplementation Actions
None
Section III: Special conditions
1. Special condition of effectiveness
Effectiveness of subsidiary loan agreement between Government and CNG
(para. 55).
2.  Special conditions of disbursement
(a) Bank approval to start detailed feasibility study on potash project
(para. 50);
(b) Assignment by DMG and ONK respectively of coordinator and project
manager for mining policy study (para. 53).
3. Other special conditions
(a) CPG to achieve agreed performance indicators and targets (paras. 47
and 58);
(b) CPG to maintain as from December 31, 1987, a debt/equity ratio of
60;40 and as from December 31, 1986, a current ratio of 1.2; these
replace the debt/equity and current ratio covenants under the previous
Loan Agreement with CPG (para. 48); and
(c) CPG to obtain Bank approval for investments exceeding $2U million in
any one fiscal year during project implementation; this replaces the
investment limitation covenant under the previous Loan Agreement with
CPG (para. 48).



TUNISIA                                                                              .rt                        
GAFSA COMPANY PHOSPHATE MINES,_                                                                                                                                     ,
* Ph=Phole berieficoiaon gp                                                   -                                                                  /
cOVs  plosf v e layers                                               <  b 
Exploited zores.                                                                                  
-- -Foults                                                                                         7iEL         HA
'r s Inclinations                                                                                          LE
. Irniestigation borehoies in the Dtophe senesS5                                                         j      '  ^/           
i- Cross section lines                                                        A -:ir_I '
---Limit of deposits                                .,,                    ;Rfi, 
~~~ ~~Dirt roaus 1f--,- s
-Norro go'uge railwy              V,                                                             _ i          74uoe 
lnternralional bodundries          ;                           ~        |>                                     e*t          - 
GeologiCal cross Secsions ;i                                     ~        |'>  wY\~
Pho ~        - Miocene                         j.  5           r         -1                    -s,'- 
ver        , ~Eocerne(phosphote series)        ,9--^            -                              ,.  
.eCrefocerpus                                                                                _                                        i' --N.* -- ^; E'i->;4 
ss5    Altitudes inrrmeters    ---    
=f 5 *; I ,# t \, s w \ I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> e - - ''~~~~~~~ I " - o's" ~~~~~N
-~~~~~~~~~~ i S _ F %~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                   
2~~~~~~,7                                      rl                                                                             -0oez H>fi1Rdyr  }A'
/ /u   w   .  C b e                                  _\ !g_1                        ;  S           ---_ *-S            \ H      g         I~~~~~~AflAf 
!.-  ,             \                                                            1                                                        -  1. y~~~~~~~~-j  D
!   ,y,;9  ,Fb   .'   .  \t                                                                                                ,;   g       j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A41
-14vLS  >-  60                  \                                                      l                                                   1        l   /~~~~SLIJ
GEOLOGICA    CROSS 5ETIO    A-                                                                                                               ,;--'(
N                                                  S                 t                                                .t iso   e       i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
GEOLOGICAL CROSS SECTION A-B
N                                                                                S_TOCDETtS 
_ tEHAM    MOULARfS ~     ~        REEYE              AIMA  EDSOURT!HZ H  tKECE                                                                            EI
----,>5Xo    51 ,4ir                                                    5C 07  2t9                       4         6      6  aS m
_    m,    E    ,    ,,,,,    ,,l   ,   ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLE



-  v   _            = ~~~~~~~~~~~~Lf I
-  .,,./-   i;-    <. D,VWS
-kf  *--;-           o-e    <       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
>   ' G4RAfr  '.    Ee                    -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNs 
tU Abt  /  St %0 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3rD
:r>W: * *:+X..   -, X    --Moro-l~~~~~~~~~k044IF
~   - =4 ' 5\     jfj                   /            , AEr 
i   1\ \                          _ ~   M' il e     ,   C t ED  ,
I  X  t \N \ v ,A
__,2   =  t  __ _ 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
~~~~ -  3 N,/ 
SE~~~ SN       ||Iono           quo----
0~~~~        i1iD*                      ------ --' 



IBRD I 7363
JULY 11
TUNISIA
MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MINING AND HEAVY INDUSTRIES
TUNISIA
iZiEWT
I                                              A  F R I C
BEJA                  '
-JENDOCUA
'   DDUIEIIJ          .               <~~~~~~~~kWILI
TAMuM,D  25SERINE}   -    ,   -   r   ~         ~SE
U~~~~~~~~~ /                                        t               9IUAEU.  .
llrR^Ti~~~~~~                          @MOULASTIRrR 
~~~ j ~     ~       (     -
UJ   t\IR            3 GAF5       X            >                > ART~KIRDUA
.0 UF      0LER}_.           s
,   - 7                    1E
PWRIA,T   MOULARES
ui        !-N A      IA    IGS          
nwEvri    A MOILLA               /   0~
j                    ~~~~~~~0 20,406060  100 120
-  -/                                             ,.-       L  I 'Y A
j               I.5',       j                C) FERTIIZER INDUSTRY
----OIL PIPELINE                                                             A       PHiOSPHATE MINE
-----AS PIPEtlINE                                                     ----i---PROVINCIAL BOuNDARY
CW FLUOR SPAR                j                                      --ITRAI             tBOUNDARV
X    [RON MINES                  \                                         ) PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
LEAD AND ZINC MINES          \
*  STEEL\                                            .
* PETROLEUM                                       j/_                               dp        P _d
*GAS  '_,,,,,-,__,_d___
._~~~~~~~~~~~- K_



IBRD 17120
M  . d,  r , *      e                                  *.                     G       e              i _JtRfl
|    F                                                        ME WU I        Js\{teFOU ZELFA
Wpa                                                   I     I    -      /mINiji
_~~~~~L    -s'A -''-                                                              t.- 14OUS
.S r  jT->OZ
--/ <ZA    IBII'    \9\W-
*          -3 r                          ~~~~~~~~TUNISIA                                         G. COuLtwa~r.                                    SI./l  x
MINING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                                                   a n lNfrrAI(
POTASH COMPONENT                                                        I
Loco... of Porosw. E3e Deeootes                                                                                4  
A    Loconion of Fertilizer Plants /
So ___,. tLoes 
e    Prow-nc.oI Coxp-toIs                      AFRICA       -
Proesociol Boundaries, 
-Paod Roads 
Eati,h and Gron.l Roods                                                                              . 
cRc  bEcs                                                                    J              , .ILAL   _
.Z    Motor Paots                                                                                   -  -S 
.+.   Other Pa.',                                                                    -.-  '-
-3r   --- R-"es                                                 vs>-          _#_____~~c ---a
---  Internottoisol Aoirndot's    O- 0               n, o,aD_                                ^    _
.CtLObRE?EOlS                           -- i
r1s                                                             . *D'       _o_  N






