LOAN NUMBER 2346 TUN
LDOCUJMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Mining Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                        7       , 1984


﻿JOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   7, 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) any financing so provided by the Bank for Part A or
Part B of the Project would be refunded, if the Bank so requests,
out of the proceeds of any loan by the Bank which may later be
granted for the construction of the facilities whose feasibility
is to be studied under Part A or Part B of the Project, res-
pectively;
(C) by a Project Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa (hereinafter
called CPG), CPG has agreed to undertake certain obligations in
respect of carrying out Part A and Part B (1) (c) of the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregolng, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CPG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this agreement have the
respective  meanings   therein  set   forth  and   the  following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "CPG" means    ne Compagnie des Phosphates de Gafsa, a
societe anonyme esta-Ashed and operating under the Borrower's
Code de Commerce;
(b) "Statutes" means the statutes of CPG, registered with
the Registre du Commerce at Sousse under the number 36;
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and CPG of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CPG pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(e) "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f)  "DMG" means the Direction des Mines et de la Geologie,
a directorate in the Borrower's Ministry of National Economy;
(g) "ONM" means the Office National des i- .es, an etab-
lissement public a caractere industriel et commercial established
and operating in accordance with a Decret-Loi dated April 3,
1962;
(h) "SDICS" means the Societe de Developpement des Indus-
tries Chimiques du Sud, a societ' anonyme established and operat-
ing under the Borrower's Code de Commerce; and
(i) "Dinar" or the sign "DT" means the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE I
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this


﻿-3-
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen
million four hundred thousand dollars ($13,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,- to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procuremet-t of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
rection 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to thirty-three thousand four hundred sixteen dollars
($33,416).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, wichdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the comwiencement of such
Interest Period.
(h) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.


﻿-4-
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"  means  the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreerent, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Vroject
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out: (i) Part B
(1) (a) of the Project through DMG and SDICS; (ii) Part B (1) (b)
of the Project through DMG and ONM; (iii) Part B (1) (c) of the
Project through DMG and CPG; (iv) Part B (2) and (3) of the
Project through DMG; and (v) Part C of the Project through DMG
and ONM, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and mining
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, staff, services and other re-
sources required for the purpose.


﻿-5-
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause CPG to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of CPG therein set forth,
and shall take or cause to be taken all action necessary or
appropriate to enable CPG to perform such obligations.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Part A and
Part B (1) (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall relend to CPG
out of the proceeds of the Loan the amounts allocated from time
to time under Categories (1), (3) and (6) of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CPG,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank including inter alia the following principal terms and
conditions: (i) the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall
be repaid by CPG over a period of seventeen (17) years, including
a grace period of four (4) years; (ii) the principal amount of
the Subsidiary Loan repayable by CPG to the Borrower shall be the
equivalent in Dinars of the amounts withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures under Parts A and B (1) (c) of the
Project, such equivalent to be determined as of the date, or
respective dates of, repayment; and (iii) CPG shall pay interest
aL the rate of 10.50% per annum on the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
together with a fee equal to one quarter of one per cent (1/4 of
1%) of the Subsidiary Loan amount, and a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out Part B (1) (b) of the
Project, the Borrower shall make available to ONM, on a grant
basis, out of the proceeds of the Loan, the amounts allocated
from time to time under Categories (2) and (5) of the table set
forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain within DMG during the execution of the Project
a project unit, to be responsible for the coordination of actions
under Part B of the Project, with such powers, functions, staff
(including, without limitation, a full-time project manager, a
geologist and an economist), facilities, equipment and work
program as shall be satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)  (i)   cause SDICS to maintain during the execution of
the Project a project unit, to be responsible for the execution
of Part B (1) (a) of the Project, with such powers, functions,
staff, facilities, equipment and work program as shall be
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) cause ONM to maintain during
the execution of the Project a project unit, to be responsible
for the execution of Part B (1) (b) of the Project, with such
powers, functions, staff, facilities, equipment and work program
as shall be satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) cause DMG to assign during the execution of Part C of
the Project a senior staff member with qualifications and experi-
ence and with powers satisfactory to the Bank as coordinator for
the carrying out of the study referred to in Part C of the
Project; and
(d)  cause ONM to assign during the execution of Part C of
the Project a staff member with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank as project manager charged with main-
taining liaison with DMG in the carrying out of the study
referred to in Part C of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause SDICS to employ
technical consultants with qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank to assist
SDICS in the execution of Part B (1) (a) of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause: (i) DMG to employ technical
advisers to assist DMG in the coordination and execution of Part
B of the Project; (ii) DMG to employ technical and marketing
consultants, respectively, to assist DMG in the execution of Part
B (2) and (3) of the Project, respectively; (iii) ONM to employ
technical consultants to assist ONM in the execution of Part B
(1) (b) of the Project; and (iv) ONM to employ mining, mineral
economics and geological consultants to assist ONK in the
execution of Part C of the Project.


﻿- 7 -
(c) The advisers and consultants referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section shall have qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank and
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for th. insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for Part B and Part C of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause DMG, ONM and SDICS to
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of their respective Project components specified in
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement (including their cost and the
benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to dis-
close their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities included in Part B of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank within 15 days after the end of each month a
summary statement on the progress of Part B and Part C of the
Project; and (iv) shall furnish to the Bank within 45 days after
the end of each calendar quarter progress reports including such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part
B and Part C of the Project, their cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.


﻿-8-
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish
a description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall cause DMG to prepare, and shall
furnish to the Bank, a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of Part B
and Part C of the Project, their cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived therefrom, the performance by the Borrower and
the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)  (i) furnish to the Bank for its approval, on the basis
of a review of the actions taken under Part B (1) of the Project,
a plan for the carrying out of the study referred to in Part B
(2) of the Project; and (ii) after approval the, oGf by the Bank,
carry out such plan in accordance with a timetable satisfactory
to the Bank; and
(b) furnish to the Bank for its review, within three months
after the completion of the studies referred to in Part B (2) and
(3) and Part C of the Project, the conclusions and recom-
mendations thereof, and consult with the Bank before implementing
said recommendations.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,


﻿-9-
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
-ssets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause each of DMG, ONM and
SDICS:
(a) to establish and maintain separate accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project;
(b) to cause said accounts for each fiscal year to be
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(c) to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,


﻿- 10 -
(i) certified copies of said accounts for such year as so
audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(d) to furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
ing said accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause each of ONM and
SDICS:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and
mining practices under the supervision of qualified and ex-
perienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c) at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
mining practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) CPG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that CPG will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
(c) The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed   or waived so    as  to  affect materially    and
adversely the ability of CPG to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of any of CPG or ONM or for the suspension of its opera-
tions.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof s'all have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly executed on behalf of the Borrower and CPG.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by CPG, and is legally binding upon CPG in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CPG and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and CPG in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date             / Z / ? f -  , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre du Plan of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11..01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
Place Ali Zouaoui
Tunis
Tunisia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MIPLAN                            MIPLAN 12117
Tunis                             TN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT);
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA); or
64145 (WUI).


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
represent.atives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consultants'              8,000,000        90% of local ex-
services under                             penditures for
Part A of the                              services of con-
Project                                    sultants domi-
ciled within the
territory of the
Borrower, and
100% of foreign
expenditures for
services of other
consultants
(2) Equipment under             600,000    )    100% of foreign
Part B (1) (b)                        )    expenditures
of the Project                        )    and 90% of local
)    expenditures (for
(3) Equipment under             600,000    )   items procured
Part B (1) (c)                        )    locally)
of the Project                        )
(4) Technical                   700,000    )    90% of local ex-
advisers' services                    )    penditures for
under Part B of                       )    services of ad-
the Project                           )    visers and con-
)    sultants domi-
(5) Consultants'                300,000    )   ciled within the
services under                        )    territory of the
Part B (1) (b)                        )    Borrower, and
of the Project                        )    100% of foreign
)    expenditures for
)    services of other
(6) Consultants'                100,000    )   advisers and con-
services under                        )    sultants
Part B (1) (c)                        )
of the Project                        )


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7) Equipment under             300,000         100% of foreign
Part B (2) of                              expenditures
the Project                                and 90% of local
expenditures (for
items procured
locally)
(8) Consultants'                800,000    )    90% of local
services under                        )    expenditures for
Part B (2) of                         )    services of con-
the Project                           )    sultants domi-
)    ciled within the
(9) Consultants'                100,000    )    territory of the
services under                        )    Borrower, and
Part B (3) of                         )    100% of foreign
the Project                           )    expenditures for
)    services of other
(10) Consultants'               200,000    )    consultants
services under                        )
Part C of the                         )
Project                               )
(11) Fee                         33,416        Amount due under
Section 2.05 (a)
of this Agreement
(12) Unallocated              1,666,584
TOTAL              13,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 16 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $1,300,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) on account of expenditures made
before that date but after August 1, 1983; and
(b) expenditures (i) in respect of Categories (7) and (8),
until the plan referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement
has been approved by the Bank; and (ii) in respect of Category
(10), until the coordinator and the project manager referred to
in Section 3.03 (c) and (d) of this Agreement, respectively, have
been assigned in accordance with the provisions thereof.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order


﻿- 17 -
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
developing its mining sector by studying the feasibility of new
phosphate and potash development projects and by creating an in-
stitutional framework for the establishment of minerals explora-
tion policies, and to assist CPG in improving its operational
efficiency.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(1) Training of CPG personnel in the maintenance of equipment
and plant process control.
(2) The carrying out of a study of CPG's spare parts and storage
management and training of CPG staff in spare parts and
storage management.
(3) The carrying out of a study of CPG's personnel management
and training of CPG staff in personnel management techni-
ques.
(4) The carrying out of a technical and organizational study of
CPG's underground mines and training of CPG staff in under-
ground mining and organization techniques.
(5) The carrying out of a study of CPG's organizational struc-
ture, financial management, cost control and management
information and training of CPG staff in financial manage-
ment, cost control and management information techniques.
(6) The carrying out of a feasibility study and the preparation
of engineering designs for the expansion of the production
capacity of the Kef Eschfair open pit mine.
(7) The carrying out of a study and the preparation of engineer-
ing designs for the rehabilitation of CPG's washing plants
at Metlaoui and M'Dilla and for the improvement of its mate-
rial handling facilities at M'Dilla.
(8) The carrying out of a study of the feasibility of the ex-
ploitation and beneficiation of the Djellabia deposit.


﻿- 19 -
(9) The carrying out of studies evaluating the feasibility of
the exploitation and beneficiatioh of deposits at Oum El Khecheb
and Sehib South.
Part B:
(1) The carrying out of geological and geochemical surveys,
exploration drillings, pumping and processing tests permitting
the identification of the configuration of a viable potash
development project at:
(a) Zarzis;
(b) El Adibate; and
(c) Chott El Jerid.
(2) If, and to the extent, the Bank agrees that such study is
warranted on the basis of a review of the results of the actions
under Part B (1) of the Project, the carrying out of a detailed
feasibility study for a possible potash development project.
(3) The carrying out of a marketing study for potash.
Part C:
The carrying out of a study: (a) formulating guidelines for
ONM data collection, analysis, and evaluation; (b) establishing
criteria for ONM's exploration policies and investments; and (c)
formulating   organizational,   budget,  staffing   and   training
requirements for ONM.
T  P                    *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1988
through   January 1, 2000                  515,000
On July 1, 2000                                 525,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years                                 1.00
before maturity


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraphs
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender documents, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such  notice   in  order   to  provide   timely  notification   to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for goods shall be grouped to the extent possible.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 23 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   Aft.r evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactu:ed in the
Republic of Tunisia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
Tunisia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then, be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 24 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less each and in the aggregate not exceeding the
equivalent of $850,000 may be procured through limited interna-
tional tendering procedures on the basis of evaluations and com-
parisons of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
manufacturers or suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Part A of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 1.2 and 3.9 thereof) and paragraph A.4 of
this Schedule.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
more than the equivalent of $100,000 each:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably. request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines


﻿- 25 -
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the ward of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
-the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of   r     198  .
FOR SECRETARY


