Document of                  à X
The World Bank                   i!L   C'Opy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1171-MLI
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
MALI
MALI-SUD AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
November 16, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document bhs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =        Mali Franc
US$1                =        MF 490
MF 1                =        US$O.00204
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)    =        0.6215 mile
l centimeter (cm)            0.033 feet
1 hectare (ha)      =        2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t)             2,205 lbs
1 kilogram (kg)     =        2,205 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
BADEA           Banque Arabe pour le Développement Economique en Afrique
BDM             Banque de Développement du Mali
CCCE            Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
CFDT            Compagnie Française pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles
CMDT            Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des Textiles
COMATEX         Compagnie Malienne des Textiles
FAC             Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
FED             Fonds Européen de Développement
FGR             Fédération des Groupements Ruraux
ICRISAT         International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IER             Institut d'Economie Rurale
IITA            International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
IRAT            Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures
Vivrières
IRCT            Institut de Recherches du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques
ITEMA           Industrie Textile du Mali
PAR             Point d'Appui de la Recherche
PEP             Point d'Expérimentation Permanente
PMI             Protection Maternelle et Infantile
OACV            Opération Arachide et Cultures Vivrières
OPAM            Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali
ORSP            Office de Régularisation et de Soutien des Prix
SCAER           Société de Crédit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural
SEPOM           Société d'Exploitation des Produits Oléagineux du Mali
SOMASAC         Société Malienne de Sacherie
SOMIEX          Société Malienne d'Import Export
ZER             Zone d'Expansion Rurale
Fiscal Years
C1MDT'                              October 1 - September 30
Ministère du Développement Rural   January 1 - December 31
Project                             January 1 - December 31



MALI             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI-SUD AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY ............................    i - ix
I.         BACKGROUND .........          .................................        1
A.  Introduction ....................................                  1
B.  General Economic Background .....            ................     I
C.  The Agricultural Sector ..........................                2
D.  Pricing, Marketing and Subsidies .................                3
SOMIEX ........        ...............................        4
OPAM ...........................................................  4
E.  Agricultural Institutions .......................                 5
CMDT .........        ................................        6
SCAER .........        ...............................        6
F.  Agricultural Strategy ...........................                 7
II.        PROJECT AREA         ...............................                   8
A.  General .........         ................................        8
B.  Past Agricultural Development .....            ..............     9
III.       THE PROJECT           .........................................       15
A.  General          .........................................       15
B.  Detailed Features ......         .........................       16
Table 3.1  Cotton Planting Program ...............               16
Table 3.2  Kenaf Planting Program ................               16
Table 3.3  Improved Maize Planting Program .......               17
Table 3.4  Improved Ri-ce Planti,ng Program ........             17
Table 3.5  Improved Methods for Cotton Cultivati,on              19
Table 3.6  Agricultural Equipment ................               22
Table 3.7  Livestock Program .....................               23
Table 3.8  Vehicles Financed under the Project ...               26
IV.        ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....           ....................      30
A.  Organization ...................           .............         30
Table 4.1  Number of Extension Staff (Dec. 31, 1975)    31
B. Staffing   ..31
Table 4.2  Number of Higher Level Expatriate Staff               32
Table 4.3  Number of Expatriate Researchers                      33
Table 4.4  Ratio of Extension Staff to Farmers                   34
C. Training   ..34
Organization Chart                . . .37
Thi,s staff report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited
Mali in November 1975 comprising Messrs. J.L. Ropiteau, S. Gafsi, P. Streng,
P. Zuckerman (IDA), R. Chateau and A. Chavancy (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.        COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ...........        38
A.   Project Costs .................. ................       38
Table 5.1  Cost Summary .........................       39
B.   Proposed Financing ............. .. ..............      40
Table 5.2  Project Cost Financing ....     ..........   41
Table 5.3 Expenses Incurred during the
Prelimi,nary Phase .... à .............   42
Table 5.4  Terms of the Foreign Aid .............       42
C.   Initial Revolving Fund and Retroactive
Financing   ...... ............ ...............   43
D.   Procurement ................... .................       44
E.   Disbursement .................. .................       44
Table 5.5 Disbursement Categories of the IDA
Credit  ..........................        45
Table 5.6 Cumulative Disbursement of the IDA
Credit .....      .......... ...          46
Table 5.7  Project Costs and Financing ..........       47-48
F.   Accounts and Audit ............. .. ..............      49
VI.       THE PROJECT'S FINANCIAL IMPACT           .     .     .       49
A.   General ..................... ...................       49
B.   Price Schedules or "Baremes"          .      .          49
Table 6.1  1974/75 "Bareme" for Cotton Lint             50
C. CMDT's Finances    ..51
Table 6.2  1974/75 CMDT Consolidated
Income Statement .52
Table 6.3  CMDT Projected Income .53
Table 6.4  CMDT Balance Sheet at September 30, 1975   53
Table 6.5  Projected CMDT Cash Flow .55
D.   Financial Impact on SOMIEX and Local
Texti,le Manufacturers          .      .          55
Table 6.6 Projected 1976/77 and 1977/78
"Baremes" for Cotton Lint and
Cottonseed .56
E.   Financial Impact on Government .57
Table 6.7 Income Distribution of One Ton of
Cotton Lint and One and a Half Tons
of Cottonseed .58
Table 6.8  Estimated Cost of Subsidies .59
Table 6.9  Project Impact on Government Cash Flow      60



-3-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
VII.       YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES,
FARMERS' BENEFITS .......       ............................     61
A.   Yields and Production ..........................            61
Table 7.1  Crop Yields ..........................          61
Table 7.2  Incremental Crop Production ..........          62
Table 7.3  Incremental Livestock Production .....          62
B.   Demand, Prices, and Marketing Arrangements .....            62
Table 7.4  Economic Value of Mali. Cotton Lint ...         63
Table 7.5  Economic and Financial Farmgate Prices          64
C. Farmers' Benefits    ..65
Table 7.6 Net Cash Return for the Various
Crops under the Project .65
Table 7.7  Total Returns to Farers .66
Table 7.8  Project-Induced Crop Production                 67
Table 7.9 Crop Revenue per Ha .68
VIII.      ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION          . .       .69
Table 8.1  Economic Rate of Return Calculations -
Benefi,ts and Costs ......................        71
Table 8.2  Economic Rate of Return Calculations -
Sensitivity Analysis   .          .72
IX.  RECOMMENDATIONS .73
ANNEX - Table 1 Implementation Schedule
Table 2 Additional Reports and Data Related
to the Project Avai,lable in the
Project File
MAP



1



MALI
MALI-SUD AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
I.   Introduction
1.        The Republic of Mali requested IDA assistance in financing an
agricultural project in the "Mali-Sud" area of the country to be executed
by the "Compagnie Malienne pour le Developpement des Textiles" (CMDT).
The feasibility study was prepared by the Institut d'Economie Rurale
(IER) of the Ministry of Rural Development, and the project was appraised
in November 1975.
II. The Agricultural Sector
2.        About 90% of Mali's population depends for livelihood on agriculture
and allied pursuits which accounted for 43% of GDP in 1972.  Raw or processed
agricultural commodities and livestock form the largest part of exports.
Cotton, the single most important exchanage earner, accounts for more than
30% of the value of exports, which is nearly as much as the total export
proceeds froa groundnuts and livestock, the other major export commodities.
3.        There are some two million hectares under permanent cultivati.on,
90% of which rainfed arid  ie rest irrigated.  Rai.nfed cultivation, used on
small family farms cultivated traditionally, has 90% of its area under cereal
crops (millet and sorghum) and the rest under cotton and groundnuts, the mnain
cash and export crops.  Of the area under irrigated cultivation, some 60% is
cultivated traditi.onally by individual farmers, with the rest under the
"Operations de Developpement Rural" where improved methods are applied.  Almost
all irri.gated lands are under ri.ce a;ud no cotton i.s presently grown under irri-
gation.
4.        Development efforts until recently were directed mostly at export
crops while cereals suffered from comparative neglect. Cash crop production
developed more rapidly and was less affected by the recent drought than cereal
farming.  Total production of cereals declined from 1.1 million tons in
1967/68 to an average 0.8 million tons during the drought years 1972-74; but
seed cotton outputs increased from 42,000 to 65,000 tons, whi.le the groundnut
crop fell only from 118,000 tons to 104,000 tons.
5.        Agricultural production i.ncreased substantially over the last
two years as a result of good rainfall and higher producer prices. Production
of cereals, i.ncluding paddy, i.s estimated to have recovered to 1.15 million tons
in 1974/75 and 1.2 milLi.on tons in 1975/76. Cotton and groundnut crops in
1975/76 reached the unprecedented levels of 103,000 and 200,000 tons respec-
tively.



- iji -
Pricing, Marketing and Subsidies
6.        The agricultural sector is subjected to fafrly extensive price
regulation. Price controls over cereals, cash crops and agricultural commodi-
ties are i.ntended to restrain the rise in prices of essential consumer goods
and to provide farmers with incentives to use improved inputs. Producer prices
for the crop year are specified, along with taxes and levies, marketing and
handli.ng charges, in commnodity price schedules known as "baremes." The system
of administered prices functions essentially through the Soci.ete Malienne
d'Import-Export (SOMIEX), Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali (OPAM) and the
Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural (SCAER), the state trading
enterpri.ses handling domestic and foreign trade in agricultural commodities.
7.        SOMIEX is the monopoly importer and sole distributor of essential
commodities other than foodgrains, and the monopoly exporter of various
agricultural commodities, particularly groundnuts and cotton. It is the
largest state-owned enterprise with a size and diversity of operations enabling
i.t to subsi.dize, in adherence with Government's price policy, consumer goods
of prime necessity.
8.        For the first time since 1972/73 SOMIEX is faced with the problem
of dealing with large surpluses of cotton. As retail prices of imported
consumer goods rose sporadically and price schedules for cotton and groundnuts
were only partially adjusted in response to sharply rising world prices,
SOMIEX made substantial profits from export operations. In 1975/76 the world
market demand for cotton and groundnuts softened and the international prices
dropped sharply. This fall coincided with increased production, reducing the
;< effectiveness of SOMIEX's operations.
9.        OPAM has been vested with the monopoly of domestic and foreign
trade in cereals at prices fixed by Government. However, OPAM has not been
able to fully enforce its monopoly in the domestic market due to rigid and
often unrealistic pricing of cereals and its own inability to handte large
grain surpluses. An IDA-financed study of cereal marketing in Mal! has just
been completed under Credit 491-MLI and recommends that OPAM intervene in the
cereal market in order to dampen fluctuations in prices and availability.
Conclusi.ons of the study and implementation of its recommendations will be
discussed with the Government.
10.       SCAER is the sole purchaser of agricultural equipment and other
inputs which in turn reach the farmers of the projects under the "Operations
de Developpement Rural". The difference between the purchase and the sales
price is supposed to be covered by a levy collected through the "bareme" for
cotton and groundnuts. Because of the cessation of external finance for
agricultural credit, SCAER is experiencing cash shortfalls. This in turn has
led to the inabiLity of SCAER to purchase ail inputs and equipment requested
by farmers for 1975/76. Government is aware of the inadequacy of the present



- iii. -
arrangements and is considering a major reform of SCAER and of agricultural
input procurement.  Among the alternatives considered are fi.rst the conversion
of SCAER into a procurement department within the Ministry of Rural Development
and also the decentralizati,on of the procurement function to make each "Operation"
responsible for its own procurement. Assurances were obtained that if, after
one year of project implementation, provision of agricultural equipment and
i.nputs to farmers i,s unsatisfactory, Government and IDA would agree on measures
satisfactory to IDA to remedy the situation. These measures do not exclude
the procurement of inputs by CMDT itself.
11.       Subsidies on agricultural inputs have been progressively reduced
and now only fertilizers and insecticides are subsidized to the extent of
32% and 55% of their respective costs delivered to farmers. These subsidies,
which are in any case low compared to other countries in the region, are more
than offset by levies and taxes on cotton and groundnuts. Nevertheless,
because of budgetary difficulties, Government proposes to further reduce and
eventually eliminate all subsidies: this will not affect farmers' use of
i.nputs as the benefits of these inputs have been demonstrated and producer
prices for cash crops have been increased sufficiently (by 50% for cotton and
33% for groundnuts) to allow farmers to bear the full cost of inputs.
Agricultural Strategy
12.       The development strategy adopted by Government accords high priority
to agriculture. Major objectives of the Five-Year Economic and Social Develop-
ment Plan launched in 1974 are:
(a) to achieve self-sufficiency in food;
(b) to generate adequate supplies of agricultural raw
materials for processing; and
(c) to ensure increasing surpluses of primary products
for export.
Government intends to meet objective (a) through heavy investments in irriga-
tion projects for paddy production. However, this objective was conceived
during the drought years and does not take sufficient account of the high cost
of i,rrigation, the traditional consumption pattern which prefers the cheaper
coarse grains (millet and sorghum) to rice, or Mali.'s potential for rainfed
agriculture: i,ndeed Mali has already reattained self-sufficiency in cereals
and this could be maintained in the long run by the development of millet and
sorghum under rainfed conditions coupled with grain storage facilites. Objectives
(b) and (c) would be met by the development of livestock, groundnuts and of
cotton for export.



- iv -
III. The Proiect
Project Concept
13.       Project Area.  The project would cover the so-called Mali-Sud
area, whic4,extends over three administrative regions, and where remarkable
resuits have already been achieved in the development of cotton and kenaf
production under rainfed cultivation. Both crops benefited from substantial
investments made by Fonds d'Ai,de et de Cooperati,on (FAC) for cotton, and Fonds
Europeen de Developpement (FED) for kenaf.
14.       Objectives and Components.  The project integrates and coordinates
the efforts of the various forei[gny aid donors interested in the future develop-
ment of Mali-Sud, and seeks tre build up CMDT from both a financial and organi-
zational standpoint to carry out the proposed project and to ensure that
the project benefits are maintained after the project disbursement peri.od.
The project covers the period May 31, 1976-December 31, 1980.  Investments in
the period after the establishment of CMDT between January 1975 and tMay 31,
1976 were agreed between CMDT, FAC, and IDA, but were financed exclusively by
FAC. The princi,pal objectives of the project would be:
(a) Increasi,ng cotton and kenaf production through the
intensification of improved methods used by farmers
and expansion of the area under cotton from about
87,000 ha to 135,000 ha and under kenaf from 2,000
ha to 4,600 ha; increasi,ng maize and rice production
mainly through the intensification of improved
cultivatton methods:  the i.mproved maize area wotuld
increase from 6,500 ha (10% of the total maize area)
to 15,000 ha (27%), and the i.mproved ri-ce area from
about 4,000 ha to 12,000 ha.
(b)  Provi.ding project farmers with techni.cal advice, seed
multiplication faciliti.es, and applied research.  The
project would introduce research on mai.ze through the
financing of five man-years of expatriate technical
assistance in agronomic research. The project would
also provide credit for the purchase of new agricultural
equi,pment and i.nputs.
(c) Improving animal husbandry of cotton farmers, i.ncluding
use of draft oxen, stall fattening, improved cattle
feeding through rational use of natural pastures,
controlled burning, culti.vati,on of fodder crops and
use of crop byproducts.
(d) Expanding physi,cal infrastructure with the rehabilitation
of one 10,000 ton ginnery and construction of one 20,00()
ton new ginnery, improvement of kenaf retting ponds,



- v -
construction of a 3 ton/hour rice mill, provision of
storage for inputs, procurement of 151 vehicles for
CMDT, and improvement of some 500 km annually of farm-
to-market agricultural tracks.
(e) Undertaking studies for the future development
of the areas freed from onchocerci,asis, including the
preparation of an inventory of resources to con-
stitute a data bank, a broad development plan for
the next ten years and the preparation of a number
of projects within the framework of the development
plan.
(f) Improving the rural health services in the area by
equipping and training thei,r staff and financing an
initial stock of drugs.
(g)  Training of CMDT staff, and of the rural population
through young farmers' and blacksmiths' training aiid a
functional literacy program.
Special Features
15.       One of the project's objectives would be the build-up of CMDT
finances to make it poss-ible for CMDT (i) to carry out the project -includi,ng
the added activities of procurement of inputs for cotton farmers, (ii) to
keep operati.ng at a satisfactory level after the project disbursement period,
and (iii) to cover adequately the cost of the subsidy on i,nputs to cotton
farmers until such time as the subsidy has been eliminated. The 1977/78
commodity price schedule or "bareme" applying to cotton lint would be modified
substantially to reflect this objective. As cost allocations under the
"bareme" for cotton lint have usually been kept too low and resulted in losses
for CMDT, a condition of effectiveness would be that the "baremes" applicable to
CMDT's products are to be calculated on the basis of actual costs incurred by
CMDT during the preceding campaign and as adjusted for subsequent economi,c
changes.
16.       In addition to the losses incurred in the application of the "bareme"
for cotton lint, CMDT's difficult fi,nancial position has resulted from inade-
quate equity capitali.zation and late payments by its customers (SOMIEX and the
local textile manufacturers). During negotiations i.t was agreed that a condi-
ti.on of the credit becomi,ng effective would be that Government would have
taken measures satisfactory to IDA so that overdue debts owed by SOMIEX, ITEMA
and COMATEX to CMDT would be paid within si,x months of credit signing, overdue
debts bei,ng defined as those beyond the delays specified in the agreements
between CMDT and its customers, in which the latter indicate their planning of
monthly purchases of lint and payments to CMDT. During negoti,ations assurances
were also obtai,ned that the terms of the agreements between CMDT and SOMIEX,
ITEMA and COMATEX would be acceptable to IDA and adhered to, and that CMDT



- vi -
equity would be increased to 10% of the overdraft facilities required by CMDT
from the Central Bank by 1979/80, this being the minimum set by the banking
regulations. The increase in equity would be through an increase in the
commission that CMDT earns on cotton lint and by addition of non-distributed
retained earnings to equity.
Project Cost and Financing
17.       Total project costs excluding duties and other clearly identifiable
taxes are estimated at US$44.6 million. The foreign exchange cost is US$31.3
million or 70%.  The financing plan is summarized below:
US$ million
Amount            %
IDA                                         15.5              35
Farmers                                      7.0              16
Government                                   6.2              14
ADF                                          6.0              13
BADEA                                        5.0              11
CCCE                                         3.1               7
FAC                                          1.8               4
TOTAL                                 44.6             100%
It would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit that assurances
satisfactory to IDA had been received with respect to the FAC, BADEA, ADF
and CCCE financing.  FAC financing would be on a joint basis with IDA.  BADEA,
ADF, and CCCE financing would be on a parallel basis. Government would
finance local staff salaries and part of the credit requirement for inputs.
Farmers would contribute down payments for the purchase of agricultural
equipment, and credit repayments would go into a revolving fund earmarked for
the purchase of new agricultural equipment.
18.       A subsidiary agreement would be concluded between Government and
CMDT regarding the on-lending of IDA funds. The conclusion of this agreement
would be a condition of effectiveness.
19.       Initial Funding of the Project.  Expenditures to be financed by
IDA and FAC in the first year of the project would total some MF 2.5 billion
(US$5.1 million). The interim financing requirement, assuming a lag of 3 months
between the time the expenditure is incurred and the time it is reimbursed,
would be a minimum of MF 0.6 billion (US$1.2 million).  Since CMDT or Govern-
ment would be unable to provide such advance financing, it is proposed that
IDA provide MF 0.6 billion in advance as part of its contribution to project
financing. Other donors would be encouraged to prefinance their shares of
project expenditures. Retroactive financing by IDA of up to US$0.3 million
would be granted to cover project expenditures incurred after May 31, 1976,
on agricultural research and technical assistance to CMDT.



- vi.i -
20.       Yields and Production.  Because rainfall was especially well-
distributed in 1975/76 and in 1976/77 with concentration in June at the time
of planting and in September just before harvesting, yields in these two years
were exceptionally high, at about 1,200 kg/ha.  The likelihood of an occurrence
of another two years of very well-distributed rainfall is remote, and for the
purpose of the staff report lower yields have been used as a base point to
eliminate the favorable factor of exceptional rainfall distribution. The 905
kg/ha for seed cotton used for 1975/76 is the estimate of what the yield would
have been if rainfall had been average in quantity and distributed normally.
The small (17%) increase in seed cotton yields over the period 1975-1980 is
slightly higher than the rate of increase over the period 1962-1974 and
results from the wider adoption of improved agricultural methods. The yields
for kenaf and food crops would not increase in the areas already under improved
cultivation, but the surface of the areas under improved cultivation would
expand with the extension of services to new farmers.
21.       The increases in yields and areas under improved cultivation would
result in annual production increments amounting to 64,300 tons of seed
cotton, 1,800 tons of kenaf, 7,300 tons of maize and 6,600 tons of rice paddy
by 1980/81.
Implementation
22.       All agricultural projects in Mali are carried out by specific
"Operations de Developpement Rural", which are administrative units under the
general supervision of the Ministry of Rural Development. They enjoy consider-
able managerial autonomy and use an integrated approach in their provision of
support services to farmers. While each "Operation" concentrates on a parti-
cular product like groundnuts, rice, or cotton, all of them are responsible
for the general agricultural development including improvement of coarse
grains in their respective areas. There are 16 "Operations". They are
generally well managed and have been fairly successful in implementing the
development programs assigned to them.
23.       Compagnie Malienne des Textiles (CMDT) is such an "Operation".
It was created in 1974 to take over the activities of the Compagnie Francaise
pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT), which has successfully
developed cotton cultivation in the south of Mali since 1947. CMDT inherited
much of the staff, organization and momentum of cotton development left
by CFDT. CMDT would carry out the main objectives of increasing cotton,
kenaf, rice and maize production, and providing technical advice to project
farmers.  Other government agencies responsible for carrying out part of
the project would be the Ministry of Public Works for assistance in the
agricultural track component, the Ministry of Health for the health component
and the Institut d'Economie Rurale for the research and studies financed under
the project.
24.       Technical Assistance.  The agreed objective among CMDT shareholders
(Government and CFDT) and the project financiers is to gradually phase out
all expatriates employed by CMDT. Such replacement is progressing satisfac-
torily since the number of expatriates was reduced from 33 in 1973 prior to
the creation of CMDT to 16 at present. Today there are 8 expatriates either



- viii -
in executive positions or performing necessary training duties. This rela-
tively large number of higher level expatriates is justified given the size of
the area covered by CMDT, the complexity of its operation and the limited
number of trained Malian executives. Technical assistance to CMDT would be
provided by CFDT. The project would finance 30 man-years of technical assist-
ance to CMDT over the project period at a total cost of US$1.7 million, or
US$57,000 per man-year on the average. Base salaries account for 46% of this
amount and the rest are social security charges and allowances associated with
overseas assignments. The 8 lower level expatriates presently employed by
CMDT in purely technical jobs would be phased out progressively. Mali is
equally short of experienced agricultural researchers, and the project includes
16 man-years of expatriate technical assistance for applied research at an
average cost of US$59,000/man-year.
25.       Training.  The quality of CMDT staff, especially the extension
staff, can be considered above average, and the training programs for CMDT
staff would be relatively limited. Besides management in-service training, a
number of scholarships for studies outside the country, either in Africa or
Europe, would be made available to CMDT staff under the project. In addition
the project would finance the on-going training programs already carried out
by CMDT and aimed essentially at the lower CMDT staff echelons and the rural
populati,on.
26.       Procurement.  For the project items financed jointly by IDA and
FAC the following would apply: orders or contracts for equipment, vehicles,
compound fertilizer and construction with a value of more than US$50,000 would
be through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Such procurement is estimated to amount to US$5.0 million.
Whenever feasible, contracts and orders would be bulked. Contracts of less
than $50,000 would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to IDA. Contracts
procured under local competitive bidding would not exceed US$2 million.
Efficient local building contractors exist and are carryi.ng out most of the
civil works built under the ongoing Integrated Rural Development Project
(Credit 491-MLI). Malian contractors would be given a preference of 7.5% in
the evaluation of tenders for civil works. Expatriate technical assistance
(US$1.7 million) would be provided by CFDT for CMDT operations, by Institut de
Recherches du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques (IRCT) for cotton and kenaf
research (US$0.7 million), and by the International Institute of Tropical
Agriculture (IITA) for maize research (US$0.2 million).  The planning studies
for the development of the areas freed from onchocerciasis would be carried
out by consultants recruited internationally according to IDA guidelines
(US$0.5 million).
27.       Procurement of items financed by BADEA, ADF and CCCE would be
carried out under their respective arrangement.  It is not expected that
procurement of goods financed by donors other than IDA would result in higher
costs than if all procurement were made under IDA procedures.



- ix -
Disbursements
28.       The IDA credit of US$15.5 million would be disbursed against 87%
of the cost of management and training, cotton development (excluding local
staff and new ginneries), agricultural research, auditing and scholarships;
39% of the cost of the incremental requirements of compound fertilizers; and
100% of the foreign exchange cost of the studies for the development of the
areas freed from onchocerciasis.
Economi.c Analysis
29.       Economic Benefits and Justification.  The project's direct benefits
would be the increased production it would generate, resulting in higher
incomes for some 108,000 farm families, 92,000 of which would be involved in
cotton growing; 8,000 in kenaf development and 8,000 in swamp rice development.
The incremental net foreign exchange earnings would total some US$25 million
annually by 1980. The economic rate of return is estimated to be 25% for the
livestock component, the cost of which is MF 0.4 billion (US$0.8 million) and
44% for the crop development component, the cost of which is MF 15.4 billion
(US$31 million). The aggregate economic rate of return on these components,
which account for 96% of project cost is 44%. This aggregate return excludes
the studies and health components for which no meaningful rate of return could
be estimated because of the predominance of non-quantifiable effects. The
sensitivity analysis indicates that the rates of return for both livestock and
crop development are sensitive to variations in benefits or costs. Each
variation of benefits or costs of 1% would result in an absolute change of
about 0.6 and 1.1 percentage points in their respective rates of return.
Shadow pricing the foreign exchange component of the economic calculations
with a 1.20 factor would increase the rate of return of the project to 53%.
30.       The project would have a number of secondary benefits which are
not reflected directly in the economic rate of return calculati-ons. Important
among these are (a) the impact of the functional li.teracy and health training
programs; (b) the demonstration effect of a concerted and integrated approach
to rural development; (c) the planning of the development of the areas freed
from onchocerciasis; (d) the expansi.on of non-farm rural employment, for
about 500 persons. in blacksmithing and i.n CMDT's cotton ginneri.es and rice
mill, and in the SOMASAC kenaf processing plant; and (e) the improvement of
nutrition.
31.       The techni.cal risks attached to the project are not large, because
the improved agricultural techniques that would be promoted have already
been tested extensively by CMDT in the project area.






MALI
MALI-SUD AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
I.   BACKGROUND
A.   Introduction
1.01      The Republic of Mali requested IDA assistance in financing an agri-
cultural project in the Mali-Sud area to be executed by the Compagnie Malienne
pour le Developpement des Textiles (CMDT). The feasibility study was prepared
by Institut d'Economie Rurale (IER) of the Ministry of Rural Development with
RMWA assistance. The project was appraised in November 1975. It would be
IDA's fourth agricultural project in Mali. A first credit of US$6.9 million
was made in 1972 to help finance the improvement of 31,000 ha of rice land
in the Mopti plain (277-MLI, Mopti Rice). A supplementary credit of US$2.6
million for this project was approved in 1975. A credit of US$8 million
(491-MLI, Integrated Rural Development Project) was made in 1974 to help fi-
nance the second phase of "Operation Arachide" (OA) to further expand and
diversify groundnut production. A third credit of US$13.3 million (538-MLI,
Livestock Project) was made in 1975 to help achieve a rational use of pas-
toral resources. In general these projects are progressing satisfactorily.
B.   General Economic Background
1.02      Mali is sparsely inhabited (average 4.5 persons per km ), with a
population of 5.6 million (mid-1975 estimate) growing at somewhat over 2% a
year. The northern regions are largely desert; around 75% of the population
(over 4 million) live in the area between isohyet 500 mm and the southern
border. With the exception of the Niger River system, where irrigation and
flood recession cropping are possible, and the southernmost region, where
annual average rainfall exceeds 1,300 mm, most of the 25% of the country re-
ceiving rainfall that is adequate for crop cultivation is suitable only for
fast-growing, drought-tolerant crops such as millet, sorghum, maize, cotton
and groundnuts.
1.03      With a per capita GNP of about US$95, Mali is one of the poorest
countries in Africa and one of the world's 25 least developed countries.
GDP in constant prices is estimated to have grown by 4.6% per year during
the period 1970-1972, and to have declined by 3% in 1973. GDP fell again
in 1974 but with the cessation of the drought and the consequent marked
increase in agricultural production, it increased by nearly 13% in 1975.



-2-
Between 1970 and 1975 real GDP is estimated to have risen by more than 3%
per year, slightly faster than the population which increased at the annual
rate of 2.3%.
1.04      Government's financial position has been deteriorating.  Because
of rising local inflation (the GDP deflator which had been rising between
1970 and 1974 at a rate of 5-6%, went up to an estimated 18% in 1975), and
Government's policy of serving as the residual employer of nationals who
complete secondary or higher education, the budget deficit has widened from
MF 4.2 billion in 1972 to MF 10.0 billion in 1975. The external balance of
payments deficit, the main structural weakness of the economy, has been fur-
ther aggravated by drought and international inflation. It increased from
MF 2.6 billion in 1972 to MF 14.5 billion in 1974, and was even larger in
1975. As a consequence the 1974/78 five-year plan is encountering financial
problems and investment outlays so far have fallen far short of projections.
1.05      Agriculture, animal husbandry and agro-industries have considerable
potential for expansion and Mali has comparative advantage in these sectors of
activity. Development efforts, however, are constrained by inadequate savings
and foreign exchange. These obstacles to growth can however be overcome
through measures to restrain the growth of private and public consumption and
selection of investment projects that help correct the balance of payments
deficit. This will require stricter fiscal and monetary discipline, progres-
sive elimination of subsidies extended through administered prices, better
management of state enterprises and some modifications of public employment
policy and planning priorities. The Government has already taken a number of
steps to impose stricter credit ceilings, reduce the budget deficit and
improve the working of state enterprises and to reduce the subsidy element in
administered prices.
C.   The Agricultural Sector
1.06      About 90 percent of Mali's population depends for livelihood on
agriculture and allied pursuits, which accounted for 43 percent of GDP in
1972. The share of the primary sector in GDP fell markedly during the re-
cent drought, and even after the recovery of crop production in 1975 was
somewhat lower than in 1972. Agriculture contributes half, animal husbandry
two-fifths and forestry and fisheries combined one tenth of the value added
in the primary sector. Exports consist almost entirely of raw or processed
agricultural commodities and livestock. Cotton, the single most important
exchange earner, accounts for more than 30 percent of the value of exports,
which is nearly as much as the total export proceeds from groundnuts and
livestock, the other major export commodities.
1.07      There are some 2 million hectares under permanent cultivation,
90% of which rainfed, the rest being irrigated. Rainfed cultivation is
practiced on small family farms. About 80% of the 435,000 farms have 5 ha
of land or less. About 90% of the area under rainfed cultivation is under
cereal crops (millet and sorghum). The rest is sown for the most part in



- 3 -
cotton and groundnuts, the main cash and export crops. Of the 200,000 hec-
tares under irrigated culti.vation, some 120,000 are cultivated traditionally
by individual farmers and the rest within "Operations de Developpement Rural"
where improved methods are applied. The most important of these projects is
the "Office du Niger", established i.n 1929 for the eventual development of as
much as one mi.llion hectares for the production of irrigated cotton to supply
the French textile industry. Almost all irrigated lands are under rice, and
no cotton is presently grown under irrigation.
1.08      Development efforts till recently were directed mostly at export
crops while cereals, particularly millet and sorghum, suffered froml compara-
tive neglect. Adequate extension services were organized for cotton and
groundnuts which were also provided with marketing facilities, fertilizers
and other improved inputs. Only a small portion of the area under rainfed
cereal crops benefited from similar development programs.  Producer pri.ces
for export crops too were set at more remunerative levels than those for
cereals.  Past emphasis on cotton and groundnuts is reflected in producti.on
trends during recent years.  Cash crop production has developed faster and
was less affected by drought than cereal farming.  Total production of cereals
declined from 1.1 million tons in 1967/68 to an average 0.8 million tons dur-
ing the drought years 1972/73 and 1973/74; but seed cotton output increased
from 42,000 to 65,000 tons, while the groundnut crop fell only from 118,000
tons to 104,000 tons.
1.09      Agricultural producti.on increased substantially over the last
two Vears as a result of good rainfall and higher producer prices for cash
and food crops. Total rainfalt was above average in 1974/75 and average but
well distributed in 1975/76. Production of cereals, including paddy, is
estimated to have risen to 1.15 million tons in 1974/75 and 1.2 million tons
in 1975/76. Cotton and groundnut crops in 1975/76 reached the unprecedented
level of 103,000 and 200,000 tons respectively.
D.   Pricing, Marketing and Subsidies
1.10      The agricultural sector in Mali is subjected to fairly extensive
price regulation.  Prices of cereals, cash crops and agricultural inputs are
set by the Government. In addition, taxes are levied on cotton and ground-
nuts, the main export crops.  Price management of agricultural commodities
is intended to restrai.n the rise in prices of essential consumer goods and
to provide farmers with incentives to use i.mproved inputs. Producer prices
of foodgrains and prices of essential imported foodstuffs are usually set
at tow or subsi.dized levels, while farmers are compensated through subsi-
dization of inputs. Producer prices of cereals and export crops for the
crop year are specifi.ed, along with taxes and levies as well as marketing
and handling charges, in commodity price schedules known as the "baremes".
The system of administered prices functions essenti.ally through Offi.ce des
Produits Agricoles du Mali (OPAM), Societe Malienne d'Import Export (SOMIEX),
and Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural (SCAER), the state



trading enterprises handling domestie and foreign trade in agricultural
commodities. The cost of the subsidies provided to consumers and farmers
is met in various ways: taxes on, and profits from, exports of cotton and
groundnuts, losses incurred by the three state trading enterprises and (some-
times) forei.gn grants.
1.11      SOMIEX is the monopoly importer and sole distributor of essential
commodities like cement, soap, flour, sugar, salt, milk and tea. It is also
the monopoly exporter of a number of agricultural commodities, particularly
groundnuts and cotton. In terms of turnover, which reached MF 32.7 billion
(US$73 million) in 1974, it is the largest state-owned enterprise in Malî.
The size and diversity of its trading operations have enabled SOMIEX to sub-
sidize, in keeping with Government's price policy, consumer goods of prime
necessity other than foodgrains. The losses incurred in sales of consumer
goods at prices set by the Government have been financed through profits
realized from cotton and groundnut exports.
1.12      Retail prices of imported consumer goods were raised from time
to time but not adequately enough to cover costs. But as the price schedules
for cotton and groundnuts were only partially adjusted in response to sharply
rising world prices, SOMIEX made substantial profits from export operations.
However, in 1975/76 the world market demand for cotton and groundnuts softened
and there was a sharp drop in international prices of these commodities. As
the fall in export prices coincided with a substantial increase in production,
SOMIEX had difficulty in exporting cotton and accummulated unsold stocks, and
the Government also allowed private traders to export cottonseed during
1975/76 as a temporary measure.
1.13      For the first time since it completely took over cotton exports
in 1972/73 SOMIEX is faced with the problem of dealing with large quantities
of cotton. Until 1975 export marketing was comparatively easy because of
buoyant market conditions and lower cotton production. But, in the present
altered supply market situation SOMIEX cotton export operations are less
successful because it lacks the flexibility needed to function efficiently
under these conditions.
1.14      OPAI has been vested with the monopoly of domestic and foreign
trade in cereals, at prices fixed by Government. However, OPAM has not been
able to fully enforce its monopoly in the domestic market; it handles somewhat
over half of the marketed surplus of paddy and a much smaller proportion of
the marketed surplus of coarse grains. Two factors are mainlv responsible
for limiting OPAI's monopoly: rigid and often unrealistic pricing of cereals
and its own inability to handle large grain surpluses. UsualLy the producer
price is too low in relation to the size of the crop, or the total availabil-
ity of cereals, for OPAM to acquire sufficient stocks for year-round sales.
And it lacks adequate storage capacity for rational handling of stocks in
periods of plenty. Private trading, although illegal, is tolerated and a dual
price system operates in the cereal market.



- 5 -
1.15      The disruptive effects of price rigidity and OPAM's inability to
cope with a changing market situation became manifest in the immediate post-
drought period. During 1973 and 1974 OPAM imported sizeable amounts of
cereals while additional supplies were donated by various countries and in-
ternational organizations as emergency relief. Consequently, cereal imports
went up from 64,000 tons in 1972 to 235,000 tons in 1974. Also, official
producer prices of cereals were raised by 60 percent in 1974 in order to
encourage production. As delayed imports continued to arrive even after the
bumper 1975/76 crop was harvested, OPAN ended up with an unintended accumula-
tion of stocks. The secondary market price, which earlier used to be much
higher, came down to the same level as the official price at the beginning of
1976, and sometimes even fell below it. Stocks could not be reduced without
further adding to the substantial losses incurred durîng drought years by
selling high cost imported cereals at low fixed prices, nor was OPAM iïn a
position to buy all the cereal offered at the high producer price because of
lack of storage space and finances.
1.16      Clearly, both cereal pricing and OPAM1s operations need to be
basically altered. An IDA-financed study of cereals marketing in l1ali has
just been completed under the Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit
491-MLI). A recommendation of the study is that OPAM should intervene in the
cereal market in order to dampen interseasonal (and eventually inter-annual)
fluctuations in prices and availability. The purchase price as well as the
quantities purchased should depend on the crop situation, and selling prices
should be high enough to avoid losses or the risk of running out of stock.
This implies that Government should allow a freer market for cereals marketing,
and that O)PAl should be provided with additional storage facilities.
1.17      Subsidies on agricultural inputs have been progressively reduced
and now only fertilizers and insecticides are subsidized to the extent of
32% and 55% of their respective eosts delivered to farmers.  In 1974/75
subsidies amounted to 25%, 62% and 66% for implements, fertilizers and
insecticides respectiveiy. These subsidies are low compared to other countries
in the region and more than offset bv levies and taxes on cotton and groundnuts.
Nevertheless because of budgetary difficulties Government proposes to further
reduce and eventually eliminate all subsidies: this will not affect farmers'
use of inputs as the benefits of these inputs have been demonstrated and
producer prices for cash crops have been increased sufficiently (by 50%
for cotton and 33% for groundnuts) to allow farmers to bear the full cost of
inputs.
E. Agricultural Institutions
1.18      Area specific projects known as "Operations de Developpement Rural"
are the main support organization units on which Mali relies for the impLementa-
tion of agricultural development programs. Set up as administrative units and
functioning under the general supervision of the Ministry of Rural Development,



thev enjoy considerable managerial and financial autonomy. The Operations
distribute inputs to farmers on behalf of SCAER and provide them with credit,
training, extension services and marketing facilities. The organization
,and provision of support services follows an integrated development approach;
while each operation concentrates on a particular product, like groundnuts,
cotton or rice, all of them are responsible for the general agricultural
development, including improvement of coarse grain cultivation, in their
respective areas. There are 16 operations at present, all of them organized
similarly. Financed adequately by foreign donors, they are generally well
managed and have been fairly successful in implementing the development
prograns assigned to them.
1.19      Compagnie MIalienne pour le Developpement des Textiles (CMDT) is
such an "Operation".  It was created in 1974 to take over the activities of
Compagni.e Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT), which
had successfultv developed cotton cultivation in the so-called Mali-Sud area
since 1947. CUDT in',erited much of the staff, the organization and the momen-
tum of cotton de'eLopment left by CFDT.  Since CMDT's creation in 1974 seed
.otton productioPn iurther increased from 60,000 tons to 103,000 tons in
1975/76.  CDtT's activities, however, risk being seriously affected if its
finances are ncL strengtnened and if it is unable to provide cotton farmers
with an adequate supply of agricultural equipment and inputs.
1.20      The weakness of CMDT's finances stems from its own undercapitali-
zation, HIF 200 million only (US$0.4 million), owned 60% by Government and
40° by CFDT, and the difficulties experienced by SOMIEX in exporting cotton
lint. It is estimated that SOMIEX owes CMDT some MF 5-6 billion (US$10-13
million) for lint sold by CMDT to SOMIEX, or for which SOMIEX should have
taken delivery. Government agreed at negotiations on a number of measures
which should restore CHDT's financial position, specifically on the need for
the "3aremes" to acequately cover expected costs, on an increase in CMDT share
capital, and on trie payment to CMDT of the arrears due to CMDT.
1.21      Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural (SCAER) is the
sole purchaser of agricultural equipment and other inputs it sells to far-
mers participating in the various "Operations". The difference between
the purchase and sales price is supposed to be covered by a levy collected
through the "bareme" for cotton and groundnuts and by external funds. Since
external finance for financing agricultural credit has stopped, SCAER is
experiencing cash shortfalls which were MF 617 million (US$1.4 million)
in 1974/75 and are expected to reach MF 500 million (US$1.1 million) in
1975/76.  Consequently SCAER has been unable to purchase alî inputs and
equipment requested by farmers for 1975/76. Government is aware of the problem
and is considering a number of alternatives to reorganize SCAER and the input
procurement function in general. Among the alternatives studied are the
transformation of SCAER into a department within the tlinistry of Rural Develop-
ment which would specialize in the procurement of inputs, and also the decen-
tralization of proctirement and the transfer of this function to the various
"Operations de Developpement Rurni". At negotiations Covernment agreed to



- 7 -
review the situati.on after one year of project i.mplementation, and to take
measures satisfactory to IDA if the present arrangements were judged to be
unsatisfactory.  As inputs are still subsi.dized, the subsidy for inputs would
be covered by an entry in the "bareme" for cotton lint.
F. Agricultural Strategy
1.22      The development strategy adopted by Government accords high
pri.ori.ty to agriculture. Mlajor objectives of the five-year economie
and social development plan launched in 1974 are:
(a)  to achieve self-sufficiency in food;
(b)  to generate adequate supplies of agricultural raw
materials for processing; and
(c) to ensure increasing surpluses of primary products
for exports.
Government intends to meet objective (a) through heavy investments in
irrigation projects for paddy production. However this objective was
conceived during the drought years and does not take sufficient account
of the high cost of irrigati.on, the traditional consumption pattern which
prefers the cheaper coarse grains (mi.llet and sorghum) to ri-ce, or Mali's
favored position for rai.nfed agri.culture for whi.ch i.t has ample potential:
indeed Mali has already reattained self-suffi.ciency in cereals and this
could be maintained in the long-run by the development of millet and sorghum
under rainfed conditi.ons coupled wi.th grai.n storage facilities.  Objectives
(b) and (c) would be met by the development of livestock, groundnuts and as
proposed here of cotton for exports.
1.23      Export prospects for ri.ce surpluses do not seem to be very encour-
aging at the present ti.me, and emphasis on investments for the development of
rice under irrigated cultivation should be lessened until such prospects are
more clearly ascertai.ned. This is extremely important for the future of Mali
because the potential for irrigati.on is huge, bei.ng estimated at sli.ghtly more
than 1 mi-llion hectares by year 2000.



- 8 -
II. PROJECT AREA
A. General
2.01      The project area, Mali-Sud, extends over three administrative
regions, between latitude 140 north and the borders with Upper Volta and
Ivory Coast.  With 96,000 km , Mali-Sud covers 8% of Mali's total area and
33% of its area under rainfed cultivation.
2.02      Mali-Sud's population of 1.5 million represents one quarter of
the country's total population; 96% is classified as rural, the rest live
in medium-sized towns (map). There are some 140,000 farm families who are
sedentary and belong to the following tribes: Bambaras and Bobos in the
north, Senoufos and Miniankas in the south. They are keen farmers, but the
reiatively low population pressure on the land (average 15 inhabitants per
km ) is a constraint for the area to reach its full agricultural potential.
2.03      Climate and soils are suitable for the cultivation of a variety
of crops. The climate, Sahelo-Sudanian in the north, becoming Sudano-
Guinean in the south, is characterized by average yearly rainfall increas-
ing from 700 mm in the north to 1,400 mm in the south, and a six-month rainy
season from May to October.  Temperature varies between 260 and 310 C.  This
climate is particularly favorable to rainfed cotton.
2.04      Soils are of the ferruginous type becoming lateritic crusts on
hills, and except in the bottomlands, where they are hydromorphic clays
necessitating mechanized deep-ploughing, are light and easy to cultivate.
They are suitable for millet, sorghum, maize, cotton, yams and fodder crops.
The natural vegetation is savanna with the main species being Parkia big-
lobosa, Butyzospermum parkii, Acacia albida, Tamarindus indica, and
Adansonia digitata.
2.05      Land Tenure System.  Farmers have no official title-to their
land but they receive their right of usufruct from the local traditional
chiefs and they have adequate security of tenure. The size of holdings
varies essentially with the size of the families and the number of male
adults in the family. A family of eleven people including three adult
men, which seems to be the average family size in the area, would culti-
vate some 6 hectares, 1.5 hectares of which would be under cotton and
the rest under cereals.
2.06      Mali-Sud's internal road network is thin and in an uneven state
of repair. There are some 720 km of major agricultural tracks (categories
A and B) under the responsibility of the Public Works Department (PWD).



- 9 -
These tracks are being improved with FAC and IDA financing under the First
and Third Highway Projects. There are in addition some 3,500 km of farm-to-
market agricultural tracks (categories C and D), under the responsibility of
the local communities. Not least due to lack of finances, the latter tracks
are poorly maintained and usually impassable during the rainy season, and if
passable during the dry season, at a high repair cost.
2.07      Health.  The health situation in Mali-Sud is characterized by the
existence of the traditional endemic diseases (onchocerciasis, malaria,
schistosomiasis, leprosy, trypanosomiasis) and the more recent development
of tuberculosis and venereal diseases, high death rates of women and infants
in childbirth, and the inadequacy of health services especially in rural
areas. Mali-Sud has two doctors for a population exceeding one million, and
the regional health budget of MF 45 million is spent as follows: MF 26 million
for urban services (MF 327 per capita) and MF 19 million for rural services
(MF 23 per capita). Mali-Sud is equipped with 56 rural dispensaries and 103
rural maternities, and each "arrondissement" has a limited stock of medicines
administered by the Federation des Groupements Ruraux (FGR).
2.08      The number of people affected by onchocerciasis is estimated at
150,000. The first disease control program was initiated under FED financing
in the eastern part of the district of Sikasso during the period 1966-72. The
second vector control program under the direction of the World Health Organi-
zation (WHO) started in December 1974 and since the beginning of 1976 covers
the entire area infested by riverblindness, including the following valleys:
Banifing, Baoule, Bagoe, Ouassoulou and lower Faya, all in Mali-Sud. The
program is progressing satisfactorily.
B. Past Agricultural Development
2.09      Given its favored climatic conditions, Mali-Sud is certainly the
area of Mali with the greatest natural potential for rainfed agricultural
development. The remarkable results achieved so far namely in the develop-
ment of cotton and kenaf productions were due in large part to heavy invest-
ments by foreign aid donors and Government. Although such investments have
not been totalled up, it can be estimated that some US$40 million were in-
vested in cotton development over the period 1964/65-1974/75, 15% of which in
technical assistance financed by Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), 50% in
ginneries financed by Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and the
rest in local staff and agricultural credit financed locally. The correspond-
ing increase in seed cotton production was some 40,000 tons. Investments in
kenaf and rice development can be estimated at about US$4 million each. Fonds
Europeen de Developpement (FED) provided the foreign aid assistance for such
programs.



- 10 -
2.10      Cotton Development.  Early priority was given in Mali-Sud to the
development of cotton, which has been grown there for several centuries.
New industrial varieties were introduced around 1970 with the creation of
the N'Tarla research station (para 2-.16). CFDT was entrusted with the
development of rainfed cotton in 1952. CFDT's strategy was the progressive
coverage of all farmers growing cotton and the intensification of extension
services in order to achieve the highest possible acceptance of improved
cultivation methods, as shown below:
Total                                   Area with
Production       Total       Average       at least 3
of Seed     Cultivated    Yield          Insecticide       Area
Cotton          Area        kg/ha        Treatments    Fertilized
1964/1965  21,800 tons   67,600 ha         322           10%             6%
1969/1970  41,200 tons   68,900 ha         598           54%            35%
1974/1975  60,100 tons   68,100 ha         883           91%            70%
In 1975/76 as a result of the expansion of extension services to new areas,
the increase in producer prices, and the end of the drought, the area under
cultivation increased 28% to 87,400 ha, and because of exceptional weather
conditions seed cotton production increased more than 70% to 103,000 tons.
Long-term constraints to further expansion of cotton production are financial
and human. Heavy investment in extension staff and equipment is necessary to
start and intensify cotton cultivation in new areas, and although there is
much land suitable for cotton cultivation available in the new areas, the
population there is very low.
2.11      At first CFDT concentrated exclusively on the promotion of cotton,
but began diversifying in 1967 in response to farmers' needs. The first
test of diversification (1967-70) was a project to integrate farming systems
around Fana, where.cotton growing was most advanced. The objectives were to
increase cotton and food crop production, integrate a livestock development
program, intensify the use of agricultural equipment, and demarcate farmers'
fields, and study the hired labor pattern. The project was most successful
and gave CFDT the experience necessary to embark on other diversification
projects.
2.12      Kenaf Development.  Kenaf is grown traditionally in small plots
around the villages, generally in association with red pepper, receiving
organic fertilizer from the household. The kenaf development program which
started in 1967 aimed at cultivation of kenaf on open land far from the
villages where plenty of land was available and all improved techniques could
be applied. The areas chosen were those where cotton growing was not possible
and where there was enough water for "retting" (soaking to separate the kenaf
fiber from the stem).



- il -
There are two distinct zones, a southern zone suitable for the cultivation
of the Hibiscus Sabdariffa variety (1,200-1,300 mm average yearly rain-
fall) and a northern zone suitable for Hibiscus Cannabinus (600-700 mm).
In 1975/76 the areas cultivated in the two zones were as follows:
North     South      Total
Number of participating villages                 280        507        787
Number of farmers                              5,582      4,975    10,557
Total area (ha)                                  935      1,056      1,991
Area per farmer (ha)                            0.17       0.21       0.19
Over the last three years, expansion in the northern zone has been faster
than in the southern zone. Since its inception, the kenaf development pro-
gram has progressed as follows:
Area
Total     Average    with                     Area
Total       Area        Yield   Improved        Area       per
.Production   Cultivated  kj,,/ha   Varieties  Fertilized  Farmer
1968/1969       23 tons        76 ha     298        0%           0        0.06 ha
1971/1972     430 tons        636 ha     676       62%          20%       0.10 ha
1974/1975   1,131 tons    1,575 ha       718       79%          71%       0.17 ha
Further progress will be limited by the fact that kenaf is a highly labor-
intensive crop, and that the area cultivated by an individual farmer is
unlikely to exceed 0.20-0.25 ha.
2.13      Sorghum, Millet and Maize Development.  Basic improved cultivation
methods used for cotton were progressively adopted by farmers for cereal cul-
tivation (timipg of operations, row seeding), but it was only in 1970 that
the extension staff started paying attention to the cereals grown by cotton
farmers, and that specific improved techniques were recommended (seed dress-
ing, improved seeds, land preparation and ploughing, fertilizer applications).
In 1974/75 the situation was as follows:



- 12 -
Millet-Sorghum        Maize
Total area                          450,000 ha           56,000 ha
Improved varieties                   25,000 ou.a          6,500 ha
Ploughed area                         12,000 ha           5,700 ha
Fertilized area                       7,400 ha            3,500 ha
Improved area yield                     880 kg/ha         1,600 kg/ha
Unimproved area yield                    670 kg/ha        1,150 kg/ha
Mali-Sud production of millet and sorghum was estimated at some 320,000
tons in 1974/75 (50% of Mali's total production), and production of maize
at some 67,000 tons (75% of Mali's total production). Net surpluses after
farmers' own consumption were estimated at 150,000 tons for millet and
sorghum, and 15,000 tons for maize in 1974/75. Mali-Sud is therefore the
area of Mali with the largest cereals production.
2.14      Rice Development.  An exhaustive study of Mali-Sud's potential
for rice development was conducted between 1970 and 1971. It showed the
total area suitable for rice development to be about 200,000 ha, of which
11,000 ha were being cultivated in the traditional way by men under rainfed
conditions and by women in bottomlands after transplanting. The studv
led to a FED project, the "Operation Riz Sikasso", intended to develop some
2,500 ha by 1974, later extended to 1977. The project was placed under
CFDT's responsibility in 1972. The objective of the project was the adop-
tion of improved techniques by farmers (improved varieties, ox-drawn culti-
vation, row seeding, and use of fertilizer), and the improvement of bottom-
lands by the construction of simple works to provide water at the end of
the growing cycle, especially at the time of flowering when lack of water
results in lower yields. The project was successful in developing bottom-
lands: some 3,200 ha of bottomlands had been improved by 1975. Adoption of
improved methods by farmers, however, has lagged considerably. Strengthening
of services to farmers (extension, credit, and especially marketing and
processing) as provided under the proposed project, should increase farmer
interest for rice growing, and therefore result in higher rates of acceptance
of improved cultivation techniques.
2.15      Livestock Development among the farmers of Mali-Sud has not received
much attention until recently, except in two areas: around Fana, where the
integration of agricultural and livestock systems has been studied, and around
Yanfolila, which is the center of a FED-financed project of cattle breeding
improvement. The fast increase in the number of farmers using draft-oxen, the



- 13 -
over-grazing of the natural pastures, and the large livestock production
potential based on crop by-products are reasons to give livestock develop-
ment higher priority in the future. The number of cattle in Mali-Sud is
estimated at 1 million, with some 100,000 oxen used as draft animals.
2.16      Research.  The success achieved in the past especially in cotton
and kenaf development is due to a great extent to the varietal and adaptive
research carried out in Mali-Sud. At the national level, research is the
responsibility of Institut d'Economie Rurale (IER), but the research pro-
grams are elaborated jointly by IER and CMDT, and carried out under the
supervision of CMDT, with the assistance of IRCT for cotton and kenaf and of
the Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures Vivrieres
(IRAT) for cereals.
2.17      Research on cotton and kenaf is organized as follows:  the main
research station is at N'Tarla, close to Koutiala, and there are six sub-
stations and ten field trial stations. General applied research is done
at the main station. The substations test varieties, fertilizers, insec-
ticide applications, cultivation methods, crop yields, and the physical and
chemical evolution of soils under various crop rotations. The field trials
are conducted at the village level and apply research results under normal
farming conditions. Until now, only cotton and kenaf have been included in
these trials. Rice research is done at the main research station of Sotuba
close to the project area and, in the project area, at the substation PAR of
Longorola where work is primarily related to cultivation methods for rainfed
and swamp rice. Research on the other cereals, sorghum, millet and maize is
also done at Sotuba and, in the project area, at the substation of Sikasso.
2.18      Cotton Varietal Research has focused on the improvement of yields,
resistance to bacterial blight and improvement of the length and strength
of the fiber. Research developed the BJA SM 67, which is now the most com-
monly used variety; its characteristics are a ratio of lint to seed cotton
of 37.5% and an average staple length between 1-1/32" and 1-1/16". Varietal
research in glandless cotton started a few years ago, and once a variety
yielding as much as the BJA SM 67 is developed, it may well replace it,
because it would have a higher economic value, since glandless cottonseed
is edible while normal seed, which contains toxic elements, is not. Research
on cultivation methods determined that the proper compound fertilizer appli-
cation was: 200 kg/ha of NPKSB (14-23-14-5-2.5) to maximize yields and
to remedy the soils' long-term potassium deficiency; and that crop rotations
should include maize, groundnuts and one fallow year in four. Ultra low
volume (ULV) insecticide treatments have recently been introduced successfully
and should in time replace the more traditional treatments with knapsack
sprayers. Kenaf varietal research concentrated on varieties with proper
vegetative cycles and adequate resistance to anthrachnose (colletotrichum
hibisci). Applied research focused on chemical weeding, proper fertilizations,
and on the study of the impact of harvest timing, duration of retting on the
f iber quality.



- 14 -
2.19      Rice varietal research has produced a number of improved varieties
for rainfed and bottomland cultivation. Applied research has shown that
yields of rainfed rice respond significantly to phosphate treatments, but
there is no conclusive evidence so far that yields of bottomland rice respond
to fertilizer treatments. Research on sorghum, millet and maize has achieved
very little so far, not least because priority was given to applied research
on cash crops (groundnuts and cotton) and because emphasis was put on increas-
ing the yield potential of local varieties. Imports of selected materials
have started recently, chiefly from Zaria in Nigeria.
2.20      Processing Infrastructure.  CMDT operates eight cotton ginneries,
three of which are at Koutiala and the rest throughout Mali-Sud (see map).
There is only one ginnery in Sikasso, although the growth in cotton pro-
duction is occurring in this area. CMDT's total ginning capacity is 85,000
tons of seed cotton over a four-month period, or less than the 1975/76 pro-
duction. Processing in 1975/76 was made possible by stretching the ginning
time, thus increasing the risk of lint catching fire at the ginneries.
Storage facilities for seed cotton (23,000 m  in total, sufficient for about
20,000 tons) are presently adequate provided that lint exports are handled
effectively. The kenaf processing plant belongs to SOMASAC, a privately
owned corporation. It has a capacity of 3,500-3,700 tons of kenaf fiber.
It is located at San, just outside the project area. The rice mill closest
to Sikasso, around which most rice is produced, is 462 km to the north at
Sevare near Mopti.  There are no village rice mills in the Mali-Sud area as
rice milling by private traders has been discouraged by Government. Further
development of rice in Mali-Sud will require the construction of a rice mill
in Sikasso.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01      The project follows a number of foreign-assisted development pro-
grams aimed essentially at increasing the production of cash crops i,n the
Mali-Sud area (para 2.09). It integrates and coordinates the efforts of
the various foreign aid donors interested i.n the future development of Mali-
Sud, and seeks to build up from both a financial and organizational stand-
poi,nt an entity (CMDT) to carry out the proposed project and to ensure that
the project benefits are maintained after the project disbursement period.
Without the project, crop production in the more newly developed areas would
certainly decrease. The project covers the period May 31, 1976-December 31,
1980. Investments in the period after the establishment of CMDT between
January 1, 1975 and May 31, 1976 were agreed between CMDT, FAC and IDA, but
were financed exclusively by FAC. The project would include:
(a)  expanding cotton and kenaf production through the in-
tensification of improved methods used by farmers and
expansion of the area under cotton from about 87,000
to 135,000 ha, and under kenaf from 2,000 to 4,600 ha;
expanding maize and rice production, mainly through the
intensification of improved cultivation methods;
(b)  provi.di,ng project farmers with techni.cal advice, seed
multiplication facilities, applied research and credit
for the purchase of additi,onal new equi.pment and incre-
mental seasonal inputs;
(c)  improving animal husbandry of cotton farmers;
(d)  expandi,ng processing facili,ties wi.th the rehabilitatiaon
of one 10,000 ton gi,nnery and constructi,on of one 20,000
ton ginnery; improvement of kenaf retting ponds; con-
struction of a 3 ton/hour rice mill; provi,sion of stor-
age for inputs; procurement of 151 vehicles for CMDT;
and, improvement of agricultural tracks;
(e)  undertaki.ng studi.es for the future development of the areas
freed from onchocerciasis; and
(f)  expanding the health program.
(g)  training of CMDT staff, and of the rural population through
young farmers' and blacksmiths' trai.ning and a functi,onal
li.teracy program.



- 16 -
B. Detailed Features
The Planting Programs
3.02      The cotton planting program would be:
Table 3.1
Before                           Project Years
Project         1           2           3           4         5
1975/76     1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80   1980/81
Total cotton
area (ha)      87,350    107,000    113,000       120,000    127,000   135,000
Total cotton
f arming
families       59,400      72,800     76,800       81,600      86,400    91,800
The program is based on the assumptions that in the area suitable for cotton
cultivation covered by CMDT, the percentage of farm families growing cotton
would increase from 43% in 1975 to 46% of the total in 1980 and that the
cotton area per family would remain constant at about 1.5 ha. On this basis,
the total area under cotton would grow about 6% per year.
3.03      The kenaf planting program would be:
Table 3.2
Before                       Project Years
Project       1          2         3        - 4          5
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
Kenaf area (ha)
North               1,100      1,200      1,400      1,500    1,800      2,000
South                 900      1,200      1,400      1,800    2,100      2,600
Total            2,000      2,400      2,800     3,300    3,900       4,600
Kenaf farming
families            3,300      4,000      4,600     5,400    6,400       7,600



- 17 -
The assumptions used are that the number of families growing kenaf would
increase 15% per annum in the north and 25% in the south, with the area
cultivated per family remaining constant at 0.60 ha. The total kenaf area
would increase 20% per year, which is conservative compared to the histor-
ical growth rate of 35%.
3.04      The improved maize planting program would be:
Table 3.3
Before                         Project Years
Project       1         2          3          4         5
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
Total improved
maize area
(ha)              6,500     7,600      9,000      10,500   12,400    14,600
Total improved
maize farming
families         10,800    12,600    15,000       17,400   20,600    24,300
It has been assumed that the area under improved maize would grow at its his-
torical annual growth rate of 20%, and that the area cultivated per family
would remain constant at 0.60 ha. Farmers cultivating improved maize would
be advanced cotton growers. Maize cultivated in rotation with cotton would
profit from the residual effect of the fertilizers used.
3.05      The improved rice planting program would be:
Table 3.4
Before                       Project Years
Project      1         2          3       - 4          5
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
Hectares
Rainfed rice      3,200     3,800      4,400      5,200    6,100      7,200
Swamp rice          900        900     1,200      1,700    2,300      3,300
Klela scheme        -          300       400        500       700     1,100
Total             4,100     5,000      6,000      7,400    9,100    11,600
Rice farming families
Rainfed rice      1,100     1,300      1,500      1,800    2,100      2,500
Swamp rice        1,800     1,800      2,400      3,400    4,600      6,600
Klela scheme        -          600       800      1,000    1,400      2,200
Total             2,900     3,700      4,700      6,200    8,100    11,300



- 18 -
The rice program is relatively modest and consists essentially of improving
traditional rice cultivation for farmers' own consumption and for marketing
locally in the Mali-Sud area. The 1,100 ha Klela scheme is being constructed
with FED financing and should be completed by the end of 1976. It is planned
for rice double cropping and comprises a concrete dam across an important
perennial stream, the Lotio, a protection earth dike against the Lotio's
flood, and a complete distribution network. Rainfed rice would be developed
mainly in the south, where rainfall averages more than 800 mm over a four-
month period.  Most swamps have already been improved, but farmers have not
yet adopted improved cultivation methods to any great extent. Bottomland
improvements include simple works constructed mostly by the farmers themselves
under CMDT supervision. These works cost less than MF 100,000 per ha (about
US$200), and comprise inter alia 30-50 cm clay bunds around individual lots,
weirs in riverbeds which allow controlled flood irrigation, and earth dikes to
raise the general water level in the swamps. It is assumed that the area
cultivated would be three hectares per famiy under rainfed conditions and 0.5
ha per farm family under irrigation.
Improved Methods, Seed Multiplication, and Applied Research
3.06      All improved methods to be promoted under the project have been
extensively tested in the project area through the on-going programs. Such
improvements include: early planting, appropriate spacing of 125,000-150,000
plant population per ha, sole cropping, high fertilizer application, basal
fertilizer dressings followed by nitrogen top dressing at the end of first
weeding four weeks after planting, two to three weedings and reridging, proper
insecticide applications, timely picking, etc. No really new methods would be
introduced as part of the project. Particular emphasis would, however, be
placed on the following cotton improved cultivation methods:
(a) Application of insecticides with Ultra low volume
(ULV) spraying equipment wherever wind conditions
permit. CMDT already experimented with ULV equipment
on some 100 ha in 1975/76 and was planning to increase
the area to 600 ha in 1976/77 and in future to pro-
gressively replace all knapsack spraying. Farmers'
response to ULV equipment has been good. They apprec-
iate the convenience of this method and in particular
the fact that they do not need to carry water over
long distances,
(b) As a result of the latest research on fertilizer
applications, fertilizer applications just after plant-
ing would increase from 150 kg/ha of compound fertilizer
to 200 kg/ha to be followed by 50 kg of urea at flowering,
and
(c) To profit from the residual impact of fertilizers used on
cotton, farmers would be encouraged to practice crop rota-
tions including maize in the south and groundnuts in the
north.



- 19 -
For the purpose of estimating production yield increases, the following
assumptions were made: the percentage of the area on which compound fertil-
izer would be used would increase from 73% to 84% of the total area under
cotton; and the percentage receiving urea would increase from 25% to 32% of
the area receiving compound fertili,zer.  The percentage of cotton land treated
more than three times with insecticides would i,ncrease from 79% at present to
90% by 1980. The resuilts are summarized below:
Table 3.5 Improved Methods for Cotton Culti,vation
Project Years
1        2          3         4         5
Hectares               1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81
Total cotton area              87,350  107,000  113,000  120,000  127,000  135,000
With compound fertili,zer    63,367   81,300   89,300   97,300  104,100  113,400
With urea                      15,535   18,700   22,000   26,000   30,900   36,700
With at least
three insecticide
treatments                  69,000   89,800   96,100   105,600 113,100  121,400
3.07       Cotton - seed multiplicati,on at all stages would continue to be
handled by CMDT.  The N'Tarla research station would perform the first bulking
stage from breeder seed to foundation seed, and the followi.ng stages from
foundation seed to certified seed would be done through registered farmers.
CMDT would continue to provide certified seeds to farmers at no charge as part
of its services, the cost of the seed multipli,cati.on program being borne by
CMDT under the "bareme" (para 6.02).
3.08       Cotton - Applied Research.  The project would finance the ongoing
cotton research. program (para 2.17) and the equipment and operation of the
fiber laboratory in Bamako and, in addi.ti,on, the construction of two stores
(600 m2 in total) and two houses at the N'Tarla research station. Varietal
research would focus on: (a) shorter cycle varieties parti,cularly suited for
the northern part of Mali--Sud whi,ch receives less than 800 mm of rain; (b)
varieties with better physical characteristics than the BJA SM 67 commonly
used (ratio of li-nt to seed cotton over 38%, staple length greater than
1-1/16 inch); and (c) oil-rich glandless types with more than 20% oi,l con-
tent in thei.r seed to make them as economi,cally profitable as the BJA SM 67.
Phytosanitary research would stress protection of glandless cotton, and
agronomic research chemi,cal weedi,ng, soil fertility, and efficiency of phos-
phate-based fertilizers and crop rotations.
3.09       Kenaf - Improved Methods would include staking out of individual
plots, adoption of ox-drawn cultivation, proper seedi,ng density, correct
ferti.lizer applications, use of i,mproved varieties, improvement of the fiber
qualiity by early cutting of the plant, and fast retting. As for cotton, all
methods have already been readily accepted by farmers.



- 20 -
3.10      Kenaf - seed multiplicati.on would be performed at the Dalabani
farm, near Sikasso, which would also perform the seed multiplication for
rice (para 3.13). The varieties most likely to be produced would be the
BG 52/38 and the Kenaf 129 (both Hi.biscus Cannabinus) for the northern
zone and THS 22 (Hibiscus sabdari.ffa) fer the southern zone.  The Dalabani
farm has been fully equipped by FED and no additional investment in plant
or equipment would be required. The cost of multi.plying kenaf seed is very
high, about MF 300/kg, and farmers would be unlikely to adopt rapi.dly the
use of improved seeds i.f they had to pay the full cost. In order to encourage
farmers to use improved kenaf seed, it is proposed that seed be subsi.dized
to MF 50/kg to farmers. The subsidy would be recovered through the "bareme"
for kenaf (para 6.02). Kenaf research: the project would continue fi.nancing
the appli.ed research program carried out at N'Tarla station (para 2.18).
3.11      Mai.ze - improved methods would include use of i.mported varieti.es
(from Nigeri.a especially), proper seeding density, sole cropping, seed dress-
i.ng and 150 kg/ha fertilizer application. The project would make a contribu-
tion to the recently started program of applied research for maize by financ-
ing five man-years of expatriate technical assistance in plant breeding.
The expert would be based at the main research station for cereals, Sotuba,
and would operate through a substati.on in the project area. It is also
possible that the new OAV/USAID joint cereal project 26 would finance a Malian
expert to conduct comparati.ve trials for millet, sorghum and maize. Both
expatriate and Malian experts would work jointly on maize research. The
Mali.an expert would be under the general supervision of the International
Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT). It is proposed
that the expatri.ate expert financed by IDA be recruited by ICRISAT's affiliate,
the Internati.onal Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), which deals inter
ali.a with maize in West Africa.
3.12      Rice - i.mproved methods would include use of the varieties multi-
plied at the Dalabani. farm, proper density, seed dressing and in the case of
the upland rice, basal application of ni.trogen and phosphorus followed by
nitrogen top dressing at the booting stage. CMDT would strengthen its rice
extension services, which are speci.fic and separate from cotton extension, and
expand its mechanized section, enabling it to perform deep ploughi.ng on swamps
under development, first to open the land for cultivation, i.e., in the Klela
scheme, and every subsequent five years to break the "pan" whi.ch develops
under permanent cultivation. The mechanized section owns three large tractors
wi.th attachments, including disc harrows. The project would finance four new
tractors with equi.pment. This is based on the local experience that one
tractor cannot plough much more than 380 ha yearly. The estimated cost of
deep ploughi.ng i.s MF 17,000/ha. To interest farmers to use this service,
which is relatively new to them, it must be subsidized about 25% of the
estimated cost at MF 12,500/ha. The subsidy would be recovered through the
ri.ce "bareme" (para 6.02).
3.13      Rice - Seed Multipli.cation.  Until 1975 improved varieties were
multi.pli.ed by pilot farmers. This arrangement was not satisfactory, since
these farmers kept about 70% of the seed for themselves. Starting in 1976



- 21 -
the Dalabani farm wi.ll provide all improved seed. The farm will expand
from 25 ha at present to 50 ha, and wiil produce some 200 tons of improved
seed annually under double cropping. The varieties most likely to be pro-
duced are the Segadis and C.74 for swamps and the Dourado for rainfed cul-
tivation.  Improved seeds will be sold at cost to farmers.
3.14      Rice - Research.  The project would finance the applied research
program carried out in the project area. The program would focus on trials
of varieties showing good resistance to fungus disease and, for rainfed
types, drought resistance and short vegetative cycles.  Fertilizer trials
(urea and ammonium phosphate) would be limited to swamp rice.
Farm Inputs - Procurement, Distribution and Credit Procedures
3.15      At present, SCAER is responsible for the procurement of i.nputs
at the national level, and for implementing Government policy as regards
prices of inputs to farmers and credit terms for time purchases. In practice
SCAER's activities are limited to the bulk purchase of equipment, fertilizers,
and i.nsecticides for distribution by the various "Operati.ons". In Mali-Sud,
CMDT delivers inputs, collects payments and administers farmers' credit
accounts on behalf of SCAER. Although the credit record of CMDT farmers has
been very good, with repayments averaging 98% of outstandi.ng loans over the
years, SCAER's financial difficulties are such that it i.s not able to procure
all equipment and inputs required by farmers (para 1.21). These finan-
cial difficulties are caused by inadequate funding by Government of input
subsidies and to some extent by bad credit repayments in a number of other
"Operations".  Government is aware of the inadequacy of the present arrange-
ments and is considering a major reform of SCAER and of agricultural input
procurement. Among the alternatives considered are first, the conversion of
SCAER into a procurement department within the Mini.stry of Rural Development,
and also the decentralization of the input procurement functi.on to make each
"Operation" responsible for i.ts own procurement. Assurances were obtained
that if, after one year of project implementation, provision of agricultural
equipment and inputs to farmers is unsatisfactory, Government and IDA would
agree on measures satisfactory to IDA to remedy the situation. These measures
do not exclude the procurement of inputs by CMDT itself.
3.16      The following table summari.zes total new agricultural equipment
and input requirements over the project period.



- 22 -
Table 3.6 Agricultural Equipment
(Additional Units)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81
Multipurpose toolbars            4,100    3,200    3,400    3,500    3,600
Ploughs                          1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500
Hoes                               200       300       300      400       400
Seeders                            700    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
Carts                             1,900   1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900
Sprayers                          1,600      600    1,100       600       800
Compound fertilizer (t)           2,455   5,170    1,360        890    1,400
Urea (t)                            350      240       360       280      280
Insecticides (1,000 1)               40       50        90       50        70
New agricultural equipment requiremnents have been estimated on the basis of
the increase in the area under improved cultivation and take into account
the positive farmers' response to the purchase of multipurpose toolbars.
Fertilizer and insecticide requirements are based on the assumed rates of
accceptance of improved methods.
3.17      A revolving fund of some MF 6.7 billion (US$13.7 million) would
be operated under the project for the purchase of farm inputs. This revolvi.ng
fund would comprise some MF 2.2 billion (US$4.5 million) financed by the
project foreign aid donors and passed on by Government, MF 2.6 billion (US$5.3
million) financed by participating farmers as down payments and reimbursement
for medium term credit, and MF 1.9 billion (US$3.9 million) as short term
overdraft facilities from the local banks, particularly Banque de Developpement
du Mali (BDM). BDM serves as an intermediary with the Central Bank for
rediscounting overdraft facilities and charges 1.5% on top of the Central Bank
rediscount rate, whi.ch currently is 5.5%. Credit would be provi.ded to only
those farmers approved by the extension staff according to the established
criteria of farmer's family and farm si.zes, standing in the community, and the
area the farmer plans to cultivate under the various crops. Interest plus
service charges for goods purchased on deferred payments would result in a
differential of 10% above cash prices. This reflects the cost of borrowi.ng by
CMDT, bad debts and the additional cost of administration. A discount would
be made for early repayments. Loans for agricultural equipment would carry a
10% interest, would be repaid over 3 years and would require down payments of



- 23 -
at least 30%. Insecticides and fertilizers are subsidized (para. 1.17). The
subsidy would be recovered through the "bareme" for lint (paras. 6.06 and
6.15). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that CMDT farmers' repayments
would be kept in a revolving fund for the sole use of CMDT farmers.
3.18      The livestock subproject would be limited to the improvement of
the animal husbandry practices of the cotton farmers under supervision by
CMDT extension services; a comprehensive livestock development program in
the Mali-Sud area would be the subject of "Operation de Developpement de
l'Elevage au Mali-Sud", presently under preparation.   The subproject
would include the training of farmers in the following activities: use of
draft oxen, stall fattening, construction of enclosures for manure collec-
tion, improved cattle feeding through rational use of natural pastures,
controlled burning, cultivation of fodder crops and use of crop by-products
(groundnut hay, cowpea leaves, rice straw and cotton seed). Farmers would
also be encouraged to introduce routine drenching and tick control. Vacci-
nation against rinderpest and pleuropneumonia would remain the responsibiity
of the livestock services of the Ministere du Developpement Rural. The
subproject would be implemented by CMDT through 22 agents seconded from the
livestock services to CMDT. The project would finance the staff salaries of
these agents, 45 vaccination yards, four four-wheel drive vehicles, four
refrigerators and would equip each agent with a basic kit. It would also
finance an initial stock of vaccines and mineral licks which would be sold to
farmers at cost and for cash. Repayments by farmers would be kept in a
revolving fund administered by CMDT. The livestock program is summarized in
the following table:
Table 3.7   Livestock Program
1976/77     1977/78      1978/79      1979/80
Staff seconded to CMDT                    8           17          21           22
Total livestock
supervised by CMDT               200,000      300,000      350,000      400,000
Draft animals                      100,000      112,500      122,500      132,500
Other livestock                    100,000      187,500      227,500      267,500
Stall fattening                         150         500        1,500        3,500
Processing, Building, Vehicles, Tracks
3.19      Cotton ginneries.  The project includes only the additional ginning
capacity urgently required, estimated at some 30,000 tons of seed cotton. This
would bring the total ginning capacity of the country to 115,000 tons of seed



- 24 -
cotton over a 4-month period, enough to process the estimated seed cotton
production of 120,000 tons by 1978/79. Any additional ginning capacity
beyond the 30,000 tons financed under the project could be financed by
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), which has stated its
interest to do so, and has already financed all existing ginneries in
Mali. The 30,000 ton increase in plant capacity would be achieved by the
rehabilitation of a 10,000 ton ginnery at Nio Nio in Bougouni district,
which needs new machinery, and the construction of a new ginnery (20,000
tons), at Sikasso where cotton production is growing fastest. Th2 build-
ings of the new Sikasso ginnery would be made large enough (990 m ) to
house the equipment of the existing Sikasso ginnery which is now in un-
suitable buildings. Both Bougouni and Sikasso plants would have their
own generating units. The Bougouni ginnery would be rehabilitated under
the technical supervision of CFDT, whose technical assistance contract
with CMDT covers this possibility. The Skiasso ginnery could be built on a
turn-key contract. As the Bougouni ginnery must be rehabilitated in 1976, and
CCCE has committed all funds for Mali in 1976, rehabilitation of the Bougouni
ginnery would be financed by the Mali Government.  The new ginnery at Sikasso,
to be built in 1977, would be financed by CCCE.
3.20      Improvement of Retting.  Retting (para 2.12) is labor-intensive
and water-consuming. A farmer with a 0.20 ha holding, which is the aver-
age size per male adult, spends about 70 man-days per year transporting
his crop to the water hole and retting it. It is not unusual for farmers
to transport kenaf 25-30 km to sufficiently large streams or water holes
for retting. Further development of kenaf cultivation requires improvement
of existing water holes and digging of new ones. A map of proposed sites
exists. The project would finance the equipment and operating expenses of
a team to do such work. The team would be headed by a rural engineer and
equipped with one pick-up, two 5-ton tippers, one fore-end loader and some
topographical equipment.
3.21      Rice Mill.  Further development of rice cultivation in Mali-Sud
depends on the construction of a rice mill in Sikasso (para 2.20). The
project includes such a mill to be operated by CMDT. It would have a
3-ton/hour capacity and, assuming it operates 200 days a year at 16 hours
daily, could process 10,000 tons of paddy yearly, or 40% of the estimated
total production of project farmers in 1980/81. The mill would comprise
two shelling units, one with parboiling equipment (one ton/hour) and one
without (two tons/hour); parboiled and regular rice are both consumed in
the area. The rice mill would be equipped with a power generating unit
and storage facilities (5,000 tons). The project would also finance the
equipment of paddy purchasing teams with one pick-up truck and one scale
each. There is already one such team, and four new teams would be equipped,
on the assumption that each team buys 2,000 tons of paddy annually. Finally,
the project would finance six trucks for the transport of paddy and milled
rice.



- 25 -
3.22      Buildings and Housing.  In addition to the buildings required for
the new ginnery, the rice mill and the expansion of the N'Tarla research
station, a number of stores and houses would be built under2the projeci.  The
objective would be to equip most ZER and sectors with 200 m and 400 m
storage2space respectively, to store inputs, and each CMDT "region" with
1,200 m storage space to store cotton lint. Thirty such ZER stores, six
sector stores and four "region" stores would be financed under the project.2
The Koutiala ginning complex would be expanded by conftruction of a 1,200 m
garage, a 1,200 m input store and new offices (400 m ). All new sector
chiefs would be housed, requiring the construction of eleven junior-staff-
type houses. No housing would be provided for extension staff below the
rank of sector chief. ZER chiefs would be provided with housing allowances
financed under the project. Six houses would be provided for the administra-
tive staff in Bamako, and CMDT offices in Bamako would be expanded.
3.23      Vehicles.  A total of 151 new vehicles for CMDT would be financed
under the project. This excludes any replacement of existing vehicles (256)
owned by CMDT. The breakdown of the number of new vehicles would be as fol-
lows:



Table 3.8                                         VelIic.1e:~ 1i"inanced Tnder the Projeet
Pick-ups                                                        2.5-ton I5-ton
& Light  5-ton  15-ton F`ore-end             50/65-HP 1()(-HP   Tipper  Tipper
Vehicles Trucks Trucks Loaders  Trailers Tractors Tractors Trucks  Trucks  TCTAL
Management, research, training
services                            9                                                                                9
Fxtension services                     6                                                                                 6
Purchasing teams
Cotton                                      19                                                                      19
Rice                                4                                                                                4
Kenaf                               1                                                                                1
Crop transport
Cotton                                              44                 33                                           77
Rice                                                 ô                                                               6
Rice mil]. operations                  2                                                                                 2
Plant services
Cotton ginneries                                                                 7                                   7
Rice mil].                                                              2        2                                   4
Rice mechanized section                          h                                            }                          8
Kenaf retting improvement              1                        1                                               2       4
Track maintenance                                                                                      4                4
TOTAL                             23        23      50       1         35        9        4        ù        2      151



- 27 -
Forty-four 15-ton trucks would be fitted out specifically for the trans-
port of seed cotton. Transport requirements have been estimated on the
basis of 700 tons of seed cotton per 15-ton truck annually, and transport
requirements of paddy at 1,700 tons per 15-ton truck annually. The transport
of kenaf would be undertaken by SOMASAC. Although it probably would be
possible for CMDT to contract with specialized transporters for the transport
of seed cotton and paddy, it is proposed otherwise for the following reasons:
(a) CMDT already transports seed cotton to the ginneries; (b) smooth proc-
essing at the ginneries and at the rice mill will depend upon reliable and
efficient transportation; this may not be ensured if CMDT does not have its
own vehicles; and (c) the national transport sector study now being carried
out will most likely show that transporters can hardly cope with present
transport demand, and would have to purchase additional vehicles for the
transport of the project-induced crops.
3.24      Agricultural Track Improvement.  The project would finance spot
improvements of the farm-to-market agricultural tracks (tracks in categor-
ies C and D) which fall under the responsibility of the local communities,
to make it possible for the 15-ton trucks used by CMDT for the collection
and transport of seed cotton to use the roads during the marketing season
(October-November), and later for the distribution of agricultural supplies.
Manual works, essentially to upgrade the drainage system by laying addi-
tional pipes and constructing small fords, would be carried out on force
account by CMDT with four crews located in four of the main CMDT agri-
cultural regions. Each crew would report to the head of the region and
would be staffed with one foreman and about fifteen laborers, and would
be equipped with a dump truck and some basic tools (shovels, picks, axes).
Mechanized works (reshaping, gravelling or digging ditches) on the worst
sections of the tracks would be carried out by PWD subdivisions, which
have the necessary equipment.  PWD has a very tight maintenance budget
and would be reimbursed from project funds for its main expenditures (fuel,
oil, equipment maintenance, staff salaries) on a work basis. The expected
output is 500 km p.a., which would allow improvement of 2,500 km (or 71%)
of the 3,500 km network in the area during the 5-year program. In addition,
a pontoon bridge on the Bani River and two submersible bridges would be con-
structed in the first year of the project by the Public Works Department.
Studies
3.25      The project includes the cost of the studies necessary to plan
the development of the area freed from onchocerciasis. These studies would
be carried out by Institut d'Economie Rurale (IER), assisted by consult-
ants, and would include the preparation of: (a) an inventory of resources
of the onchocerciasis area to constitute a data bank; (b) a broad develop-
ment plan for the next ten years for identified priority areas; and (c) the
preparation of a number of projects within the framework of the development
plan. The studies would be carried out over a three-year period, 1976-78.
The establishment of the data bank would require: a land use survey and



- 28 -
mapping, associated climatological and hydrological studies, relying primarily
on satellite remote sensing, a land suitability survey and mapping, and soci.o-
economic studies.  The development plan would be established by a planning
group within IER.  The person heading the group would be called the permanent
advisor, and would be recruited i.nternationally. To provide a detailed basis
for project preparation, it is planned to cover priority areas withi.n the
onchocerciasis zone by aerial photogr2phs in black-and-whi.te and infrared film
at the scale 1:20,000. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the various consultants required would have adequate qualifications and
experience and be employed on appropriate terms and condi.tions.
Health
3.26      The health subproject includes the equipment of the rural health
services, the training of their staff and the financing of an initial stock
of drugs. This component would be carried out by the Ministry of Publi.c
Health under the general supervisi.on of CMDT, which would be responsible for
making the proper financial arrangements. This subproject complements the
i.mportant program of improvement of rural water supply financed by FED and ADF
(African Development Fund).  Mali-Sud health services would be equipped
with eight light vehicles, and each rural dispensary and rural maternity (159
in total) with a small motorcycle. Forty new auxiliary staff would be recrui-
ted among the local female leaders for the "Protection Maternelle et Infantile"
(PMI), the Government service responsible for the rural maternities, and
trained. Courses would last six months and would be taught to 10 pupi.ls at a
time. The existing 100 PMI auxiliary staff as well as the new graduates would
be retrained every year for a period of one month.  Each PMI auxiliary staff
would i.n turn be expected to train 10 new midwives. Midwifery courses would
last 10 days. A total of 1,400 midwives would be trai.ned and 500 retrai.ned.
Rural dispensary attendants would take yearly training courses lasting 25 days
each; and the personnel in charge of the drug stockpi-le at the arrondissement
headquarters would receive a 12-day training course the first year and six-day
retraining courses in each following year. Rural dispensary attendants would
in turn train a total of 1,100 village first-aid volunteers. First-aid
volunteers would assist in the case of emergency evacuations and epidemic
outbreaks. Provision has been made to finance an initial medicine stockpile
valued at MF 35 million for treatment against endemic diseases.  Medicines
would be sold at cost to the farmers, and farmers' payments would be held in a
revolving fund administered by the Ministry of Public Health.
Ecological Impact
3.27      The Project is not expected to have any adverse impact on the
environment or on the health of the people i.n the area. On the contrary, the
project would have a positive impact on the envi.ronment and the health of the
people. It would assist in the planning of the development of the areas freed
from onchocerciasis, improve the general welfare of the people, and in the



- 29 -
long run, their nutrition as it would finance research in the development of
a glandless cotton variety whose seed, freed from the toxic elements found
in the regular varieties, is perfectly edible and especially suited for
children's diets.



- 30 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
4.01      The project would be carried out by CMDT, which is a well organized
corporation, requiring minimum institutional building except for the strength-
ening of its finances as discussed in Chapter VI. The rural track component
and the studies would be carried out on behalf of CMDT by the Ministry of
Public Works and by Institut d'Economie Rural, respectively. CMDT was created
in 1974 to develop rainfed cotton production and rural development in general
in the Mali-Sud area (para 1.19). It is a corporation with mixed economy
status. Government holds 60% of the stock and CFDT 40%. It is under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development. Its broad policy is
determined by a board of 10 members on which sits a majority of Government
officials, the rest being representatives of CFDT. Day-to-day operations are
carried out by a Malian General Manager.
4.02      CMDT is organized into four departments whose heads report to the
general manager. Their functions are summarized below:
-    Financial Services, responsible for CMDT and project
accounting, relationships with banks, financial
arrangements for crop primary marketing, for procure-
ment of inputs and agricultural equipment, payroll
administration, and financial supervision of supply
contracts.
-    Industrial Services, responsible for cotton ginning,
vehicle operation and repairs, rice milling, and
procurement of spares.
-    Training Services, responsible for all training of
project staff, young farmers, blacksmiths, for the
functional literacy and health programs, and for
relationships with farmers' cooperatives.
-    Extension Services, responsible for the planning and
implementation of crop development programs.
Extension staff at year-end 1975 totaled 979. In addition, management and
administrative staff totalled 17 and ginnery staff some 100 permanent em-
ployees and 1,000 seasonal laborers.
4.03      The extension services are organized into three sections, one each
for cotton, kenaf and rice. Each section is subdivided geographically into:
regions, sectors, subsectors or ZER's (Zone d'expansion rurale), and villages



- 31 -
or SB's (Secteur de base). There are five regions for cotton extension, two
for rice and one for kenaf. The region chief is responsible for extension
services in the area regarding his crop. The sector chiefs monitor produc-
tion and adoption of techniques, approve credit, provide inputs and train
ZER chiefs. They are equipped with four-wheel drive vehicles and make rounds
continuously. Sector chiefs have had secondary education in agriculture and
a number of years experience as ZER chiefs or extension agents. The ZER
chiefs store and distribute inputs, train extension agents, monitor the exten-
sion agents' work and check progress of individual farmers. They are provided
with motorbikes. ZER chiefs have either taken the nine-year basic education
course at the Government agricultural school or have some experience as exten-
sion agents. The extension agent is reponsible for a village. He must teach
all the techniques to the farmers at the proper time, distribute inputs and
increase the number of farmers in the program. Formerly, extension agents were
primary school leavers and were paid less than civil service extension agents,
but now extension agents receive comparable salaries and have generally com-
pleted the nine-year basic education course in agriculture. Extension staff at
year-end 1975 was distributed as follows:
Table 4.1 Number of Extension Staff (December 31, 1975)
Development Programs              Total
Cotton     Rice      Kenaf
Region chiefs                        4         2         1                7
Deputy region chiefs                 2                                    2
Sector chiefs                       20        il         5              36
Deputy sector chiefs                 4                                    4
ZER /a chiefs                     103         43        14             160
Extension agents                  463        207       100             770
Total extension staff        596        263      120              979
/a   ZER - Zone d'expansion rurale.
B. Staffing
4.04      The agreed objective among CMDT shareholders, Government and CFDT
and the project financiers is the eventual replacement of all expatriates
employed by CMDT. Such replacement is progressing satisfactorily since the
number of expatriates was reduced from 33 in 1973 prior to the creation of
CMDT to 16 at present. Most of the reduction was made amongst the lower
level expatriate technicians (sector chiefs, ginnery chiefs of operations),



- 32 -
and at present there are only 8 such technicians left, principally in the
garages and power stations. The other 8 expatriates are of a higher level
and either in executive positions or performing necessary training duties.
This relatively large number of higher level expatriates is justified given
the size of the area covered by CMDT, the complexity of its operati,ons and
its training requirements and the limited number of trained Malian executives.
Two more higher level expatriates would be recruited in 1976, an agro-econo-
mist to help in the formulation of a methodology of project evaluation, and
a training specialist; but the number of higher level expatriates would
be reduced to 5 by year-end 1979, with only 2 remaining in executive capacities
until project year 6: the chief of the financial services and the chief
of the rural engineering section. This replacement program of higher level
expatriates is most appropriate given present conditions. Technical assistance
in higher level expatriate staff is summarized below:
Table 4.2     Number of Higher Level Expatriate Staff
Before
Project                    Project Years
1       2       3        4       5
1975/76    1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81
Financial Services
Chief                             1          1        1       1        1       1
Accountant                        1          1        1/2
Industrial Services
Chief                            1           1        1
Technical Assistant to Chief                                  1        1
Training Services
Chief                            1           1
Technical Assistant to Chief                          1       1
Training Specialists /1          2           3        3       2        1       1
Cotton Development
Chief                            1           1
Technical Assistant to Chief                          1       1        1       1
Agro-economist                               1        1       1
Rice Development
Chief -
Rural Engineering Section         1          1        1       1       i        1
Total CMDT Expatriate Staff  8           10       9-1/2   8        5        5
/1   Were used in an executive function in 1975.



- 33 -
Technical assistance in the form of higher level staff would amount to
30 man-years over the period May 31, 1976 - December 31, 1980 for a total
cost of MF 830 million (US$1.7 million equivalent), averaging US$57,000 per
man-year. Lower level expatriate technicians would continue to be financed
through the "bareme" for cotton lint. All expatriates would be provided by
CFDT under its technical assistance contract with CMDT (para 4.06).
4.05      Additional expatriate technical assistance would be required to
help staff the applied research programs (paras 3.08, 3.10 and 3.11). Mali
is still short of qualified researchers and although some are being trained
overseas, it is not expected that they would be able to take over from the
expatriates before the end of the project. The number of expatriates for
applied research would be as follows:
Table 4.3   Number of Expatriate Researchers
Before
Project               Project Years
1        2       3        4       5
Expatriate Technical Assistance    1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81
Agricultural Research
Cotton Research                       2       2        2       2        2       2
Maize Research                                1        1       1        1       1
Kenaf Research                        1       1        1       1        1       1
Total Research Expatriate Staff  3         4        4       4       4        4
Expatriate technical assistance for applied research amounts to 16 man-years
over the period May 31, 1976 - December 31, 1980 for a total cost of MF 460
million (US$0.9 million) or an average cost of US$59,000/man-year. Expatriate
researchers for cotton and kenaf would be provided by IRCT, and the expatriate
researcher for maize by IITA.
4.06      CFDT is under a five-year contract with Government to provide CMDT
with technical assistance as follows:
(a) CFDT would provide any expatriate technical staff that
CMDT would request;
(b)  five technical support missions from the head office
per year for a total of three months duration; and
(c) engineering consulting services to CMDT for the study
of investment programs, preparation of bidding docu-
ments, award of contracts and supervision of works.



- 34 -
For this technical assistance CFDT is reimbursed at cost for the expatriates
posted under (a), and is paid a fee of MF 2,500/ton of seed cotton (about
1% of the export value of cotton lint) to cover the head office administrative
expenses for the posted staff and the five support missions (a, b). Expenses
incurred under (c) are reimbursed on a case-by-case basis. This contract
is acceptable to IDA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
experts and consultants employed to assist CM4DT in carrying out the crop
development program would possess adequate qualifications and experience and
would be employed with appropriate terms and conditions.
4.07      Including any new Malian executives, 6 new persons would be recruited
for the administrative and industrial services and 343 for the extension serv-
ices, of which 251 for cotton and 92 for rice. There would be no net increase
in the extension staff for kenaf, as the addition of 22 extension staff for
kenaf development in the Northern Zone would be offset by a reduction of the
same magnitude in the Southern Zone, where cotton extension workers would
assume promotion of kenaf. There are no specialized extension agents for
maize. Cotton extension agents are trained in maize cultivation and in-
structed to promote the crop. The ratio of extension agents to farm families
would change as follows:
Table 4.4    Ratio of Extension Staff to Farmers
1975          1980
Cotton                                1/100           1/85
Kenaf (Northern Zone)                 1/ 30           1/40
Rice                                  1/ 10           1/30
These ratios are relatively high compared to other rainfed agricultural proj-
ects, but they explain, at least for cotton, the high rate of acceptance of
improved techniques.  The increasing ratio of cotton extension agents reflects
the opening of new areas for cotton development.
C. Training
4.08      The quality of CMDT staff, especially the extension staff, can
be considered above average, and the training programs for CMDT staff would
be relatively limited.  Besides management in-service training, a number
of scholarships for studies outside the country either in Africa or Europe
would be made available to CMDT staff under the project:  these would range
from three-week courses in budgetary accounting in Senegal to two-year courses
in ginnery operations in Upper Volta, and one-year study in tropical agricul-
ture in France.



- 35 -
4.09      The only new training programs considered under the project concern
PMI auxiliary staff and midwives and would be the responsibility of the Public
Health Ministry (para. 3.26). In addition, the project would finance the
on-going training programs already carried out by CMDT and aimed essentially
at the lower CMDT staff echelons and the rural population. CMDT conducts a
number of courses for the extension staff: recruitment and selection of new
staff out of school for the positions of extension agents, general improvement
courses for all extension staff held once a year, practical courses spread
over the cultivation season to teach the latest improved cultivation methods,
refresher courses for the extension staff below ZER level on specific subjects
such as fertilizer applications, zootechny, or soil technology, extension
agents' improvement and promotion courses (improvement courses are held for
the extension agents promoted as instructors in the young farmers' training
centers (t"centres saisonniers"), and promotion courses when a number of ZER
chiefs' posts have to be filled by promotion from within). In addition, some
specialists are trained as the need arises: storekeepers, weighers, community
development workers. The training of such specialists is essentially prac-
tical, by secondment of the candidates to assist an already trained and
experienced specialist.
4.10      Young Farmers' Training. Under the project, CMDT would take over
four "centres saisonniers" in addition to the two it operates. Originally
planned as political indoctrination centers, the "centres" have been con-
verted into agricultural schools for young farmers. About 15 young farmers
per center take practical courses during one cultivation season, after which
they return to work with their families. Because of a careful selection
process, the "centres" have been very successful in training young farmers.
In addition, they are used for seed multiplication, applied research field
trials, testing of new equipment and training of some extension agents.
4.11      Blacksmith Training.  The project would finance the completion of
a program started in 1970 to train and equip 150 blacksmiths in Mali-Sud.
The program has been very successful in training the targeted number of
blacksmiths in basic blacksmithing skills. The blacksmiths, however, still
need to be supervised, and to upgrade their skills, in particular to handle
welding equipment. The project would finance the staff salaries and operat-
ing expenses of the Il supervisory staff, the training expenses of blacksmiths
in brazing, tempering, finishing and use of welding equipment, including a
5 KVA generating unit complete with arc welding. Thirty blacksmiths were so
equipped in 1975. The value of the equipment is estimated at MF 2 million
(US$4,500) per set; 25% is paid cash and the rest over five years at 6% in-
terest. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that blacksmiths' loan
repayments would be held in a revolving fund managed by CMDT.
4.12      Functional Literacy.  The project includes the training in func-
tional literacy of selected segments of the rural population who would



- 36 -
especially profit from such training: the board members of some 500 pre-
cooperative associations, the people in the villages where the 150 blacksmiths
live and the young farmers at the "centres saisonniers". This functional
literacy program would be carried out by CMDT training services with the
assistance of the functional literacy services of the Ministry of Education.
In addition, Canada is financing a three-year US$1.6 million general func-
tional literacy program in the area. Both projects are complementary.



MALI
MALI-SUD AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Organization Chart
Compagnie Malienne
pour le Développement des Textiles (CMDT)
MINISTRY OF RURAL
DEVELOPMENT
I
CMBT                      APPLI ED
CMIDT                    AGRICULTURAL
GENERAL DIRECTOR                RESEARCH
EXTENSION
FINANCIAL              INDUSTRIAL              TRAINING                SERVICES
DEPARTMENT             DEPARTMENT              DEPARTMENT              DEPARTMENT
BATORIES                                             B
Worid Bank-15797<R)



- 38 -
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Project costs are estimated to total MF 21.90 billion (US$44.6 mil-
lion) of which the foreign exchange component would be US$31.3 million or 70%.
Including the preliminary phase financed by FAC from January 1, 1975 until
May 31, 1976, project costs would total MF 22.70 billion (US$46.3 million).
5.02      Project costs net of import duties and other clearly identifiable
tixes are summarized in the following table, and shown in more detail in
table 5.7.



- 39
Table 5.1                                              Cost Sum nry
Local   Foreign              Local   Foreign              Z lor&iga
Cost    Exchange   Total   Cost    Exchange   Total   Exchange
MF.b .lion                  US$ Million
Management
Local staff                                           0.04       -          0.04      0,1     -          0.1         -
Expatriates, civil works and equipment                0.36       0,36       0,72     0,8      0.7        1.5         50
Training Services
Staff, equipment, and operating costs                 0.58       0.69       1.27     1.2      1.4        2.6         54
Cotton Development
Local extension staff                                 0.79       -          0.79     1.6      -          1.6         -
Cotton ginneries                                      0.19       1.31       1,50     0.4      2.7        3.1         87
Expatriate staff, equipment, civil works              0.87       1.43       2.30     1.8      2.9        4.7         62
Rice Development
Management, extension staff, rice mill,
equipment                                            0.50       0.85       1.35     1.0      1.7        2.7         63
Kenaf Development
Management, extension staff, equipment                0.04       0.18       0.22     -        0.4        0.4         80
Agricultural Credit
New agricultural equipment                            0.50       2.86       3.36      1.0     5.8        6.8         85
Incremental inputs
Compound fertilizer                                 0.26       1.46       1.72     0.5      3.0        3.5        85
Urea                                                0.05       0.18       0.23     0.1      0.4        0.5         80
Insecticides                                        0.10       0.45      0.55      0.2      0.9        1.1        82
Agricultural Research
Staff,eequipment and operating costs                  0.36       0.57       0.93     0.7      1.2        1.9         61
Agricultural Tracks
Maintenance crews and bridges                         0.08       0.31       0.39      0.2     0.6        0.8         80
Livestock Development
Staff, equipment, operating costs                     0.14       0.29       0.43     0.3      0.6        0.9         67
Health Subproject
Training expenses, equipment, drugs                   0.05       0.10       0.15     0.1      0.2        0.3         67
Studies for the Development of the Oncho Areas          -          0.24       0.24      -       0.5        0.5        100
Other Studies, Scholarships, Audit                      -          0.23       0.23      -       0,5        0.5        100
Total Base Costs                              4.91      11.51      16.42    10.0    23.5        33.5         70
Physical Contingency                              0.55       1.29       1.84     1.1      2.6        3.7         70
Expected Price Increases                          1.09       2.55       3.64     2.2      5,2        7.4         70
Total Costs                                   6.55      15.35      21.90    13.3    31.3        44.6         70
Preliminary Phase                                 0.24       0.56       0.80     0.5      1.2        1.7         70
Total With Preliminary Phase                   6.79      15.91     22.70    13.8    32.5        46.3          70



- 40 -
5.03      Project costs include the following items: incremental investments
required (new staff salaries, purchase of new vehicles and equipment, rehabil-
itation of one ginnery and construction of one new ginnery and one rice mill),
the value of incremental seasonal inputs required, and of new agricultural
equipment; and the full cost of agricultural research, technical assistance
and training.
5.04      Local staff would receive a base salary in accordance with the
civil service scale and special post allowances commensurate with their
responsibilities within CMDT. Expatriate staff salaries would be equiva-
lent to those paid CFDT staff in other countries, and they would average
some US$57,000 per year with salaries accounting for 46% of the total, the
rest being social security charges and other expenses associated with an
overseas assignment (housing, travel, leave, etc.). Construction, equip-
ment and vehicle costs are based on recent contractors' and dealers' quo-
tations. Project costs include a physical contingency of 15% of the cost
of the ginneries and the rice mill, and of 10% on all other items; and in
addition, a contingency to cover expected inflation amounting to 22% of
base costs over the disbursement period, and calculated per footnote l/.
Physical contingencies and expected price increases amount to MF 5.48 bil-
lion (US$11.1 million) or 33% of base costs. Base costs have been esti-
mated as of September 30, 1976.
B. Proposed Financing
5.05      It is proposed that IDA make a credit of US$15.5 million to cover
35% of project costs. The other project financiers would be:
US$ million         %
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)              US$1.8 million       4%
Banque Arabe pour le Developpement
Economique en Afrique (BADEA)                      5.0              11%
African Development Fund (ADF)                       6.0              13%
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE)                                  3.1               7%
Government                                           6.2              14%
Farmers                                              7.0              16%
1/   Year    Equipment      Civil Works      Other
1976      10%             14%            8.8%
1977       8%             12%            8.0%
1978       8%             12%            7.4%
1979       8%             12%            7.5%
1980       7%             10%            7.0%



- 41 -
External financing would cover the foreign exchange costs or 70% of total
costs. The financing plan is summarized below:
Tsble 5.2                                                                   Praje:t Cost Finan~irg
IDA    FAC   Cc%vernaent     CCCE    ADF   13ADEA   Fariter5  :ota'
tSh Million
Management end Trainina
Local staff                                                                      0.1                                             0.1
Expatriates, civil works and equipenet                         1.3     0.2                                                       1.5   3%
Training Services
Staff, equipment and operating costs                           2.3     0.3      -                                               2.6    6%
Cotton Developmient
'Local extersion staff                                                           1                                               1.6    4 %
lew cotton ginnery                                                               O.          2.3                                3.1   7 %
Expatriate staff, equipment, civil works                       4.i     o.6                                                       4.7 ? * %
Rice DeveloZeent
banagement, exteinsion staff, rice-tiîll, equipment                                                   2.7                        2.7    6S
Kenaf Devael-
_Manag-ement, eYtension staff, equipment                                                                          0.4               0.4   1S
Agricultural Credit
New agricultural equipment                                                                            1.6                5.2     6.8  ;5
Incrementai inputs
Compound fertilizer                                          1.4              2.1                                             3.5    a%
Urea                                                                                                         0.5            -.
Insecticides                                                                                                1.1               1.1    2 %
Agricultural ,esearch
Staff, equipment and operating costs                           1.7     0.2                                                      1.9
Agricultural Tracks
Maintenance crews and bridges                                                                                  0.8             ->.8    2 %
Livestock Development
Staff, equipment, operating costs                                                                             0.9              0.9    2 %
Realth Subproiect
Training expenses, equipment, drugs                                                                           0.3               0.3    1 %
Studies for the Development of Oncho Areas                       0.5                                                             3.5    l  %
Other Studies. Scholarships. Audit                               0.4     0.1                                                     r: s       %
Total Base Costs                                     11.7      1.4      4.6          2.3     4.3      4.o       5.2   33.5  75
Physical Contingency                                     1 2     0.2      0.5          0.3      0.5     0.4       0.6   5.7   8
Expected Price Increase3                                2Z6      0.2      1.1          0.5      1.2     0.6       1.2    7
Total Costa                       --                 15.5      1.8      6.2          3.1     6.0      5.0       7.0  r-4*t6  100
o of 'otal                                           35%       4%      14.           7% S     s%        %      16 5Ot t
Prelini-n,ry Phase                                      -        1.7      -            -                 -
Total with Prelininary Phase                         15.5      3.5      6.2          3.1     6.0      5.0       7.0   46.3
% of Total                                           33%       3%      13%           7%     13%   1%          15%   1CI,



- 42 -
5.06      It would be a condition of the IDA credit becoming effective that
satisfactory assurances had been received that the contributions of the
other donors would be made. There is already an agreement in principle
about the amount and mode of each donor's contribution. Expenses incurred
during the preliminary phase following the creation of CMDT were financed
by FAC and are summarized below:
Table 5.3      Expenses Incurred During the
Preliminary Phase
Period January 1, 1975 - May 31, 1976
(MF -000)
Expatriate staff salaries                                            407,300
Local staff salaries (training services)                              14,400
Blacksmith training                                                   60,000
Purchase of 12 trucks                                                168,000
Buildings (Bougouni, Niena)                                           96,000
Equipment                                                             27,900
Applied research                                                      26,400
TOTAL                                                          800,000
5.07      The terms of the foreign aid would be as follows:
Table 5.4   Terms of the Foreign Aid
IDA           FAC      ADF
Interest                       -             -         -
Service charge               .0075%        grant      .0075%
Repayment period             40 years        -        40 years
Grace period                 10 years        -        10 years
The terms of the CCCE and BADEA loans cannot be determined at present.  Terms
of CCCE loans usually vary with the types of projects financed, and with
general monetary conditions. In addition, CCCE may wish to associate some
suppliers in the financing of the new cotton ginnery. BADEA loans usually
carry an interest rate of about 2% and are repaid over a 30 year period.
Exact terms for this particular BADEA loan will be determined during negotia-
tions between BADEA and Government. It has been assumed that the IDA credit
would be passed on from Government to CMDT, as an interest bearing loan
at the rate of 9%, to be repaid over 20 years following a four year grace
period. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a subsidiary agreement



- 43 -
would be concluded between Government and CMDT regarding the on-lending of IDA
funds on terms acceptable to IDA. The conclusion of this agreement would be a
condi,ti,on of effectiveness.
5.08      Financi.ng by BADEA, ADF, and CCCE would be on a parallel basis
as follows:
BADEA would finance 100% of:
-    kenaf crop development;
-    incremental urea and insecticides requirements;
-    agricultural tracks component;
-    livestock development component;
-    health subproject.
ADF would finance 100% of:
-    ricé crop development;
-    farmers' agricultural equipment net of farmers'
down payments and repayments.
CCCE would finance alone or in association with suppliers 100% of:
-    the new ginnery to be built in 1977.
5.09      IDA would fi,nance US$0.5 mi-llion toward the cost of studies for
the development of the areas freed from onchocerciasis, 39% of the incremental
requirements for compound fertilizer and in addition, pari passu with FAC
(87%-13%) project costs not financed by the other donors or from local sources.
The pari passu arrangement with FAC is a condition of FAC participation in the
project.  Government would finance the salaries of the additional local staff
(except for those employed in research and training, who would be financed by
IDA and FAC), through the "bareme" for cotton lint (para 6.03), rehabilitation
of the Bougouni ginnery and 61% of the i.ncremental requirements for compound
fertili.zers.  Farmers would contribute 30% down payments towards the purchase
of the new agricultural equipment, and repaynents of that equipment would be
put into a revolving fund administered by CMDT.
C. Initial Revolving Fund and Retroactive Financing
5.10      Expenditures to be fi.nanced by IDA and FAC in the first year of the
project would total some MF 2.5 billion (about US$5.1 mi.llion). The interim
financing requirement, assuming a lag of 3 months between the time the expen-
diture is incurred and the time it i.s rei.mbursed, would be a minimum of MF 0.6
billion (US$1.2 mi-llion).  Since CMDT or Government would be unable to provide
such advance financing.it is proposed that IDA provide MF 0.6 billion in advance



- 44 -
as part of its contribution to project financing. Other donors would be
encouraged to prefinance their shares of project expenditures. Retroactive
financing by IDA of up to US$0.3 million would be granted to cover project
expenditures incurred after May 31, 1976, covering agricultural research and
technical assistance to CMDT.
D. Procurement
5.11      For the project items financed jointly by IDA and FAC the fol-
lowing would apply: orders or contracts for equipment, vehicles compound
fertilizer and construction with a value of more than US$50,000 would be
through international competiti,ve bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guide-
lines.  Such procurement is estimated ta amount to about US$5.0 million.
Whenever feasible, contracts and orders would be bulked.    Contracts of less
than $50,000, would be procured on the basis of competi,tive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to IDA. Con-
tracts procured under local competi,tive bidding would not exceed US$2 million.
Effici,ent local contractors exist and are carrying out most of the civil works
built under the ongoing Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit 491-MLI).
Local contractors would be given a preference of 7.5% in the evaluation of
tenders for civi,l works. Expatriate technical assistance (US$1.7 million)
would be provided by CFDT for CMDT operations, by IRCT for cotton and kenaf
research (US$0.7 million), and by IITA for maize research (US$0.2 milli,on). The
planni,ng of studies for the development of the areas freed from onchocerciasis
would be carried out by consultants recruited internationally according to IDA
gui,delines (US$0.5 mi-llion).
5.12      Procurement of items financed by BADEA, ADF, and CCCE would be
carri,ed out under their respective arrangements. It is not expected that pro-
curement of goods financed by donors other than IDA would result in higher
costs than if all procurement were made under IDA procedures.
E. Disbursement
5.13      The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit (US$15.5 million) would be
disbursed over five years (1977-1980) as follows:



- 45 -
Table 5.5   Disbursement Categories of the IDA Credit
US$ million
Category I      Local Staff Salaries                0.8             87%
Cateogry II    Expatriate Staff Salaries            2.1             87%
Category III   Vehicles and Equipment               2.0             87%
Category IV    Civil Works                          2.6             87%
Category V      Operating Expenses                  1.9             87%
Category VI    Compound Fertilizer                  1.4             39% of incremental
costs
Category VII   Audit and Scholarshi,ps              0.2             87%
Category VIII  Studies for the Development of    0.5               100% of foreign
the Areas Freed from                             exchange costs
Onchocerciasis
Category IX    Study of Farmi,ng Systems            0.2             87%
Total         11.7
Unallocated   3.8
Total         15.5
5.14      Disbursements of the IDA credit would be against import documenta-
tion and certified records of expenditures. For disbursements made against
certi,fied records of expenditures, documentation would not be submitted for
review as a matter of course, but would be retained by CMDT for scrutiny by
IDA missions. Any surplus credi,t funds after completion of the project would
be cancelled. The estimated schedule of disbursement of the IDA credit .would
be as follows:



- 46 -
Table 5.6
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter            Cumulative Disbursements at End of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1976/1977
4th Quarter                                                  500
1977/1978
Ist Quarter                                               1,000
2nd Quarter                                               2,000
3rd Quarter                                               3,000
4th Quarter                                               4,000
1978/1979
Ist Quarter                                               6,000
2nd Quarter                                               7,500
3rd Quarter                                              10,000
4th Quarter                                              10,500
1979/1980
lst Quarter                                              11,500
2nd Quarter                                              12,000
3rd Quarter                                              12,500
4th Quarter                                              13,000
1980/1981
lst Quarter                                              13,100
2nd Quarter                                              13,500
3rd Quarter                                              14,000
4th Quarter                                              14,500
1981/1982
lst Quarter                                              15,000
2nd Quarter                                              15,500



Table 5,7                                                                                                            SAL
06ge 1
MALI-SUD AG}ICULTURAL PROJECT
PROJECT ODSTS AND FINANCING
wM 5001)
fan1c-d by
Total                FAC                      Soc~~~~~~~~~~- Gaerasct  USLA  BADISA  AUy      ooe     Faur
Jn 1, 1975   %.y 31, 1976                                             Moy 71, 1976  Jao 1, 1975   Jnn 1, 1975   bny '1, 1976
M6y 31, 1976 De- 31, 1976     1977      1978     1979      1980       Ueo 31, 1960  D-c 31, 1980) Mey 31, 1976  Doc ,1, 1980   Total
A.  Yeent
I Lcal etoff porting and h-o-eog alloaco                 21,200         75,700   56,300   36,4oo   36,400          166,o0        166,000                      21,6o0        21,600                 144,400
Civil -okha                                              104,900       199,700                                     244,606       244,600                      31,600        31,900                 212,800
VUhicles                                                  8,600                   2,800                             11,400        11,400                       1,500         1,500                   9,900
Ebasacial Servise-
Loa1  tff                                                  35,506    5,00    5,600    5,600                         25,500        25,500                                                25,500
EIAtriete staff                            101,200        27,200        38,200   29,500   29,500   29,500          157,900       255,100        101,200       20,1 1o      121,300                 133,800
ladastriel serviosa
Lond  atSfI                                                2,300         4,000     4,060    4,000    4,100          18,400        18,400                                                i8,4oo
aTostel  t fafeat                      101,200       103,400       253,800  108,800  106,200o  106.00          760,500       661,700        101,200       93.300        194,500     43,900     6231300
F B~ Tr&icieg Dercicce
Loeal tefi e ia_rAc                         14,400        19,600        35,500    44,400   59,000   57,800         216,3oD       230,700        14,400        28,o0o         42,400                188,300
Es,atriate tetff                           180,200        48,300        83,000   66,000    17,100   17,100         291,500       411,700        180,200       30,100        210,300                201,400
Eqaipseet                                                  7,200         5,100    5,100    5,400    5,100           27,900        27,900                       3,600         3,600                  24,300
Vehic .o                                                   6,900                  2,800                              9,700         9,700 19300                               1,300                   8,400
Vehiel run.ning oeotn                                     27,000        35,600   27,000   31,300   27,000          147,900       147,900                      19,300         19,300                128,600
Ic-hooue ooare. .                                        59,000         61,300   65,600   68,400   70,100          324,600       324,600                      42,300        42,300                 282,300
'Ceatrce teieoaaiers" operatiog esp..ees                 12,700         15,900    19,000   19.100   19,100          85,800        85,800                      11,100        11,100                  74,700
Bleoknith trnibing (ineluding kite)         60,O00        56,800        43,100   29,500   16,000    2, 400          47,800       207,800        60,000        19,2C0         79,200                128,600
F_octiocal liter-ey expeacca                              8.200         16.100   16.400   16,900   22,500           60 100        60.100                      10.400         10 400                 69.700
Total Traiei.g Sero-ie.                254,600       245,700       295,600   276,000   233,200  221,100      1,271,600      1,526,200       254,600      165,300        419,900              1,106,300
C. Agsicalîral Developcent
Lneei staff                                               62,800       141,300  166,500  197,200  225,600          793,400       793,400                                               793,400
Es,triete eteff                            125,900        33,800        57,900   57,900   30,710    30,70C         211,000       336,900        125,900       27,400        153,300                183,600
Cotton gi-neriso -CIlli korbe                                          461 900   43 700                            505 600       506                                                                                                505 600
- eqo_p.e't                              400,200       469,900  129,600                            999,700       999.700                                               400,200                                      599,500
Equipeet Locales)                                                          200      200       400                      800           80000 0                                   100                     700
Cioil -ork.                                 96,000       638,500       471,800   21,000                          1,131,300     1,227,300        96,000       147,100       243,100                 984,200
Vchiol1-                                   19590         4560          198.900   11,06l         01270               5.0         .1150           15.90        124.30         320.20 6- 31.700
Cettat n cocopmet                      417800      41551,100     1.9890011801,900  5937, 31000   7 32900     49560Do       5 015 600        415 8°°      298;900        716 700   1,193,600   2,000 20D                        1,105,1DO
Rie. DI,blC .et
Local staff                                               15,900        42,700   54,800   71,200   60,900          265,500       265,500                                                                                 265,500
E4petriate staff                                          8,500         20,400   20,500   20,500   20,500           90,400        90,400                                                                                  90,400
Ribe i.61  - civil -ook                                                320,500                                     320,500       320,500                                                                                 320,500
- qoip .. t                                                 416,200                                     416,200       416,200                                                                                 416,210D
Vebteles                                                  32,000        71,600    34,800   37,600   16,oo0         192,200       192,200                                                                                 192,200
P10ughirg                                                 5.900          7.700   20,000   13,600   14 400           61 600        61.600                                                                                  61l600
Rics DIeelopsent                                      62,300       079,100  130 100  143,100  131,800        1,346,400      1,346,400                                                                              1,346,400
K-esf Deaclopecot
LCelf etnff                                                                       2,300    5,600    5,900           14,0C0        14,000                                                                      14,000
* Equip.nt (topo)                                                        2,300                                       2,300          ,300                                                                       2,300
Civil coIkh                                                             52,500                                     52,500         52,500                                                                      52,500
VUhi.l.c                                                                42,900    2,800                             45,700        45,700                                                                      45,700
K pro.e.e t cf r tting  oAd accd soltiplicatioc                         24,000   24.100   29.200   29,200          106.500       1o6,5oo                                                                     106.500
.telaf  pceopecc                                                   121,700    292_     35,00     32.100        221,000       221,000                                                                      221,000
Totel AgricIltural Deoclap.cot         417,00    1,613,W00       2,W2,700   697 100  496,100  555,900        6,165        t6,5d3.0O         417,O0      29p,900         716,700   1.193.600   2,000,200   221,000  1,34C,400  1,105,109
Sabtstal Pogo 1                         773,600    2,044,500     3,352,100 1,081,900  835,500  883,3Go       8,197,300      8,970,900       773,600      557,500      1,331,100   1,237,500   3,729,800   221,000  1,346,400   1,105,100



- 4b -
T.bl. 5.7                                                                                                                                                      MALI
page 2                                                                                                                                           MALI-SUD AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS AGD FINANCING
(MF '000)
F8 naeced Bv
ToltI                                    FAC                        Governrene                   GAGID EA 8DFA              CCCK            ar.F
J.-  1, 1975    MIy 31, 1976                                                       MFy 31, 1976  Jia  1, 1975         J.n.  1, 1975  M8y 31, 1976
Mry 31, 1976       Gel 1._1976         1977       1978       1979        1980       D-e  31 980   Dec 31  1980    Mos 31  1976   De  31. 1980            _Itel
D.  A&rEiuîtoreL  Creùit
N- q,icplt .ratquip=ent teqîret-to                                             727,4ùO          300000U  b65,900   661,800   678,200          3,363,310        3,363,300                                                                                              769,200                     2,594.100
Itnretoentel iDpUC- - taepoîOO OeGîîlîeer                                      007,7770        811,400   201,200   112,200  1E6,000          1,224,500        1,724,500                                                      1,057,100        667,400
- ure.                                                      59,100         38,300    55,000       39,000    39,000         230,400          230,400                                                                                  230,400
- Inseot bides              25 120         99 100   767 195    10 '00   115 700            549 700M"        549.700                                                                                   4976
Total AgrtcoLttre1 Credit                                    1,279,100       1,579,100 1,089 ,00   90W 1,200   010,400        5,867,900       5,687, 00                                                       1,057,100        667,40       Y 780,100   769,200                   2,594,100
LotIon - n Tarî,
Lo..al  Jtî                                                                    5,400           9,300      9,400       9,400      9,400         42,900           42,900                              5,600           5,600                     37,300
EOpatrîit. 0eff                                             20,400             31 600         54,100    54,100    54,1D0    54,200            248,100          268,500            20,400           32,300          52,700                    215,300
Eqîtpttent                                                                      9,39                                                            9,000            9,Ù00                              1,200           1,200                      7,800
Civil  -er6O                                                                  62,900                                                           62,"00           62,900                              S,lOO           8,100                     54,S00
V7hitclee e_                                                                    7,50000,70                                                                       7,,00                              1,000           1 ,09                      6,500
Subetatlooe  id lInt leboertery                              _6 700                           36 700    36 700    36 700    36.700            183,5 00         183 500                            23 98           2%-qf0                     19q 61-
sbt6t0.1                                      20,400           193,100         100,100   100,200   100,200   100,300            553,5OO         574,300           20,400            72,100         92,500                    4810800
Rice
tlngornla PAR                                                                                              5330       5300       5,400          16,009          16,000                              2,100           2,100                     13,900
Bqnip,,,lOt                                                                                               2,300       2,300      2,300           6,900           6,900                                900             900                      6,090
H ire
E.p.trtaie rtff                                                               13,100          22,800    22,800    22,910    2?,900            104,500          104,500                            13,600          13,6J09 9900
R.enaf
Elpatrtite stff                                               6,O00            15,100         22,700    22,800    22,900    22,800            106,200          112,200             6,000          13,900          19,900                      92,300
G'TatI. reanarol,                               _3 _ 0                                        23.000 2 3.100         23,100     23,100 323,100                 115,400 115 100                                    15,001                     1090  _
TCta1 Agrqcolturel R.eaee.h                   26,400           204,300         168,700   176,500   176,600    176,800           902,900          929,300            26,400         117,600         144,000                    785,300
F. Aerînnltorol Craîke
Meinten-nce creva
Eqelptent                                                                         200             200                                              400             400                                                                                      400
Gebloîre                                                                       25,200         25,200                                           50,000           50,400                                                                                   50,400
Ipereting -opanaa                                                              345,80,        69,700    69,700    69,700    69,700            313,600          313,600                                                                                  313,600
Boidg-n                                                                        22 99   22,900 2   0
Sridge7  Total AfrîcollorOl Tranka                               8273,100       95,100    69,700    69,700    69,700            38703 0          387,300                                                                                  397,300
G, Llveatock Darfiop3eel
Ltee  ataff                                                                       5,900          12,600    15,600    16,200                       50,300          50,300                                                                                   50,300
Civil .r.ka                                                                      44,100         52.900    29,400        5,900                    132,300          132.300
Oqîlpaeet                                                                         2 400           2,600        900        200                      6,100           6,100                                                                                     6,100
7,400          7,4000                                          14,800          14,800                                                                                    14,800
EnAcier amed =inerl 1ick.                                                        16,200          3E,10      19,100     19,000                    152,400         152,.00                                                                                  152,408
_, Oper'ting costs                                                                  700           1,3000     1,600      2,000                      5,600           5,600                                                                                     5,600
Op-t.ti.8 ~~~~~~~~O.t.                                                 Il 111    21 1111 ~~~~~~~~~~~73.100                   73-100
7  Total 0,Osnateîk Oevel.opment                                  5~~~~~~~       ~~46-111  51,4, 9,106,200                                 434,0   43,600                                                                                    434,600
N, IealcO auberelect
' Ex Rquip-nt                                                                    54 700                                                           54,700          54,700                                                                                   54,700
Tr.ineig  efenea.                                                                 7,701          12,500    13,100      11,900      7,600          52,700          52,700                                                                                    52,700
Mea itea                                                                          0,S.O                                                           40,800          409800 4ü800
Total Healto eubpro7eot                                        103,200          12,500    13,100    11,800         7,600        148,200         148,200                                                                                   148,200
1.Othe
Studier    (de5elo9anet of oncho etc..)                                         124,iO0          91j500      0,bn40                              245,0008        245,000                                                                       245,000
StoAlea (001ip)                                                                  51,200          52,300      3,200      3,200      3,300         113,200         113,200                             14,700          14,700                     98,500
Ooholatehlpe                                                                     21,EOO          21,900    21,900    21,900       21,900         189,400         109,400                             14,200          14,209                     95,200
Totel Other-                                                                                           76         2  70
Tetal Bai . Oste                                          800,000         4,061,900       5,509,60G  2,575,300 2,086.800 2,182,7090    15,415,63          17,215,600            E00,000          705,300      1.505,300  2,294 600        50,629,00 1,971,290  2,11    0        7,    0         2,85,   D
9119.61.1  ~~~~~~~ ~~                    __________ ~~~~    49,800C        22.702   277,420   298700 ~   2,19,3221        1 740           1,044,800                              76,500          76,5G0    249,100         610,300   2 1 3 , 7   20,30 121,0
EXPeeted Pt   i*         . laere2/                                         _                    99, l70    689 900   769 SOI   806 000         3 642 S            6-00   lh                                                                                                                           2 817    _    11R 0no  9017 9n     000 nno  iflOO   976100  706 108  976
Total Pfrojet Coolet           s                                797.,ç0        92^008 34542,000    1         3,407,000      21,903,000_o0009,7 3950000249000                                                                                   0400001519__O
USf$ eqeiîleot Ot MF 490 05s1                                                                                                   44,6             46,3                1,7              1.8            3,5         6.2           15.5          5.0        6.0           3.1               7.0
]   15% qn glînerlea and rite =ilL - 107 on the  -eat, except on stîdie  f-r devaloparnl o.  oncho arae.
t  Fxcept o-  atedie  f-o  dveloIpe.nt of o-cho areae



- 49 -
F. Accounts and Audit
5.15      Accounts for the project and for CMDT would be kept separately
under acceptable commercial accounting practices. Both sets of accounts
and the revolving fund kept by CMDT for farmers' agricultural credit (para
3.17) would be audited annually by independent auditors mutually acceptable
to the Government and IDA. Audited annual accounts, balance sheets and
operating statements would be submitted to IDA within four months of the
closing of the financial year. Assurances to the foregoing were obtained
at negotiations.
VI. THE PROJECT'S FINANCIAL IMPACT
A. General
6.01      The Project's financial objective is the build-up of CMDT finances
to make it possible for CMDT (i) to carry out the proposed project including
the added activities of procurement of inputs for cotton farmers and paddy
marketing for the rice mill, (ii) to build up enough cash reserves to finance
the replacement of its equipment and the ginneries, (iii) to be able to keep
operating at a satisfactory level after the project disbursement period, and
(iv) to adequately cover any subsidy given cotton farmers on the cost of
agricultural inputs. The general financial objective was agreed with Government
at negotiations.
B. Price Schedules or "Baremes"
6.02      Producer prices of crops for the crop year are specified along with
taxes and levies as well as marketing and other charges in commodity price
schedules known as the "baremes". At present there are three "baremes"
which apply specifically to CMDT: for cotton lint, cottonseed and kenaf. The
absence of a "bareme" for the rice grown under the "Riz Sikasso" project
explains-in part why CMDT has not marketed much rice grown in the Mali-Sud
area. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a rice "bareme" would be
established for CMDT.
6.03      Of the three existing "baremes" applying to CMDT, that on cotton
lint is the most important. The 1974/75 "bareme" for cotton lint was as
follows:



- 50 -
Table 6.1   1974/75 "Bareme" for Cotton Lint
MF/ton
Items                                                "Bareme"    Actual   Variance
1     Purchase of seed cotton                      73,750      73,933       (183)
2     Primary marketing cost                        2,000       2,490        (490)
3     Transport to ginnery                          5,000       6,763    (1,763)
4     Municipal tax                                   200         200        -
5     Extension services                           10,133      11,283    (1,150)
6     Tax for SCAER                                11,500      11,500
7     Fee for CFDT                                  2,500       2,500
8     Insurance for seed cotton                       362         338          24
Total cost of seed cotton                105,445    109,007       (3,562)
Total cost of lint equivalent at
37.607%                              280,387    289,859       (9,472)
9     Ginning                                      30,000      38,831     (8,831)
10     Lint insurance                                1,450       1,276         174
il     Financial charges                            10,000      11,827     (1,827)
12     CMDT commission                              10,000      10,000
13     Tax for ORSP                                    -           -_-
Total cost of lint ex-ginnery        331,837    351,793   (19,956)
- 1974/75 loss in application of preceding "bareme" =
Loss per ton MF 19,956
Actual cotton lint production x 22,982 tons                 MF 458,629,000
- Adjustment for higher price paid farmers =
Adjustment per ton MF 183
Actual seed cotton production x 61,170 tons                (MF  11,195,000)
- Adjustment for lower lint to seed ratio =
Actual lint production   = 22,786 tons (37.3% of lint)
"Bareme" lint production = 22,982 tons (37.6% of lint)
Variance                    (196 tons)
Actual cost of lint ex-ginnery x MF 351,793          (MF  68,900,000)
1974/75 net loss in application of preceding "bareme"             MF 378,534,000
6.04       The loss of MF 459 million prior to adjustments resulted from the
Governnent's decision to keep the ex-ginnery cost low. This is the cost at
which lint is sold by CMDT to SOMIEX and to the local textile manufacturers.
The loss was reduced by the adjustments of two items: the price paid to
producers and the ratio of lint to seed cotton obtained. Only these 2 items



- 51 -
could be adjusted after the yearly accounts were available.   The averageb
price paid farmers varies with the mix of seed cotton harvested, as the better
quality seed cotton is paid a premium over the lower quality, and CMDT was
compensated for the larger outlay as more better quality seed cotton was
harvested. Similarly, ginning operations and therefore the ratio of lint:
to seed cotton can be adversely affected by the weather, and CMDT was compen-
sated for the larger outlay to produce a ton of lint as the ratio of lint: to
seed cotton is lower than anticipated. As a result of the adjustment of these
two items the loss in 1974/75 through the application of the "bareme" was
reduced to MF 378 million.
6.05      To avoid the recurrence of losses, which threaten the financia'L
viability of CMDT, it is essential that in the future the "bareme" for cotton
lint and those for the other commodities handled by CMDT be established on a
more rational basis and that cost allocations cover expected CMDT expenses.
In pursuit of this objective it was agreed at negotiations that it would
be a condition of the credit becoming effective that the "baremes" applicable
to CMDT's products are to be calculated on the basis of actual costs incurred
by CMDT during the preceding campaign and as adjusted for subsequent econtomic
changes.
6.06      In accord with the general objective stated in para 6.01, and
as explained further (in para 6.11 especially), a number of changes would
be made in the "bareme" for cotton lint starting in 1977/78 as follows:
(i) CMDT's commission, which is a built-in "bareme" item (para
6.07), would be increased above the present level of 5%
of the ex-ginnery price (para. 6.11);
(ii) the "bareme" would include a provision for depreciation
of the equipment used by CMDT, including the ginneries
owned by Government, and for major repairs; and
(iii) the "bareme" would include a provision to cover subsidies
given CMDT farmers for the purchase of agricultural in-
puts (para. 6.15).
Assurances that the above changes would be reflected in the 1977/78 "bareme"
for cotton lint were obtained at negotiations. No changes in the cost alloca-
tions of the "baremes" for cottonseed and kenaf were required.
C. CMDT's Finances
6.07      CMDT's Income.  Line 12 of the "bareme" for cotton lint at table
6.1 shows the built-in commission for CMDT. The commission is the major
reason why although CMDT lost some MF 379 million through the application



- 52 -
of the "bareme" for cotton lint in 1974/75, it still managed to show profits
of MF 170 million for the year on an aggregated and consolidated basis.
The income from kenaf and cottonseed operations also offset the losses on
lint. Because of the exceptional 70% increase in seed cotton production in
1975/76 over 1974/75, it is estimated that CMDT earned some MF 0.5 billion in
1975/76 on a consolidated basis. 1976/77 consolidated earnings should further
increase to some MF 0.7 billion. The audited 1974/75 consolidated income
statement is summarized below:
Table 6.2   1974/75 CMDT Consolidated Income Statement
at September 30th                                             (MF millions)
Revenues
Production sales                                             5,773
From outside donors                                            999
Stocks at end of year                                       5,105
Other                                                           70
Total Revenues                                        11,947
Expenses
Stocks at beginning of year                                  1,724
Purchases                                                    7,229
Staff salaries                                                 938
Taxes                                                          245
Expenses paid by foreign donors                                863
Transport expenses                                             169
Administrative and financial expenses                          615
Total Expenses                                        11,783
Income before extraordinary items                                   164
Extraordinary loss                                              (2)
Extraordinary income                                             8
Total Net Income                                          170
CMDT statutes provide that profits after allocation to a legal reserve
of up to 10% of share capital and distribution of an 8% dividend to share-
holders (Government and CFDT), can be reinvested by Government in CMDT
share capital.
6.08      Assuming that the assurances sought in para 6.05 are obtained
and that CMDT does not incur any loss or profit through the application of
its various "baremes" its consolidated net income would be the commissions
on the crops handled as follow (expressed in 1976/77 terms):



- 53 -
Table 6.3    CMDT Projected Income
(MF Millions)
1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81
Commission on lint                 1,570    1,710      850       930
Commission on cottonseed              20        30      30        30
Commission on kenaf                   20        20      20        20
1,610    1,760      900      980
The commission on lint, which would generate more than 90% of CMDT's profits,
would be increased from 5% of the ex-ginnery cost in 1976/77 to 11% in 1977/78
and 1978/79 to build-up CMDT's capital (para 6.11). For the purpose of the
above projections no commission for the marketing of rice has been included.
The level of this commission has yet to be determined, and will, in any case,
be small and unlikely to affect the projections significantly.
6.09      CMDT's Financial Structure.  The following balance sheet illustrates
CMDT's financial problems.
Table 6.4    CMDT Balance Sheet at September 30th 1974/75
(MF Millions)
Assets                               Liabilities
Fixed assets /1                9     Paid in equity                             200
Inventory                 5,105      Provision for equipment depreciation    158
Current assets
Accounts receivable    2,991       Short-term liabilities
Other current assets      226        Accounts payable                       2,680
Total current assets   3,217         Owed to banks                          2,629
Other short-term liabilities          2,494
Total short-term liabilities          7,803
1974/75 profits                           170
Total Assets              8,331      Total Liabilities                        8,331
/1   Does not include the ginneries which are owned by Government and have a
net book value of MF 450 million.
The preceding balance sheet shows that CMDT has a very small equity base,
which would prevent it from borrowing long-term; and that CMDT operates
using short-term facilities provided by banks, and unwillingly by suppliers



- 54 -
that CMDT delays paying. In addition short-term assets (inventory and
current assets) are too high, creating in turn unnecessary financing re-
quirements. All accounts receivable at September 30th (MF 3 billion)
were for sales of lint which should have been paid before June 30, 1975.
Of this total MF 2.3 billion was due by SOMIEX and the rest by the local
textile manufacturers, Industrie Textile du Mali (ITEMA) and Compagnie
Malienne des Textiles (COMATEX). In addition there was MF 2.9 billion
of ginned lint still in inventory at CMDT's warehouses which should have
been picked up and sold by SOMIEX shortly after June 30th, the end of the
processing'season. Of the MF 2.7 billion of accounts payable, there were
MF 0.5 billion due SCAER, which contributed to SCAER's inability to pay
its suppliers of agricultural inputs and equipment (para 1.21).
6.10      CMDT and its trading partners (SOMIEX, COMATEX, ITEMA) enter into
yearly agreements by which the latter indicate their planning of monthly
purchases of lint and cottonseed and commit themselves to paying CMDT within
specified dates from delivery. In 1976 the agreements called for ITEMA and
COMATEX to pay CMDT within 30 days of delivery, and SOMIEX to pay CMDT within
90 days. These deadlines are reasonable, even for SOMIEX which exports on
the world markets while ITEMA and COMATEX manufacture for the local markets.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the terms of the agreements
between CMDT and SOMIEX, ITEMA and COMATEX would be acceptable to IDA and that
they would be adhered to. It was furthermore agreed that as a condition of
the credit becoming effective Government would have taken measures satisfactory
to IDA so that overdue debts owed to CMDT by SOMIEX, ITEMA and COMATEX would
be paid within six months of credit signing, and that all stock of lint
and cottonseed from the 1975/76 crop at charge to SOMIEX would have been
paid.
6.11      CMDT's small equity base is in part the result of CMDT having
been given the statutes of an operating company (societe de gestion) whose
charter is to manage ginneries and other fixed assets not belonging to it, but
to the Government of Mali. Consequently and theoretically CMDT share capital
need not finance fixed assets, but only the permanent operating capital it
requires. While it is relatively unimportant for the purpose of the project
that CMDT equity cover fixed assets and that CMDT statutes be changed to
give it the ownership of these assets, it is essential that CMDT share capital
be sufficient to cover the permanent operating capital it requires. The
permanent operating capital is defined by Malian banking regulations as 10% of
the overdraft facilities given by the Central Bank at any one time. The
following forecast of cash flow requirements is based on the cotton production
forecast in Chapter VII, the marketing by CMDT of 10,000 tons of paddy annually,
and the procurement of all agricultural equipment and inputs for cotton
farmers.  It is further assumed that CMDT is paid within one year of incurring
the expense.



- 55 -
Table 6.5    Projected CMDT Cash Flow
MF Billions
1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80
CMDT cash flow related to
cotton activities                  13.2/1    16.5/1   13.9        15.3     15.5
Paddy purchases (10,000 tons
at MF 40,000/ton)                    -          -        0.4       0.4      0.4
Procurement of agricultural equipment
-  New                               -          -        0.7      0.7       0.7
-  Replacement                       -          -        0.9       0.9      0.9
Procurement of agricultural inputs   -            -        5.3       5.0       5.3
Total CMDT cash flow            13.2       16.5      21.2     22.3      22.8
Paid-in equity                        0.2        0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5
Prior year undistributed profits        -         -         -        1.6       1.8
Cumulative profits                     -          -         -        1.6      3.4
Total initial equity and
cumulative profits                  0.2        0.5       0.5       2.1      3.9
Preceding line as % of total
CMDT cash flow                      2%         3%        2%        9%      17%t
/1  1975/76 and 1976/77 are considered exceptional years, with seed cotton
productions of 103,000 tons and 130,000 tons respectively (para. 7.01).
CMDT's annual operating cash flow requirements would increase from MF 13
billion in 1975/76 to MF 23 billion in 1979/80 (in 1976/1977 terms). The
permanent operating capital would therefore need to be increased to some
MF 2 billion by 1979/1980. It was agreed that CMDT's share capital would be
increased by the addition of undistributed retained earnings to equity (para.
6.07). Until such time as CMDT's equity reached 10% of its yearly overdraft
facilities, statutory dividends would not be paid. Cash flow requirements in
addition to the permanent operating capital would most likely be provided by
Banque de Developpement du Mali (BDM). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that Government would ensure the provision of adequate credit facilities to
CMDT.
D. Financial Impact on SOMIEX and Local Textile Manufacturers
6.12      The project's financial impact on SOMIEX in 1977/78 is illustrated
in the table below, expressed in constant 1977 MF:



- 56 -
Table 6.6   Projected 1976/77 and 1977/78 "Baremes" for Cotton Lint and Cottonseed
(constant 1977 MF)
1976/77     1977/78
A. Lint (one ton)
SOMIEX Sale CIF Europe                                   642,900      642,900
Expenses - FOB Abidjan - CIF Europe                  36,400       36,400
- Ex-ginnery - FOB Abidjan                  46,900      46,900
- Export tax                                39,100      39,100
- Price paid CMDT                         426,600      493,400
Total Expenses                       549,000      615,800
Profit                                               93,900       27,100
CMDT Sale Ex-ginnery to SOMIEX                           426,600      493,400
Expenses - Seed cotton purchases                    214,300      214,300
- Extension and collecting costs/1          74,000      74,000
- Municipal tax                                600          600
- Input subsidy tax                        33,700       67,500
Subtotal seed cotton                322,600      356,400
- Lint processing cost                      69,800      69,800
- ORSP tax                                  11,900       11,900
- Provision for equipment depreciation    1,000           1,000
Subtotal lint                         82,700       82,700
Total CMDT expenses                  405,300      439,100
Profit                                               21,300       54,300
Farmers Sale to CEDT                                      214,300     214,300
Expenses - On-farm costs                             77,800       77,800
Profit                                              136,500      136,500
B. Cottonseed (one ton)
SOMIEX Sale                                               23,000       23,000
Expenses - ORSP tax                                   7,100        7,100
- Price paid CMDT                           15,900      15,900
Total SOMIEX expenses                 23,000       23,000
Profit                                                - 0 -        - 0 -
CMDT Sale                                                 15,900       15,900
Expenses - Handling and administration               14,500       14,500
Profit                                                1,400        1,400
/1   Extension is MF 36,700/ton in 1976/77.



- 57 -
Profits that SOMIEX derives from the marketing of cotton lint would be re--
duced substantially from an estimated MF 93,900 per ton of cotton lint under
present arrangements to MF 27,100, as a consequence of the following changes:
(a) increase in CMDT's profits to 11% of the ex-ginnery cost; (b) introduction
of a provision for the replacement of equipment including ginneries (MF
1,000/ton); and (c) increase to more than double of the input subsidy tax to
adequately cover the cost of input subsidies for cotton farmers (para 6.15).
There is no doubt that with such a change in its income from lint marketing,
SOMIEX will no longer be able to subsidize imports (paras 1.11, 1.12) without
incurring large cash shortfalls.
6.13      Unless Government decides to decrease the amount of taxes on cotton
lint sold to the local textile manufacturers, the price of lint to the local
manufacturers, which is the ex-ginnery price, would increase some 16%, from
MF 426,600 in 1976/77 to MF 493,400 per ton in 1977/78.
E. Financial Impact on Government
6.14      The following table summarizes further the income that Government
and others derive from the production and marketing of one ton of cotton lint
and one and a half tons of cottonseed 1/.
1/   One ton of seed cotton gives 0.36 ton of cotton lint and 0.55 ton of
cottonseed.



- 58 -
Table 6.7    Income Distribution of One Ton of Cotton Lint and
One and a Half Tons of Cottonseed
(Constant 1977 MF)
1976/77      %    1977/78      %
SOMIEX Net Profit
-  on cotton lint                        93,900    27%    27,100        8%
-  on cottonseed                          - 0 -              - 0 -
Subtotal SOMIEX                 93,900    27%    27,100        8%
CMDT Net Profit
-  on cotton lint                        21,300      6%    54,300    15%
-  on cottonseed                          2,100      1%      2,100      1%
Subtotal CMDT                   23,400      7%    56,400    16%
Farmers' Net Profits /1                   136,500    39%   136,500    39%
Input Subsidy Tax                           33,700    9%    67,500        9%
Government
-  Export tax on lint                    39,100    11%    39,100    11%
-  Municipal tax on seed cotton             600      -         600      -
-  ORSP tax - on li.nt                   11,900      3%    11,900       3%
- on cottonseed              10,700      4%    10,700       4%
Subtotal Government             62,300    18%    62,300    18%
TOTAL                          349,800   100%   349,800   100%
/1   Before famrily labor.
The proposed changes in the "bareme" for cotton lint should have no impact
on the two taxes levied by Government: a general purpose export tax, and
a specific tax for the stabilization fund (Office de Stabilisation et de
Regularisation des Prix) whose role is to support producer prices i.n case
of a drop in cotton prices on the world markets. Since producer prices
for cotton are considered adequate (para 7.10), the farmers' share of the
cotton income would remain at 39%.
6.15      As noted in para 1.17 Government proposes to progressively phase
out the policy of input subsidy now that the benefits of inputs have been
demonstrated to the majority of farmers.  Complete elimination, however,
would not occur overnight. The following table summarizes the total cost
of the subsidy program for CMDT farmers if the subsidies are maintained at
their present level.



- 59 -
Table 6.8    Estimated Cost of Subsidies in 1977/78
MF Billions
1977/78
Total Consumption
Fertilizers                               2.9
-   Insecticides                              2.4
Total                               5.3
Total Subsidies                                2.1
Subsidy amount per ton of lint    MF        67,500
The cost of the subsidies would therefore be MF 67,500 per ton of lint in
1977/78. It is proposed under the new procurement arrangements that: (i)
the tax for SCAER be phased out; and (ii) it be replaced by a levy to
the benefit of CMDT calculated to cover the full cost of the subsidy.
6.16      The project's impact on Government cash flow is in table 6.9.
The cash flow would be positive from year one onwards.



Table 6.9                                    Project Impact on Government Cash Flow
(MF Millions)
Average   Average
1981/82-  1985/86-
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1984/85   1995/96
Inflows
100,% of SOMIEX profits                     720        300        400        510        640        640        640
607 of CMDT profits                         110        370        500        640        800        800        800
Taxes  1/                                   480        690        930      1,180      1,480      1,480      1,480
CIIDT payments
for IDA funds 2/                                    150        370        470         540        760        760
for BADEA funds 2/                                    50       120        150         180        250        250
for ADF funds 2/                                     60        140        180        210         300        300
for CCCE funds 2/                           _                    80       120         120        150        150
Total Inflows                        1,310      1,620      2,540      3,250      3,970      4,380      4,380
Outflows
IDA   - Service charge                                  10         30         40         50         50         50
Amortization                                                                                          70
BADEA - Interest 3/                                     10         30         30         40         40         30
- Amortization 3/                                                                           110        110
ADF   - Service charge 4/                               10         10         20         20         20         20
- Amortization 4/                                                                                       30
CCCE  - Combined interest and
amortization 5/                                           80        120        120        150        150
:overnnent Project contribution             670        990        500        430        480
Total Outflows                           670      1,020         650        640        710        370        460
Annual Surplus                           640        600      1,8'9rj    2,610      3,260      4,1O0      3,929
Cumulative Surplus                                1 240      2 130      4,740      8,000    12,010    15,930
1/  Excluding input subsidy.
2/ 9% amortization over 20 years following a 5 year grace period.
3/  2% amortization over 20 years following a 5 year grace period.
4/  Same as IDA.
5/ 9% amortization over 20 years following a 5 year grace period.



- 61 -
VII. YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, FARMERS' BENEFITS
A. Yields and Production
7.01      The following table shows the yields used in calculating the crop
production increases:
Table 7.1                              Crop Yields (kg/ha)
Seed Cotton   Kenaf   Maize   Rainfed Rice   Swamp Rice
Traditional cultivation          300          -     1,000        600           1,0 00
Improved cultivation:
1975/76                    905         700    1,500        900           2,000
1980/81                  1,062         700    1,500        900           2,C00
Because rainfall was especially well-distributed in 1975/76 and in 1976/77
with concentration in June at the time of planting and in September just
before harvesting, yields in these 2 years were exceptionally high, at about
1,200 kg/ha. The occurrence of another two years of very well-distributed
rainfall is remote, and for the purpose of the appraisal report lower yields
have been used as a base point to eliminate the favorable factor of exceptiorLal
rainfall distribution. The 905 kg/ha for seed cotton used for 1975/76 is the
estimate of what the yield would have been if rainfall had been average in
quantity and distributed normally. This number was obtained through a regres-
sion analysis of yields obtained over the period 1962-1974, and by correlation
with the adoption rates of improved techniques. The yields for the other
crops under improved cultivation are those obtained by CMDT farmers in 1975/76.
7.02      The small (17%) increase in seed cotton yields over the period
1975/1980 is slightly higher than the rate of increase over the period 1962-1974
and results from the adoption of improved agricultural methods at the rates
indicated in para 3.06. The yields for kenaf and food crops would not increase
in the areas already under improved cultivation, but the surface of the areas
under improved cultivation would expand with the extension of services to new
farmers.
7.03      The yield increases described above are estimated to result in
annual production increments amounting to 64,300 tons of seed cotton, 1,800
tons of kenaf, 7,300 tons of maize and 6,600 tons of rice paddy by 1980/81,
as indicated below and in table 7.8.



- 62 -
Table 7.2      Incremental Crop Production (tons)
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81
Seed cotton                  20,800   29,900   40,400   51,500   64,300
Kenaf                           300       600       900    1,300    1,800
Maize                         3,800    4,500    5,300    6,200    7,300
Rice paddy                    2,300    3,000    3,800    4,800    6,600
7.04      The livestock subproject would result in an additional annual live-
stock production valued at MF 261 million in 1979/80. This increase in pro-
duction is calculated from the program set at table 3.7 and with the following
assumptions:
(a)  draft animals' death rate would decrease from 2.5% to 2%
annually;
(b)  death rate of 2/3 of the calves would decrease from 22% to
15% annually. Calves between 0-2 years account for 30% of
the "other livestock" supervised by CMDT (see table 3.7);
(c) stall fattening of some 3,500 animals by 1979/80.
Table 7.3   Incremental Livestock Production
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
Numbers
Increase in draft animals                    500        560       610        660
Increase in calves                         1,400      2,600     3,200      3,700
Animals fattened                             150        500     1,500      3,500
-------------MF Millions------------
Value of Increased Production
Draft animals at MF 70,000/unit           35,000    39,200    42,700    46,200
Calves at MF 25,000/unit                  35,000    65,000    80,000    92,500
Animals fattened at MF 35,000/unit         5,300    17,500    52,500   122,500
Total value of increased production _ 75,300   121,700   175,200   261,200
B. Demand, Prices, and Marketing Arrangements
7.05      Cotton Lint and Cottonseed.  Demand for cotton lint worldwide
is expected to remain generally firm. World consumption had declined in
1974 and 1975, but should resume expanding at its historical growth rate of
2% per year from 1976 until 1985.  Some 85% of the cotton lint produced under



- 63 -
the project would be exported. It is assumed that most of the cottonseed
produced under the project would be processed locally into oil and exported.
The present local processing capacity is being expanded by the construction of
an oil mill of about 25,000 ton capacity at Koutiala in the project area.
World demand for oil is expected to remain firm.
7.06      Prices for the cotton lint reference standard, the Mexican
SM 1-1/16", fell sharply from US$0.62/lb in 1973 to around US$0.42/lb
in 1975 in 1973 terms. They have since recovered and should remain
US$0.43-$0.44/lb in constant 1973 terms (US$0.63-$0.65/lb in 1976 terms)
into the 1980s. The shorter fiber of Mali lint should keep selling at a
US$0.10/lb discount from the standard. Based on the cost breakdown in
para 6.12, the economic value of lint at the farmgate level net of taxes,
and charges for extension services would be MF 419,000 in 1976/77. Cotton
lint prices are summarized below:
Table 7.4   Economic Value of Mali Cotton Lint
(Constant 1976 Terms)
IBRD Projections                              Mali Cotton Lint
Mexican SM 1-1/16"                                              Net Economic Price
CIF Europe                            CIF Europe                   Farmgate
1976/77      US$0.65/lb      US$0.55/lb  MF 594,900/ton        MF 419,000/ton
1978 onwards US$0.63/lb      US$0.53/lb  MF 573,300/ton        MF 397,400/ton
It is expected that cottonseed prices would remain at their present level
in 1976 terms. The net economic value of cottonseed would therefore re-
main MF 21,100/ton in 1976 terms before handling and administrative expenses
(para 6.12).
7.07      Marketing, transport and ginning of seed cotton is the responsibil-
ity of CMDT. This activity lasts until mid-May, beginning of June. Once
processed, cotton lint is sold for the most part to SOMIEX for export, and
the rest, some 4,100 tons in 1975/76, or 11% of the total lint production of
37,000 tons, to local textile manufacturers for the local market. SOMIEX also
markets cottonseed either for exports or for local processing. These arrange-
ments have not been entirely satisfactory especially in 1975/76 when SOMIEX
was confronted at first by slack market conditions for both cotton lint and
cottonseed and later by unexpected large cotton surpluses (para 1.13), and
Government took the unusual decision to export some cottonseed by private
channels, thus bypassing SOMIEX. It may be that in future Government would
rely more heavily on private traders, or even on CMDT to export cotton lint
and cottonseed. Also, payments by SOMIEX and local manufacturers to CMD.T have
lagged badly, and a number of steps to remedy the situation are requested of
both as a condition of the proposed credit (para 6.10). Cotton lint is sold
to SOMIEX and manufacturers at the same ex-ginnery price. The ex-ginnery



- 64 -
price would increase from MF 375,000/ton in 1975/76 to MF 493,400/ ton in
1977/78 to reflect the increase in CMDT's profit margins and the full payment
of the input subsidies through the "bareme" (para 6.12).
7.08      Demand for kenaf is firm.  Societe Malienne de Sacherie (SOMASAC)
is obliged to import lower quality jute from Bangladesh to satisfy the
local demand, and the project, which would produce about 1,800 tons of kenaf
in 1980/81, is not expected to replace all imports.
7.09      Mali-Sud has traditionally been the supplier of surplus cereals
(millet and sorghum) for distribution to the country's food deficit areas
(5th and 6th administrative regions) and the towns. Demand for rice in the
Mali-Sud area is strong and is satisfied from the rice mill at Sevare, 462 km
to the north of Sikasso, near Mopti. Rice produced under the project would
therefore have a cost comparative advantage. Prices for cereals are fixed
by Government and are believed to be at the present time somewhat higher than
the free market would allow. Long-term price equilibrium for maize and rice
should however be close to present level. Marketing is the monopoly of OPAM
(para 1.14) which relies on the local administration, mainly the Federation
des Groupements Ruraux, for buying and transporting local surpluses. To
assist OPAM in its regulatory function, and also to provide a steady flow of
paddy supply to the rice mill built under the project, it is proposed that
CMDT take a more active part in organizing the marketing of cereals in Mali-
Sud. Both Government and CMDT agree to this approach.
7.10      The following table shows the economic and financial prices at the
farm level which were used in the economic and farm budgets calculations:
Table 7.5   Economic and Financial Farmgate Prices
(Constant 1976 MF)
----------------- MF/kg-------------
Seed Cotton   Kenaf   Maize   Rice Paddy   Cottonseed
Economic Price         151          110     32          40             19
Financial Price         74          110     32          40             -
The financial price for seed cotton at the farm level (or the producer price)
is far below the economic price because, as shown in para 6.14, Government
taxes levied on seed cotton, and quasi-taxes in the form of profits to
SOMIEX and CMDT take more than 60% of the seed cotton economic value. This
is justified as cotton, and to a lesser extent groundnuts, are the two major
export commodities. Producer prices for seed cotton were increased 50% in



- 65 -
1974 and are at present adequate compared to the prices paid farmers for other
agricultural commodities. The producer prices for maize and paddy were
increased 60% in 1974, and reflect at present about thei,r economie value. The
price of kenaf, which had been unchanged since 1968, was increased 20% in
1976 to the import substitution price level and now reflects its true ecorLomie
value.
C. Farmers' Benefits
7.11      No attempt has been made to show representative farm budgets, siLnce
farm sizes and production patterns vary considerably throughout Mali-Sud and
any such budgets would not be realistic. Individual crop budgets have been
prepared on a per hectare basis (tables 7.9 and 7.10), and are summarized
below:
Table 7.6    Net Cash Returns for the Various Crops Grown Under
the Project
(Constant 1976 MF)
-------Traditional              -----Improved--------
Net Cash Return             Net Cash Return
Per Hectare/   Per Man-day  Per Hectare/  Per Man-day
Cotton                      22,100             199          68,100         477
Kenaf (per 0.2 ha)              -               -           11,700         116
Maize                        31,500            303          41,900         361
Rice - rainfed               19,800            220          25,700         254
Rice - swamp                35,800             377          54,190         511
/a   Without costing family labor.
The data indicate significant increases in the net incomes of farmers culti-
vating cotton, kenaf, and swamp rice.  Kenaf and swamp rice would be grown
in areas not suited for cotton cultivation.  Improved maize would be grown
by advanced cotton farmers.  The increases in net incomes from the cultiva-
tion of maize and rainfed rice under improved technology are relatively small
(about 30%), but the higher yields that such technology would make possible
should, in addition, allow farmers to decrease the area under cereals ancl
expand that under cotton and thus further increase total farm income.  Except
for cotton and swamp rice under improved cultivation net cash returns per
man-day are relatively low at about the same level as the prevailing wage
rate (MF 275/day) in the agricultural sector. However, employment opportuni-
ties in the agricultural sector are limited especially in the northern part
of Mali-Sud where kenaf is grown, and the net cash return per man-day in-
dicated should provide farmers wtth an adequate incentive.



- 66 -
7.12      The value of the incremental livestock and crop productions to
farmers in 1976 terms would be MF 0.3 billion (US$0.6 million) and MF 5.8
billion (US$11.8 million) in 1980/81, respectively. Cotton would account for
83% of the increased value of crop production and the other three crops
(kenaf, maize and rice) for about 6% each. Total returns to farmers are
given below:
Table 7.7
MF Millions
Livestock                          Crop Production
Value of                          Value
Incremen-                         of Incre-  Incremen-
tal Live-  Incremen-   Net Re-  mental-    tal Cost   Net Re-  Total Net
stock Pro- tal Cost    turn to  Crop Pro-  of Inputs  turn to  Return to
duction    of Medicine Farmers  duction    to Farmers Farmers  Farmers
1976/77    75                       75      2,267          881      1,386     1,461
1977/78   122          70           52      2,864        1,007      1,857     1,909
1978/79   175         105           70      3,699        1,177      2,522     2,592
1979/80   261         123          138      4,594        1,310      3,284     3,422
1980/81   261         140          121      5,772        1,468     4,304      4,425
7.13      Net incremental returns to farmers would amount to some MF 41,000
(US$84) per farm family in 1980/81.  Variations between families would be
essentially a function of the area cultivated by the family, which in turn
would be a function of the number of male adults in the family. Thus net
incremental return to farmers may vary from MF 27,000 (US$55) for a family
with two male adults to MF 55,000 (US$112) for a family with four male adults.



Table 7.8                                                                                                                         T4ALI
MALI-SUD AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
MARKETING AND PRICES
Project-Induced Crop Production
1975/76         1976/77           1977/78            1978/79            1979/80            1980/81
A. Farm - Crop Production
Cotton area (ha)                                                                                 87,350           107'ooo          113,000             120,000            127,000            135,000
Seed cotton yield (kg/ha)                                                                            905              934               965                 996             1,028              1.062
Total seed cotton production (tons)                                                              79,100            99e900           109,000            119,500            130,600            143 400
Incremental seed cotton production (tons)                                                                          20,                                                    51&)O0              64:300
Kenaf area (ha)                                                                                    2,000            2,400             2,800              3,300              3,900              4,600
Kenuf yield (kg/ha)                                                                                  700              700               700                 700               700                700
Total kenaf production (tons)                                                                      1,400            1,700             2,000              2,300              2,700              3,200
Incremental kenef production (tons)                                                                                   300               600                900              i.300              1,800
Improved maize area (ha)                                                                          6,500             7,600            9,000              10,500             12,400             14,600
Improved maize yield (kg/ha)                                                                      1,500             1,500            1,500               1,500              1,500.             1,500
Total improved maize production (tons)                                                             9,800           11,400            13,500             15,800             18,600             21,900
Traditional maize yield (kg/ha)                                                                    1,000            1,000             1,000               1,000             1,000              1,000
Total traditional maize production (tons)                                                         6,500             7,600             9,000             10,500             12,400             14,600
Incremental improved maize production (tons)                                                                        3.800            4.500               5,300              6,200              7.300
Improved rainfed rice area (ha)                                                                   3,200             3,800            4,400               5,200              6,100              7,200
Improved rainfed rice yield (kg/ha)                                                                  900              900               900                 900               900                900
Total improved rainfed rice production (tons)                                                      2,900            3,400            4,000               4,700              5,500              6,500
Traditional rainfed rice yield (kg/ha)                                                               600              600               600                 600               600                600,
Total traditional rainfed rice production (tons)                                                   1,900            2,300             2,600              3,100              3,700              4,300
Incremental improved rainfed rice production (tons)                                                                 1,100             1,400              1,600              1,800              2,200
Improved swamp rice area (ha)                                                                        900            1,200             1,600              2,200              3,000              4,400
Improved swamp rice yield (kg/ha)                                                                 2,000             2,000            2,000               2,000              2,000              2,000
Total improved swamp rice production (tons)                                                        1,800            2,400             3,200              4,400              6,000              8,800
Traditional swamp rice yield (kg/ha)                                                               1,000            1,000             1,000               1,000             1,000              1,000
Total traditional swamp rice production (tons)                                                       900            1,200             1,600              2,200              3,000              4,400
Incremental improved swamp rice production (tons)                                                                   1,200             1,600              2,200              3,000              4,400
Total incremental improved rice paddy production  (tons                                                             2,300             3,000              3,800              4,800              6,600
B. Processed - CroP Production
Total cotton lint production /1 (tons)                                                            29,300           37,000            40,30C              44,200            48,300             53,100
Incremental cotton lint production (tons)                                                                           7,700            11,000             14,900             19,000             23,800
Total cottonseed production                                                                      43,500            54,900            60,ooo             65,700             71,800             78,900
Irlcremeutal cottonseed production                                                                                 11i400           16,5oo              227200             28;500 mS,400
/1 377. of lint per ton of seed cotton,



- 68 -
Table 7.9                                                                                       MALI
MALI-SUD AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Farmers Benefits
(constant 1976 MF)                                                                    Crop Revenues per Hectare
------------Rice -----------
--------------------Cotton------------------    Kenaf (0.2 ha) ---i-e----Mainfe---d-- -R-                                       ---------Swam-------
Traditional        Improved         Ied                                Traditional  Improved    Traditional  Improved    Traditional   Improved
1.0           1.0                1.0               0.2                 1.0           1.0           1.0         1.0          1.0            1.0
Yield (kg/ha)                                          300           650               1,450              700               1,000         1,500            600         900       1,000          2,000
Price (MF/kg) 1/                                        73.75         73.75               73.75            110.00              32.00         32.00          40.00       40.00       40.00          40.00
Value of Production (MF)                            22,130        47,940            106,940            15,400              32,000        48,000        24,000      36,000      40,000          80,000
Inputs                                                         ##
Seeds                                                         44       - 2/      44        - 2/    5      250 4/      15      500    20    600    70  4,200   80  4,800    70  4,200  80  4,800
Compound Fertilizer at MF 150/kg                              150 16,500        200  22,000        30   3,300                         50  5,500                  50  5,500                  80  7,360
Urea at MF 92/kg                                                                  50   4,600                 _                                 _
Insecticides at MF 540/Lit.                                     8  4,320          16   8,640                 _                                 _
Oxen 3/                                                        0.2      -         0.2       -      0.01      -                                                                              0.2     -
Plough at MF 45,650 over 7 years - 10 ha                             650                 650              130                                 _                                                   650
Cart at MF 60,q00 over 7 years - 10 ha                               870                 870                 -                                 _                                                  870
Sprayer at MF 27,150 over 6 years - 5 ha                             910                 910     I                                            _
Seeder at MF 55,500 over 7 years - 7 ha                                -               1,130                -                                 _                                                 1,130
Total Cost of Inputs                                   -        23,250             38,800             3,680                 500         6,100             -      10,300       4,200          25,810
Net Revenue to Farmer                               22,130        24,690              68,140           11,720              31,500        41,900        19,800      25,700      35,800          54,190
Man-Days Required                                      111           101                 143              101                 104           116             90         101          95            106
Net Return per Man-Day                                 199           244                 477               116                303           361            220         254         377            511
SubsidY Cost
Seeds                                                                  5/                  5/           1,250
Inputs                                                            14.720             24,920             1,660                             2.750                     2.800                       5,520
Total Subsidy Cost                                              14,720             24,920             2,910                             2,750                     2,800                       5,520
Opportunity Cost of Labor 6/                        22.200        20,200             29.000            20,200              20,800        23,400        18,000      20.200       19,000         21.200
Total Econamic Cost                                 22,200        58,170             92,720            26,790              20,800        26,150        18,000      23,000       19,000         47,730
Economic Farm-Gate Value                           38.800         84,100            187,560
Net Economic Value                                  16,600        25,930              94,840
1/  Farmers' prices are present official prices.
2/ Distributed free.
3/  One pair of oxen for 10 hectares.  No cost on assumption that opportunity cost of cash investment is offset by the gain in live weight and marketable price.
4/ Total cost MF 300/kg subsidized at MF 50/kg.
5/  Cotton seeds are provided free by CMDT ta farmers, their cost is included in the Bareme,
6/ At MF 200/man-dny.



- 69 -
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's direct benefits would be the increased production
(paras 7.03 and 7.04) it,would generate, resulting in higher incomes for some
108,000 farm families, 92,000 of which would be involved in cotton growing,
8,000 in kenaf development and 8,000 in swamp rice development. The incremental
net foreign exchange earnings would total some US$25 million annually by 1980.
The economic rate of return is estimated to be 25% for the livestock component,
the cost of which is MF 0.4 billion (US$0.8 million), and 44% for the crop
development component, the cost of which is MF 15.4 billion (US$31 million);
the aggregate economic rate of return on these components, which account for
96% of project cost, is 44%. This aggregate return excludes the studies
and health components for which no meaningful rate of return could be estimated
because of the predominance of non-quantifiable effects. Important assumptions
made in the calculations in table 8.1 are:
(a)  for livestock, the incremental value of production in para 7.04;
(b) for crop development, the economic farmgate prices in constant
1976 MF as shown in para 7.10;
(c) inclusion in the cost streams of the crop development calcula-
tions of the costs for training, agricultural research, tracks
component, on the grounds that this component would most benefit
from these investments and that it would be difficult to allo-
cate these costs between the existing area under development, the
proposed expansion and any further expansion beyond the project
which might benefit by them;
(d)  the additional farm family labor required to expand the area
under cotton and kenaf has been costed at MF 200 per man-day,
on the grounds that it should be fully costed at the prevailing
wage rate in the agricultural sector (MF 275/day) for only eight
months of the year (May-December), when the family is fully em-
ployed. The opportunity cost of labor during the rest of the
year is estimated at MF 50/day.
8.02      The sensitivity analysis of the economic rates of return is in
Table 8.2. It indicates, as is usual with annual development programs,
that the rates of return for both livestock and crop development are sen-
sitive to variations in benefits or costs. Each variation of benefits or
costs of 1% would result in an absolute change of about 0.6 and 1.1 per-
centage points in their respective rates of return. Shadow pricing the
foreign exchange component of the economic calculations with a 1.20 factor
would increase the rate of return of the project to 53%.



- 70 -
8.03      The project would have a number of secondary benefits which are
not reflected directly in the economic rate of return calculations.  Impor-
tant among these are (a) the impact of the functional literacy and health
training programs; (b) the demonstration effect of a concerted and inte-
grated approach to rural development; (c) the planning of the development
of the areas freed from onchocerciasis; (d) the expansion of non-farm rural
employment, for about 500 persons, in blacksmithing and in CMDT's cotton
ginneries and rice mill, and in the SOMASAC kenaf processing plant; and
(e) the improvement of nutrition.
8.04      The technical risks attached to the project are not large, because
the improved agricultural techniques that would be promoted have already
been tested extensively by CMDT in the project area.



Table 8.1                                    Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Benefits and Costs
(MF Millions) (Constant 1976 MF)                     1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82
A. Livestock Subproject
Benefits                                             38         99       148        218        261        261
Costs
Project Costs                                     147        135        88         65
Physical contingencies                             15         14          9         7
Farmers On-costs                                              70       105        123        140       140
Total Costs                                   162       219        202        195       140        140
Net Economie Benefits                            (124)      (120)      (54)        23        121       121
B. Crop Development Subproject
1. Benefits
Incremental production (tons)
Cotton Lint                              7,700    11,000    14,900    19,000    23,800    23,800
Cottonseed                              11,400    16,500    22,200    28,300    35,400    35,400
Kenaf                                      300        600        900     1,300      1,800      1,800
Maize                                    3,800      4,500      5,300      6,200     7,300      7,300
Rice paddy                               2,300      3,000      3,800     4,800      6,600      6,600
Economic farm-gate price tOF'000/ton)
Cotton lint                                419        397        397       397        397        397
Cottonseed                                  21         21         21         21        21         21
Kenaf                                      110        110        110        110       110        110
Maize                                        32        32         32         32        32         32
Rice paddy                                  40         40         40        40         40         40
Value of production
Cotton lint                              3,226      4,367      5,915     7,543      9,449      9,449
Cottonseed                                 239        347        466       594        743        743
Kenaf                                       33         66         99        143       198        198
Maize                                      122        144        170        198       234        234
Rice Paddy                                  92        120        152       192        264        264
Economic Benefits 1/                       1,856      4,378      5,923      7,736     9,779    10,888
2. Incremental Farm Labor Requirements
Cotton
Additional ha                           19,650    25,650    32,650    39,650    47,650    47,650
@ 135 man days/ha
Man-days('000)                           2,653      3,463      4,408     5,353      6,433      6,433
Kenaf
Additional ha                              400        400        500        600       700        700
@ 507 man days/ha
Man-days ('000)                             203       203        254        304       355        355
Total man-days ('000)                 2,856      3,666      4,662     5,657      6,788      6,788
@ MF 200/man-day
Farm Labor                              571        733        932     1,131      1,358     1,358
3. Costs
Farm labor                                    571       733        932      1,131     1,358      1,358
Project crop investment                    2,395      3,656      1,347      1,078     1,060
Physical contingency on costs                 240       366        135        108       106
Cottonseed processing                         152       219        295        376       471        471
Agricultural credit - equipment               727       630        666        662       678        480
- seasonal înputs       552      1,501     1,925      2,164      2,504      2,504
Other post project expenses                   -         -          -          -         -          659
Total costs                            4,637      7,105     5,300      5,519      6,177      5,472
Net economic benefits                      (2,781)   (2,727)       623      2,217     3,602      5,416
l/ Equal to value of production postponed by 6 months.



- 72 -
MALI
Mali-Sud Agricultural Project
Table 8.2   Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Sensitivity Analysis
(20 years)
Livestock                                            Crops
Base Case                     24.89%                 Base Case                    44.35%
Benefits Constant                                    Benefits Constant
Costs            -50%  >  100%                       Costs            -50%  > 100%
-25       46.45                                      -25      87.85
-10       31.85                                      -10      56.95
+10        19.15                                     +10       34.95
+25        12.15                                     +25       24.25
+50         2.05                                     +50       11.25
Costs Constant                                       Costs Constant
Benefits         -50   <    0%                       Benefits         -50%  < 100%
-25        8.65                                      -25       19.45
-10       18.65                                      -10       34.05
+10       31.15                                      +10       55.65
+25       40.75                                      +25       75.15
+50       58.35                                      +50   > 100%
Aggregate
Base Case                            43.55%
Benefits Constant
Costs              -50%    >      100%
-25             85.95
-10             55.95
+10             34.35
+25             23.85
+50             10.95
Costs Constant
Benefits           -50%             0%
-25             19.15
-10             33.45
+10             54.65
+25             73.65
+50    >       100%



- 73 -
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)  If after one year of proiect implementation, procurement of
agricultural equipment and iDputs is unsatisfactory, Government
and IDA would agree on measures satisfactory to IDA to remedy the
situation (para 3.15).
(b)  CMDT farmers' repayments would be kept in a revolving fund
for the sole use of CMDT farmers (para. 3.17).
(c)  Consultants required to conduct the studies for the development:
of the areas freed from onchocerciasis would have qualifications
and experience acceptable to Government and IDA (para. 3.25).
(d)  The experts and consultants employed to assist CMDT in carrying
out the crop development program would possess adequate quali-
fications and experience and would be employed with appropriate
terms and conditions.
(e)  Blacksmiths' loan repayments would be held in a revolving fund
managed by CMDT (para 4.11).
(f)  The subsidiary agreement between Government and CMDT regarding
the on-lending of IDA funds would be acceptable to IDA (para.
5.07).
(g)  Accounts for the project and for CMDT would be kept separately
under acceptable commercial accounting practices. Both sets
of accounts and the revolving fund for farmers  credit would be
audited annually by auditors mutually acceptable to Government
and IDA (para. 5.15).
(h)  A rice "bareme" would be established for CMDT (para 6.02).
(i)  A number of changes would be made in the "bareme" for cotton
lint, starting in 1977/78, as follows: (para. 6.06)
(i)  CMDT's commission would be increased to the present
ievel of 5% of the ex-ginnery price so that the
equity of CMDT, which would have been increased
by the incorporation of retained earnings, amounts
to 10% of the overdraft facilities given CMDT by
the Central Bank by 1979/80;
(ii) the "bareme" woulid include a provision for the
depreciation of equipment; and



- 74 -
(iii) the "bareme" would include a provision to cover sub-
sidies given CMDT farmers for the purchase of agricul-
tural inputs.
(j) The terms of the agreements between CMDT and SOMIEX, ITEMA and
COMATEX would be acceptable to IDA and that they would be
adhered to (para. 6.10).
(k)  Government would provide adequate credit facilities to CMDT
-(para. 6.11).
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a)  Satisfactory assurances had been received that the contributions
of the other donors would be made (para 5.06).
(b)  A subsidiary agreement had been concluded between Government
and CMDT regarding the on-lending of IDA funds (para. 5.07).
(c)  The "baremes" applicable to CMDT's products are to be calculated
on the basis of actual costs incurred by CMDT during the preced-
ing campaign and as adjusted for subsequent economic changes
(para. 6.05).
(d)  Government would have taken measures satisfactory to IDA so
that overdue debts owed to CMDT by SOMIEX, ITEMA and COMATEX
would be paid within six months of credit signing, and that
all stock of lint and cottonseed from the 1975/76 crop at
charge to SOMIEX would have been paid for (para 6.10).
9.03      With the above assurances and conditions the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$15.5 million to the Republic of Mali.



MALI
MALI-SUD AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Responsible
Authority         1975        1976         1977         1978         1979         1980
3  69 1~2  3  6  9 12  3 6   9 12  3  6  9 12  3  6  9 12  3  6  9 12
Organization and Administration
Increase in CMDT capital to MF 465 million              Covernuent/PFDT                      X
Annual review of number of expatriate staff             Government/CMDT                            _
New technical assistance contract with CMDT              CMDT
Establishment of "barème" for rice                       Government/CMDT                            X
Agreement on methodology to fix "barème" items           Government/ CMDT                           X
Changes in "barème" for cotton lint                      Governmentl CMDT                           X
New agreements with ITEMA, COMATEX, SOMIEX               ITEMA/COMATEX/SOMIEX, CMDT                 X
Construction of Civil Works                                CMDT
Procurement of Equipment                                   CMDT
Training
In-house training                                        CMDT
Management of 6 "centres saisonniers"                    CMDT                                                       .              .
Equipment of 120 blacksmiths                             CMDT                                           .        _    ___   _
Teaching of functional literacy                          CMDT                                _                       ___
Crop Development
Annual development programs                              CMDT                                               -
Cotton ginnery - civil works construction                CMDT
- equipment procurement                  CMDT
Rice mill - civil works construction                     CMDT
- equipment procurement                       CMDT
Kenaf retting ponds improvement                          CMDT                                                   .
Agricultural Research
Ongoing cotton, rice, kenaf programs                     CMDT/IER                                            .         .  ._._._.
Maize research  program                                  CMDT/IER                        .            .________._
Agricultural Tracks
Maintenance spot imProvement programs                    CMDT/PWD                                                            --------
C « struction of bridges                                 CMDT/PWD_                                      _ _
Livestock Development
Posting of livestock staff                               CMDT/Livestock Services              X
Animal development program                               CMDT                                                                                          .
Tlealth Improvement-                                                                                 j                                                         '
Training of health assistants                            CMDT/Health Ministry                       _            ___
Procurement of drugs                                     Health Ministry                        =
Studies
Development of onchocerciasis areas                      IER                          |            |        _
Study of farming systems                                 CIDT/IER                                   _            _ _ _



ANNEX
Table 2
Additional Reports and Data Related to the Project
Available in the Project File
A 1.      Rapport Annuel - Campagne Agricole en Zone Cotonniere
Ministere de la Production, C.M.D.T. (Compagnie Malienne pour
le Developpement des Textiles) - Bamako
Annee 1974-1975.
A 2.      Republique du Mali, Presidence
Decret No. 62/PG approuvant les Statuts de la
Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipment Rural (S.C.A.E.R.)
28 mai 1971.
A 3.      Convention des Services Reciproques SCAER - CMDT
10 juin 1975.
A 4.      SOMIEX (Societe Malienne d'Importation et d'Exportation)
Balance Sheets, Profit and Loss Accounts
1973, 1974.
B 1.      PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE DANS LA ZONE SUD (MALI-SUD)
Rapport de factibilite, dossier principal & 5 annexes
Ministere de la Production, Institut d'Economie Rurale
juin 1974.
B 2.      Consultants reports
(a) Cotton
(b) Rice
(c) Kenaf Development
(d) Training
(e) Agricultural Tracks
(f) Livestock
(g) Health
C 1.      Project Cost Tables.



K yo8                                                      j           Tenenko  O4X MPT         °                                      2
9 \ \ %A 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  A  LI1
Kaye~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
________\___                                                      KoLroMALI SUD AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
140
RICE
Kolokani«ffi> OBanamba                                                        Ç\,N.,j      7J//                     »/ 00  COTTON
900----                                                EGO                                             \                                                    t X  . /  KENAF
7 \ 2>OTominian                 f                            9  , j CMDT LIMIT
PROJECT COTTON GINNERY
7700   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~M                                                 EXISTING COTTON GINNERIES
-   8     ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS
BanaMAJOR ROADS
B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~iRIVERS
;)0>  a               Koutia t-  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
C       50"     1010     15
--10119               ~~~~~KILOMETERS
12
400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    4
MAURITANIAj                    0~
K 1 'd' b                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALI
SNEGAL / - )   'NIGER
lx.,.                                                    BISSA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Oaoa  ~~~~~~UPPER~.  Cuo
>~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~kdoçQ                                                                                                                                      120- M
G.-U   N EA                                                                                         Th, î,aadro hoon on thais dap dol A' T                 NA -  VR   IEI
irnpîy   e,cndoroOlnt o, occeptancop  "  thy  lc 
Woald Baok and its ffîl jtBs.
6-~~~~~~~~~~4                                                          2



