CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 669-MLI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Mali-Sud Agricultural Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
COMPAGNIE MALIENNE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT DES TEXTILES
Dated December 23, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
COMPAGNIE MALIENNE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DES TEXTILES (hereinafter
called CMDT).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Mali (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen million five hundred thousand dollars ($15,500,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that CMDT agree to undertake cer-
tain obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be concluded be-
tween the Borrower and CMDT, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to CMDT on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS CMDT, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
S


﻿-3  -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. CMDT shall carry out Parts A B2 and E of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural practices
and with the assistance of the Borrower's Ministries or departments.
Section 2.02. The experts and consultants employed to assist
C-DT in carrying out Part A of the Project shall possess adequate
qualifications and experience, and shall be employed on appropriate
terms and conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) CMDT undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Bor-
rower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by CMDT to replace or repair such goods.


﻿40
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, CMDT
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used ex-
clusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) CMDT shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest.
(b) CMDT: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to iden-
tify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Asso-
ciation's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) CMDT shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of CMDT related to the Project and any relevant
records and documents.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. CMDT shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, CMDT shall not take any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) CMDT shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the prog-
ress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other mat-
ters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) CMDT shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the prog-
ress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by CMDT of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. In carrying out Part B2 of the Project, CMDT
shall:
(i)   provide credits to blacksmiths under procedures
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association; and
(ii) ensure that blacksmiths' repayments of such credits
be deposited into a revolving fund for the sole
purpose of financing the purchase of equipment for
them in the Project area.


﻿-6-
Section 2.09. CMDT shall promptly furnish to the Borrower
such data as are necessary for the determination by the Borrower
of the cost price allocations included in the Bar4mes and for
their adjustment when necessary.


﻿ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CMDT
Section 3.01. (a) CMDT shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, and carry on its operations, all
in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing, agricultural and industrial practices and under the supervi-
sion of qualified and experienced management and staff.
(b) CMDT shall adequately maintain the works, installations
and equipment used in its operations and promptly make all neces-
sary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, industrial and agricultural practices.
(c) CMDT shall at all times take all such action as shall
be necessary on its part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights
which are necessary or useful for the purpose of carrying out its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3.02. CMDT shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the As-
sociation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. CMDT shall enter into arrangements, satisfac-
tory to the Association, with ITEMA and COMATEX ensuring adequate
and timely supply of cotton lint to ITEMA and COMATEX based on
their expected monthly purchases as indicated by them to CMDT


﻿-8-
within the periods stipulated in the protocoles in effect between
the CMDT and such companies.


﻿0                         -9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. CMDT shall maintain separate records and ac-
counts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices its operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project.
Section 4.02. CMDT shall: Ci) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements), including (A) the separate accounts re-
ferred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and (B) separate ac-
counts for the revolving fund referred to in Section 2.08 (iii) of
this Agreement, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the Association; (ii) fur-
nish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning the accounts and financial statements of CMDT and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably re-
quest.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of CMDT thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in ac-
cordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify CMDT
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.


﻿*                                   - 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       40098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
6415 (wUI)
For CMDT:
Compagnie Malienne pour le Developpement
des Textiles
B.P. 487
Bamako, Republic of Mali
Cable address:                Telex:
CIMATEX                       972554
Bamako


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of CMDT or under the Development Credit Agree-
ment by CMDT on behalf of the Borrower, may be taken or executed
by the Directeur General of CMDT or such other person or persons
as CMDT shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. CMDT shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of CMDT or the Bor-
rower, take any action or execute any documents required or per-
mitted to be taken or executed by CMDT pursuant to any of the pro-
visions of this Agreement or of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿-13-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ E. P. Wright
Director
Country Programs 1
Western Africa
COMPAGNIE MALIENNE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT DES TEXTILES
By /s/ Ibrahima Sima
Authorized Representative


