Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFI(IA  ( SE ON'LL'
Report No. 12388-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SITPPORT PROJECT
JUNE 15, 1994
_: ) [  Ab e. ; g L4 '_
Agricultural Operations
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF) 11
USS I.00 = CFAF 580 2)
SDR 1.00 = US$ 1.39 2)
WEIGITS AND MEASURES
hlctrin SN stem
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB               -frican Developmrcit Bank (Banque Africaine ae Diveloppemerj)
AGCD                        Adminsrtration Genieale de ls Coopdsmtion Beige (Belgiin General Adminisiration for Cooperanon)
ANADER                      Agcnce National d'Appui aux Services Agrieoles (National Agncultura' Servuces Agencw
CAA                -        Caiss Autonome d'Amortissement (Debt Anor.zaMon Fund)
ASA1JC             -        Agricultural Adjustment Loan/Credit (PrtiC'redat d 'Ajusiemete  Structurcd
CAISTAB            -        Caisse de Stabilisation (Agricultural Stabilization Fund)
CFD                -        Caisse Franqaise de Developpement (French Development Fund)
CIDT                        Compagnie [voirierne pour le Dev. des Textiles (Ivonan Company for Textile Development)
CIDV               -        Cie Ivoirienne pour le Dev. des Cultures Vivrieres (Ivorian Food Crop Development Agency)
CIRAD              -        Centre International de Recherche Agronornique pour le Developpement (French lntemationcl Centet for
Agrieultural Research and Development)
CMR                -        Centres des Metiers Ruraux (Rural Vocational Training Centers)
CREP               -        Caisse Rur'sle d'Epargne et Prets (Rural Savings and Loan Funds)
CRIDA                       Comite de Restructuration des Institutions de Developpemcnt Agricolu (Committee for the Restructuring qf
Agricultural Development Instiumons)
DCGTx                       Direction et Contr6le des Grands Tx (Directoraze and Supervision of Large Scale Operations)
DRA                -        Direction Regionale Agricole (Regional Directorate of Agriculture)
ENSA               -        Ecole Nationale Sup6&ieure d'Agronomie (National High School o] Agronomy)
EPN                -        Etablissements Publics Nationaux (National State Agencies)
ERC                -        Economnic Recovqry Credit (Cr&dil d'Appui a la Relance de l'Economie)
EU                 -        European Union (Union Europ&enne)
FAC                -        Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Fund for Aid and Cooperation)
FEW                         Field Extension Worker (Conseiller Agricole)
FOS                         Farrners' Organization Specialist (Specialiste en Organisation Coopirative)
GEF                -        Global Environment Facility (Fonds pour l'Enviro-nement Mondial)
GVC                         Groupement a Vocation Cooperative (Pre-cooperadve group)
IDESSA                      Institut des Savanes (Savannah Research Institute)
IDEFOR             -        Institut des Foretu (Forest Research Institute)
IFAD               -        International Fund for Agricultural Development (Fond mnternational pour le Djveloppement Agricole)
IRCC               -        Institut de Recherche pour le Cafe et le Cacao (Ivorian Institutefor Cocoa and Coffee Research)
IPDT               -        Institut de Recherche pour le Div. des Technologies (Research Instuute for Technology Development)
MEFP               -        Miuistmre de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan (Ministry of Economy, Finances and Planning)
MESRS              -        Minisfere de l'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherch Scientific (Ministry of Higher Education and
Scientfic Research)
MINAGRA            -        Ministare de l'Ag. et des Ressources Aninsales (Ministry ofAgriculture and Animal Resources)
MINIFOP            -        Mnistare de la Fonction Publique (Ministry of the Public Service)
MTF                -        Medium-Termt Economic Framework (Cadre Economique t& Moyen Terme)
NEAP               -        National Environmental Action Plan (Plan National d'Action Environnementale)
PAGE               -        Projet d'Appui a la Gestion Economique (Economic Management Suppon Project)
PNAGER             -        Projet National de Gestion de i'Espace Rural (National Rural Land Management Project)
PNER               -        Projet National d'Equipement Rural (National Rural Equipment Project)
PPDEA              -        Projet de Promotion et de Ddv. des Exportations Agrico:es (Agrieultural Expon Promodion Project)
PVA                -        Projet de Vulgarisation Agricole (Agricultural Extension Project)
SARS               -        Site d'Adaptation de la Rech:rcho Sysame (Systemic Research Adaptation Sfie)
SATMACI            -        Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation de l'Agriculture (Companyfor Modernization of
Ivonian Agriculture)
SEM                -        Societe d'Economie Mixte (Mired Economy Company)
SMS                         Subject Matter Specialist (Technicien Specialise)
SODE               -        Societe de Dveloppement (Development Agency)
SODEPRA            -        SocietE de D6veloppem-nt de la Production Animale (Livesiock Development Agency)
T&V                -        Training and Visit (Fonmation en V'sites)
UNDP               -        United Nations Development Program (Programme des Nations Unies pour k Developpemenm)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December31
1)     Thc exrhango rate of the CFAF is fixed at 100-:1 to the French Franc, which is a floating currency
2)     As of March 1994 (date of negotiations)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
]ble of Contents
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE ...........................i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY..ii
I.     INTRODUCT1ON  ..................................1
la.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND  ................................   2
m. SECTORAL SE TNG.                                                                                 5
A.  Overview of the Agricultural Sector                           .5
B.     Agricultural Institutions .....................                                      7
C.  Government Agricultural Strategy .10
D.  Bank Sector Strategy and Lending Progran .11
E. Donor Activity .13
F.   Lessons Learnt from Previous Bank Involvement .13
IV.    PROJECT PRESENTATION   .........................   16
A.     Project Objectives, Strategy, Summary Description
and Rationale    ..16
B. Detailed Features                   ..17
1 .  Restructuring Process .17
2.      Operating Support to the National Agricultural Services Agency .18
3.  Institution Strengthening .24
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING .28
A. Cost Estimates .28
B. Project Financing .29
C. Procurement .32
D.  Disbursements and Revolving Funds .34
E.      Financial Management, Accounting and Audit Requirements.                           35
F.  Project Implementation and Management .36
This report is based on preparation reports prpared by the Ivorian authorities in collboration with ArT7AG (Measns. Jacques Fr6my
and Amos Ben Mayor) and AFIAA (Messrs. Jean-Paul Chausse and Christian Fauliau), The appraiscl mission was led by Mr.
Chrisn Fauliau (APIAA), and consisted of Ms. Pauline Quassivi-Fofana and Mr. Jan Weetjans (AFIAA) and represerntaies
of donor agencics (FAO, UNDP, CPD, FAC, EU, IFAD). Mr. Daniel Moreau (LA3AG) was the Peer Reviewer and Mr. Shem
Migot-Adholla (AGRAP) the Project Advisor. Mr. Olivier Lafourcade a the Deprtment Diector (AP1), Mr. Thdodore Nkodo
the Division Chief (AFIAG) and Mr. Jean.Claude Balce the Section  uhief (APlAA). Operational support was provided by
Mr. Hemi Aka (AFIAG).
This document has a resricted distbuon and may be used by rcipien   ny in the pfoman  of tdir
ofca dutis Its cotents myno othewis be discloed witho  Wod Bank =at            ion.



IMbleof C-entents (Cont'd) ....... ..                                                  Page
VI. BENEFrTS AND RISKS .38
A. Benefits   ..38
B. Budgetary Impact                ...... 39
C. Capacity Building.                                                            39
D. Environmental Impact               ..40
E. Poverty Impact    ..40
F. Risks   ..40
VII.   ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION  ............... 41
ANNEXES
1.    Yield Potentialities of Major Food Crops
2.    Basic Data on Farmers' Associations (1989/1990)
3.    ANADER's Diagram of Programming and Budgeting Process
4.    ANADER's Training Component
5.    ANADER's Organization at National Level
6. MINAGRA DRAs' Organigrarn and Detailed Presentation
7.    Project Cost Summary
8.    Detailed Procurement Procedures
9.    Detailed Disbursement Procedures
10.   Standard Terms of Reference for Financial Audits
11.   Project Objectives and Implementation Indicators
12.   ANADER's Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
13.   Terms of Reference for the Project Completion Review
14.   PNASA Program Budgetary and Staffing Impact
15.   ANADER's Estimated Summary Financial Statements
MAR   IBRD No.25030



I l -
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
Documents Contained in the Proiect File
A.     BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS AND REPORTS
1.    'Etudes des relations entre les strategies de vulgarisation agricole et la protection de
l'environnement en R6gion Nord de C6te d'lvoire', World Bank, April 1992.
2.    'R6le et place de la femme dans les programmes de Developpement agricole', World Bank, April
1992.
3.    'Restructuration des Institutionsd'Appuiau D6veloppement Agricole', UNDP-FAO, NC/91/001-
Nov.91.
4.    "Appui aux cooperatives agricoles de la filiere caf6/cacao', SOCODEVI, March 1992.
5.    National Adjustment Project fcr the Agricultural Structures, DCGTX, July 1991.
6.    Operational Avuit of SODEPRt, BDPA-SCETAGRI, 1992.
7.    Agricultural Master Plan 1991/2010, MINAGRA 1991.
8.    MINAGRA Seminar on the Agricultural Extension Restructuring and the Agriculturl Master Plan,
MINAGRA, Mars 1992.
9.    Final evaluation of the Ag. Extension Project-PVA, DCGTx, September 1992.
10.    PVA's Project Completion Report, World Bank, June 1993.
B.     PREPARATION REPORT AND WORKING PAPERS
1.     Support Services: Strategy and Operations for Restructuring Process.
2.     Human Resource Management.
3.     Adaptive Research, Agricultural Extension and Farmers' Associations.
4.     Livestock integration within the new Agricultural Services Structures.
5.     ANADER: (a) Tasks and Structures; (b) Operation; and (c) Financing.
6.     The Restructuring of MINAGRA's Regional Directorates.
7.     Agricultural Statistics.
8.     CIDT witiin PNASA.
9.     PNASA and Environment.
10.    PNASA, Project Preparation Report, MINAGRA, August 1992.
II.    Detailed Cost Tables (COSTAB)



- ii-
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICE SUPPORT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:    Republic of COte d'Ivoire
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (MINAGRA), Ministry of Higher
Education and Scientific Research (MESRS), Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Planning (MEFP), National Agricultural Services Agency (ANADER) and Research
Institutes (IDESSA, IDEFOR, IRDT)
Credit Amount: SDR 15.7 million (US$21.8 million)
Terms:       Standard IDA terms, with 40 year maturity
PrQiect
Description: The proposed project will be instrumental to support continued implementation of the
Government's policy to develop the rural economy, disengage from commercial and
production activities, and promote effective participation of beneficiaries in the
definition, financing and implementation of agricultural services. The project will
build on the achievements of the Agricultural Extension Project (Ln. 2765-IVC)
completed in 1991. Its main objectives will be to: (a) streamline and decentralize the
organization of agricultural services; (b) enhance the role of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Animal Resources (MINAGRA) in policy making and supervision of
agricultural development; and (c) increase farmers' empowerment and influence over
the policy making process.
The project will be the first phase of a five-year program designed to support, through
improved research and extension, the generation, dissemination and adoption of
environmentally sound technology required to sustain productivity gains in agriculture
in the long run.  he project will be implemented over a period of two years on a
national scale. In line with the Government's overall civil service reforms, the
project's strategy will be: (a) to assure the delivery of basic agricultural services
through the esublishment of a National Agricultural Services Agency (ANADER)
which will be the Government's main sub-contractor for extension, adaptive research
and support to farmers' organizations; and (b) to streamline and strengthen
MINAGRA's regional directorates (DRAs) in each of the ten regions of the country.
DRAs' role will be refocussed on their public service mandate geared to establishment
and implementation of agricultural policies and regulations. As part of this mandate,
they will be given clear responsibilities and directions to assist in the development of
private sector initiatives.
In support of the above strategy, the project will include the following components:
(a) Restructuring Process (US$8.3 million) (US$2 million by IDA) designed to: (i)
revamp agricultural services through the merging of three existing crop-based
parastatal extension organizations into a single, multi-purpose and decentralized
National Agricultural services Agency (ANADER) with management autonomy and
strong representation of farmers; and (ii) streamline MINAGRA's Regional
Directorates (DRAs); this component is financed under the PPF and will be Zomnieted
before project effectiveness:



- iii -
(b)    Operating Support to ANADER (US$22.9 million) (US$12.2 million by IDA) geared
to assisting in all facets of ANADER's operations, including adaptive research to be
sub-contracted to research institutes (IDESSA, IDEFOR and IRDT) and support to
farmers' organizations; this component will include extensive training activities to
systematically upgrade the skills of all ANADER's staff; the component represents
Part A of the project; and
(c)    Institution Strengthening (US$13.4 millior) (US$7.6 million by IDA) of MINAGRA
(all Regional Directorates, and the central directorates of Administration/Finance and
Planning/Programming), the Ministry of Scientific Research and Higher
Education-MESRS (Sub-Directorate of Adaptive Research) and the Ministry of
Finance-MEFP (Sub-Directorate of Audit Control), with a view to strengthening
ministerial structures involved in the support to agricu!tural services; support to
MJ4NAGRA will focus on policy-making and planning, monitoring and evaluation, and
human resources and finamcial management; MESRS will be strengthened through
support to adaptive research activities and MEFP through support to audit control
activities (this latter support will be provided irn close liaison with the Economic
Management Project (Cr. 2503-IVC)); this component represents Part B of the
project.
The proposed project will be central to the Government's strategy to restore
sustainable growth through delivery of improved agricultural services and redefinition
of the Government's role in the agricultural sector. Implementation of this strategy
has started in 1992 with the streamlining of parastatal agencies (CIDT, SATMACI,
CIDV, SODEPRA) and the reduct.on of their staff. The project's main thrust, i.e.
refocusing the Government's role on the provision of essential public services,
empowering farmri-rs and Improving their skills, and reducing civil service costs, is
also at the core of the Bank's strategy to foster efficiency aad growth in the rural
sector. Since 1986, the Bank has played a leading role in the restructuring of Cote
d'Ivoire's national agricultural services as part of the Agricultural Extension Project
(PVA, Ln. 2765-IVC). Its continued inviolvement in the restructuring process is
essential to sustain the Government's commitment to difficult and critical reforms and
mobilize the support of other donors.



- iv -
Foreiffn               Foreign         Foreign SasueLin
Local  ExchanBe Total  Local  Exchange Totat gxgnR Qa
---(CFAF mfitfon)- ---- (US$ mitlion)----              SW
A. Restructuring Process            4129     590    4719      7.1    1.0       8.2      12    is
B. Onerstion S soort to a LNER
(ProjeCt Psrt A)
1. Extension                     3342    2259    5601     6.5    3.0        9.5    401    24
2. Adaptive Research              674     272     947      1.2    0.4       1.6      1S     6
3. Professional Org. (OPA)        925     850    1M        1.8    1.2         3     40      B
4. Training & Human Rescurces    518      400     918      1.0    0.5       1.5     46      6
5. Managemant Support            1993    1109    3102      3.8    1.5       5.3     28    13
...... ..........  .  .. .......  ..................... .    .......................... .......   .
Sub-Total                     7452    4890   12342    14.3    6.6       20.9     31    53
c. ejD   5n  t£ntJe
(Project Part B)
1. Ministry of Agriculture
Central Directorates          418     357     635     0.7    0.5        1.2     38      3
Regional Directorates        1791    2085    3876     3.7    2.9        6.5     54    17
S. tudies                      1225     295    1520     2.3    0.3        2.6     12     6
2   4inistry of Scientific Res.   220      257     477      0.5    0.3       t.8     54      2
3. Ministry of Ec. & Finance        20      21      41      0.1    0.1       0.2      50     1
Sub-Total                       67-4   3015    6549      7.3    4.0      11.3     39    29
Total Rasejine Costs               15255    8495   23750    28.7   11.6       40.3      28   100
Physical contingencies            355     357     712      0.6    0.6       1.2     50      3
Price contingencies              1577     245    1822      2.7    0.4       3.1      13     8
....      . ......... .............    ...... ............ _....  ... .... .
Total Prolect Costs                17187    97   268         32.0   12.6      44.6    21   11
Pinacing P
Local       Foreign        Total
-   --- ----- USS million ----------
Goverment                                        12.4           -           12.4
IDA                                              11.4         10.4          21.8
UNDP                                              0.5          0.2           0.7
CFD                                               5.0                        5.0
AGCD                                                -          0.5           0.5
IFAD                                              1.3          0.6           1.9
AfD8                                               1.5         0.8           2.3
TOTAL                                32.1        12.5           44.6
Estimate  Schedule of Disb          uem    from the 1DA Credit
IDA fiseat Yer
FY94      FY9       FY9         FY97
--USS mitllion--
Anmul                     1.2      10.6         7.0       2.0
Cumulatlve                1.2      12.8        19.8     21.8



v -
Benefits and LRiskcs
The project will improve agricultural productivity, thereby fostering agrizuItural growth ar,d
improving rural incomes. It will gradually ensure access to improved agricultural service-s for the
entire population of rural producers, i.e. about 900,000 farm families. This population comprises
several of the poorest segments of the Ivorian population, including rural women. The project will
improve research-extension-farmers linkages, and make research and extension more demand driven
and client oriented. It will ensure greater environmental sustainability of agricultural practices. On
another front, the project will redefine the role of the Sttte and of thfe private sector in agricultural
development. The role of the State will be limited to policy definition, monitoring of policy
implementation and law enforcement. This will be accompanied by a complete overhaul of the
agricultural administrative and operational support services including the dismissal of about 3,340
redundant staff. These measures will result in the reduction by about CFAF 4 billion of annual
payroll and other budgetary costs. The private sector, particularly through empowerment of farmers'
organizations, will gradually increase its control over the delivery of agricultural services and
therefore assume greater financial responsibility. This is expected, in the long run, to have a
beneficial impact on public finances.
The two major risks faced in implementing the project are: (a) the Government's capacity to complete
the ambitious restructuring program; and (b) the availability of counterpart funds. A technical risk is
the risk of low farmer adoption of the technical messages being extended. The Government has
already given testimony of its resolve to streamline agricultural services through the dismissal of
redundant staff (about 2,000) in extension parastatals. The creation of ANADER decided by
presidential decree of September 29, 1993 and restructuration of MINAGRA's regional services by
decree of March 25, 1994 fiuther testifies to the Government's commitment to fully complete the
required restructuring process. To diminish the risks of the restructuring exercise, arising in
particular from staff selection and attendant staff dismissal, the project will encourage voluntary
departure and early retirement of staff. Similarly, dismissed redundant staff will benefit from
severance allowances, in accordance with Ivorian law, and will be assisted in their insertion into the
labor market. Completion of the entire restructuring process is required for credit effectiveness, so
that the attendant risks will be moved upfront prior to the operational phase of project
implementation. The risk of lack of availability of regular counterpart funds are mitigated by the
assurance provided by the Government that it will, before January 1 of each year, earmark all
necessary counterpart fiuds in the National Budget, and that, before the beginning of each quarter,
the counterpart funds will be deposited in the project accuunt. To further decrease this risk, other
donors will be invited to earmark counterpart funds arising from their balance of p3yments assistance
for project expenditures. The risk of farmer low adoption of the technical messages being extended
will be mitigated, as these messages will be developed in collaboration with farmers and will be
designed so as to minimize amounts of purchased inputs.
Iernal Rate of Return: not applicable
EQnvironBental Categgry: C
oEmma  Car: B; program of targeted interventions



- vi -
REPUBLIC OF C',- D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SER-. t.CES SUPPORT PRQJECT
Key Features of the Rur  '5 ector (1 992)1,
1.     Land Area ('000 km2)
- Total Land                                322
- Forest Region                              140
- Savanaah Region                            182
- Forested area                              74
2.     Population
- Total (million)                            12.5
- Growth rate (9c)                            3.7
- Rural population (9%)                      51
- Urban population (%)                       49
3.     Production ('000 MT)
- Cocoa                                     790
- Coffee                                     190
- Cotton                                     194
- Sugar                                      150
- Palm oil                                  280
Rubber                                      72
- Pineapple                                 115
- Bananas                                   150
= Rice Paddy                                710
-Yam                                      2,820
4.     Export_ (CFAF billion)
- Comoa                                     222
- Co.ffee                                    54
- Cotton                                     52
- Rubber                                     16
- Patm oil                                  17
- Pineapple                                  23
-Bananas                                     37.5
- Timber                                     87
5.     Economic Overview
- Gross Domestic Product (CFAF billion)    2.680
- GDP Real growth (%)                        -0.8
6.     Government Revenues (CFAF billion)
- Total Tax Revenues                        521
- Interest of Extemal Debt                  294
7.     Social Indicators
- Life expectancy at birth (year)            55
- Adult literay rate (% 15 +, 1990)
* Female                                   40
* Total                                    54
- Infant mortality rate                      95
(per 1,000 live births)
Source:  "Cote d'Ivoire: Statiscal Profile", APlCO, World Bank, August 1993
"Cate d'Ivoire Agriculture Statistical Profile", AF1AA, World
Bank, May 1994.



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATONLATLTRAL SERVICES SUPPRT EROjLEC
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01         COte d'lvoire is one of the principal countries in the CFA zu,ne. with a population of
about 13 million and a GDP of US$9.2 billicn in 1993. The country has been in recession since 1986
and faces a severe external debt problem. High population growdt coupled with economic decline has
resulted in a steady fall of living standards. GNP per capita in 1992 was estiniated at less than
US$700 compared to well over US$1000 in the early 1980s. Social indicators have alse been
deteriorating, reflecting, amongst others, the effects of the economic crisis as well as neglect of basic
social services. Future growth must be supported by a higher level of private investment, which has
been inhibited in recent years by limited access to foreign borrowing due to COte d'lvoire's ongoing
economic and financial difficulties, and by actions aimed at increasing the productivity of the
agricultural sector. In this regard, the restructuring and strengthening of agricultural services
supported under the proposed project is central to the strategy designed to lay the base for long-term
agricultural productivity. It is also important te help secure the required budgetary savings, and
attract private investment back into agriculture.
1.02         The National Agricultural Services Support Project (Projet National d'Appui aux
Services Agricoles - PNASA) will support the generation, adaptation, dis ;emination and adoption of
new agricultural technologies and practices, with a view to increasing the productivity of
smallholders. At present, extension agencies do not adequately cater to the needs of these
smallholders, although they continue to make large budgetary outlays. This calls for a restructuring
of agricultural services both to generate budgetary savings and address production constrainlts at the
grassroots. To this effect, the project will support a complete overhaul of agricultural services,
including the merging of three former extension agencies into a single, multipurpose and decentralized
National Agricultural Services Agency (ANADER), and the streamlining of the Regional Directorates
(DRAs) of the Ministry of Ag;iculture and Animal Resources (MINAGRA). Emphasis will be given
to the empowerment of farmers and the promotion of farmers' groups. The project will be fully in
line with the public sector reform program supported by the Bank under the Economic Management
Project (PAGE, FY93) in the context of C6te d'Ivoire's medium-term macro-economic framework
(MTF).
1.03         The project was identified in 1989. It builds upon the findings of the initial
Agricultural Extension Project (FY86), implemented over 1986-1991. Technical preparation was
carried out by the Government, in close consultation with the Bank and other donors, over the period
November 1991 to February 1993. This long preparation process has rermitted adequate ownership
of project concepts by the Government. Project preparation was financed under the first two PPF
advances totaling US$900,000 (para 5.05) and UNDP financial support in amount of about
US$700,000. A large Pre-Appraisal mission including all donors which are active in the agricultural
sector took place in February 1993. This mission was followed by a brief appraisal in April 1993,
and by negotiations in March 1994.



- 2 -
II. SPCIO'ECONOMIC BIACKGROUND
2.01         Egcnomic Dvelopments in the l980s. CUte d'lvoire is emerging from a dozen years
of .insuccessful internal adjustnent which failed to reverse the economic decline and reduce the
growing social azid poverty problems. The economic and social crisis started at the beginning of the
1480s when the country faced serious economic problems: (a) macroeconomic imbalances that had
grown to unsustainable levels, with a budget deficit of about 10% of GDP and a current account
deficit of about 17% of GDP; (b) debt servicing problems as a result of the rapid build-up of external
debt during the second half of the 1970s; and (c) distortion on domestic markets, contributing to an
inefficient resource allocation. Finally, there was a marked deterioration in public sector
management, especially among public enterprises, These problems were in essence an outgrowth of
the period of surge in spending which followed the cocoa and coffee price booms of 1975-77.
2.02         Prior to 1987, adjustment policies were partially successful in reducing the main
internal and external imbalances. The Government pursued contractionary fiscal and monetary
policies, thereby sharply reducing the budget deficit and inflation. Moreover, the adjustment effort
benefitted from the depreciation of the French franc, and from a short-liv d recovery of cocoa and
coffee prices in the mid-1980s. However, with the renewed decline of prices on international
conunodity markets, the Government delayed commensurate adjustments in producer prices. As a
result, the country faced renewed fiscal and balance of payment crisis at the end of the 1980s. This
crisis revealed not only inadequate macroeconomic policies but also persisting distortions in the
economy including: (a) a trade regime that was still characterized by high tariffs and dispersion levels
and a plethora of non-tariff barriers; (b) inadequate levels of resource mobilization reflecting the
decline in domestic savings and solvency/liquidity problems of the domestic banking system;
(c) continued State intervention in the agricultural sector, especially with regard to price and
marketing policies; (d) continued dependence on a few primary commodities; and (e) a generally
inefficient and bloated public sector, with limited capacity to provide services as evidenced by the
poor health indicators and low literacy levels.
2.03         During the last four years, the country has gone through important political changes.
The democratization process was strengthened by the first mufti-party and legislative elections in
1990. President Houphouet-Boigny was re-elected but died in office in December 1993, after having
served as head of state for 33 years. He was succeeded by the President of the National Assembly,
Mr. Konan Bedi6, who will finish Mr. Houphouet-Boigny's presidential term of 5 years expiring in
1995.
2.04         The Dire Ecologicad Consquences of the Expanding Agricultural Frontier.
Agricultural growth which was central to the country's economic growth in the 60s and 70s was
mostly due to conversion of forest areas into cropped areas, in addition to a shift in the production
mix from food crops to highly remunerative coffee and cocoa, and liberal immigration policies which
generated a rapid influx of labor to the country. However, overall productivity in agriculture did not
increase much except for a few crops such as palm, cotton and rubber. As a result, the average
agriculural growth declined in the 80s to about 1.5% p.a. (a full percentage point below rural
population growth: 2.5%) when agriculture became confronted with the prevailing adverse macro-
economic context. Similarly, the gradual disappearance of the rain forest led to a drastic decline of
timber production. In addition to the expanding agriculture frontier fueled by rapid population
growth, uncontrolled logging and burning, illegal hunting and fuelwood collection have led to severe



- 3 -
ecological problems such as soil degradation and erosion, as well as loss of wildlife and biodiversity.
Agricultural land once considered abundant has become relatively scarce, and the fallow period has
been gradually reduced, impeding natural restoration of fertility. Also, rapid deforestation and
increasing encroachment of remaining forests by immigrant farmers have led to the disappearance of
the forest cover. Of even greater concern than the decline in timber production are the potential
ecological consequences of continued deforestation. The opening-up of the forest canopy, if
unchecked, will have far-reaching consequences for the country's ecological balance, and may, on a
permanent basis, affect negatively its agricultural and overall economic development.
2.05         Ca.aci Builine, the Missing Link. Human and institutional capacity, key to
development efforts, is still weak in CBte d'Ivoire. On one hand, since Independence, there has been
undoubtedly too much government interference in economic activities. This has resulted in
insufficient development of a strong independent private/associative sector vis-a-vis the
Administration, especially in rural areas. Further development of NGOs, local collectivities and
associative groups is needed so that people at the grassroots have a say in policy matters that affect
their lives. Progress on this front is significant - as testified by the emergence of a strong
cooperative movement in agriculture (paras 3.17 to 3.19) -- but there is still large scope for further
professionalization of economic activities. On the other hand, the country has been plagued by the
omnipresence of inefficient and blotted parastatals - such as SATMACI, CIDV and SODEPRA, the
former extension agencies being dismantled under the project --, whilst the Administration itself has
been overly centralized and inflated beyond budgetary resources. The Government, as part of its
national administrative reform program, is deploying major efforts to streamline and deconcentrate /
decentralize administrative services, and ensure the attendant promotion of professional groups.
These efforts are supported by the Bank-financed Economic Management Project (PAGE, FY93) as
far as the restructuring of central administrative services is concerned, and, by the present project, as
far as the restructuring of agricultural services is concerned.
2.06         The Urbanization Trend. Since Independence, Cote d'Ivoire has experienced a very
high rate of population growth and urbanuation. From 1950 to 1991, the country's overall
population increased from 3.2 to 12.5 million (3.7% annually) and the urban population from 0.5 to
6.1 million (6.2% annually). The urbanization trend has accelerated over the last two decades (about
8% per year) and the urban population now represents close to 50% of the country's total population
of about 13 million. It is estimated that it will represent more than 60% in 2010. This migration has
supported the growth of the urban economy, but it has placed an increasing strain on the
Govermnent's ability to provide basic services and food to an expanding urban population. The
problem will worsen as government resources become severely curtailed and sluggish economic
growth restricts employment creation in urban areas. The economic recession has led salaried
employment in urban areas to fall by one third since the beginning of the 1980s, and close to 20% of
the active labor force in Abidjan is unemployed.
2.07         Recet Economic Developments (1989-1993). Faced with an unsustainable economic
situation, the Government adopted a new stabilization and adjustment program in mid-1989. As one
of the principal measures of this program, guaranteed producer prices for cocoa and coffee were
halved which helped eliminate the deficit of the Agricultural Stabilization Fund (CAISTAB), hence
reducing the overall fiscal deficit. While progress was achieved under this program during 1989-90,
additional structural reforms were deemed necessary for restoring international competitiveness and
growth. This led to the design of a Medium-term Economic Framework (MTF) for 1991-95, spelling
out an internal adjustment strategy which was supported by a stand-by arrangement of the IMF and
three Bank adjustment operations in the areas of finance, competitiveness/regulatory reform and
human resources development. Although the Government initially made progress in cutting the



- 4 -
primary deficit in the early 1990s, its failure to effect a real depreciation of the CFA franc with
internal adjustment measures and the continued high outlays for public salaries during 1990-93,
resulted in the failure of the MTF to materialize as planned. With the deepening of the recession in
1993, the primary deficit rose again to 3% of GDP, and the Government's efforts to settle domestic
and external arrears faltered.
2.08         The continuing fiscal and balance of payments problems revealed in part the
limitations posed by the internal adjustment strategy. When this strategy did not yield the anticipated
economic turn-around, policy slippage intensified. Delays in the implementation of the economic
reforms were also caused by institutional weaknesses, now being addrtssed through three Bank-
financed technical assistance projects. As a result of these macroeconomic difficulties, the economic
decline observed since 1986 was not halted and investment levels remained at a low 10% during the
early 1990s. Real GDP contracted by a cumulative 4%, and, on a per capita basis, by a cumulative
18% during 1990-93. Confronted with a deteriorating economic situation, the Government decided,
together with ;.s partner countries in the CFA zone, to complement the on-going internal adjustment
efforts with a realignment of the parity of the CFA franc to the equivalent of 100 CFA to I FF,
effective as of January 12, 1994. The Government expects that -- with the parity change and the
implementation of the accompanying fiscal monetary, and structural adjustment policies - the Ivorian
economy will be able to maintain and strengthen its restored international competitiveness and return
to a sustainable growth path.
2.09         Medium-Term Economic Program (1994-96). Following the CFA devaluation, the
Government has spelled out a new stabilization and structural adjustment program for 1994-96 in a
PFP which was discussed by the Committee of the Whole in March 1994. The PFP aims at: (a)
increasing real GDP growth') an annual rate of approximately 6% beginning in 1995-96;
(b) generating sustained and increasing primary budget surpluses; (c) strengthening external
competitiveness through trade, price, and regulatory reforms; and (d) intensifying human resource
development and increasing efforts to alleviate poverty. These objectives have been translated into a
broad-based adjustment program which includes: (a) a comprehensive fiscal reform; (b) import tariff
reform and elimination of non-tariff barriers; (c) further price liberalization; (d) other reforms to
stimulate private sector development and the country's international competitiveness, including
increasing labor market flexibility, introducing a new investment code, and deregulating domestic and
maritime transport; and (e) a broadening of social measures. Budgetary discipline will be key to
attaining these objectives. In a first move, the Govermnent introduced a series of tax measures in
January 1994 and complemented them with other fiscal measures incorporated in the revised 1994
Budget Law. These measures included a VAT reform, revision of petroleum taxation, and the
reduction of import tariffs. Moreover, the Government has limited the civil service base wage
increase in 1994 to a nominal 10% which tr.uslates into a substantial decline in the real wage bill. In
line with the PFP, the Government has identifiei moasures to be implemented quickly that are critical
to economic recovery. These measures will be supported by a proposed IDA-financed Economic
Recovery Credit (ERC), and subsequent complementary reforms by a set of other sector adjustments
operations, among which a proposed IDA-financed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC).
2.10         With the decision to complement internal adjustment measures with a devaluation of
the CFA franc, the Government is effectively addressing some of the main obstacles for renewed
growth, including the lack of international competitiveness and unsustainable fiscal and balance of
payments deficits. This historic change in policy direction augurs well for a successful
implementation of the reform program. The recovery of the economy will be led primarily by the
agricultural sector and agro-industries. In this context, trade and price policies as well as private
sector development rank prominently on the Government's reform agenda. These policies are



- 5 -
expected to stimulate the demand for labor and, in this way, help contain the spread of poverty,
especially in rural areas.
III. SECITORAL SETrING
A.    Overview of the Agricultural Sector
3.01         Agro-EcoIogical Regions. COte d'Ivoire's total land area of 322,000 km2 is divided
into two distinct ecological regions, each with different farming systems and demographic
characteristics: (a) the richer Forest RAion in the South (140,000 km2) where past growth has been
concentrated, based on tree crop farming (coffee, cocoa, oil palm, rubber) and timber exploitation;
and (b) the Savannah Regio to the North with a dryer climate and poorer soils (182,000 km2)
where farming is based on cotton, food crops and extensive livestock raising. The average rural
population density is still low (17 persons/km2), in particular in the savannah region (10 - 15
persons/km2) where land is not yet a production constraint. The forest region is more densely
populated (20 - 30 persons/km2), with land becoming a constraining factor in a growing number of
areas.
3.02         Agriculture as the Engine Qf Growth. CBte d'lvoire's main growth potential remains
the efficient and sustainable use of its considerable agricultural resources and the development of
industries and services which supply agriculture or process agricultural raw materials for the domestic
or export markets. Between 1960 and 1980, the agricultural sector was the main engine of growth of
the Ivorian economy, with real value added in the sector increasing by nearly 4% p.a. This
performance was the result of a combination of favorable circumstances: abundant land; high
immigration of productive labor from neighboring countries; favorable international prices for the
country's main export crops; and a stable political environment. Most of this growth was obtained by
increasing the areas cropped and by shifting the production mix towards more remunerative cash
crops such as coffee, cocoa, rubber and cotton. This resulted in a gradual change in the structure of
the agricultural GDP, with the share of export crops rising over the 1965-85 period from 35% to
45% of total GDP, while the share of food crops and livestock declined from 55% to 45%, and forest
production - after rising to more than 10% - fell to 5%. In 1992, COte d'Ivoire remained the first
producer of cocoa in the world with 790,000 tons, the second producer of robusta coffee with
190,000 tons after Indonesia, and the third African producer of cotton with 194,000 tons. The
country has great potential for rubber production for which it has the highest yields in the world (total
production was 72,000 tons in 1992). Except for rice and wheat, the country is self-sufficient in
food.
3.03         Livestock production also presents an interesting potential, and has shown substantial
improvement in the past decade, as evidenced by the following achievements: (a) yearly production of
meat increased by 4% between 1980 and 1986, then by 2% from 1986 to 1988; (b) increase in
poultry production led to trade in animal products amounting to CFAF 38 billion in the same period
and a well-structured animal products marketing channel; and (c) in 1992, the total domestic
production of meat and off-al amounted to 52,700 tons was estimated to be worth CFAF 46 billion,
which represented 51% of domestic demand. The most important achievements concerned: (a) cattle
growth based on the use of reproductive production capital and better range management; (Q) the
emergence of a segment of the farmer population with livestock husbandry stalls; and (c) the
establishment of short cycle animal husbandry with better trained professional producers. The above



- 6 -
activities, however. proved costly, and the articulation between reseerch and extension insufficient.
As a result, achievements in enhancing animal production to date remain fragile.
3.04          EQE. Forestry remained for a long time (1960s-early 1980s) a key sector of the
Ivorian economy. Total timber production went up almost fivefold between 1960 and 1980 before
declining steeply after 1984. Export earnings from timber, estimated at CFAF 110 billion on 1984
declined to a CFAF 78 billion by 1991. The main reason for this decline has been the destruction of
the natural forest, caused by encroachment by migrant populations into forest areas, and inappropriate
logging policies and practices, resulting in the reduction of high quality timber species. These
factors, coupled with increasing production costs, have resulted in a loss of competitiveness on
external markets. In view of this situation, the Government of Cote d'Ivoire adopted a National
Forestry Plan in 1988. On the basis of this plan, it initiated in 1989, with support from the World
Bank, a major Forest Sector Rehabilitation Program (Ln 3186 IVC) whose objectives are to (a) stop
the destruction of the national forest; (b) ensure a sustainable production of industrial timber through
the improved management of natural forests and the development of industrial plantations; (c)
improve the efficiency of the domestic wood processing industry; (d) protect the country's national
parks; and (e) promote a better management of the interface between agriculture and forestry.
3.05         Toward Agricultral Intensification. Until recently, the emergence of localized land
constraints resulted in migration rather than agricultural intensification. However, with land scarcity
becoming more widespread, the adoption of more land intensive agricultural practices will be
necessary. It will have to be accompanied by measures addressing land tenure issues, to offer
farmers gradually more permanent rights to using the land so that they have incentives to undertake
the necessary investments. There is already an increasing demand from farmers for more secure land
tenure rights building on customary systems, and for extension advice that will support intensification
of cropping activities. Research will have to develop technologies necessary for
sustainable/sedentarized agriculture tailored to farmers' limited financial means.
3.06         Agriultual Produtivity. Increases in labor productivity are difficult to assess
because of lack of reliable estimates of yields and labor inputs. The difference between real growth
in agricultural GDP and rural population growth has been about 1.5% p.a., incorporating both the
shift in product mix and labor productivity increases. The latter has therefore been low, probably less
than 0.5% p.a. This modest increase reflects different situations across crops. In particular, whereas
cotton yields have nearly doubled over the last twenty years, coffee and cocoa yields have not
changed (except coffee yields on new plantations with clone varieties) and increases in food crop
productivity have been very limited. For the most part, Cote d'lvoire farming is still at a basic level
of technology and yields are far below potential (Annex 1!. In the short-run, substantial productivity
increases can be achieved by the adoption by farmers of relatively simple low-input improvements in
husbandry practices. Adaptive research needs to develop technology that quickly offers attractive
reuns to farmers, i.e. practices which are cost-effective and raise farmers' income at grassroots
level. In the medium to long term, sustained productivity gains will require the adoption of a steady
flow of increasingly sophisticated technologies. This will require not only improvement in technology
generationldissemination, with resulting needs in upgrading the capacity of the country's research and
extension systems, but also development of efficient input supply systems, better availability of credit
to finance new technologies, as well as the emergence of a new class of farmers better educated and
more open to progress.
3.07         Growth Targe. With a medium- to long-term population growth projected at 3.5%
p.a., agricultural production will need to grow by 4% p.a. at least to meet the country's domestic
demand for food and raw material, and to sustain a growing flow of exports. With a growth in rural



- 7 -
population estimated at 2.5% in the forest zone and I1% p.a. in the savannah, the productivity of labor
in agriculture will need to grow by about 2% p.a. to meet this challenge. If such an increase were
not to happen, future ruial growth will be primarily a function of rural population growth (2.5 %
p.a.). It will be further constrained, as production expands to marginal areas and soils become less
fertile because of shorter fallow periods. This will result in stagnant or declining per capita incomes
in rural areas. Beside its adverse consequences on the living conditions of rural populations, such a
scenario will also have negative effects on the Ivorian economy as a whole, and will accelerate rural-
urban migration. Continued action is therefore necessary to stimulate sustainable agricultural
productivity.
3.08                  V.Mmen's Utpd Potental. On another front, women play a preeminent role in
agricultural production, food crops in particular. However, until now, they have benefitted very little
from extension services, adaptive research, support to professional groups, or credit facilities.
Therefore, women's potential for boosting agricultural growth has not been fully exploited, and
development efforts will have to be increasingly targeted to women if substantial results in agricultural
productivity growth are to be achieved.
B.    Asicultural Institufions
3.09         Agricultural Semics. To date, agricultural extension has been provided through
various development agencies (SODEs) and crop-specific parastatals which have provided farmers
with extension services, distributed inputs and sometimes dealt with crop processing and marketing.
Amongst the four main SODEs three have been dismantled upon the creation of ANADER, the new
extension agency on September 24, 1993. The Ivorian Company for Cotton Development (CIDT)
continues to handle cotton and food crop development in the savannah region. Under the project, its
activities will be limited to the two central northern regions. The other three recently dismantled
SODEs had the following responsibilities: (a) the Company for Modernization of Ivorian Agriculture
(SATMACI) was responsible for coffee, cocoa and fobd crop development in the forest region; (b)
the Food Crop Development Agency (CIDV) was charged with food crop development throughout the
country; and (c) the Livestock Development Agency (SODEPRA) was responsible for all animal
resource development. Various specialized entities or projects are still charged with specific
programs such as the Central Laboratory for Animal Nutrition (LACENA) in charge of animal health,
the Tse-Tse Fly Control Project, the Pan African Rinderpest Campaign (PARC), the National Center
for Artificial Insemination (CNIA), the National Project for Ovine Selection (PNSO) and the National
Ovine Center (CNO). The crop-specific parastatals are the following: (a) Palmindustrie for oil palm
and coconut; and (b) the African Rubber Company (SAPH), the Rubber Company of Grand B4reby
(SOGB), the State Rubber Domain (Domaine HIvticole de l'Etat-DHE), for rubber production.
These parastatals are slated for privatization under the National Privatization Program.
3.10         MINAGRA's Regional Directorates (DRAs). In 1993, the number of agents in
MINAGRA's DRAs was over 4,100 with related budget for salaries and compensations estimated at
CFAF 4.6 billion per anntun, and an annual recurrent cost budget of CFAF 600 million. Ministerial
arretW NO 165 dated of September 3, 1991 which reorganized the DRAs resulted in overlapping
functions between DRAs and various agricultural extension agencies. Fortunately, this arrete was
never totally implemented. In fact, in March 1992, during a national seminar in Daloa on the topic
of agricultural services, a new strategy was adopted based on thefarming systems approach. Under
this strategy, the support services that should reach out to farmers should not be the responsibility of
DRAs. This was one of the key decisions that gave momentum to the start-up of project preparation.



3.11          Studies and seminars have also demonstrated that the services in the DRAs did not
have sufficient working relations with each other. Other difficulties were the lack of coherence in
monitoring and evaluation activities, a deficiency in the policy framework for project implementation,
the lack of reliable field information, an insufficient analysis of regional potentialities and inflated
numbers of staff with unclear responsibilities and limited means. Clear delineation of the role of the
Government and provision of human and financial resources that are key to efficiency, are
undoubtedly two priority orientations that have emerged from past experience.
3.12         SLffLng. In 1992, the total number of agricultural services' staff was more than
12,000. These staff were posted in the various agricultural institutions as follows: SATMACI, 2,775;
CIDV, 785; CIDT (extension), 1,935; SODEPRA, 1,630; MINAGRA (central), 1,520; and
MINAGRA (regional services), 4,136. Many of these staff occupied ill-defined and/or redundant
positions, and their overall number was excessive. Moreover, their work was insufficiently organized
and they lacked motivation. There is a need, filled in part under the project, to establish efficient
personnel management systems that will enhance staff incentives and clearly delineate their
responsibilities. The fact that many agencies are still submitted to public employment rules, which
are rigid (in particular not adapted to managing field staff) and not always applied equitably, do not
act to improve the situation. These agencies are confronted with serious human resource management
problems, inter alia: (a) lack of an effective administrative monitoring coupled with a misappreciation
of the quality and the quantity of the available human resources; (b) absence of precise definition of
several functions, and hence, an inadequate coordination between these functions and lack of
coherence between the corresponding expertise required; and (c) lack of human resource management
tools allowing to assess selection and promotion criteria.
3.13          Agricultural Research Institutes. Agricultural research comes under the authority of
the Ministry of Highenr Ecication and Scientific Research (MESRS). It is mainly handled by two
research institutes: (a) the Forest Research Institute (IDEFOR), dealing with the industrial or export
crops grown in the forest area; and (b) the Savannah Research Institute (IDESSA), running research
activities on cotton, livestock and food crops in the savannah region. In addition to these two
institutes, there are two other structures which deal with research in agricultural technology: the
Ivorian Technological Research Center (CIRT), and the Ivorian Institute for Tropical Technology
(12T). These two structures have been merged into a single Research Institute for Technological
Development (IRDT). The above institutions were recently given legal status of mixed enterprise
(SEM). The Ivorian agricultural research system has produced results of high standards in the past,
in particular for cash crops. However, it has also had serious shortcomings which explain its present
difficult situation: (a) food crop research has essentially focused on rice, maize and yam; (b) a strong
crop-specific orientation has not permitted to conduct research on essential issues such as farming
systems, intercrop linkages or financial feasibility of technological packages; and (c) relationships
between research institutes and extension agencies have been inadequate.
3.14          In 1984, the full ownership of the country's agricultural research system was
transferred to the Ivorian Government. Thereafter, until 1991, the system was jointly managed by the
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research and the French Center for International
Agricultural Research and Development (CIRAD) under temporary arrangements. Over the years,
however, cooperation became increasingly uneasy, and, in June 1991, when the new institutional set-
up for agricultural research was established, the management contract with CIRAD was canceled.
Another restructuring program is currently being prepared. It aims at ensuring the long-term
scientific and financial viability of the system through close collaboration with beneficiaries of
research products (development agencies, private companies) and external research agencies. This
restrucuring necessarily entails complex changes. In the meantime, the proposed project will



continue to support the adaptive research programs that have been initiated under the Agricultural
Extension Project. These programs are largely based on-farm trials.
3.15         Agricultural Training Institutions. Agricultural training is undertaken through three
types of institutions: (a) two public institutions providing high-level agricultural training, the National
School of Agricultural Sciences (ENSA) and the Agricultural Institute of Bouakd (JAB); both
institutions are under the authority of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
(MESRS) and provide B.S. level training; (b) ten other schools provide technical training for students
willing to become base-to medium-level agricultural field staff; these schools are under the authority
of MINAGRA. The students who graduate from these schools are qualified to provide extension
services in agriculture, livestock, forestry and fisheries. During the last 20 years, they have been the
main source of extension staff of the different development agencies. These schools, however, suffer
from two weaknesses: their programs are too theoretical and do not fully answer the needs of
development programs, and the lack of training of trainers remains a major handicap; (c) the training
centers of the rural development agencies aiming to provide operational capabilities to field agents
without basic agricultural training or no theoretical training. Training programs undertaken in these
centers are not oriented toward production systems. The weakness in these centers is essentially
related to their lack of planning, weak human resources management preventing from assessing the
needs, and absence of regular financing.
3.16         Agricultural Statists. Only one national agricultural survey was conducted in C6te
d'Ivoire in 1974 on a sample of 6,00 farmers. IThis survey has never been updated systematically,
so that there is at present a dearth of basic statistics on farm characteristics and production
parameters, including in such critical areas as the age structure of cocoa and coffee plantations or the
patterns of food crop production. Only the so-called industrial crops are subject to statistics based on
administrative information which are unfortnmately often available with a time lag. The institutional
framework for collecting agricultural statistics needs to be completely revamped.
3.17         Farmers' Associatios. The development of a broad cooperative movement has long
been one of the Government's stated objective. Government strategy has been to encourage the
creation of pre-cooperative groups (GVCs) around the marketing of export crops (coffee, cocoa,
cotton) by offering a small premium for products marketed under cooperative arrangements. The
strategy has been fairly successful. In 1991, in the forest region, about 3,000 GVCs marketed about
one third of coffee and cocoa, and in the savannah region, 550 GVCs marketed about 95% of cotton.
In 1991, the urnover of the cooperative movement was more than CFAF 100 billion and rebates to
GVC amounted to about CFAF 7 billion. GVCs, in particular in the savannah region, are also
becoming major agents in the distribution of agrochemicals (Annex 2).
3.18         The Government has also encouraged the establishment of apex structures, such as
regional unions of cooperatives (42 such unions existed in 1992), to strengthen the economic basis
and the bargaining power of GVCs. The financing and management crisis brought upon the once all-
powerfil monopolistic parastatals by the drop of commodity prices in international markets and the
Government's severe budget constraints, has dramatically underscored the inability for the
Government to meet all farmers' needs and the necessity for the latter to be more self reliant. In the
savannah region, the Unions of Cotton Cooperatives (regrouped into the Federation of Northern
Unions) have recently come to play an active role in establishing producer prices and defining
relationships with CIDT. In the forest region, rubber growers have also estahlished a producers'
professional association. Ihey are requesting that the responsibility for extension and other services
to farmers be transferred from SAPH to the newly-formed association. In May 1992, the regional
unions of the South were regrouped in the Federation of Southern Unions. However, the above apex



- 10 -
structures remain fragile. Their development will require continued commitment from the
Government through the provision of technical support as well as appropriate measures to facilitate
the real integration of the cooperative's unions in the national and international trading system.
3.19         Cooperatives are currently facing a number of difficulties, inter alia: (a) strong
competition with private traders who have better links to the local banking system, and, thus, have
greater credit facilities; (b) lack of technical support provided to these cooperatives by agricultural
parastatals; (c) poor training in matters pertaining to cooperative organization and management; and
(d) inappropriate and often unenforced legislation. For the 1993/94 coffee/cocoa campaign, the
Government decided that a new marketing mechanism be established consisting in the creation of
purchase centers. These centers were meant to be the required loci of transit of production following
primary collection prior to being marketed to export centers. The stated objective of the Government
in establishing these centers was to give sole responsibility for primary collection to producers and
their professional organizations, and increase their responsibility and leverage downstream of the
marketing chain. Another objective was to ensure that official campaign prices are respected. These
prices were set at CFAF 200 and 170 per kg for 1993/94 for cocoa and coffee respectively. They
were readjusted to CFAF 240 and 220 after the January devaluation, with the price of coffee raised
again to CFAF 275/kg in March 1994. The Government's marketing policy fell short of expected
results because: (a) professional orgarizations did not have the capacity to systematically take over
primary collection from private traders who have traditionally undertaken this task; and (b) there was
insufficient control over the staffmg and management of purchase centers; in fact, a positive outcome
for producers was hardly possible as these centers were not under the actual control of producers'
groups and cooperatives.
3.20         Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) are very few in number -- not more than 70
for the entire country. They are involved in the promotion of village groups through technical
training programs at farmers level and/or through small development projects. Their results vary
widely. Valid technical results obtained by these NGOs are often not communicated to the regional or
national agricultural services because of a weak relationship with the Administration. In addition, the
NGOs face frequent financing problems which disrupt their operations.
C.    Government Agricultural Strategy
3.21         In the National Agricultural Master Plan (1992/2015) which represents the
Government's blueprint for agricultural development in the long term, MINAGRA identifies the
following main constraints to agriculture in the country: (a) extensive farming systems which are large
users of agricultural and forest land; (b) low use of modern inputs and technologies; (c) lack of
market orientation of the household farm economy; (d) research system poorly attuned to farmers'
needs; (e) absence of rural credit; (f) weak marketing system with heavy government interference;
and (g) an aging rural population. To address these constraints, MINAGRA has set the following
objectives for agriculture development: (a) increase agricultural productivity and competitiveness
through the introduction of modern farm technology; (b) enhance the quality of ag-icultural products;
(c) decrease the tax burden on these products; (d) enhance food security by increasing food crop and
livestock production; and (e) improve the management of natural resources, particularly the remaining
forests.
3.22         To achieve these objectives, the Government's strategy focusses, inter alia, on the
following areas: (a) retrenchment of the Government from direct production and marketing activities;
(b) greater involvement of young men and women in rural activities; and (c) redefinition of
agronomic research and extension to better respond to farmers circumstances. This strategy is to



- 11 -
allow resumption of agricultural growth, reduction in budget deficits, and correction of negative
effects of forest depletion. Consistent with this strategy, MINAGRA aims to take the following
specific orientations along crop-based activities: stabilization of cocoa production; deliberate
restarting of coffee production; reestablishment of the competitiveness of coconut and palm sector;
retrenchment from the rubber sector by privatization measures with attendant policy to establish a
better institutional environment and to support smallholders; beginning of the privatization process in
the sugar sector; streamlining of the cottonfliWre; promotion of food-crop production by
improvement in marketing, storage and food-processing; promotion of livestock, better pest control,
and empowerment of breeders' associations; and diversification of production through promotion of
fruit, vegetable, and flower production. To complement these specific crop-based orientations,
MINAGRA intends to focus on cross-product measures with a view to streamlining agricultural
extension, improving adaptive research, and promoting environmentally sustainable agricultural
practices with close linkage between agriculture, forestry and livestock. In the above perspective, the
rejuvenated agricultural services are to play a key role. Their restructuring is taken as a central piece
within the general strategy of rationalizing government services and increasing empowerment of
farmers and grassroots organizations. MINAGRA has defined its strategy for agricultural support
services as part of the Agricultural Services Policy Letter (LPSA) that was agreed at negotiations
(para 7.01 (a)).
D.    Bank Sector Strate     r and Lending Prt ram
3.23          At the macro-policy level for the agricultural sector, the Bank advocates continued
support to the Government's efforts to: (a) reform the Administration and reduce budgetary costs; and
(b) improve the competitiveness of agriculture and maintain a functioning market-oriented economy in
the agricultural sector with a focus on viable crop production activities. Initial measures in these
areas were undertaken as part of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (ASAL, FY 89); they
will be pursued under a new adjustment program (ASAC, FY 95) being prepared following the
January 1994 devaluation. In addition, to lay the basis for long term growth in the sector, the Bank
also attaches key importance to generation/dissemination of improved technology responding inter alia
to the need for intensification of agriculture and diversification into viable cropping activities, and
rational management/conservation of natural resources. Issues related to the areas, as well as macro-
economic issues, are being investigated as part of the Agricultural Sector Review to be completed by
end-CY94.
3.24          In support to the above objectives, the Bank advocates a lending program for Cote
d'Ivoire's agricultural sector with the following orientations: (a) in line with the overall administrative
reforn program, continue to assist the Government in the restructuring of agricultural service, and
the streamlining of the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources with a focus on MINAGRA's
regional services which are targeted by the present project; (b) pursue an active policy of Wdxate
sector promotion in the agricultural sector by: (i) creating an enabling environment for developing
private sector activities, through further reform of the regulatory framework; this will require also
effectiveness and transparency in regulations governing private sector activities;
(ii) building/strengthening private sector institutions (including farmers' groups/cooperatives and
professional organizations) concurrently to disengaging/streamlining the Administration; and
(iii) assisting the Government in privatizing remaining parastatal activities; (c) pr§gggV_ft
environment and ensure rational management of natural resources, by giving particular attention to
key environmental issues, with emphasis on the interface between agricultural activities on one hand,
and forestry, transhumant livestock, game ranching and management of protected areas on the other;
and (d) systematically jinr4W gede ise into development operations.



- 12 -
3.25         The above program is geared to the long-term. This holds true for support services
(in particular the proposed project which builds upon the first generation Agricultural Extension
Project (PVA, FY86)), and, perhaps more importantly, for private sector promotion, such as the
Export Promotion and Diversification Project (PPDEA, FY96 see below). Furthermore, the Bank has
come to realize that its comparative advanage, as an external donor to Cote d'lvoire, lies in
providing support to the Government through national structuring projects. In this regard, and also
because the former projects have not always given the expected results, the Bank is disengaging from
area-based projects (such as the recently-completed Center West Project, FY85) and from crop-based
fiNiSre projects (the last two projects which are nearing completion are the Oil Palm V and Rubber V
projects, FY87). Parallel to the above change, the Bank will continue implementing structuring
projects, such as the ongoing Forestry Sector Project (FY89) and the Rural Savings and Loans
Rehabilitation and Promotion Projec (CREP, FY94). These projects are national in scope and
designed to serve as framework for development activities in given sub-sectors.
3.26         As part of the above program, the Bank is now developing national projects in all
major sub-sectors of agriculture and the Bank lending program is being brought to bear on the most
important facets of agricultural development in Cote d'Ivoire. Moreover, in the environmental area,
the Bank is assisting in the execution of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP, scheduled
for completion by end-CY94). In addition to the proposed project, the lending pipeline consists of the
following projects: (a) Rural Land Management Project (PNAGER); preparation of this project builds
on a very successful pilot operation, the Rural Land Tenure Plan (PFR) financed partly under the
recently-completed Center West Project (FY85); (b) Rural Equipment Project (PNER) focusing on
provision of basic infrastructure at grassroots level, together with the strengthening of village level
institutions that will permit to enlist villagers participation; this project is complementary to and being
prepared in close liaison with the PNAGER project; (c) Agricultural Promotion and Diversification
Project (PPDEA) that will be the cornerstone to assisting the development of the private sector; (d)
Livestock Sector Project (PSE): this will be the first Bank involvement in the livestock sector; (e)
Savannah Environment Project; this project will be central to pursue natural resource management
with a focus on gazetted forest in the Savannah area; and (f) Agricultural Vocational Training Project
(CMR) that will focus on training and generation of jobs for young farmers. In addition, the Bank is
developing two operations to be funded by the Global Environmental Facility (GEF), i.e. the Ivorian
part of the sub-regional Game Ranching Project (GEPRENAF, covering C8te d'Ivoire and Burkina
Faso) and the Park Protection and Management Project (PCGAP).
3.27         Although the above projects are not policy operations, they will aim at supporting
sector-wide strategies and will be used as vehicles to induce the required policy changes at sub-sector
level. The pipeline of operations (including the ASAC), together with on-going projects, makes up a
coherent program which should capitalize on the set of policy measures taken following the January
1994 devaluation and help bring about renewed agricultural growth. The present project undoubtedly
is one of the center pieces of the program. It will be the vehicle to refocus government efforts on
public service priorities and make support services adapted to the needs of farmers in the regions. It
should bring about an empowerment of farmers, valorization of national human resources including
women's labor, poverty alleviation and environmental protection. Expected results from the program
are bound to be greatly enhanced with the improved macroeconomic framework brought about by the
recent devaluation and accompanying policy measures.



- 13 -
E.    Donor Activity
3.28         In the past, donors were very active in the agricultural sector. in receit years,
however, their interest has slackened somewhat. Low performance in the sector combined with the
Government's reticence to embark on macro-structural reforms have acted to give donors the
incentive to shift resources over to other sectors. Donors' interest for the proposed project,
nevertheless, is very high, as their strategies and programs all have some bearing on agricultural
services. They participated actively in the project appraisal and agreed to all aspects of project
design. The recent devaluation has enhaniced donor interest in the project, as it conmes in direct
support to the new opportunities arising in the rural sector.
3.29         The strategies and programs of the major donors active in the agricultural sector are
the following: (a) the French Fund for Aid and Cooperation's (FAC) strategy is to support activities
aiming at the structuring (professionalization) of the rural sector, such as credit activities (FAC is
cofinancing the proposed IDA Savings and Loans Project-CREP, FY94), land management (Land
Registration Plan-PFR, which is contributing to lay the basis for the proposed IDA-financed Rural
Land Management Project-PNAGER, FY95), farmers' associations, farmers' vocational training (pilot
phase of proposed IDA National Agricultural Vocational Training Project-CMR, FY97) and
agricultural research which is the object of protracted and difficult negotiations; (b) the French Fund
fr Development's (CFD) lending program aims to improve specific crop-based (fili&re) activities
(cotton, rubber, sugar, fruits), land management (Agro-Pastoral Units-UAPs) and small private
enterprises; (c) the International Fund For Agricultural Development (IFAD) has a strategy focussed
on the poorer segments of the rural population, particularly rural women and young farmers, through
small credit systems, vocational training and support to farmers' organizations (the DabakalatKatiola
project whose supervising agency is the Bank, and the North-West Area Development Project); (d)
the German Technical Cooperation (GTZ) contributes to finance the following programs: regional
agricultural development (Boundiali), agriculture stabilization (East Region), young farmers'
promotion (Korhogo), dairy farming (Bouak6), tse-tse eradication, forestry, young farmers' vocational
training (participation in the pilot CMR project); (f) the strategy of the European Union (EU) aims to:
promote farmers' associations through micro-level investment projects; support the development of
unions of cooperatives with financial and technical assistance; participate in the restructuration of
agricultural sector institutions, essentially through the stabex funds for cocoa, coffee, rubber and
cotton; improve management of environmental resources (Marahoud Park, counterpart funds provided
to the Bank-financed Forestry Sector Project-FSP, FY89); streamline marketing of agricultural
products through implementation of regional markets; and support livestock development with
participation in rinderpest eradication campaign and dissemination of improved bovine and sheep
species; and (g) the African Development Bank (AfDB) finances essentially rural development of the
Western forest region, a soybean project in the North-West, a livestock support project in the four
central regions (strengthening of livestock services, staff training, rinderpest eradication and water
supply) and a forestry project in the savannah region.
F.    Lessons Learnt from Previous Bank Involvement
3.30         The proposed project is largely based on the lessons learnt under the initial
Agricultural Extension Project (PVA) implemented over the period 1986-1991. The project aimed to
support both agricultural extension through three development agencies (SATMACI, CIDV and
CIDT), and adaptive research through two research institutes (IDESSA and IRCC). The legacy of the
PVA has been positive in many respects. It has led, inter alia, to the following general achievements:
(a) establishment of structured work programs for agricultural extension activities, based on the



- 14 -
Training & Visits (T&V) extension management system; (b) strengthening of linkages between
adaptive research and extension; (c) systematic training provided to extension staff; and (d) increased
attention to farmers' needs. In the area of administrative and financial management, the project
contributed to: (a) improve financial and logistic support to extension activities, which before were
heavily plagued by lack of funding and equipment; (b) improve budget programming and accounting
procedures through computerized accounting systems; and (c) perform the systematic auditing of
accounts. With regard to training, the project contributed to: (a) strengthen the skills of the
implementing agencies' trainers; (b) appoint and train Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), responsible
for training of extension staff and research-extension linkages; (c) provide continuous and systematic
training of all extension staff through monthly workshops and fortnightly training sessions; and (d)
ensure training of senior financial staff on procurement and disbursement procedures. The lessons
learnt through the PVA project l have determined the design of the proposed project as indicated in
the box below.
1 See "Project Completion Report, Agricultural Extension Project (Loan
2765-IVC)", June 10, 1993.



- 15 
Le"ous leart                         Project Design
Lack of tarwou' paticpatio           At least one third of the membrs of the
Board of the proposed Agency would be
-reesentatives from farmers' organizatons
(para 4.08)
Fores would be f11 partners in the
adaptive research process (paras 4.12- 4.14).
Pwtr     _    t capety of            Adequate taining program for both management and
sxeut    ecies wee not               field level staff of the proposed Agency (pares
sfficinly taken into                 4.17-4.19 Annex 31
eccount                              Highly decenralized management structre of t
proposed Agency (para 4.09).
-        Ezeesi -nMpbas oateoioal             Building on both local (IDESSA) and intemational
i.rnessages related to -W&  crops              (Burundi, Benin) experience, the project featues
!Systemic Research Adaptation Sites (SARS), desiged
to focus on the-farm  s a whole and to bridge the p
between research (systemic and themaic) and
extension (paras 4.12-4.14; para 4.28).
- NeesitY of effectiiV Moait6InMgI   Provision of Monitoring/Evaluation facilities at
-  - l : I ntySte  -     -           both national and regional level (para 4.21)^
Iou- -liaimtaumlio iven to           Project to have women and youth related issues at
. Issues                 .hc core ofth, a- r                      progpm ad of
-technicalm-essge definition (pan 4.12).
-- - suity -f ritcal ms bf   -       P---roject to result in aniualbudgetary savings, -aid to
-unding               -..-.-   .  .}pave the way for a gruwl icree of famers'
fiancial responsibility for Agricultural Services
(pam 4.16; pam 6.05).
-Lack of   £-dqpait of oopetive       Project incorpoaes a farmers' organizations
-     - grotvps                              component designed to (a) promote and strengthen
fArmers' oraizAtions and (b) impove and pmot
coordination among farmers' orgazations (prs
-  -     -     -       -     -      -     -      t    -    --  ---  -4  1 54.+1 63)



16 -
IV. PROJECT PRESENTATION
A.   P-iect Obiectives. Strateav. Summary Description and Rational
4.01         P      Qe .  The proposed project will be instrumental to support ontinued
implementation of the Government's policy to develop the rural economy, disengage from commercial
and production activities, and promote effective participation of beneficiaries in the definition,
financing and implementation of agricultural services. The project will build on the achievements of
the Agricultural Extension Project (Ln 2765-IVC, paras 3.30). Its main objectives will be to: (a)
streamline and decentralize the organization of agricultural services; (b) enhance the role of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources (MINAGRA) in policy making and supervision of
agricul.ural development; and (c) increase farmers' participation over the policy making process.
4.02         Project Strategy and Scone. The project will be implemented over a period of two
years on a national scale and will be the first phase of a five-year program designed to support,
through improved research and extension, the generation, dissemination and adoption of
environmentally sound technology required to sustain productivity gains in agriculture in the long run.
In line with the Government's overall civil service reforms, the project's strategy will be: (a) to
improve the delivery of basic agricultural services through the establishment of a National
Agricultural Services Agency (ANADER) which will be the Government's main sub-contractor for
extension, adaptive research and support to farmers' organizations; and (b) to streamline and
strengthen MINAGRA's Regional Directorates (DRAs) in each of the ten regions of the country.
DRAs' role will be refocussed on their public service mandate geared to the establishment and
implementation of agricultural policies and regulations. As part of this mandate, they will be given
clear responsibilities and directions to assist in the development of private sector initiatives. The
Government's strategy for Agricultural Support Services will be the agreed framework for project
implementation. This strategy is geared to the long-term, and the project (and subsequently, the
entire PNASA program) will support its first phases. The strategy is defined in the Agricultural
Services Policy Letter (LPSA) which was agreed at negotiations (para 7.01 (a)).
4.03         SummarIy escriptiQn. In support of the above strategy, the proposed project will
include the following components:
(a)    Restructuring Process (US$8.3 million) (US$2 million by IDA) designed to: (i)
revamp agricultural services through the merging of three existing crop-based
parastatal extension organizations into a single, multi-purpose and decentralized
National Agricultural Services Agency (ANADER) with management autonomy and
strong representation of farmers; and (ii) streamlinf MINAGRA's Regional
Directorates (DRAs); this component is financed under the PPF and will be completed
before 1roiect effectiveness;
(b)    Operating Support to ANADER (US$22.9 million) (US$12.2 million by IDA) geared
to assisting in all facets of ANADER's operations, including adaptive research to be
sub-ontracted to research institutes (IDESSA, IDEFOR and IRDT) and support to
farmers' organizations; this c-iponenm will include extensive training activities to
systematically upgrade the skills of all ANADER's staff; the component represents
Part A of the project; and



-. 17 -
(c)   institution1          (US$13.4 million) (US$7.6 million by IDA) of MINAGRA
(all Regional Directorates, and the central directorates of Administration/Finance and
Planning/Programming), the Ministry of Scientific Research and Higher
Education-MESRS (Sub-Directorate of Adaptive Research) and the Ministry of
Finance-MEFP (Sub-Directorate of Audit Control), with a view to strengthening
ministerial structures involved in the support to agricultural services; support to
MINAGRA will focus on policy-making and planning, monitoring and evaluation, and
human resources and financial management; MESRS will be strengthened through
support to adaptive research activities and MEFP through support to audit control
activities (this latter support will be provided in close liaison with the Economic
Management Projea (Cr. 2503-IVC)); this component represents Part B of the
project.
4.04         Rationale for IDA Involvement. The proposed project is central to the Government's
strategy to restore sustainable growth through delivery of improved agricultural services and
redefinition of the Government's role in the agricultural sector. Implementation of this strategy has
started in 1992 with the streamlining of parastatal agencies (CIDT, SATMACI, CIDV, SODEPRA)
and the reduction of their staff. The project's main thrust, i.e. refocusing the Government's role on
the provision of essential public services, empowering farmers and improving their skills, and
reducing civil service cost, is also at the core of the Bank's strategy to foster efficiency aiid growth in
the rural sector. Since 1986, the Bank has played a leading role in the restructuring of Cote
d'Ivoire's national agricultural services. Its continued involvement in the second phase of this
restructuring process is essential to sustain the Government's comnmitment to difficult and critical
reforms and mobilize the support of other donors.
B.    Detailed Features
1.    Restructuring Process
(a)    Objectef  and Description
4.05         The restructuring component is designed to: (a) replace three existing parastatals
extension agencies by a National Agricultural Services Agency (ANADER); and (b) streamline
MINAGRA's Regional Directorates (DRAs). About 3,340 redundant staff will be dismissed in the
process, and will be assisted to find employment outside the public service. An interministerial
committee with representatives from MINAGRA, MESRS, MEFP and the Ministry of Civil Service
(MINIFOP) was created in March 1993. It is meant to ensure general supervision of the restructuring
process which is inplemented by the Commission for Restructuring Agricultural Development
Institutions (CRIDA) acting as executive secretariat to the interministerial committee. A Business
Information Office (BIC), created by ministerial arrete in April 1993 and implemented in parallel to
the project with representatives in the regions, will facilitate the reemployment of dismissed staff
(para 5.24). The successful implementation of the restructuring component is of key importance for
the improvement of the cost effectiveness and quality of agricultural services, and for the effective
decentralization of MINAGRA. As such, it has been considered the pre-requisite for project
implementation. Therefore, Credit effectiveness will be conditioned upon successful completion of
the restructuring process, with the exception of the operation of the BIC which should continue over
the project period.



- 18 -
(b)   Implem entation &trateg
4.06         The restructuring process was prepared from January 1992 to May 1993 by
MINAGRA with the assistance of FAO under UNDP project IVC/92/005. Additional short term
technical assistance to the restructuring process has been provided starting June 1993 by the FAO
under UNDP project IVC/93/002 and the IDA Project Preparation Facility (2nd and 3rd PPF
advances, para 5.05). The staff census at SATMACI, CIDV, SODEPRA and MINAGRA's Regional
Directorates (DRAs) was completed in February 1993. The definition of the mandate of ANADER
and the DRAs, as well as their organigrams and job descriptions, was Jmpleted in September 1993.
4.07         Implementation of the restructuring process started with the creation of the National
Agricultural Services Agency (ANADER) by presidential decree of September 29, 1993. This
measure was followed up by the attendant dismantling of SATMACI, CIDV and SODEPRA; it also
dealt with the restructuration of MINAGRA's regional services (DRAs). These measures were
pursued by: (a) the evaluation of the assets of farmer agencies (SATMACI, CIDV, and SODEPRA)
to be transferred to ANADER (condition for negotiations); and (b) the completion of the selection of
ANADER's and DRAs' staff (condition for Board presentation). Evidence that all staff of ANADER
and DRAs are in post and that redundant staff have been dismissed is a condition of effectiveness
(para 7.02 (a)). Dismissed staff will benefit from project assistance to seek new employment in the
private sector through the BIC office (para 4.05). The French Fund for Development (CFD) has
agreed to provide financing of their legal severance rights (para 5.08). Those staff who are civil
servants will be given the opportunity to leave under the national voluntary departure program put in
place as part of the overall administrative reform program. The civil servant staff who select to join
ANADER will have to resign from the public service before the end of a two-year period of leave
without pay. The transfer of the assets of the former agencies to ANADER should be completed
before December 31, 1994. An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations (para 7.01 (b)).
Similarly, all debts of the former agencies should be transferred to the Ministry of Finance for
appropriate disposal under for the national debt restructuring program.
2.    Operating Support to the National Agricultural Services Agiency (ANADER)
4.08         ANADER has mired socety (SEM) statutes. The Agency is the Government's
principal implementing agency with regard to extension, adaptive research and support to farmers'
organizations. In those cases where the Government will choose another implementing agency -- as is
the case with CIDT in the two Northern and North-West Regions - the Ministry will specify by
agreement the relations between this agency and ANADER to avoid costly overlapping. To enhance
the private sector's participation in ANADER's activities, capital subscription by private operators
will be encouraged. In addition, at least one third of the twelve members of the Board will represent
private operators and farmers' organizations. The Borrower agreed to make part of the proceeds of
the Credit available to ANADER in conformity with the financing grant agreement between the
Borrower and ANADER (para 7.01 (c)) and the project agreement between the Association and
ANADER. The Government will bear full financial responsibility for ANADER during at least the
first five years of its existence, with exception of the farmers' associations component (para 4.16).
After project completion, an assessment will be made as to the possibilities to increase the private
sector's and farmers' association financial responsibility in ANADER. The agency will be
instrumental to implementating the Government's policy for extension. It will not have monopoly
over extension activities. The objective will be both to avoid unnecessary duplication of activities
with other partners on the field and to foster minimal competition to the benefit of farmers who
should be able to choose from a variety of options. The large farmers, fanalers' organizations, agro-



19 -
industries, and other economic agents present in rural areas who wish to organize (specialized)
services for extension, adaptive research and/or support to farmers' organizations, will be encouraged
to do so.
(a)    Or anzation of ANADER at Field and Regiona-l evei
4.09         To better respond to the specific demands of each region, ANADER will have a
strongly decentralized structure. The ten regional branches of ANADER will be headed by a regional
representative and will comprise three technical services (extension and adaptive research, farmers
organizations, and training/human resources management), one service for administration and finance,
and one monitoring/evaluation unit. The regional branches will have broad autonomy with respect to
human resources management, preparation and execution of annual work programs and budgets.
These work programs will respond to the farmers' demands and will be elaborated during yearly
programming workshops with participation from regional management, technicians and farmers as
well as representatives from agro-industries. The workshops will capitalize on the Monthly Technical
Review Meetings, and the data collected through the M&E system, as well as through the daily
contacts between field staff and farmers. The annual work programs and related budgets will be
prepared by regional management, discussed and completed during the annual programming
workshops at regional level, consolidated at national level by ANADER's central management and
submitted for approval to ANADER's Board. The programming and budgeting exercise will be
monitored by the regional and national steering committees (Annex 3).
4.10         Extension SetU. The objectives of the extension component will be to: (a) improve
organization and management of existing extension services; (b) improve women and men farmers'
knowledge and know-how to increase their productivity and income; and (c) make the existing farm
management systems more productive, stable and environmentally sustainable. The extension service
will address the farm as a whole, rather than focus on one particular farm activity. The extension
system will be managed according to Training and Visits 5T&V) principles, and will be organized as
indicated in the following box.



- 20 -
Oganization of th Exteision System
(a) EWed gteio          (FEWs)
Number of stagf       about 1880 in tot (one per 200 farm famifies);
-    Job descdption         duriAg fortuigblly meetings, farmers and FEWs would inrea  their
un derstaaing of farmig practices and dynamcs through obsvaion
and dicsion, and would install demonstration plots with new tech-
niques. Farme  would be invited to repeat these new techniques in
tbhir own field;
'  ' Equipment              50 cX motorcycle.
(b)    ziw
Number of staff:      235 in total;
-    Job deisriptiot:       supervie and coach an average of eigh FEWs;
-    Euipment              Q100 cc motorcycle.
:  .. @.~ma    -SIRM:S  (SMSs)
; ^ mberof t'AiS          about 220 in total;
-   b de} scriptio   *      .:SM$s would be responsible for th adaptation of tecical temes to
fiumers contraints and for the taining of FEWsL SMSs would visit
fms' fields regularly to increase their knowledge of the existing
farm mmagement systems and to lear from farmes' reactiuns om
earlier 4isseminated technical themes. They would also meet with
-.searchers an a regular basis to discuss farmers' problems, to increas
t:eir ow  knowledge and to assist researchers in the onentation of their
research programs;
f   -  E-   ipm.   tt:          ) cc motorcycle.
' *' '' Numberof*taff.:     a tX5 in total;
-bJobbdescripto       district hiefs would visit supervisors aud FEWs at least once every
fortnight. Supervision would focus on increasing the efficiency of the
extension system, the skills of extension staff and logistics;
<  . Equpment               compact car.
4.11           At the regional level, extension activities will be supervised by the regional service for
extension and adaptive research. This service comprises a unit for support to adaptive research (see
below) and an extension unit. The latter unit will be responsible for the efficient organization of
extension activities and implementation of extension tools, and will oversee the definition of technical
extension programs. The regional service for extension and adaptive research will be staffed with one
service chief and one staff in each unit. The service will be equipped with three cars and one
computer.



21 -
4.12         Aantive-Reserch Set-Up. The objectives of the adaptive research component will be
to: (a) elaborate technical messages, based on a thorough understanding of existing farming practices,
permitting farmers -- in partAcular women and youth -- to increase their revenue and productivity
through intensification of cropping practices and diversification into profitable and environmental
sustainable activities; and (b) improve research-farmer-extension linkages.
4.13         To bridge the gap between research results, both systemic and thematic. on the one
hand, and technical messages, adoptable by farmers, on the other hand, one Systemic Research
Adaptation Site (SARS) will be established in each region -- as much as possible in the immediate
surroundings of the observation plots to facilitate management and to diminish costs. In each SARS,
about 60 farm families will participate in the elaboration of trial designs and will test the proposed
practices in their own fields. Proposed practices will be issued from three Systemic Experimental
Sites (SESs) under control of research institutes, and from best farmers' practices identified on the
field. The project will support investments and a part of operating costs of these three SESs. Special
attention will be given to the impact of these practices on the whole farm management system. All
researchers and Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) will visit the SARS regularly to increase their
knowledge of farmers' constraints and farmers' evaluation of research results. The information
gathered through these visits will be crucial in the definition of annual research programs. Although
ANADER will assume financial and administrative responsibility, the research institutes - IDESSA,
IDEFOR and IRDT - will assume technical and scientific responsibility. Each SARS will be staffed
with one researcher, three technicians (these three technicians will be a zoo technician, an agronomist,
and the last one an agro-economist or economist), and three observers. Each SARS will be equipped
with three 100 cc and three 50 cc motorcycles, agricultural equipment and inputs.
4.14         ANADER will, at the regional level, monitor adaptive research activities through the
unit for support to adaptive research within the regional service for extension and adaptive research.
This unit will be responsible for: (a) ANADER's participation in the development of technical
programs for observation plots and on farm trials; (b) the linkages with research at the regional level;
and (c) ANADER's participation, at the regional level, in the establishment of priorities for research
programs under annual contracts managed by the ANADER. Both research and extension activities
will be monitored by one national and ten regional steering committees with representatives from the
private sector, ANADER, and research institutes. These technical committees will meet twice yearly.
4.15         Farmer's Orzanizations. The objectives of the farmers' organizations component will
be to: (a) promote and strengthen farmers' organizations; and (b) improve and promote coordination
among farmers' organizations. This component will be implemented by Farmers' Organization
Specialists (FOSs, about 210 in total). The FOSs will meet regularly with about 20 farmers'
organizations each to train and advise participants on creation of farmers' organizations, corporate
management and accountancy, purchasing of inputs, rural credit, processing of agricultural
production, marketing, and relations with other organizations in agri-business. FOSs will be trained
to diagnose the needs of the wide variety of different farmers' organizations to give them capacity to
formulate adequate recommendations. ANADER will closely collaborate with the EDFIUNDP/ILO
Professional Organizations Project which focuses on the creation of second and third - level organiza-
tions, to increase farmers' influence in the policy making process and to promote farmers'
organizations capacities to market and export agricultural production. This collaboration will be
formalized into an agreement. FOSs will be equipped with 100 cc motorcycles.
4.16         ANADER will encourage second level organizations - union of farmers' cooperatives
- to take gradual charge of the FOSs. At the onset, these organizations will be invited to assure
supervision and coaching of FOSs. During the project period, ANADER will continue to pay for



- 22 -
FOSs' salaries and operating costs. Once the second level organizations' financial and managerial
basis is strong enough, they will assume fnancial responsibility as well. FOSs will then become the
organizations' employees. At the regional level, the service for support to farmers' organizations
will: (a) participate in the elaboration of managerial tools for farmers' organizations; (b) provide
training to FOSs on the use of these tools; (c) prepare and organize monthly workshops for FOSs; (d)
assure technical supervision of FOS; and (e) participate in the development of strategies, adapted to
the local conditions, geared to create and promote farmers' organizations. The regional service will
be staffed with one service chief and one staff. The service will be equipped with two cars and one
computer unit.
4.17         Training and Human Resources Management. The objectives of the training/human
resources management component will be to: (a) create within ANADER the capacity to conceive and
organize training programs; (b) help staff adapt to new task descriptions; (c) improve technical,
managerial and organizational skills; and (d) assure efficient human resources management.
4.18         All staff will undergo training in line with their job description in the initial stage of
project implementation. In addition, field extension staff, who have in many cases focused on only
one group of crops under the previous extension project, will need training to acquire a level
permitting to adopt a systemic approach and to understand and master technical messages on other
crops. Further continuous training will be provided to all ANADER staff for the duration of the
project to upgrade skills of staff and improve their efficiency. Training organizations, such as the
National Institute for Socio-Economic Development (INADES), the Agronomic Institute of Bouake
(IAB) and the National High School of Agronomy (ENSA), will collaborate with ANADER to
conceive training programs and to assure training of trainers. They will also contribute to the
supervision of ANADER's trainers.
4.19         All training activities will be tailored to each job profile (Annex 4). High level staff
participating in initial training, SMSs, FOSs and researchers participating in monthly workshops will
benefit from per diems established by the Government and accepted by IDA. Training activities will
be supervised by the regional training and human resources management service. This service will
comprise two units: a unit for human resources management, and a unit for operational training
responsible for supervision and coordination of all training activities in the region. The regional
service will be staffed with one service chief, and one staff in each of the other units. The service
will be equipped with two cars and one computer.
4.20          Administration and Finance. The regional service for administration and finance will
be responsible for all logistics, financial management and book-keeping, and administrative
management of personnel. These activities will be executed by three units: personnel administration,
accounting and logistics. The regional service will be staffed with one service chief and one staff in
each unit. The service will be equipped with one car, one motorcycle and two computers.
4.21          Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The regional M&E units will be responsible for:
(a) monitoring the efficiency of ANADER's regional branches; and (b) monitoring and evaluation of
the quality and impact of ANADER's field work. Monitoring of the efficiency of the regional
branches will focus on farmers' participation in contact groups and professional organizations, respect
of working programs, quality and regularity of training, cost effectiveness of ratios, and budgetary
control. The quality and impact of ANADER's efforts will be monitored and evaluated against
variations in farmers' revenues, farmers' reactions to technical themes, adoption rates, commercial
performance and revenue increase of farmers' organizations. Regional M&E units will be responsible
for collecting and processing of data, and will assure that technicians, supervisors, regional managers



- 23 -
and the central M&E unit will receive the information required. Most information will be collected
by field staff during their daily contacts with farmers. However, a total of about 50 enumerators,
each equipped with a 100 cc motorcycle, will be assigned to the different regional M&E units to
participate in regular surveys. Each M&E unit will be equipped with one car and one computer unit.
(b)    Or anization of ANADER at National Leve.
4.22         ANADER will initially be managed by a General Director appointed by decree. At
national level, ANADER will have four technical directorates, one directorate for administration and
finance and three support units with the following responsibilities, monitoring and evaluation,
organization, and equipment (see detailed presentation of ANADER's services in Annex 5):
(i)    Directorate for Extension: responsible for the efficiency of extension management and
the quality of technical extension programs, and comprising an extension organization
service and a technical extension program service. The directorate will be staffed
with one director, two service chiefs and two assistants. It will have two cars and
three computer units;
(ii)    Direorate   Suort to Adapive Research: responsible for efficient research-
farmers- extension linkages, and comprising a service for organization of adaptive
research support and a service for technical programs of adaptive research support.
The directorate will be staffed with one director, two service chiefs and two assistants.
It will be equipped with two cars and two computer units;
(iii)   Directorate for Supoort to Farmers' Organizations: responsible for implementation of
ANADER's strategy to promote and strengthen farmers' organizations. These
organizations will be closely associated in the elaboration of the strategy and will
become gradually responsible for this directorate. The directorate will comprise two
services, one for the North and one for the South, responsible for support to
management and structuring of farmers' organizations and for promotion of farmers'
organizations. The directorate will be staffed with one director, two service chiefs
and two assistants, and will be equipped with two cars and two computer units;
(iv)   Directorate for Training and Human Resources Management: charged with rational
use of human resources and the appropriate training for all staff, and comprising a
human resources development service, an operational training service and a service
for production of pedagogical tools and documentation. The directorate will be
staffed with one director, three service chiefs, four assistants in the service for
production of pedagogical tools and one assistant in each of the other services. The
directorate will be equipped with three cars and three computer units;
(v)    Directorate for Administration and Finance: to assure ANADER's accountability,
manage ANADER's goods and equipment, and deal with the administrative aspects of
human resources management. It will comprise a personnel and administration
service, an accounting service, and a logistic service. The directorate will be staffed
with one director, three service chiefs and three assistants, and will be equipped with
two cars and three computer units;
(vi)   M&E Unit: responsible, in close collaboration with the regional M&E units, of the
elaboration and implementation of the M&E system at local, regional and national



- 24 -
level. The national unit will supervise regional units and will continuously improve
the M&E system. The national unit will have to ensure that data collected through
the M&E system is properly processed and available at all appropriate levels. It will
have to ensure close participation of all technical services at the M&E process. The
national unit will have three staff and will be equipped with two cars and two
computer units;
(vii)  Internal AuditingUnit: this unit will, at the Director General's request, ensure
systematic internal financial control and will advise him on ways to improve the
financial and administrative procedures. The national unit will have four staff and
will be equipped with two cars and three computer units; and
(viii) C.omrnIr Unit: responsible for the efficient computerization of AN4ADER's data
processing, both at the regional and national level, It will train all staff concerned on
the appropriate software and will assure maintenance of the hardware. The national
unit will have two staff and will be equipped with two cars and two computer units.
3.     Institution Strengheninng
(a)    MINAGRA's National Level Directorates
4.23          National Planning. The project will streamline and strengthen MINAGRA's Sub-
Directorate for Planning and Budgeting within the Planning Directorate. The Sub-Directorate will
focus on: (a) formulation of the Government's agricultural development policy; (b) preparation of
policy implementation programs, annual investment budgets, terms of reference for studies, and
modalities for appropriate use and distribution of study results; and (c) monitoring and evaluation.
The Sub-Directorate will be equipped with two cars and two computer units.
4.24          Agricultural Statistics. The project will strengthen MINAGRA's Sub-Directorate for
Statistics within the Planning Directorate, with regard to the regular production of reliable agricultural
staistics in close collaboration with the National Statistics Institute INS). The statistical service will
produce four quarterly and one annual report reflecting fluctuations in national agricultural
production, prices, marketing, etc. FEWs will participate in data collection during one week after
seeding and one week after harvest. All additional data will be collected by temporary staff (in most
cases trainees). Data will be processed at district, regional and national level. ANADER's M&E unit
will systematically share all its information with the statistical service. The Sub-Directorate will work
closely with the proposal IDA-financed Rural Land Management Project (PNAGER) on
implementation of the Geographic Information System (GIS) developed as part of the latter project.
The Sub-Directorate for Statistics will be equipped with three cars and two computer units and will
benefit from short term technical assistance.
4.25          Cooperatives Smport. The project will streamline and strengthen MINAGRA's
Directorate for Mutuality and Cooperatives. This Directorate will focus on establishment of policies
and regulations in the areas of farmers groups and cooperatives, and oversee implementation of these
policies and regulations. It will, inter alia, complete by December 31, 1995 the study to assess the
feasibility for CIDT to engage exclusively in the purchase of cotton-seed, the processing of cotton-
seed and the marketing of cotton fiber. The same Directorate shall by December 31, 1995, revise as
necessary the applicable regulations to agricultural cooperatives with a view to facilitate their
establishment and operation. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (paras 7.01 (d)
and (e)). The Directorate will disengage from all activities related to direct support to cooperatives



- 25 -
and training of farmers. These activities will be executed by ANADER and/or any eligible
professional operators. At the national level, the Directorate will be equipped with two cars and two
computers.
(b)    KINAGRA   R nal Directorates
4.26          Regional Directrates. The role of the Administration at the regional level will be
limited to: (a) development of regional agricultural policies; (b) monitoring and evaluation of policy
implementation; (c) enforcement of regulations; and (d) collection and processing of statistics.
Ministerial arrete N°165 (September 3, 1991) defining the role of the DRAs was revised as a
condition for Board Presentation. Regional Directorates (10 in total) will comprise one director and
five services each, and will be equipped with three cars, four 100 cc motorcycles and eight computer
stations. At the departmental level, departmental directors will represent the Regional Directorates.
Where the departments are small (50 in total), the departmental directorates will be equipped with one
car, five motorcycles and one computer station. In those cases (75 in total) where the department is
too vast to be properly covered by the departmental officers, MINAGRA in addition will be
represented at district level by a team of one agronomist in charge of pest control, one veterinarian,
four forest police officers, and one cadastre officer (see detailed presentation including organigram in
Annlx 6). The project will provide three 100 cc motorcycles at district level.
4.27          The five services within each regional directorate will have the following
responsibilities, staffing and means of operation:
(i)    Service for Programming. M&E and Statistics: this service will comprise the section
for programming and M&E, and the section for statistics and documentation. The
service will be staffed with one service chief, two staff in the programming and M&E
section, and three staff in the section for statistics and documentation. It will be
represented at departmental level by a unit for programming, M&E and statistics.
This unit will comprise two staff;
(ii)    Service for Administration and Finance: this service will comprise the section for
humn resources management and the section for finance and equipment. The service
will be staffed with one service chief, one staff in charge of human resources
management and three accountants. At departmental level, one accountant will be
assigned to the departmental directorate;
(iii) Service for Natural Resources: this service will comprise the section for rural
engineering, the cadastre section, and the section for natural resources. The section
for rural engineering will benefit from separate financing through the proposed IDA -
financed Rural Equipment Project (PNER) and the cadastre section will benefit from
separate financing through the proposed IDA - financed Rural Land Management
Project (PNAGER). The section for natural resources will have two staff at regional
level, five staff at departmental level, and five staff at district level;
(iv)   Service for Pest. Seeds. and Veterinar Control: this service will comprise a section
for pest and seeds control and a section for veterinary control. The service will be
staffed with one service chief, one staff in charge of pest and seed control and one
staff in charge of veterinary control. At deparunental level and at district level, a
team of one agronomist and one veterinarian will be in charge for the field activities
of this service; and



- 26 -
(v)    Service for Monitoring of the Coerative Movement: this service will comprise a
section for registration of farmers' cooperatives and a section for monitoring of
farmers' organizations. The service will be staffed with one service chief, one staff in
charge of registration and one staff in charge of monitoring of farmers' organizations.
(c)    MESRS's Strengthenin2
4.28          The project will strengthen the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research-
MESRS's Sub-Directorate for Adaptive Research to enhance its capacity to oversee research institutes
as to their adaptive research activities. This sub-directorate will be equipped with two cars and two
computer units and will, in particular, monitor research - extension linkages. Short-term technical
assistance will be provided under the project. In addition, the project will finance through ANADER
certain activities to strengthen both thematic and systemic research within the respective Agricultural
Research Institutes (see box below).



- 27 -
ResWar  Actiites IQ be finance-d under the Project
-    Number                 te;
Description           observation plots would continue to serve as multi-local trial sites for
thematic reach programs to undertake varietal tes. Neighboring
farmers would be invited to visit and evaluate the results of the differ-
Mt trial plots;
-    Responsibility        IDESSA, IDEFOR and IRDT would continue to assume scientific
responsibility. ANADER would assume financial ad adminirtive
responaibility;
Number of staff  :    two obseers per observation plot;
Equipment      o:       e 50 cc motorcycle per 'observer'.
Systemic Expeimental Sites SEIS)
-    Number          :      three;
-    Description            systemic research: development of agronomically and ecomically
sustainable farm management systems to offer viable altenatives for
th existing semi-itinerant farming practices;
-    Responsibility        IDESSA would be responsible for three Systemic Experimental Sites.
rawse sites woult be financed by the Agency;
--    Number of staff :     th  SES' management team would be constituted by one techncal
:dirctor,- oe ag. economist, and one communication specialist. b
each site one systemic researcher, three technicians, four Oobservers,
one driver and seasonal labor;
-    EquipmeCnt      :      in eah site one pick-up, three 100 cc and four 50 cc motorcycles, one
computer, agricultural equipment and inputs.
Sysgc ^ Ryser&4 Sites SARO)
- -    Number               ten. on for eh region;
-    Description            vietes, selected through the observation plots and systemic proposils
-selcted by SES or by best farmers would be tested by: 5 farmers in
.teir own fields;
-    Responbility    .      trial po  pesigas would be elaborated by reseahers with the asstance
of.SMS; ANADER would assume financid and admsrattive respon.
aibility; SMSs would supervise the installaton and assue the monitot.
ing of these trials tDgether with 'observers'; the trials would be in-
stalled in the immediate surroundings of the observation plots to
ftcilitate monitoring and to diminish costs;
-    Number of stf:         existing SMSs and SARS staff;
Equipment      :      exting equipment for SMSs and SARS.
(d)        as Sktenigthening
4.29           The project wil strengthen, in close coordination with the proposed Economic
Management Project (PAGE), the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning-MEFP's Sub-
Directorate for Control and follow up of the Parapublic Sector within the Directorate for Budgetary



28 
Control. This sub-directorate will, in compliance with Ivorian legislation, be responsible for the
annual auditing executed by qualified independent audit firm of each of the project's implementation
units. The sub-directorate will select auditors in accordance with the Bank's rules, will assure the
exploitation of audit reports and will monitor the implementation of the auditor's recommendations.
One staff will be identified within the sub-directorate to be responsible for the timely transmission of
audit reports for all IBRD/IDA financed projects in the agricultural sector and the monitoring of
proper follow-up. The sub-directorate will be equipped with one vehicle and one computer unit.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND LINANCING
A.    Cost Estimates
5.01         Costing Mett. Costs have been computed on an incremental basis bv estimating the
total costs to be incurred in implementing the project, and deducting the costs that the Government
would have borne in a hypothetical without project situation. In 1992, the Ivorian Government
disbursed CFAF 12 billion in payment of extension agencies' salaries, and CFAF 2 billion (equivalent
to only 15% of salaries) in operating costs, for the former extension agencies and the MINAGRA's
regional services combined. It is unrealistic, to assume that the Government could sustain this level
of funding in the scenario without project. This scenario, therefore, was based on the following
hypotheses: (a) that the Government, whilst it would not undertake the major structural overhaul
envisaged under the project, would nevertheless go ahead with elimination of staff redundancies up to
a similar level, by dismissing all those staff not having civil-servant status; and (b) that there would
be no finding to replace or make new investments in the adaptive research/extension system.
5.02         Cost Estmaes. Based on the above incremental costing method, total project costs
were estimated over the project implementation period of two years (1994-96)2 at CFAF 25.9 billion
(US$44.6 million). Of these total costs, about CFAF 9 billion (US$15.5 million) or 28% are in
foreign exchange, and about CFAF 5.2 billion (US$9 million) or 19% in taxes and duties. The base
costs were first estimated at May 1993 prices using the exchange rate of CFAF 290 to the dollar
prevailing at that date. They were updated using the exchange rate of CFAF 580 to the US dollar
prevailing in March 1994 (date of negotiations), following the realignment of the CFAF parity
decided on January 12, 1994. The physical contingencies were computed at an average of 2.6% of
base costs. Price contingencies on foreign exchange were computed on the basis of World Bank
projections on international prices at the rate of 3.2%. Price contingencies on local costs were based
on annual price increase of 40% for PYI (CY 94), and 15% for PY2 (CY 95) reflecting expected
trends for general inflation in Cote d'Ivoire, and 15% PYI and PY2 reflecting expected increases for
labor-related costs. Based on the foregoing hypotheses, total price contingencies amount to about 7%
of base costs.
2/ The proposed project (PNA.IA Project) implemented over two years will
cover the first phase of the Natioaal Agricultural Services Support Program
(PNfASA Proqram) implemented over five years.



- 29 -
5.03           Project costs are summarized below and details are given in Annex 7.
P o'lec Cost
Foreign                      Baseline
.t  talxcheo Totel  tocat Exchange Totat f3oaW  ;9M
-I(CFAF mitlion) -      (US (UiS t iort)Io)  X       X
At oestructrwinu Pres            4129    590   4719    7.1  .0         8.2    12   Il8
RX O>eratf on SUDDor to SUDSR
1. Eitension                  3342   2259   5601    6.5   3.0         9.5   401   24
2. Adaptive Research           674    272    947    1.2   0.4         1.6    15    4
3. Profeseiont "0. OPA)        925    850   1775    Le    1.2           3    40    8
4e Training &- Jwla Resouracs -51  - 400    918    1.0  .5          1.5    44    4
5. t4anesement Support        19    1109   3102    3.8   1.5         .3    28   13
-Sub-Xo'1aL              -7- 452   4890  12342   14.3   6.6       20.9    31   53
C.
. t4inlstry   Agricutture
.  entret Direttorate$     418    357    635    0.7   0.5         1.2    38    3
RegionaLt Drtorate        1791   2085   3876    3.7   2.9         6.5    54   17
Stuies.                   1225    295   1520    2.3   0.3         2.6    12    6
.2. ti¶nistry of Sciantif ic Res.   220    257    477    0.5   0.3     0.8    54    2
N Mitilstry of Ec. & F inSfce   20      21     41    0.1   0.1        0.2    50    1
j S-Totoat                  3674   3015   6549    7.3   4.0        11.3    39   29
TotaL Ins lir~e C9st            15255   8495  23750   28.7  11.6        40.3    28  sao
R    Pysicat:  cntinencies     355    357    712    0.6   0.6         1.2    50    3
-E Price cntinenies           1577    245   1822    2.7   0.4         3.1    13    8
,~~~~~~~~~~...., .........,,.                        .* .* .^ ................... ...........   , .................. .+ . .
3: T;;al p-roTctv} Xo'17187   909   26284   32.0  12.6                   4.6    2B   11I
5.04           Logistical Expenditures. Under the project, funding for logistical means (operating
costs excluding payroll) will be greatly increased as a proportion of staff payroll, i.e. staff will be
reduced but will have more means to work with. The estimated increases in logistical means are as
follows: (a) from the level of about 15% of annual payroll (CFAF 900 million in 1992) for the
former extension agencies, to a level corresponding to about 50% of annual payroll (CFAF 3 billion)
for ANADER; and (b) from about 5% (CFAF 200 million) to 20% (CFAF 600 million) of payroll for
MINAGRA's Regional Directorates.
5.05            Project Preparation Facility. Three PPF advances of US$300,000, US$600,000 and
US$200,000 were granted to the Government in October 1992, June 1993 and March 1994
respectively. The first advance was used to finance: (a) the operation of the project preparation unit
as of October 1993; and (b) specialized consultancies needed as part of the establishment of the
Government's preparation report. The second advance served to finance: (a) staff evaluation by
private consultants' firms; (b) technical and finar- l audits of the former extension agencies; and (c)
training of the key project staff. The third adv&    covers essential start-up activities.
5.              ProjFncac i
5.06            Project costs will be borne by the co-finaciers as indicated in the box below:



- 30 -
Financing Plan by Project Comnonents
gt  VA         _    _   AGCD  LFAD  AfDB  Tlxes A/ Totat
.......         -..*.(US$ million)-
A. ftestructurinn Process
1. ST Cor ltencies        03   2.0  .7    -                             0.3   .3
2. Severance Atlowances    -      -          5.0                          0.0    5.0
.. .  ,..               . ..     ...   ...  ---    ---
Sub-Total              0.3  2.0  .7   S.0          -         -       0.3    8.3
B. Oag tinu S&     t to AD_ER
1. zn;m~o
Extension              -   2.2    -      -      -      -    1.5     1.9     5.6
. Adept. Research       -   0.3            -                   -      0.2     0.5
Professional Org.           0.7                      0.7    -       O.6     2.0
, Traintng & Hum. Res.       0.8    -      -      -     -      -      0.2     1.0
. General Management    -    1.-                  -    0.1            0.8     2.6
Sub-Total              -   5.7    -             -    0.8   1.5      3.7    11.7
2. ODeratina costs
. Extensfon            0.2   3.6                        -    0.4      0.6     5.0
a Adapt. flesearch.    0.1   0.8    -             -     -   0.2       0.2     1.1
, Professional Or.    8.1  0.1    -               -    0.7   0.1      0.2     1.1
Training & Hum. Res. 0.1   0.1    -              .3                 0.2     0.8
. General flanagement  0.5   1.9    .      -      -    0.1   0.2      0.4     3.2
_ -     ---  . .     ..,--             - -
Sub-Total            1.0   6.5    -      -     0.3    0.8  0.8      1.6    11.2
C-. XJaUtutoti  Stren1theninJ
,,   1. Investment
14MlNAGRA Cent. Dir.    -    0.9   -      -     0.1     -           0.1   .1
.1MAGRA  :eslg. Dir.    -       5          -      -     0.2   -       1.6     5.3
-  .:NAGRA-Studfe* sf    ^   2.2   -             -      -    -      0.8     3.0
*nESRS         -        -      0.4   -     -      -      -    -        -      0.4
-   NEF                 -     0.1   -                    -    -        -      0.1
. . -: Sutb-Total     -      7.1   -     -     0.1    0.2   -       2.5     9.9
:::2. Coeratina cos.ts.
;tUIAGRA Cent. Dir.   O.S    0.1   -     -     0.2           -      0.2       1.0
-. MIMAGRA Reg. Dir.    1.3    0.1   -             .     0.1   -      0.5       2.0
.  ., t£SRS           0.2    0.2   -             -      -    -       -       0.4
.   I4M1EF              -     0.1   -                                          0.1
Sub -Totat           2.0   .5   -      -     0.2    0.1   -       0.7      3.5
total                3.4   21,8. 0.7   5.0   .5    1.9  2.3       9.0dI   44.6
I total wIthout taxes        l0     61    1    14       2      6         (19% TTC)
.......... .......:.
(Al     A   taxes ,ioutd b  fina.nscd by the Gwverneent.
... g :AGC s.4hare of the trainini progran would go a as priority to upgrade the Livestock fietd
;    tatff quqllflcutions.  
'' T288:.lhesef.+unds wouLd be earmarked es a priority to pursue ZINAGRA's studies for projects that are
. --oaptementar  to the PIIASA, in particuter the Rural Land Management Project <PNAGER) and the
Livetsok Sector Project.
0:(d}    .The *taxes represent t9X of :totat project costs.
5.07             The IDA Credit of US$21.8 million will finance about 49%  of total project costs,
distibuted as follows: (a) about 43% of the cost of the restructuring process, excluding severance
allowances (US$1.5 million); (b) about half of the project investments eannarked respectively for
ANADER (US$6.5 million), MINAGRA (US$4.4 million), and MESRS and MEFP (US$0.5
miHion); and (c) about half of the operating expenditures incurred by ANADER (US$6.5 million).



- 31 -
The Government will finance all taxes (US$9 million), 10% of the operating expenditures incurred by
ANADER, and 60% of MlNAGRA's operating expenditures (US$2 million).
5.08         Other donors will contribute to finance the project costs as follows: (a) UNDP and
FAO (1%): technical assistance for the restructuring process (U$0.7 Million); (b) CFD (14%):
severance allowances; (c) AfDB (6%): ANA1ER's expenditures in the West Region; (d) IFAD (6%):
part of the costs associated with the promotion of Agricultural Professional Organizations (OPAs) in
the North; and (e) AGCD (2%): agricultural statistics and part of the cost of training activities, in
priority those activities aimed at upgrading the skills of MlNAGRA's livestock agents.



- 32 -
C.     Procurement
5.09           The following arrangements have been established for goods and services to be
procured under the project.
.r..rement A.._ggements ...
in      LCff  Other   t. B. F  Tota lCost
.-- .(USml I i Ion) --
-   ictX                St.0     -        *      -         %~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.0
(6.5)    -        -                (6.5)
Good Ed oismt                  2.6    0.5      0.2     1 P/       4.3
(1.5)  (0.5)   (0.2)    -          (2.2)
Technical Assi:tence sfO5~                                         .
Foreign             -        -       1.9    0.5j/      2.4
-       -      (0.4)             (0.4)
. - -   . Local      *       -       1.3    0.z2i       1.5
':- --  -    '-' -  (0.1)    -    (0.1)
traIning ef
-Foreign              ,               0.5                0.5
,              (0.5)    '         (0.5)
-  Locat              -        -      0.9      -         0.9
-  *     -     (0.9)    -         (0.9)
-  eratine Costs               -        -      12.3    6.7 dJ    19
-   .     (7)       -(7)
3.0     -          3.0
-  -  -  (2.2)    -      (2.2)
------ t :-2 -            2
. ..-  $ *  (2)         (2)
TOTAL-                        U         0.5   22.1     86           6
(8)     (0.5) (13.3)   8.4        (21.8)
S/ -   JO(~"1tS in  aness indicate IDA finmncing. IFAD has accepted that the items urder its
ffriancil* *outd be proCred widr IDA :procedures.
bi  Financed by UNDP uitr -their om procuremant procedures.
si 1tocbut. Assistace and Traintr n-ntuld be filnnced for alt coqponents foltowing procurement
r.   C  iWOW basacepted Wbs the Goverrmwent and other donors.
41s tulon to -b firraicd by --fn wmder its own procurement procedures, and US$S mil ion
(sever .mn to h -*  fr     bf CR) nr its own procedu.es.
5.10           Vehicles. (Goodsand Euuipment. All vehicles will be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Individual lots will be established on the basis of vehicle type (station-
wagons, pick-up trucks, 4X4 vehicles, motorcycles, etc.). Procurement of each type of vehicle will
be authorized only once in the same fiscal year. Goods and equipment will be procured annually
through group bidding packages to allow for ICB. In case annual needs for a particular item or group
of items will be lower than US$250,000, but greater than US$50,000, local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures will be allowed. LCB procedures will strictly follow both the local



- 33 -
procurement legislation and Bank procurement rules. Procurement of each individual item or group
of items, essentially office supplies, under ICB ot LCB, will be authorized only once (exceptionally
twice) in the same fiscal year, based on forecasted needs. Finally, small contracts, amounting to less
than US$50,000, will be procured through prudent shopping procedures on tthe basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from at least three local suppliers. Procurement of this type will only be
allowed on an exceptional basis.
5.11         Technical As     ce nd training. The iechnical and training assistance (about 115
person months of expatriate staff and 220 person months of local staff) will consist exclusively of
short-term consultancies. Technical assistance contracts (including contracts for audits and training)
will be procured following Bank procedures on the basis of the establishment of a short list of
qualified firms agreed by the Bank. Training activities will be sub-contracted to external institutions,
and the training contracts, to be executed locally by parastatal agencies, private firms and/or NGOs,
will be procured directly based on annual work programs established by executing agencies with prior
approval by the Bank. All training activities undertaken outside the country will have to receive ex-
ante approval by the Bank. Main Terms of Reference for the most important consultancies will be
established before project effectiveness as part of the preparation of the implementation manual.
5.12           pgratig Cos. Operating costs corresponding to incremental travel allowances,
vehicle/equipment operation and maintenance, and office supplies will be financed by IDA following
govermnent procedures which have been found acceptable. The remainder will be covered by the
National Budget, and additionally for ANADER by its own resources through the purchase of services
by other parastatals and other externally-financed projects (e.g. AtDB Western Region Project).
5.13         General Rules nd Review. The LCB procedures to be followed under the project
will include local advertising, public bid opening, establishment of clear evaluation criteria, and
award to the lowest-evaluated bidder. Foreign bidders will not be excluded. LCB and ICB bidding
documents, as well as documents for short-list competitive bidding, will be submitted by executing
agencies to the Directorate of the Public Procurement (DMP) for prior review. Bank approval will
have to be sought once clearance of DMP is obtained, before undertaking publicity. The aggregate
threshold value for LCB and prudent shopping (3 quotations) will be US$13,000. All bidding
packages for IDA-fnanced goods and services estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent
will require prior approval by IDA, as will the final award of the related contracts. Prior approval
will also be required for the procurement of computer equipment and the recruitment of all technical
assistance, regardless of the related contract amounts or the source of financing. The other contracts
will be subject to random review by IDA after contract award.
5.14         In order to facilitate project start-up activities, the Directorate of Public Procurement
(DMP) will develop with ANADER staff standard bidding procedures consistent with both Bank and
Ivorian procurement rules. These standard procedures that were reviewed and agreed at negotiations
are presented at Annex S. Furthermore, DMP will work with ANADER's staff on preparation of the
first bidding packages. Submission to the Bank of bidding documents for vehicles, goods and
equipments (ICB and LCB) and selection of consultants (LOI) is a condition of effectiveness (para
7.02 (b)). Finally, as part of project training activities, a seminar on procurement will be organized
in PYI in liaison with the Bank and DMP, for all project staff involved in procurement matters. Two
seminars, each of a week's duration, will also be organized for small and medium enterprises (SMEs)
interested in bidding for contracts under the project, with view to increasing their capacity to respond
to public competitive bidding.



- 34
D.    Dishursements and Revolving Funds
5.15         Disbursemnts. Disbursement of the IDA Credit of SDR 15.7 million (equivalent to
US$21.8 million) is foreseen over a 30-month period starting September 1, 1994. Project
disbursements follow the Bank standard profile for the West Africa Region agricultural projects.
They start at a higher level as they include refunding of the Project Preparation Advance (PPF). The
proceeds of the IDA Credit will be disbursed as follows:
DisbU1sement of IDA Credit
Atlocatfan    % of expenses HT
,Cateiory              of Furds       to be financed
(US$ mittlion)
1. VebCL*es              5.9              100%
2. SGaAndEqulpsmnts      2.0              100%
3. Techticat Assisteant  0.4              100%
4, Training              1.3              100%
5 .Opeating Costs        6.3               70% AHIADER
40% Ministries
6. PPF Reflrneinr        2.0
7. studtes               2.0              100%
8. Ron Attocated         1.9
TOTAL                 A1.8
5.16         Prior to negotiations, the Public Investment Directorate (DIP), the Public Procurement
Directorate (DMP) and the Autonomous Amortization Fund (CAA) developed detailed disbursement
procedures for all project components. These procedures were reviewed and agreed at negotiations
(AnMe_ 9. They should contribute to ANADER's efficient management, including decentralization of
operations which is central to successful project implementation.
5.17         Special Accounts. Two special accounts in CFAF will be opened at CAA, for
ANADER (Special Account A for Project Part A) and MINAGRA (Special Account B for Project
Part B), with initial deposit of US$ 500,000 and US$ 250,000 equivalent respectively. An assurance
to this effect was obtained at negotiations (para 7.01 (f)). The initial deposit on these accounts will be
made upon Credit effectiveness. Thereafter, the accounts will be replenished on a monthly basis upon
receipt of satisfactory evidence of disbursements for eligible expenditures accompanied with a bank
statement. Should any disbursements be made from the special accounts for items not eligible, the
Government will be required to deposit the corresponding amounts into the accounts. The Borrower
will be authorized to submit withdrawal applications on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
for contracts valued at less than the equivalent of US$20,000. Related Supporting documentation will
be kept at ANADER and MINAGRA for review by supervision missions and by external auditors
during audit reviews.
5.18         To ensure efficient and timely project implementation, the Government will open two
local currency accounts (project accounts) for ANADER and MINAGRA respectively. ANADER
and MINAGRA's accounts will be opened at CAA. Requirements in local currency to be met by the
Government will be established yearly and will form the basis upon which the local currency accounts
wfll be replenished. The Govemment will deposit its share of funding on the project account



- 35 -
quarterly and in advance, on the basis of disbursement forecasts for the next three months. An
assurance on the above was obtained at negotiations (para 7.01 (g)). A condition of Credit
effectiveness will be the opening of the project accounts and the initial deposit by the Government of
the following amounts: CFAF 1.5 billion in ANADER's account and CFAF 60 million in
MINAGRA's account (para 7.02 (c)).
E.    Financial Managment. Accounting und Audit Requirements
5.19         financial Procedures and Systems. ANADER's budget will be earmarked yearly as a
line item in the Special Public Investment Budget (BSIE), and funded in part with the proceeds of the
IDA Credit on the basis of the Financing Agreement to be entered between the Borrower and
ANADER as condition of Credit effectiveness (para 7.02 (d)). This agreement will specify that the
proceeds of the IDA Credit earmarked for ANADER will be passed on to this latter on a grant basis.
The Financial Director of ANADER and the National planning Director of MINAGRA will assume
responsibility - respectively for the ANADER component and the MINAGRA/MESRS/MEFP
components - for preparing and consolidating all project accounts, preparing and monitoring the
overall project budget, analyzing the variances, ensuring that payments to contractors for executing
project components are in compliance with project objectives and budget, and preparing disbursement
applications and records. They will maintain accounting records for project activities, consistent with
sound accounting practices which will reflect fairly, in accordance wit internationally accepted
accounting principles, the overall financial situation of the project. All accounting and financial
operations (including the project annual budget) will be fully computerized.
5.20         ANADER's Budgeting Process. ANADER's budgeting process will be highly
decentralized. Annual budgets will first be prepared by the regional branches of the Agency, under
the supervision of the Regional Advisory Committees. Thereafter, these budgets will be consolidated
at the national level (Annex 3). All IDA funds earmarked for ANADER will pass through one
special account at the national level. ANADER's Financial Director will be responsible for the
replenishment of regional accounts, in accordance with the approved annual budgets of the regional
branches. ANADER's internal audit unit will monitor use of funds both at regional and national level
(see detailed presentation of the disbursement process in Annex 9).
5.21         AAui. The project financial statements and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will
be audited annually in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards by a qualified
independent audit firm proposed by MEFP Sub-Directorate for Management Control and acceptable to
IDA. Audited accounts and the audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end
of each fiscal year. The audit reports will include the Short Form Report with all required
information covering all project financial procurement activities and the systematic review of all
procurement activities not subject to prior non objection, the Special Report on the utilization of IDA
Credit, and the Management Letter. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para
7.01 (h)). The audit will include specific verification of the legitimacy of all expenditures and an
opinion on the reliability of the SOE procedures and utilization of goods and services financed under
the project (Annex lo. The auditors will also provide a Long Form Report, including detailed
comments on the financial, general and cost accounting systems, and an assessment of the operational
efficiency of the project. The audit will be financed by MEFP. The audit cost will specifically
appear as a line item in the project annual budget.
5.22         R=rt   . ANADER and MINAGRA - for the ANADER component and the
MINAGRA/MESRS/MEFP components respectively - will be responsible for monitoring project
implementation along the agreed implementation schedule, including physical and institutional



- 36 -
objectives tAnnex 1 1). They will communicate to IDA, before October 31 of each year, the project's
program of operations and detailed annual training prog,.ni for the following year. The work plan
for the first year will be submitted to IDA before Credit effectiveness (para 7.02 (e)). ANADER and
MINAGRA will prepare semi-anual progress reports to be submitted to the Government and IDA.
These reports, based on mandatory semi-annual supervision of each component, will assess progress
(financial, budgetary and institutional) in project implementation. They will report progress of
procurement activities against agreed annual programs of operations and targets, including aggregate
amounts for each procurement method under each disbursement category. Progress reports will aim
at assessing project results based on, inter alia: (a) monitorable indicators showing project impact on
agricultural production; (b) progress in implementing the project institution-building components; and
(c) global judgement on the evolution of agricultural services, including take over by professional
organizations of designated activities and effective implementation of prescribed policy measures
(Annex 12). Progress reports will serve as basis for IDA supervision missions. A Project
Completion Review - to be held six months before project completion (June 30, 1996) - will serve
as the Mid-Term Review of the five-year PNASA program (Annex 13). ANADER and MINAGRA
will also be responsible to prepare the Project Completion Report (PCR) within six months following
project completion. Assurances on the above reporting requirements were obtained at negotiations
(para 7.01 (h)).
F.    Project Implementation and Management
5.23         The project (PNASA project), implemented over two years, will cover the first phase
of implementation of the National Agricultural Services Support Program (PNASA program),
implemented over five years. The detailed objectives and critical steps of the proposed project over
its two years of implementation are described in Annex 11. The remaining three years of the PNASA
program will have as main objective to consolidate and further develop the results of the proposed
project.
5.24         Restru.ring ComDo       This component, to be completed as part of project
preparation and start-up activities, is the responsibility of an Interministerial Committee (the
Restructuring Steering Commitee-CPR) with representatives from MINAGRA, MESRS, MEFP and
the Ministry of Public Service-MINIFOP, created in March 1993. CPR's mandate is to ensure
implementation and general oversight of the restructuring process. Prior to negotiations, it has
assumed responsibility for: (a) preparation of ANADER's structures and accounting procedures
(condition of negotiations); (b) submission of end-1992 of audit reports of the accounts of SATMACI,
CIDV and SODEPRA (condition of negotiations); and (c) subscription of the entire stock of
ANADER (condition of Board presentation). As conditions of effectiveness, it is currently
completing: (a) detailed closing audit reports for SATMACI's, CIDV's and SODEPRA's accounts and
operations as of March 31, 1994 (para 7.02 (f); (b) ANADER's opening balance sheet (para 7.02 (g);
and (c) the Manual of Human Resource Management (para 7.02 (h)). As an additional condition of
Credit effectiveness, it will ensure that all selected project staff (both at ANADER and MINAGRA's
DRAs) will have been formally employed, and that the remaining staff of former extension agencies
(CIDV, SATMACI and SODEPRA) will have been either reassigned or dismissed (para 7.02 (a)). A
decentralized office for advice and information (BIC) was created by ministerial arr6td of April 1993
to facilitate insertion into the private sector of dismissed agents (para 4.05). The operation of the BIC
office is envisaged as one of the main project support measures. The restructuring component is of
key importance to lay the basis for project implementation, notably for improvement in cost
effectiveness and quality of agricultural services, and effective decentralization of MINAGRA.
Su    f completion of the restucturing process in its various phases is therefore required uMA
for Credit effectiveness.



- 37 -
5.25         Nationa Agricultural Seice Agena (ANADER) (Project Part A). The ANADER
component will be implemented by ANADER's management, acting under the authority of
ANADER's Board of Directors, in consultation at regional level with Regional Advisory Committees.
ANADER has mixed society (SEM) statutes. It is the Government's principal sub-contractor for
activities related to extension, adaptive research and support to farmers' organizations, but it will have
no monopoly over these activities. The Government will delegate full implementation responsibility
for extension to ANADER in those regions where no other agency is present (this is the case of areas
presently covered by the former extension agencies). Elsewhere, MINAGRA will specify by
agreement the complementarity and collaboration between ANADER and other implementing
agencies. In the latter areas, the following arrangements will be made:
(a)    North-East and West Regions: for the North-East development project financed by
IFAD and BOAD, West Region Area Development Project financed by AfDB, and
the BOAD-financed integrated rural development project of Tanda, activities related to
extension, adaptive research and farmers' organizations will be executed by
ANADER;
(b)    North and North-West Regions: ANADER will have limited activities in these regions
where the Ivorian Textile Development Company (CIDT) will continue to be
responsible for all cotton related extension activities. ANADER will focus on
strengthening farmers' organizations, and extension activities for food crops not
covered by CIDT and sedentary livestock activities. The Agency will have a lighter
set-up than in other regions. It will be represented at the regional level by a regional
director, assisted by one senior staff for each of the following activities, adaptive
research and extension, training and human resource management, administration and
finance, and monitoring and evaluation, and two senior staff for support to farmers'
organizations. These Regional Directorates will be equipped with five cas, four 100
cc motorcycles and three computer units. At the field level, each district will Eave
one district chief and four subject matter specialists; and
(c)    Other Regions: in those areas where other projects (public or private) are operational,
ANADER will negotiate with these projects, so as to avoid duplication of activities
and ensure proper implementation of the Govermnent's extension policy. However,
ANADER will keep a minimal presence nation-wide to assure continuity in
Agricultural Services delivery, and to enhance competition between the different
structures involved.
5.26         Responsibility for daily management of the ANADER component will be vested with
ANADER's General Director at national level, and with ANADER's branch managers at regional
level. ANADER's General Director is initially appointed by decree. ANADER's Board of Directrs
will have twelve seats, four of which will be occupied by farmers' representatives. The remaining
seats will be distributed between the Government and private contributors according to their share of
ANADER's capital.



- 38 -
5.27         Institution Strenthening of MINAGRA. MESRS and MEFP (Project Part B). This
component will be implemented under the overall tutelage of MINAGRA, through the Steering
Committee created for project preparation. This committee is chaired by MINAGRA's
Minister and is composed of representatives of ministries concerned by the project. It will evaluate
project activities through the M&E Unit of MINAGRA's Planning/Programming Directorate.
hINAGRA's Cabinet Director will coordinate overall implementation
of project Part B. The cabinet directors at MINAGRA, MESRS and MEFP will be responsible for
management of the sub-components concerning their respective ministries. The respective heads of
the departments involved will be responsible for implementation of daily activities concerning their
departments, i.e.: (a) at MINAGRA: the Director of Administration/Finance and the Director of
Planning/Programming (under the latter, the Head of the service in charge of statistics and the Head
of the M&E Unit), at central level; and the Regional Directors, in the regions; (b) at MESR, the
Sub-Director for Adaptive Research; and (c) at MEFP, the Sub-Director for Audit Control.
5.28         Implementation Schedule. The project will be implemented over a two-year period.
The restructuring component, including the staff evaluationiselection and lay-off program, is to be
completed before project start-up, except for the operations of the BIC office which will continue over
the project period. The target date for ANADER to be fully operational is June 1995. Terms of
Reference for the Project Mid-Term Review to be held six months before project completion (by June
30, 1996) are at Annex 13. This review will serve to lay the basis for reorientation/redesign of the
remaining three years of the PNASA program and for mobilization
of the required financing for this second phase.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    IBeneflt
6.01         Aaricultural Services. The proposed project will ensure the access to improved
agricultural services - agricultural extension and support to farmers' organizations - for the entire
population of rural producers, i.e. about 900,000 farm families. The process of adaptive research
will produce technical themes which should cause an increase in production of 25% to 45% for any
particular crop. To the extent that the project will ensure quick adoption of technical themes by at
least 10% of farm families, improved agricultural services alone could account for 2% per year of
increase in gross agricultural production. The project is designed to have an impact, not only on the
quant y, but also on the quality of agricultural production. In this regard, the project will change
women's tasks in agriculture and make them less constraining and more cost effective by focusing the
adaptive research process on specific constraints related to working women and youth. Similar
extension operations in other countries have proven to change the labor distribution between men and
women, thus diminishing the hardship of women's labor. The project's impact on women's working
conditions will be one of the key issues to be reexamined at the Project Completion Review (Annex
). The project will have an indirect impact on research by strengthening the feed-back from
farmers to researchers, by providing funds for researchers' systematic participation in monthly
technology review meetings, and by ensuring the effective participation of farmers and extension staff
in the programming of research. Improved research-extension-farmers linkages will make research
more demand driven and cliant oriented, and will ensure the environmental sustainability of daily
agricultural practices.



- 39 -
6.02          .mliWtimA  mwd   . The project will redefine the role of the State and of the private
sector in the agricultural development. The role of the State will be limited to policy definition,
monitoring of policy implementation and law enforcement. The role of the private sector will be to
gradually increase its control over the effective delivery of agricultural services. The reorganization
of agricultural services will make it possible to diminish the number of staff by 50%. Staff at all
levels will be more operational as reflected by a drastic increase in the relative importance of the
recurrent costs vis-a-vis payroll in the annual budget of both MINAGRA and ANADER (para 5.04).
The role assigned to MINAGRA's regional services will enhance effective decentralization of efforts
which constitutes one of the major project thrusts. Furthermore, with the creation of ANADER, the
Government will start the privatization process of agricultural services delivery. Fanners' organiza-
tions will have the possibility to participate in ANADER's capital structure and will be invited to take
effective control of agricultural services. During project implementation, however, the Government
will continue to pay for salaries of field staff and for part of the recurrent costs. One of the main
issues to be examined during the Project Completion Review will be to assess the private sector's
capacities and interest to assume additional responsibility for agricultural services. Finally, the
project will have a systematic recruitment policy favoring the appointment of women in both key
management positions and at field level. The number of women in ANADER will be one of the key
issues addressed at the Project Completion Review.
B.    Budgetar Impact
6.03         The project will have a highly beneficial impact on public finances. In 1992, the
Government disbursed CFAF 14.2 Billion (US$54.6 Million) to finance the salaries and the operating
costs of the former extension agencies and MINAGRA's regional services. Suppression of
duplications and elimination of redundant staff will reduce budgetary costs for agricultural services
delivery by about 25% (i.e. cost of ANADER vs. the cost of the former extension parastatals
combined) and MINAGRA's budget related to DRAs by about 20%. Table I of Annex 4 presents
notional data on budget reduction. This data was computed by comparing the 1992 budget figures
with budgetary costs arising from implementation of the PNASA program over a five-year period.
For the sake of consistency, the latter figures were computed in constant terms on the basis of the
level of costs and the rate of exchange prevailing before the January 12, 1994 re-alignment of the
CFAF parity. Table 2 of Annex 14 shows the actual budgetary needs for project implementation over
two years (1994-1996), based on the costs and the exchange rate prevailing after the re-alignment of
the CFAF parity.
6.04         Budgetary costs for agricultural services will continue to diminish to the extent that
ANADER increases its cost effectiveness. One of the focal points in this respect will be the reduction
of the ratios of field extension workers per number of fam families. Cost effectiveness and extension
ratios will be one of the key issues to be examined during the Project Completion Review. The
budgetary burden will also be eased as ANADER will gradually generate operating resources of its
own through the sale of its services to financially independent third parties (see ANADER's Estimated
Financial Statements in Annex 15). It is worth noting in this respect that ANADER will not be
totally dependent on the National Budget, as a fraction of its resources will come through the
purchase of services by other parastatals and other externally-financed projects (e.g. AfDB Western
Region Project). Finally, the contribution of the National Budget will diminish as professional
organizations will gradually take more control over the delivery of agricultural services and will,
therefore, be prepared to assume increasing financial responsibilities.



- 40 -
C.    Capanty Building
6.05          One major thrust of the project will be to rationalize the management of human
resources at ANADER and MINAGRA. To this effec., the project will provide specialized short-
term consultancies to help establish and implement adequate personnel management procedures. The
training program to be undertaken as part of the project will be very comprehensive. It will concern
all professional staff and touch upon all facets of the technical expertise required to implement the
project thereby ensuring sustainability of its operations through appropriate human resource capacity
building.
D).    Environmtal Ingact
6.06          The only way to increase farmers' revenue in the Ivorian context, is to make
agriculture more environmentally sustainable. The rapid degradation of soil fertility in the savannah
region and the increasing demographic pressure in the forest region are forcing farmers to move
toward a more stable form of agriculture, adopt techniques of improved fallow and effectively
integrate livestock and agriculture. Adoption of these themes, amongst others, will diminish farmers'
pressure on the rainforest, and will increase protection against soil degradation. One of ANADER's
main challenges will be to produce technical themes which constitute long term solutions to farmers'
constraints. Therefore, the project will implement an adaptive research process which ensures
effective research-farmers-extension linkages. Through systemic adaptive research, based on the
household farm economy, improvement of the interface between agriculture, livestock and agro-
forestry activities could be one of the main sources of environmentally sustainable technical messages.
E.    PovLemt I mnac
6.07          The project target of 900,000 farm families comprises several of the poorest segments
of the Ivorian population, including rural women. The objective to improve the technical capacities
of poorer farmers will have a direct impact on the increase of their incomes and their food security.
The objective of helping them to diversify their agricultural activities will also contribute to increasing
incomes and food security.
F.    Rhisk
6.08          The two major risks faced in implementing the project are: (a) the Government's
capacity to complete the ambitious restructuring program; and (b) the availability of counterpart
fumds. A technical risk is the risk of low farmer adoption of the technical messages being extended.
The Government has already given testimony of its resolve to streamline agricultural services through
the dismissal of redundant staff (about 2000) in existing extension parastatals. The creation of
ANADER decided by presidential decree of September 29, 1993 and restructuration of MINAGRA's
regional services by decree of March 25, 1994 further testifies to the Government's commitment to
fully complete the required restrucring process. To diminish the risks of the restructuring exercise,
arising in particular from staff selection and attendant staff dismissal, the project will encourage, as
much as possible, voluntary departure and early retirement of staff. Similarly, dismissed redundant
staff will benefit from severance allowances, in accordance with Ivorian law, and will be assisted in
their insertion into the labor market. Completion of the entire restructuring process is required for
Credit effectiveness, so that the attendant risks will be moved upfront prior to the operational phase of
project implementation. The risk of lack of availability of regular counterpart funds are mitigated by
the assurance provided by the Government that it will before January 1 of each year earmark all



- 41 -
necessary counterpart funds in the National Budget, and that before the beginning of each quarter the
counterpart fnds be deposited in the project account (para 7.01 (g)). To further decrease this risk,
other donors will be invited to earmark for project expenditures counterpart funds arising from their
balance of payments assistance. The risk of farmer low adoption of the technical messages being
extended will be mitigated, as these messages will be developed in collaboration with farmers and will
be designed so as to minimize amounts of purchased inputs.
V1. ASSURANCES. CONDIINS AND RECOMMEND_T _
7.01         Assuranes Obtined at Negotiaions
(a)    agreement that the Agricultural Services Policy Letter (LPSA) will be the framework
for project implementation (para 4.02);
(b)   the assets of the former extension agencies (SATMACI, CIDT and SODEPRA)
necessary for ANADER's operations have been transferred to ANADER, before
December 31, 1994 (para 4.07);
(c)   the Borrower shall enter into a financing agreement with ANADER to make available
part of the proceeds of the IDA credit to the latter (para 4.08);
(d)    conduct by MINAGRA of a study by December 31, 1995, to be made jointly with
CIDT and ANAI)ER, to assess the feasibility for CIDT to engage exclusively in the
purchase of coton-seed, the processing of coton-seed and the marketing of coton
fiber (para 4.25);
(e)   revision of the various regulations pertaining to agricultural cooperatives to facilitate
their establishment and operations, by December 31, 1995 (para 4.25);
(f)    opening of two special accounts in local currency at CAA on behalf of ANADER and
MINAGRA respectively, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, for deposit of
proceeds from the IDA credit (para 5.17);
(g)    opening of two projec accounts in local currency and deposit on these accounts the
Government's share of the project funding quarterly and in advance, based on agreed
annual budgets and disbursement forecasts for the next three months (para 5.18);
(h)   submission of the project audited accounts and related audit reports to IDA within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para 5.21); and
(i)    preparation by ANADER and MINAGRA of (i) annual programs of operations and
detailed training program, (ii) semi-annual progress reports, (iii) the Project Mid-
Term Review by April 30, 1996, and (iv) the Project Completion Report (six months
following project completion) (para 5.22).



- 42 -
7.02         CMdifliteness
(a)   the staff of ANADER and MINAGRA's Regional Directorates have been formally
employed, and the remaining staff of CIDV, SATMACI and SODEPRA have been
either reassigned or dismissed (para 4.07);
(1)   the Borrower has submitted drafts of bidding documents satisfactory to the
Association for the procurement of vehicles, goods and equipment and the selection of
consultants (parn 5.14);
(c)   the Borrower has opened two project accounts in local currency on behalf of
ANADER and MINAGRA, and has deposited therein initial deposits in amount of
CFAF 1.5 billion and CFAF 60 million respectively (para 5.18);
(d)   the Financing Agreement to pass on the proceeds of the IDA credit earmarked for
Part A of the project, from the Borrower to ANADER has been executed (para 5.19);
(e)   the Borrower has submitted a detailed work program (including a training program)
satisfactory to the Association for the first year of project implementation (para 5.22);
(f)   the Borrower has submitted detailed closing audit reports on SATMACI, CIDV and
SODEPRA's accounts and operations as of March 31, 1994, satisfactory to the
Association (para 5.24);
(g)   the Borrower has submitted ANADER's opening balance sheet after its review and
approval by MEFP (para 5.24); and
(h)    ANADER's Manual for Human Resource Management Procedures has been
completed in a form and substance satisfactory to the Association (para 5.24).
7.03         Recommen. With the above agreements, the project will be suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 15.7 million (US$21.8 million equivalent) to the Government of the Republic of C6te
d'Ivoire on IDA stadard terms.



Pop I of I
REPUBLIC QF COTE O'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTUPAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
Adaptive Research and Extesono
Yield Potentialities of Major Food Cropsa
(Tons per ha)
CROPS (VARIETIES)                  RESEARCH         OBSERVATION          FARMERS
STATION        POST               FIELD
RAINEDI) RICE   MORO                            4                   2                1,2
IGUAPE                                5                  2,5              1,5
IAC 1965                              4,5                2                1,2
IRAT 170                              4,8                2,5              1,5
IDSA 6                                5                  2,5              1,5
IRAT 144                              5                  3                1,5
1RRIGATED RICE BOUAKE 189                        8,5                6                3,5
BG 90-2                               8,0                6                3,5
IR-5                                  8                  6                3,5
TOS 103                                                  4                2,5
MAIZE    CJB                                    6,2                 3,5              2,5
F 7928                                7                  4                2,5
F 7529                                7                  4                2,5
IRAT 83                              11                  6
YAM       FLORIDO                               40                 25               15
BRAZO-FURETrE                        50                  30              16
KRENGLE                              20                  12               8
BETE-BETE                            20                  12               8
CASSAA  H3                                      20                 12                8
KATAOLI                              25                  15              10
CB                                   35                 20               12
BONOUA                               15                  11               8
TABOLTKA                             15                  11               8
FELAf      RMNP 91                              2,5                 1,5              1
KH 149 A                              2                  1,2              0,8
TE 3                                  1,8                1                0,8
SORGNUM  Traditional                            2,5                 1,8              1
GD 129                                2,5                1,8              1
GD MONOGNIEHIN                        3,0                2                1,2
GHANA 1                               3,0                2                1,2
S219
MIUB~I  TTRADITIONAL VARIETIES                   1,7                 -               0,6



ANNEX 2
PCg" I of 1
REPUBLtC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
BASIC DATA ON FARMERS' ASSOCIATIONS (198911990)
TYPES OF                £fU4BER OF          IUMBER OF           NWIBER OF           TURNOVER               LOANS              BENEFITS              AID8NT OF
COOPERATIVES            COOPERATIVES          NEMBERS               STAFF           (CFAF MILLION)       (CFAF MILLION)      (CFAF MILLION)        MEMBERSNIP SNARE
..._______________________  _ ____________________  .__________________              .__________________                     ___________________      (CFAF  MILLION)
Agricultural Activities       3,377                     .                10,124             109,005                  -                  9,077                  865
GVCt                         3,324                  361,403              9,972              89,097                  -                   7,177                 665
. coffee-cocoa               2,690                  229,981              8,070              62,890                  -                  5,945                  538
. cotton                       634                  131,422              1,902              26,207                  -                  1,232                  127
GN union                        38                    1,035                152              19,900                  -                   1,90                 199
coffee-cocoa                  19                     801                  76              10,900                  -                  1,oe                    89
 cotton                        19                      234                 76               9,000                  -                    900                  109
GVC vegetable                   15                      745                                      8                  -                                           2
Other Aceivities               292                   22,959                452               6,404                 294                     C                  211
Artisan                         34                    2,394                 54                  62                  -                                          25
CREPI                           78                   15,376                 80                 644*                294                                         48
Trading                         39                    1,641                 78                 822                                         2                   39
Fisheries                       78                    1,779                                    756                  -                                          18
Trumport                        20                      736                240               3,900                                         2                   75
Livestock                       43                    1,033                                    220                                         e                   16
GVC : Groupeinnt Pr6-Coopiratif/Pre Cooperative Group
2 CREP: Caisses Rurates d'Epargne et de Pr6ts/Rural and Saving Loans Funds
. The amount appearing with a star sign (*) under the "turnover" colurn reflects the total amount deposited keith CREPs in the country
Source: Direction de La Mutualit6 et de la Coop6ration



Pesc I CT I
R1EPUBLC OP COTB DIVO!RE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROiEFCT
National Acmv for &*uim  Services (ANADER)
ANAD_ 's Dirm  of Pn_zanmnit srad B,einPoes
LOCAL LEVEL                                           REGISAIL LEVEL                                        WATIOflAL LEVEL
1. Farmers' proposal                                  1. Synthesis of zones' projectts                      1. Synthesis of regionsf budget and program
actfvitIes by  aem                                 2. Discusslons wnd adoption                           2. Mational progratm proposals and regionat
2. DlscussIon and adoption                                by the regional steering cearittee                    program and bdget proposal
tecet s':eering camlttee                           3. Regfonslts budget and progrm
3. Zone's buchet ad program
1. 01scussion of proposed                             1. Analtyis of proposed amendment                     1. Presentation of final progran a2d budget
ment . .n.                                             by the regional steering cocnittee                    to AltADER's Board
2. Regional amended program and budget                2. Discussions end adoption by
the Board of ANADER
1. Start up of program activities                     1. Disintegration of progremS                         1.  Notifikaticn ef budgets end progre      |
and budgets by sector
2. NotificatIon to regionsl
agencies of progra/budget
and execution instructions



&KM 4
PaSc I of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGoRICUJLTURAL SERVMES SUPPORT PROJE-CT
Nitional Aarcultural Serrices Aaencv
ANADER's TrahininComponent
1.      Traiing of Human Resourmes Managers and of Trainins Manacers
- Paricipants           (i) human resources managen at national and regional levels; (u) training managers at national and regional
lcvels.
- Description           professional training to adjust and upgrade technical and management skills according to job requirements and
individual specific needs;
- Duration              (i) 60 days for 12 human resources managers and (ii) 60 days for 12 traning managers. Training progams will
include on-the-job training and formal training by local training institution under twinning assesment with
international institutions.
2.      Training of Financial Manaeer
- Participation         financial and administative managers at national and regional levels;
- Description            training on financial and administrative procedures by private ivorian fuir;
- Duration              three weks.
3.     Initial Technical Trainina
(i) Extension:
- Participants  :        2,100 field extension staff (PEWs and supervisors);
- Description   :        to adapt existing skills to a systemic, multi-disciplinary approach;
- Duration      :        four sessions of two weeks each.
(ii) Farmers' Oruanizations:
- Participants  :        220 farmers' organizations specialists;
- Description   :       to upgrade existing skills on creation and streghening of farmers' organizations;
- Duration              four sessions of two weeks each. Initial technical training of all field staff would have to be completed during the
first twelve months of project implementation.
4.      Trainine on Job Descriotion
- Participants           aul staff;
- Description            all stsff would benefit from initial training on job decription;
- Duration               one to three weeks, depending on the staff concerned. Training on job description would be completed during
the first six months of project implementation.
S.      Refnshcr Co=su
- Participants  :        al staff;
- Decripton              annual refiesher courses, designed to increase efficincy and to upgrde pfessional skill;
- Duration              from three to five days per year.



Pac 2 of 2
6.      PoE2*grhtlYi3ranin
- Paricipants            2,100 field extension ataff (FBWs and supervisors);
- Description            FEWs and wupervisorm would gather evey fortnight to exchange experience, to analyze information gathered during
the previouo fortnight and to master new technical themes. SMS would be the principal trainers of FEWs.
However, other resource pesons would be invited from time to time;
- Duration               one day every two weeks.
7.      Montly 1Tehnial Review Meetin
- Participants           SMSs, thematic and systemic resarchers and SARS staff;
- Dacription             during the first day, participants would visit farmers participating in the SARS to increase their undersanding of the
theme of the workshop in light of the dynamics within the different farms and of their own field observations. The
second day would be dedicated to the finetuning of technical messages based on the lessons learned during the
previous day and of available technology. Special attention would bc given to explain the relation between farmers'
constraints and the proposed solutions;
- Duation               two days every month.
8.      Monthl Patme '  Co                 o
* Paticipants            Farmrsm' Organizations Specialists;
Description             to discus theirexperience and to be trained by specialists at the regional and national level. Resource persons from
credit organizadons, marketing specialists, accountants etc. would be invited regularly;
- Duration               two days every month.



REPUB-LIC OF CMT D'IVOIRE
IATA  AGRILRL  SERVJCES SUPPRT PROJECT
Orauilarm of Nat laI. Aarkticuttal( Servi            (MAADER)
Audit Unit
Iloitortng ord Evatuation tsit
Ccputer unit
CENTPAL DIRECTORATE                     CENTRAL DIRECTORATE              CENTRAL DIRECTORATE                  CENTRAL DIRECTORATE                  CENTRA.L OIRECTORATE
FARIERS' ORGANIZATIOIN               ADMINISTRATIONI & FINAIICE          TRAINING &                                 EXTENSION                      ADAPTIVE RESEARCf
sUPC2T                                                 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESOURCES PAw:AGENt     
SERV'CES                                                               SERVI:ES                            SERVICES
SERVICE5                                                                 SERVIcES
° Administration                                                      a EAtension Oreenizeat               ° R/I Organizetlion
 South Regions                        a Account end                   * KR Pleminnn
budget                        e Training                            a Extension technicat                  R/D Techrt1cel
° North Regiaos                           Logistic                      * Pedagogic tools                       program                              program
producton
iEGIOL DIRECTORATES
- - onitorrng cnd Evatuition Regiont Unlt
l   .                  .            . .           ~~ ~~I  =_                                 1._
RiEGIOAL SERVICE             REGIONAL SERVICE                         RECIONAL SERVICE                         REGIONAL SERVICE
FARMERS' ORGNiZATIO3N         ANINISTRATIIO                           B UR nAAGEPENT                           EXTENSION AtND R/D
VJPa Rt                      AO F IACE                                                                                   .
.  IlTS                                 WiITS
MXIT$
Aaatotct                             .                                N a ptmmirg                            ° xtelensfon
0 Staff adInIstration                     * TrainIng           j                     QR) Skport
°ACCoPgt aw iMS2te
Logistic
Chial~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
For'w* orgmalti1cn rpecalto  (FS)se ilc =3ttcr opae1itl3t (---5
,    51~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



Page 2 d4
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
National Agricultural Services APencv (ANADER)
QOMization at National Level
1.              The Agency would be managed by a Director General, appointed by ministerial decree for the two first years
of project implementation, and thereafter by ANADER's Board. On the national level, the Agency would have three units
(Monitoring/Evaluation, intenua auditing and computerization), four technical directorates (extension, support to adaptive
research, firmers' organizations and training/human resource management), and one directorate for administration and finance.
2.              The M&E unit would be responsible, in close collaboration with the regional M&E units, for the elaboration
and imnplementation of the M&E system on local, regional and national level. The national unit would supervise regional units
and would continuously improve the M&E system. The national unit would have to assure that data collected through the M&E
system are properly processed and available at all appropriate levels. The national unit would have three staff and would be
equipped with two cars and two computer units.
3.              The Internal Auditing Unit would, on the Director General's request, assure systemnatic internal financial
control and would advise the Director General on ways to improve the financial and administrative procedures. The unit would
have four staff and would be equipped with two cars and three computer stations.
4.              The Computer Unit would be responsible for the efficient computerization of the Agency's data processing,
both at the regional and national level. It would train all staff concemed on the appropriate software and would assure
maintenance of the hardware. The unit would have two staff and would be equipped with two cars and two computer stations.
5.              The Directorate for Extension would be responsible for the efficiency of extension managernent and the
quality of technical extension programs and would comprise the following services:
Etension                - implementation supervision of all extension tools (working programs, contact groups,
Organization              demonstration plots, etc.);
Service                 - monitoring of improvements to the cost effectiveness of the extension organization
(especially with regard to ratios); and
- monitoring of the efficiency of the extension service with regard to women and youth.
Technical               - evaluation and definition of technical extension programs;
Extension               - coUaboration with the directorate for Research /Development, both at national and
Program                   regional level;
Service                 - monitoring of the quality and adoptability of technical themes;
- initiation and supervision of punctual studies to increase knowledge and understanding of
existing farming practices.
6.              Tnhe directorate would be staffed with one director, two service chiefs and two assistants. It would have two
cars and three computer units.
7.              The Directorate- for Sumoprt to Advative Research would be responsible for efficient research - farmers -
extension ikages and would comprise the following services-
Service for             - implementation of all A/R tools within the Agency;
Organization of         - supervision of regional A/R services;
Adaptive Research       - continuous amelioration of cost effectiveness;
Support                 - preparation and monitoring of conventions between research
instites and the Agency.



ANNEX 5
PAge 3 of 4
Service for technica     - technical supervision and evaluation of AIR activities;
programs of              - the Agency's partioipation in the definition of reearch priorities
Adaptive Researoh         and AIR Programe;
Support                  - preparation of didactic tools on techniel themes.
S.              Te directorate would be staffed with one director, two service chiefs and two assistants. It would be
equipped with two care and two computer units.
9.              Th Direc   for Sunort to Farme' Oraizatio  would be responsible for implementation of the
Agpecy's stategy to promote and stengthen farmers' organizations. These organizations would be closely associated in the
elaboration of the strategy and would become gaduatly responsible for this directorate. The directorate would comprise two
sewrvies, one for the North and one for the South with the following responsibilities:
SerVice for support to   - fostering of participation of farmers' organizations in the elaboration of
the management and        the Agency's strategy and of the national agricultural policy;
sructuring of farmers'   - fostering of the areation of regional and national structures;
organzations             - elaboration of managerial tools for farmers' organizations;
(North and South)        - asining of the Agency's specialists on these tools;
- supervision and coordination of the Agency's support to farmers'
organizations;
- analysis of field results.
10.             The directorate would be staffed with one director, two service chiefs and two assistants, and would be
equipped with two cars and two computer units.
i1.             lTe Directorate for Training and Human Resources Management Dircotorate would assure the rational
ue of human resources and the appropriate training for all staff and would comprise the following services:
Human resources          - efficient human resources management;
development service      - career development;
- selection of new staff to be recruited;
- supervision of human resources management at the regional level.
Operational training     - elaboration of programs for initial and continuous training;
service                  - supervision of training program implementation;
- quality control of training programs;
- identification of and collaboration with external uining
organizations;
- training of trainers.
Service for production   - production of pedagogical tools, adaptod to the needs of staff, such
of pedagogical tools      as audio-visudl mnaterial, training guidea etc.;
and documentation        - collection and distribution of all relevant documentation material.
12.             The directorate would be staffed with one director, three service chiefs, four assistants in the service for
production of pedagogical tools and one assistant in each of the other services. The directorate would be equipped with three
can and three computer units.
13.             The Di_totQE for Administration and  an   would assure ANADER's accountability, manage
ANADER's goods and equipment, and the administrative aspects of human resoures managemnent. It would comprise the
folowing services:
Personn  adninis-        - all administative aspects of human resources management;
ation service            - recruitment of new staff-,
- supervision of regional administrative human resources management.



Pop 4 of 4
Accounting savice       - prepaation of annual budge;
- geneal and analytical accountability;
- budgetry contrl;
- supervision of the accountability at the regional level.
Logistic service        - the administrative aspecta of management of the Agency'a property;
- purchasing of goods and services;
- supervision of logistica management at the regional level.
14.             The directorate would be staffed with one director, three service chiefs and three assistants, and would
be equipped with two cr and three computer units.



ANNEX 0
Pase I of 3
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'ItOIRE
WATICNAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPCRT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES
ORGANIGRAM OF REGIONAL DIRECTORATE (ORA)
| INAGRA Regional Directorate (DRA)
Progrwmming, moni-         Administration           Matural resources        Veterinarian, pest       c2utuality and coo-
Ftor;rging and evalua-       and Firnme                 Service             control, phytosa-        peration service
tion and statistics            service                                       nitary, seeds and
service                                                                      plants service
Offices                  offices                   Offics xOffices                                   Offices
* Pragraeming, mcni-    * Human resources          e Monitoring of          *Phytosanitary and        * Registration
toring and evalue-       management                 natural resources       seeds plant
tion                                                                        controt                 * Mcnitoring of
* Budget and finance      * Rural equipment                                    cooperatives
e Statistics and                                                            * Veterinarian and
Documentation          * Logistic                                           food control
MINAGRAI's Deprtment Directorate
Programming,            Administration         Haturat resources       Veterinarian and
monitoring and          ard finarnces          unit                    phytosenitary
evaluation unit         unit                                           control unit
Assistants              Accountants            Land Management         Phytosanitary
investigators                                                          control  nd wvete-
Forest guards           rinarian



ANNEX 6
fto2af3
REpUBLIC OF COTE DIVOY
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES RESTRUCTURING PROJE!CT
Ministrv of Agriculture and Animal Resources
Detaied Presentation of R&eiona  iectorates
1.              The role of the Administration at the regional level would be limited to: (a) development of regional
agricultural policies; (b) monitoring and evaluation of policy implementpAion; (c) enforcement of regulations; and (d)
collection and processing of statistics. Regional directorates (10 in total) would comprise one diretor and five services and
would be equipped with three cars, four 100 cc motorcycles and eight computer units. At the depamental level,
departmental directors would represent the regional directorates. The depar=ntal directorates (50 in total) would be
equipped with one car, five motorcycles and one computer unit. In those cases (75 in total) where the department is too
vast to be properly covered by the departmental officers, the MINAGRA would be represented at district level by a team of
one agronomist in charge of pest control, one veterinarian, four forest police officers, and one cadastre officer. The projeot
would provide for three 100 cc motorcycles at district level. The regional directorates of MINAGRA would comprise the
following services:
2.              Service for Pronrammir.g M&E and Statistics this service would comprise two sections:
Progrmmning and         - development of regional agricultural politics;
M&E Section             - monitoring and evaluation of the field activities of the Agency and all other
agricultural development initiatives.
Statistics and          - conception and organization of agricultural surveys;
Documentation Section   - processing and analysis of statistical data;
- distnbution of survey results and other relevant information.
3.              The service would be staffed with one service chief, two staff in the programming and M&E section, and
thuee staff in the section for statistics and documentation. It would be represented at departmental level by a unit for
programming, M&E and statistics. This unit would comprise two staff.
4.              Srvice for Administration and Finance: this service would comprise two sections:
Human Resources         - preparation and execution of all administrative activities with regard to
Management Section       human resources management.
Finance and             - preparation of the directorate's annual budget;
Equipnent Section       - accountancy;
- management of the directorate's equipment.
S.              The service would be staffed with one service chief, one staff in charge of human resources management
and three accountants. At departmental level, one accountant would be assigned to the departnental directorate.
6.              Natural Resources Service: this service would comprise three sections:
Rural Engineering       - identification of high potential areas;
Section                 - monitoring of civil engineering works;
- preparation and development of agreements between the regional directorate and
the Agency and/or other private initiatives with regard to swamp-land related
extension.
Cadaste Section         - prparation and registration of dtleg of land owneship;
- enforcement of regulations.
Natal Resources         - supervision of natural resources management;
Section                 - forest protection and police;
- enforcement of regulations.



ANNE 6
Pagc 3 of 3
7.               Tlhe section for rural engineering would benefit from separate financing through the proposed IDA - financed
Rural Equipment Project (PNER, FY95) and the cadastre section would benefit from separate financing through the proposed
IDA - financed Rural Land Management Project (PNAGER, PY95). The section for natural resources would have two staff
at the regional level, five staff at departmental, and five staff at the district level.
8.                        Service for Pest. Seeds, and Veternary control: this service would comprise two sectionts
Pest and Seed Control Section        - coaching of pest and seed control activities on departmental level.
- monitoring of pest control;
- organization of pest control campaigns in case of major attack.s;
- monitoring of seed quality;
Veterinary Control Section           - coaching of veterinary control on departmental level;
- enforcement of sanitary regulations;
- monitoring of veterinary activities by the Agency and/or other initiatives;
- coaching of private veterinary auxiliaries.
9.               The service would be staffed with one service chief, one staff ir charge of pest and seed control and one staff
in charge of veterinary control. At departmental level and at district level, a team of one agronomist and one veterinarian would
be in charge for the field activities of this service.
10.              The Service for Monitorine of the Cooperative Movement will comprise two sections:
Registration of Farmers' Coopera-    -  registration of farmers' organizations;
tives Section                        - enforcement of regulatory framework;
-  production of statistics on farmers' organizations.
Monitoring of Farmers' Orga-         -  monitoring of annual audits of farmers' cooperatives;
nizations section                    -  monitoring of the Agency's, and other private activities with regard to
farmers' organizations.
11.              The service would be staffed with one service chief, one staff in charge of registration and one staff in charge
of monitoring of farmners' organizations.



Cote d'ivoirc
Projet National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles
PNASA
Project Cost SuLmmary
CFA                                 usS                            % total
.. -- ----  Foreign       aste
Local   Foreign      Totat        Local  Foreign    Totat        Exchange      Costs
.. .. .. .............................. ... .... .... ... ... .   . ....... .................  .......... ....
A . Agence Nationate Sces Ag.
1. vutgarisation                    3342.5    2258.9    5601.5            6.5       3.0      9.5           40.3      ?3 e
2. Recherche   Devetoppement         441.6      204.3      645.9          0.8       0.3       1.1          31.6       2.7
3. Appui IDESSA/IDEFOR/CIRT          232.7       68.1      300.8          0.4       0.1       0.5          22.6        1.3
4. APPUI OPA REGIONS SAVANES         459.2      429.3      888.5          0.9       0.6       1.5          48.3        3.7
5. APPUI OPA REGIONS SUD             465.8      420.6      886.4          0.9       0.6       1.5          47.5        3.7
6. Formation & GRIH                  517.6      399.5      917.1          1.0       0.5       1.6          43.6        3.9
7. Admfnistration et Finance         401.1      225.1     626.1           0.8       0.3       1.1          35.9        2.6
8. Sulvi-Evatuation                  286.5      196.2      482.7          0.6       0.3       0.8          40.7        2.0
9. Directlon Generate Agence         678.5      307.4      985.9          1.2       0.4       1.7          31.2        4.2
10. Directions Region Agence          626.5      380.4    1006.9           1.2       0.5       1.7          37.8        4.2
...... ..................... ...........  ...................   _ _    .......  ......... ...............  .......... .....
Sub-Total                               7452.0    4889.9   12341.8           14.3       6.6      ?0.9          39.6 C       .
B . Minist. Ag.& Res. Anim.
1. DP S/D Statistiques               173.9      172.0      345.9          0.3       0.3       0.6          ..9.S
2. DP Unite Suivi-Evatuation          64.4       38.7      103.1          0,1       0.1       0.2          37.e.
3. DP Unite Prograrmnation            39.3       18.5       57.9          0.1       0.0       0.1          32. 0?
4. Direct. Mutualite & Coop.         139.9      127.9      267.8          0.3       0.2       0.5          47.8
5. Oirect. Region. MINAGRA          1791.3    2085.4    3876.7            3.7       2.9       6.6          53.6
Sub-TotaL                               2208.7    2442.5    4651.2            4.5       3.4       7.9          5.5 
C . minist. Recherche Scient.
1. Appui au Dpt de R/D MESRS         220.1      256.7      476.9          0.5       0.3       0.8          53.8
D . Minist. Eco. & Finances
1. Appul a la DCSPPPCB                20.4       20.7       41.1          0.0       0.0       0.1          5  4     
E . Programre Restructuration
1. Restructuration                 4128.8       590.0    4718.8           7.2       0.8       8.0          14S.5
F . Support prepa.MINAGRA              1225.0      295.0    1520.0           2.3       0.3       2.6          19.4
..... ....... ..... .........   ......  .... ...... ..... ....... .. .... .   ... ... ... ... ... . .... .
Total BASELINE COSTS                   15255.0    8494.8   23749.8           28.8      11.4      40.3          28.4      1C^.3
Physical Contingencies                355.3      357.0      712.3          0.6       0.6       1.2          50.1        3.0
Price Contingencies                  1577.1      245.4    1822.5          2.i       0.4        3.1         109.5        7.7
.. ...  ...  ,..   - -    .....................  ---- --.- -..- ---....-- -.. . ..     .......  .... ..........+...
Total PROJECTS COSTS                   17187.4    9097.2   26284.6          32.1      12 .5      44.6          34J.
,,,.,,,,........................   _,,_............. __,______. ___._...... ...........   __.... .... . _ .. ......... .............._ ..... ........__.. ...... ........ ..
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 - 1/24/1994 9:51
o  r
_ lX



Projet National d'Appul aux Services Agricotes
PNASA
Summary Accounts by Year
Totats including Contingencies    Totals Inctuding Contingencies
CFA                               US$
...... ..................  ........... . ......., .......... .,................ .....................# .
1994     1995    total         1994     1995    lotct
1. INVESTMENT COStS
....................
A. Equipement                       1845.1    888.4   2733.5           3.1      1.5       4.6
A. VEhuleues                        4461.6   2611.9   7073.5           7.6      4.4      12.0
C. AssIstore Technique
1. AT ttrangere                   518.7      03.3    602.0         0.9       0.1      1.0
2. AT Locale                       92.4    102,1    194.5           0.2      0.2      0.3
..........................         ............. I.... .......
Sub-Total                            611.1    185.4    796.5           1.0      0.3       1.4
D. Etudes et Contracts               832.0    914.5   1746.5           1.',      1.5      5.0
E. Intervenants Formation
1. Intervenont Etranger           161.1     54.4    216.1          0.3       0.       0.t.
2. Intervenant LOcoux Exter.       17.8       9.7     27.5          0.0      0.0       0.0
Sub-Total                            179.6      64.1    243.7          0.3     O.        0.4
F. Invest. Restructuratlon
1. AT Restructuration             741.4       0.0    741.4          1.3      0.0       1.3
2. Equipement Restructurat.       206.4       0.0    206.4          0.3      0.0       0.3
.......................... .............................. ..................... -._-..
Sub-Total                            947.8       0.0    947.8          1.6       0.0      1.6
G. EquSpement des PES
1. Assistance Technique PES       199.4       0.0    199.4          0.3      0.0       0.3
............................     ........................................... .... .................
lotal INVESTMENT COSTS               9076.7   4664.2  13740.9         15.4       7.9     23.3
II. RECURRENT COSTS
........... ..................
A. Frais de Hisslon                   280.8    317.8    598.6          0.5       0.5      1.0
8. entre.des locaux                    25.6     28.5     54.2          0.0       0.0      0.1
C. Formation Locale                  1228.0    188.8   1416.7          2.1       0.3      2.4
0. Entr.Rep, Vehicule                1590.2   2647.5   4237.7          2.7       4.5      7.2
E. Entr.Rep. Equipement               198.2    300.0    498.2          0.3       0.5      0.8
f. Fonctionnement Restructur
1. tndeffnit6s D6pert Restru.    3000.0       0.0   3000.0          5.1      0.0       5.1
2. Fonct. Divers Restructur.      440.0    498.0    938.0           0.7      0.8       1.6
...................... .....    .................. ......
Sub-total                           3440.0    498.0   3938.0           5.8       0.8      6.7
G. Convention Recherche               126.5    143.2    269.7          0.2      0.2       0.5
H. Fonctionnement Divers             608.7    682.3   1291.0           1.0      1.2       2.2                                                  1t
I. Fonctlonnement des PES            125.5   t14.0   239.5            0.2       0.2      0.4                                                  oQ
, , - . . .. .. .     .. . ..  -     .............. ............
Totel RECURRENT COSTS               7623.5   4920.1  12543.7          12.9      8.3     21.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                16700.2   9584.3  26284.6          55.3     16.2     44.6                                                     _
... . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .     ..............
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 1/2411994 9:51
q



Cote d'IvoIre
Projet NottonaL d Appui eux Services Agricoles
PNASA
CFA
S nzmnry Accounts by Year
Base Costs                   Foreign Exchange
.. ....... ....... .... .... ....... ........... .  - - - - - -
1994      1995     Total          X    Amount
t. INVESTMENT COSTS
....,, .. ........ ,
A.  Equipement                       1715.5     792.2    2507.7         67.6   1694.1
S.  V4hicules                       4122.2    2Z96.1    6418.4          54.3   3485.0
C. Assistance Technique
1. AT Etrangere                   510.6       79.4     590.0         75.0    442.5
2. AT Locale                       84.0       82.0     166.0          0.0      0.0
Sub-total                            594.6      161.4     756.0         58.5    442.5
0.  Etudes et Contracts               771.6     765.8    1537.4         19.4    298.4
E. Intervenants Formation
1. intervenant Etranger           155.3       49.0     204.3         69.4    141.8
2. Intervenant Locaux Exter.       16.2        7.8      24.0          0.0      0.0
Sub-total                             171.5      56.8     228.3         62.1    141.8
F. Invest. Restr4cturatlon
1. AT Restructuration             717.3        0.0     717.3         63.3    453.8
2. Equipement Restructurat.       201.5        0.0     201.5         67.6    136.2
Sub-total                            918.8        0.0     918.8         64.2    590.0
G. Equipement des PES
1. Assistance Technique PES       185.4        0.0     185.4         67.6    125.3
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS              8479.6    4072.4   12552.1          54.0   6777.1
II. RECURRENT COSTS
. ..... ......... ... .
H.  Frais de Mission                 255.3      255.3     510.6          O.C       0.0
l.  entre.des locaux                  22.5       22.5      45,1         20.1      9.1
J.  Formation Locale                 1116.3     151.6    1268.0          0.0       0.0
K.  Entr.Rep. Vehicule               1433.3    2205.2    3638.5         40.3   1467.5
L.  Entr.Rep. Equipement              177.7     247.0     424.7         34.0    144.4
M. Fonctionnement Restructur
1. Indemnites 0Cpart Restru.    3000.0         0.0    3000.0          0.0      0.0
2. Fonct. Divers Restructur.      400.0      400.0     800.0          0.0      0.0
Sub-total                            3400.0     400.0    3800.0          0.0       0.0
N. Convention Recherche               100.0     100.0      200.0         0.0      0a0
0.  Fonctionnement Divers             553.4     548.0    1101.4          0.0       0.0
P.  Fonctionneinent des PES           113.6      95.9      209.6        46.1      96.7
.   .....     .......... ..    -- - - -- - - -   -- - - - -- - - -
Total RECURRENT COSTS                7172.2    4025.6   11197.8         15.3   1717.7
Total BASELINE 'OOSTS               15651.9    8098.0   23749.8         35.8   8494.8
Physical Cont;ngencies            408.4      303.9     712.3         50.1    357.0
Price Contingencies               640.0    1182.5    1822.5          13.5    245.4
.. . ....... ........... .... ......  . .... . .. . .. .
Total PROJECT COSTS                 16700.2    9584.3   26284.6         34.6   9097.2                                                       _ 
Taxes                            3145.4    2181.8    5327.2           0.0      0.0                                                         Z
Foreign Exchange                 5751.5    3345.7    9097.2         100.0   9097.2
.... ..... . ...... . ... ... .. .. .. . ...... . . . .  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



Cote d'lvolre
Projet National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles
PNASA
Projects Components by Year
TotaLs Including Contingencies    TotaLs Including Contingencics
CFA                              USS
.   . ......... .. .. ..........  .  -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -
1994     1995    Total        1994     1995    Total
A. Agence Nationale Sces Ag.
1. Vutgarisation                 3839.0   2440.1   6279.2         6.5       4.1     10.6
2. Recherche   Developpement      404.3    331.7    736.0          0.7      0.6      1.2
3. Appui IDESSA/IDEFOR/CIRT       234.9    143.2    378.1          0.4      0.2      0.6
4. APPUI OPA REGIONS SAVANES      640.4    333.7    974.1          1.1      0.6      1.7
5. APPUI OPA REGIONS SUD          618.1    356.6    974.7          1.0      0.6      1.7
6. Formation & GRN                627.9    397.4   1025.2          1.1      0.7      1.7
7. Administration et Finance      360.0    357.8    717.8          0.6      0.6      7.2
8. Suivi-Evaluation               342.2    201.6    543.8          0.6      0.3      0.9
9. Direction Generate Agence      541.5    594.5   1136.1          0.9      1.0      1.9
10. Directions Region Agence       746.5    387.8   1134.3          1.3      0.7      1.9
......- ------- -- -           .   ....   .   .......   .   .   ...  ...... ... ................  ........................ 
Sub-Total                            8354.9   5544.3  13899.2         14.2      9.4     23.6
S. Minist. Ag.& Res. Anim.
1. DP S/D Statistiques            162.0    222.3    384.3          0.3      0.4      0,7
2. DP Unite Suivi-Evaluation       65.9     50.4    116.4          0.1      0.1      0.2
3. DP Unite Programmation          37.3     28.5      65.8         0.1      0.0      0.1
4. Direct. Mutualite & Coop.      222.0      75.6    297.6         0.4      0.1      0.5
5. Direct. Region. MINAGRA       2251.0   2081.0   4331.9          3.8      3.5      7.3
... .. --...-.-..-.-......   .-. .  ----------..................
Sub-Total                            2738.2   2457.8   5196.0          4.6      4.2      8.a
C. Minist. Recherche Scient.
1. Appui au opt de P./D MESRS     396.3    133.3    529.6          0.7      0.2      0.9
D. Minist. Eco. & Finances
1. Appui a (a DCSPPPCB              3.5     43.4     46.9          0.0      0.1      0.1
E. Programme Restructuration
1. Restructuration               4387.8    498.0   4885.8          7.4      0.8      8.3
F. Support prepa.MINAGRA             819.5    907.6   1727.0          1.4      1.5      2.9
............- -- --- --           --- -- --- -- --   .              .. ........  .......
Total PROJECTS COSTS                16700.2   9584.3  26284.6         28.3     16.2     44.6
. .. ....... . ... ........ ............. ... .... ...... ........  ......  ...... ......... .  ------------
Vatues Scated by 1000000.0 1/2411994 9:51
00
'D



Cote dlvolic
Projet National d*Appui aux Services Agricoles
PlASA
CFA
Project Components by Year
Base Costs              Total
.. ....... ........... ... .... ..... ...... .
1994     1995    CFA     USS
A. Agence Nstionale Sces Ag.
1. Vulgariset!on                 3519.2   2 :2.2  5601.5       9.5
2. Recherche - Devetoppement      369.9   276.0   645.9         1.1
3. Appui IOESSA/IDEFOR/CIRT       200.8   100.0   300.8         0.5
4. APPUI OPA REGIONS SAVANES      604.0   284.5   888.5         1.5
5. APPUI OPA REGIONS SUD          582.1    304.3    886.4       1.5
6. Formatlon & GRN                581.6    335.5    917.1       1.6
7. Adninistratlon et FInance      327.7    298.4    626.1       1.1
8. Sulvi-Evaluatlon               314.6    168.2    482.7       0.8
9. Direction Generale Agence      491.7    494.2    985.9       1.7
10. DirectIons Region Agence       686.4    320.5   1006.9       1.7
........ .............................    ... .... .......................
Sub-total                           7678.0   4663.8  12341.8      20.9
B. Hinist. Ag.& Res. Anim.
1. DP S/D Statistiques            151.5    194.4    345.9       0.6
2. DP Unite Suivi-Evatuation       30.7     42.4    103.1       0.2
3. DP Unite Programmation          34.2     23.7     57.9       0.1
4. Direct. Mutuallte & Coop.      204.4     63.4    267.8       0.5
5. Direct. Region. MINAGRA       2076.0   1800.7  3876.7        6.6
...... ........... .... ............. . ...
Sub-totat                           2526.6   2124.6  4651.2        7.9
C. Minist. Recherche Scient.
1. Appui au Opt de R/D KESRS      365.2    111.7    476.9       0.8
D. Minist. Eco. & FInances
1. Appui a Ia DCSPPPCB              3.2     37.9     41.1      0.1
E. Programme Restructuration
1. Restructuration               4318.8    400.0   4718.8      8.0
F. Support prepa.MINAGRA            760.0   760.0   1520.0       2.6
.. ..   ........... ...... ........... .. .......
Total BASELINE COSTS               15651.9   8098.0  23749.8     40.3
Physical Contingencies            408.4    303.9    712.3       1.2
Price Contingencies               640.0   1182.5   1822.5      3.1
.. . . . . . . . .   .................................. . . ........
Total PROJECT CCSTS                16700.2  9584.3  26284.6    44.6
Taxes                            3145.4   2181.8   5327.2      9.0
Foreign Exchange                 5751.5   3345.7  9097.2       15.4
.... ...........................................   .......   ...............................................................
Values Scated by 1000000.0 1/24/1994 9:51
e  rn
~-n1!



ANNDC S
Page I of 4
Republic of Cote d'lvoire
National Agricultural Services Supoort Project
Procurement Procedures
1.              Definition cf Procurement. Procurement is considered as such whlen
(a)     ownership is transferred to the State or when services are rendered to the State. with use of external funds
(public funds, external credit or grants). This sort of transfer is practiced by companies whose major
shareholders are from public entities, administrations, legal entities and State-owned enterprises; and
(b)     financial assistance is provided by the State or when the State acts as a guarantor for the contracts
through private legal entities.
2.               Guidelines for Procurement. This publication was issued in July 1992 and was created under Decree No.
92-08 of January 8, 1992, published in the Official Journal of February 6, 1992. These unique rules address public works
contracts, the supply of goods and services and provides guidelines which are applicable in the following instances: sole
source bidding, limited competitive bidding (international or local) and open bidding (international or local). Article 37
defines the terms of sole source bidding and does not have a ceiling, as does Article 25 which refers to the terms of limited
competitive bidding for the provision of services or specialized public works; such contracts are likely to attract few
candidates and need special techniques. A special decree gives the exact ceiling' for each structure for which a conlract is
obligatory: (a) Administrations: 8 million CFA, (b) EPA: 15 million; (c) EPIC, 25 milion; (d) viUlages: currently 10
million; and SEMs and others: 80 million. There are absolutely no restrictions on subcontracting.
3.               Parties Involved. The various parties involved in the procurement process and in monitoring procedures
are the contracting authorities or the owners and the technical departments of the Ministry of Finance represented by the
Direction des mtarchis publics (DMP), the Direc;ion des budgets et comptes (DBC), the Direction des investissemenrs publics
(DIP) and the Caisse autonome d'amortissement (CAA).
4.               The Procurement Process. There are two distinct phases in the procurement process. These are
procurement itself and monitoring and specific procedures apply to each phase.
5.               Procurement. The procurement process is made up of the following stages:
(a)     expression of needs by the contracting authority (project execution agency, public administration) or its
owner; this stage mainly comprises the establishment of detailed technical specifications and bidding
documents which are transmitted to the DMP;
(b)     examnination of the documents and approval by the DMP; during this examination, the DMP can make
changes or request additional information. The examination period is usualy 2 to 3 days;
(c)     the World Bank give its 'no objection" on the letter of invilation to bid, reserved procurement and the
terms of reference even before the publication of the invitation to bid. This phase usuaUy takes 8 days;
(d)     publication of the Invitation to Bid in the Contracts Journal. The contracting authority can, if it so
desires, have the invitation published in local or international newspapers at its own expense after the
Contracts Journal has been published. This phase usually takes an average of 38 to 60 days, including
the time interval for a response;
(e)     bid opening, analysis and decision by the members af the Cornmission d'ouverture et dejugement of
which representatives of the DMPIDBC/DIP/CAA and the supervising authority. Certain provisions will
have to be made in the DAO for the public opening of bids which are not stipulated in the guidelines.
'A revision of ceiling is underway, following the devaluation of the CFAF.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
The examination pertains to the conformity of each document to administrative requirements, obligatory
guarantees, unless a decree grants special dispensation, and for valid bids, their contents, i.e., technical
and financial bids.The award of contracts during the first round must be unanimnously decided and must
be subject to the minutes accompanied by an analytical report of bids which each member of the
commission should receive. This phase takes 8 to 15 daYS;
(f)    the World Bank will give its non-objection otl the evaluation of technical bids and then on all bids.
Copies of Bank's non-objection would be forwarded to the CAA and DMP. This phase takes 8 days;
(g)     information on candidates by the contmacting authorities This phase takes 8 days;
(h)     finalization of a contract by the contracting agency who signs it along with the co-contractor. At this
point, the contract, although it has not yet received the government's support (approval signature from
MINEF) must be sent to the World Bank in order for the later to givc its non-objection. Tis phase
takes 20 to 28 days;
(i)    the bidding documents, the evaluation report, the minutes of the deliberations and the contract are
transmitted to the Sous-Direction de la Rfgkementation (DMP) for examination to ensure conformity with
guidelines before final approval.
6.              This initial phase requires a total of about 110 to 140& days, including 60 days for resronses and 20 days
for the establishment of the technical specifications and the contract by the contracting authority. It should be recalled that
in the case of intemational bidding, in order to allow the publication of the information in the United Nations' Development
Business, the World Bank must be notified 60 days before bidding is launched.
7.              Monitoring Phase. This phase starts once the contract has been concluded between the contracting
parties. The checks made by the Sous-Direction de la passation des marchcs (Sub-directorate for Contracts) are not related
to those of the Sous-Direction de la RIglemnenta4on (Sub-directorate for Regulations). They do, however, facilitate
regulatory control. In the case of open or limited bidding, the inspections carnied out at this stage cannot question the award
decision or the contents of the contract which is subsequently drawn. The DAO's examination considers the following 10
criteria:
(a)     the documentation required when bids are submitted, the absence of which results in the rejection of the
bid: (i) the notice of transmission of the contract issued by the contracting authority; (ii) the contraet
presentation report; (iii) 10 copies of the contract signed by the contracting authority, the co-contractor
and the supervising ministry; (iv) financial documentation, i.e., the non-objection statement or
representation letter from the CAA, the deliberations of the town council authorizing the conclusion of
the contract; and (v) the minutes of the decision duly signed by the members of the launching committee.
The documentation received for inspection is recorded;
(b)     verification of the authenticity of the signature of the DMP on the minutes to ensure that the latter indeed
participated in the deliberations;
(c)     conformity with administrative rules (status, fiscal and social declarations to date, provisional guarantees,
quality of parties involved in the specific contracts requiring, for example, a preliminary agreement). At
this point, this inspection is only of sole source bids;
(d)     confornity with legal rules in relation to technical specifications or provisions by the Code (time limit for
the execution of the bid and penalties for tardiness, terms and methods of payment and interest on
arrears, decennial guarantee, etc.); verification of conformnity of the contract with the Cahier des ctauses
el conditions particuli&res, CCCP (clauses and conditions) and the clauses and conditions for bidding;
(e)     justification of the expenses by their inscription in the government's budget;
a Duration a each step will be cut under a new regulation to be published.



Page 3 of 4
(1)     availability of finances. The CAA alone is authorized to certify the physical existence of funds in the
case of financing through a loan. The availability of counterpart funds from the government must be
certified by one of MINEP's directorates (DIP/CAA). This phase takes 8 to 30 days;
(g)     conformity with expenses in accounting;
(h)     inspection of the contract with regard to internal and port taxes (custom duty and VAT). In order to
avoid paying custom duty, a special voucher (to be used to compensate duties) is issued by the Tresor
Public when needed;
(i)     verification of calculations;
.'j)    appreciation of the contract award system by examination of the minutes of the decision on the bids. To
this effect, decree no. 92-09 of January 8, 1992 launched the creation of a consultative committee
presided by the DMP. The members of the committee are the CAA and DIP and they are designated
hntitu personae by a ministerial decree. If all the opinions are favorable (the slightest doubt will lead to
the rejection of the file), the DMP prepares a letter of approval of the contract which it sends to the
Director of Contracts or to the ministry in charge of procurement and codes the file before it is archived.
8.              Final approval of a contract is confirmed by signature with the various ceilings forecast by the: (a) DMP
for contracts less than F CFA 50 million; (b) a delegated member from the cabinct of the Ministry of Finance for contracts
up to P CFA 700 million; and (c) by the Minister himself for contracts over F CFA 700 million.
9.              When the consultative committee is not able to examine the files within 48 hours as planned, an interval
of 15 to 30 is necessary for the second phase, not counting the time the CAA needs to submit its representation letter.
10.             The contracting authority or the owner takes it upon itself to notify the firrn to which the contract has
been awarded, of the start-up date for the public works once the contract has been signed.
11.             Remarks about Resnectina World Bank Procedures and Time Intervals. Compared to the procurement
procedures of the World Bank, the Ivorian rules on public procurement do not differ greatly in the case of contracts other
than those related to consultants' services (supplies, public works or service contracts with obligatory results). In order to
conform to the Bank's guidelines, the following rules must be adhere.l to:
(a)     the ceilings determined for each type of contract (sole source, limited, locai or international bidding);
(b)     international bidding requires an interval of 60 days after the information has been received by the Bank
in order for it to be published in the United Nations' Development Business;
(c)     the minimum time for response must be 45 days and not 30 days as stipulated in the Code;
(d)     the bidding documents must specify the public bid opening;
(e)     the financial offer must be made in a separate envelope; only offers deemed technically acceptable are
admitted to compete in the financial part;
(f)     the Bank must give its non-objection to the following three phases: (i) before the invitation to bid, it
must approve the invitation letter, the limited list of candidates admitted to compete and the terms of
reference of the DAO; (ii) before contract award, the Bank must approve the evaluation of technical
and then general offers; (iii) once the contract has been submitted and before its negotiation, the
Bank must approve the contract to be negotiated; and
(g)     for a contract regarding consultants' services, the Bank must actively advocate the use of its model of
bidding documents in light of the big differences with current guidelines in the Code.
12.             In order to reduce the time involved in procurement, the following plan should be adhered to:
(a)     once the components and detailed costs of the proiect have been established, bidding and contract
documents should be prepared by the project execution agency;



ANNEX S
Page 4 of 4
(b)     once the execution agcncv has been forrnally creatcd, the relevant administrations should be approached
to provide all the necessary documentation (copy of the decree authorizing the creation of a project
execution agency, tax and social representation letters, copy of the decree or tinancial law authorizing
tax exemption, etc.);
(c)     once the credit aereement has been sian  d, the Bank's non-objietion to the bidding documnents overseen
by the DMP (Sub-directorate for procurement) should be sought, the details about the bid should be
published and a request for written confirmation of availahility of funds from the CAA or the DIP
should be made; and
(d)     once the credit becomes effective, the official award of the contract



ANNEX 9
Page I of 3
Repuic of Cote d'lvoire
National .4Rricultural Services Sunport Project
Disbursement Proredures for Public Investment Funds
1.              In the case of projects financed by the l1ank (IBRD loans or IDA credits), thc use of funds
made available for project execution (projvct, technicv.l services of mmistries or other agencies) is subject to the
procedures for disbursing public funds. In this context, inspections arc made by the technical agencies of the
Ministry of Finance, that is, the Caisse autonome d 'amortusem ent (CAA), the Tresor Public, the Direction des
investissemens publics (DIP), the Direction des ,natchUs publics (DMP), and, to a lesser extent, the Direction du
controle du secteurpara-publc de la privanisarton ei du conirble budggzaiie (DCSPPPCB) which is responsible for
the follow-up of audits of State-owned and parastatal entitiCs
A.               Procedures and Current Cvcle
2.               Disbursement of Funds. Current lroccdures for disbursing funds dictate that the functions for
the authorization and payment of funds be strictly separatc, ' hiclh is a fundamental principal of public accounting.
The cycle for the disbursement of funds can be summarized according to the financial source and the benefactors
of the funds:
(a)     External Source of Funds (World Bank. The procedure is the following:
o       Fundingfrom a SpecialAccount. The funds are received by the CAA which acts ir. the
capacity of accounting agent for the goverlment where the Special Account is opened at the
CAA. When the Special Account is held by a private bank, the latter receives the funds and
the CAA records the activity of the account as part of its management of public debts;
o       Disbursement of Funds. In order for the Special Account to operate (withdrawals, expenditure,
etc.) at least two signatures are required by the CAA. Both signatures must emanate from the
SocietJ d 'conomie FiAtle (SEM), while for public entities, one signature must be obtained from
the DIP;
o       Replenishing the Special Account. The structures responsible for the execution of the project
must justify all expenses made from the Special Account. In order for the Account to be
replenished, the agencies must submit a request for the withdrawal of funds based on proof of
expenditure (invoices, etc.). The DIP carries out a preliminary inspection to verify the validity
of expenses made in relation to the project, and, in its capacity of an official empowered to
authorize expenditure, it requests reimbursement for .h, Svccial Account. It presents the
request for withdrawal to tle CAA who subsequently verifies the eligibility and charges. The
CAA then transmits the request for withdrawal of funds duly signed to the Bank for the
replenishment of the Special Account;
(b)     National Budget (BSIE. Based on an annual budget from the Special Budget for Investments
and Material (BSIE), the Treasury transfers the amount of Ivorian counterpart funding to the
CAA's project accounts and indicates the budgetary categories concerned. The CAA's project
accounts regroup all the counterpart funds for all the projects financed by donors. The
management structures for the projects (SEM or public entity) must submit the invoices for
eligible expenditures from the Ivorian counterpart funds to the DIP for inspection, and then to
the CAA for payment;
(c)     Expenses Related to Public Contracts (sec the note on procurement). These expenses follow
the same procedures mentioned above or are paid directly by the Bank at the request of the
CAA which records each payment made. All the files on public contracts are transmitted to the
CAA who cnsures that all the necessary documents have been submitted before making any
payments;



ANNFX 9
Parr 2 of 3
(d)     Funds for Central Administrations. The technical ministries or their connected units cannot
have funds disbursed unless the cheques issued from the Spccial Account have been
countersigned by the DIP.
3.              In addition to its role as public cashicr, thc CAA participates in the management of projects and
is the bank for the project execution agents. The DIP has becn iniplbeated in the establishment of a request fur
withdrawal of funds and in the daily management of lunds earmarked ior thc technical minis.ries.
THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAI SUPI'PO)RT StYVICES PIROJECT
4.               Taking into account the elements mentioned above. the system {or the disbursement of funds
for the PNASA and the roles of the different pla)ers will be us fellows
5.               The Role of the CAA. The CAA should distinguish its involscicnt as a State Accountant and
a Banker. In its capacity as Accountant, it must assume the foilotsiny responsibiniics
(a)     Act as E. financial intermediary between the World Bank and the beneficiaries  In this capacity
the CAA will relay information from the beneficiaries to the Bank and vice versa;
(b)     Request funds from the Bank and the Treasury (replenishment. direct payments etc.);
(c)     Follow up on fuiances (roquest for withdrawals, direct paymcnts, etc ;
(d)     Follow up on the public debt situation;
(e)     Make payments for services obtained through procurement by requesting direct payment from
the World Bank. and in the case of cofinancing, by the mobilization of corresponding
counterpart funds;
(f)     Participation in the approval process of public contracts through commissions and
representation letters which have to be provided. It will receive copy of the Bank's non-
objection.
6.               The Role of the DIP. The DIP will still carry out its original rolc of authorizing public
expenditure through the BSIB-CAA by adhering to the following functions:
(a)     giving written approval for the annual budgetary projections prepared by the project execution
agencies; It will receive copy of the Bank's non-objection;
(b)     participating in the process of awarding public contracts limited to front-end fees and to the
examination of bids;
(c)     approving requests for the withdrawal of funds established by the project bodies. When a
request is denied, sufficient explanation would be given to enable the body concerned to make
the necessary corrections. The requests which arc approved or denied by the DIP would be
returned to the respective bodies which will in turn transmit them to the CAA;
(d)     signing cheques as needed for requests for withdrawal to replenish the PNASA Ivorian
Counterpart Funds account This will perrnit the close monitoring of the account to ensure that
its functioning is in accordance with the credit agreement. The cheques to replenish the
account will be accompanied by a summary statement of accounts and evidence of expenditure,
as in the case of World Bank's request for withdrawal of funds. The same procedure will be
applied to disbursements from the relevant ministerial bodies by the PNASA; and
(e)     monitoring, wiLh the beneficiaries' coUaboration, of justification of fund withdrawals to be
replenished. These accounts would be replenish by both the CAA and the DIP according to the
ceiling to be determined. A maximum amount of individual expenditures to be eligible on the



ANNA 9
Page 3 of 3
fund will be fixed. The new procedure will enter gradually into application, so as to avoid
mistakes. The upcoming joint supervision report to be submitted by CAA and DIP would
include comments on this point;
(f)    inspecting public investments.
7.              Disbursement Structure for PNASA Funds. Four accounts will be opened for the PNASA.
These are as follows:
(a)     the "Speesial I'NASA Administration Account", opened at the CAA and funded by the World
Bank, will receive funds for all parts of the projcct which relate to giving support to the
ministries (NfINAGRA, MESRS, MINEF);
(b)     the "Special PNASA Agency Account", opened at the CAA, will receive funds in support of
the SEM (semi-public company) programme .
(e)     the "PNASA Counterpart Administration Account" opened at the CAA, will receive counterpart
funds earmarked for different ministnes; and
(d)     the "PNASA Counterpart Agency Account" opened at the CAA, will receive counterpart funds
earmarked for the agency.
8.              In addition to these four main accounts, auxiliary "project accounts" will be opened at the CAA
(for the ministries) or at a private bank (for the agency), for each of the proJect's sub-components. These "project
accounts" will function in the following manner:
(a)     the authorizing parties:
o       MINAGRA: The Deputy Director in charge of thie technical component
The Lead Advisor
o       MIERS: The Deputy Director in charge of the technical component
The Lead Advisor
o       MINIEF The Deputy Director in charge of the technical component
The Lead Advisor
o       Agency: The agency's Financial Director
The agenc) 's Managing Director
(b)     Each of the designated signatories can delegate another party in accordance with the terms of
his organisation, but is ultimately responsible for all operations carried out.
(c)     Each "project account" will be funded at the outset of the project by an advance, the amount of
which will be clearly specified in the credit agreement. This advance will comprise funds from
the Special Account and from the counterpart funds account. It will be replenished following
the same procedures as those applicable to the request for withdrawal of funds described above.
(d)     To enable the DIP to monitor the use of the funds from the Special Account (a posteriori), the
request for withdrawal of funds and the replenishment cheque wil1 be submitted to the DIP for
approval.
9.              This system of disbursemes-t will free the CAA and the DIP from project management activities
thus enabling them to focus more on their monitoring function. The SAF of the technical ministries and the DAP
of the project bodies will be responsible for the complete management of the projects. They will receive
appropriate training to enable them to carry out their work in the most efficient manner.



ANNE 10
pAge I of 3
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
PROJET NATIONAL D'APPUI AUX SERVICES AGRICOLES
Note sur la mise en oeuvre des audits
A.              Gdndralit6sLAnt6cddents
1.              Les audits comptables et financiers constituent pour I'Etat ivoirien comme pour la Banque
Mondiale, un moyen privilegi6 de s'assurer que les fonds mis a la disposition des projets ont etc utilises seulement
aux fins de l'execution des projets concernes et en conformitc avec les objets dvterminds dans l'accord de crddit.
L'absence d'audit ou la non soumission des rapports dans les delais prevus dans l'accord peut amener la Banque a
suspendre ses deboursements. Les problemes lids a l'audit des projets en CMte d'lvoire sont principalement dus a
(a)     la qualification insuffisante du personnel comptable et financier de la structure de gestion alors
incapable de cl6turer ses comptes dans les delais,
(b)     la non mobilisation de la contrepartie ivoirienne pour le financement des activites prevues.
Dans ce cas, les prestations des fines ne peuvent ctre totalement paydes et l'utilisation des
fonds du Compte Spdcial de la Banque en lieu et place de la contrepartie ne peut etre justifi6e
par la structure,
(c)     les divergences entre lo systeme de comptabilit6 publique base sur l'engagement budgetaire
comrne fait gendrateur de l'enregistrement des opdrations en comptabilit6 et les nornes
internationales de comptabilite privee.
2.              Les dispositions specifiques suivantes prevues dans le cadre du PNASA devraient permettre de
resoudre ces problemes g6neriques;
(a)     recruternent de l'ensemble du personnel professionnel et de support de l'agence par des cabinets
privds qualifi6s. Par ailleurs, les CV des principaux responsables, y compris ceux des
comptables et des financiers seront soumis & la Banque Mondiale pour non-objection,
(b)     formation compldmentaires prdalables de tous les responsables fnanciers aux prooddures de
gestion des projets, en particulier les proceddures de deboursements et de passation des marches,
(c)     mise en place pour l'Agence d'un manuel des procddures comptables, fmancieres et
administratives avec le concours d'un cabinet privd expdriment6,
(d)     centralisation au niveau du MINAGRA et des DRA du traitement et du suivi des DRF par un
agent ddsigne,
(e)     appui a la DCSPPPCB afin de faciliter le suivi des audits et la mise en oeuvre des
recommandations,
(g)     cadre d'mntervention des auditeurs prEcise,
(h)     une attention particuliere sera accordee au suivi de la mobilisation des fonds de la contrepartie
ivoirienne.
B.              Termes de Refrences Standards (TDR  your l'audit de l'ANADER et des fonds IDA dans le
cadre du PNASA
3.              Ces TDR standards reprennent les diligences minimales auxquelles doit satisfaire le
professionnel ind6pendant choisi pour l'audit du projet. Ils pourront 8tre adaptes si le contexte du projet le requiert
et des contr6les compldmentaires pourront y &re rajoutds. Les auditeurs devront soumettre leurs propositions et
leur programme de travail tenant compte des el6ments ci-dessous:



ANNEHX 10
Pagc 2 of 3
4.               Objet de I'audit. L'audit portera sur les opdrations et les comptes de l'ANADER (une direction
centrale et 10 d6legations regionales), du MINAGRA, des DRA. du MINEF et du MESRS. Une ou deux firmes
privees pourront etre s6lectionndes pour l'audit de l'Agence d'une part, et pour les DRA, le MINAGRA, le
MINEF et le MESRS d'autre part.
5.               Opinion et Rapports. Les auditeurs devront expriner une opinion motivee sur:
(a)     les Etats Certifi6s de Ddpenses (ECD), et leur fiabilitd pour justifier les d6boursernents
effectues sur la base desdits ECD (dans le cas de l'existence d'un compte Sp6cial ou do
remboursement de ddpenses),
(b)     le Compte Special et,
(c)     les Etats Financiers consolides de 1'ANADER et devront so prononcer sur la situation
financiere du projet et de l'Agence.
6.               Les auditeurs devront en outre exprimer une opinion sur les procedures administratives,
comptables et de contr6le interne de 1'ensemble des structures d'ex&ution (Agence et Administrations publiques),
se prononcer sur le respect des textes reglementaires (statuts, regles sp6cifiques de fonctionnement li6es A
1'execution du projet, etc..).
7.               les auditeurs ernettront les rapports suivants
(a)     rapport exprimant une opinion r6sum6e et distincte sur les Etats Certifies de D6penses, le
Compte special at les Etats Financiers de I'ANADER ainsi que le respect des textes ci-dessus,
(b)     rapports detaill6s sur les op6rations et les comptes,
(c)     rapport sur le controle interne et les recommandations (management letter).
8.               Eteindue de la mission. En plus des op3rations et des comptes, les auditeurs devront determiner
si les biens et services financ6s dans le cadre du PNAaA ont ete requs at si les ddpenses sont eligibles aux termes
do l'Accord de Credit. ns devront egalement indiquer si les biens et services sont utilis6s conform6ment aux
objectifs du projet.
9.               L'audit devra tre effectue suivant los normnes d'audit gen6ralement accept6es, et confirmer
l'application des normes comptables generalement admises. Toutes divergences significatives par rappozt aux
normes comptables internationales admises devront etre pr6cis6zs, particulierement pour les Administrations
publiques dont le cadre comptable est different. Pour ces administrations les Etats Certifies de ddpense seront
suffisants. Les Etats de Ddpenses presentds devront comporter un niveau de details suffisant pour permnettre une
analyse des depenses, des avances faites par la Banque at des remboursement4 effectues dans le cadre de
l'exdcution du projet meme si des comptes separes ne sont pas produits par les Administrations (DRA et
rninistares);
10.              Les auditeurs devront entre autres:
(a)     s'assurer que les operations sor.t exhaustivement enregistrees dans les comptes,
(b)     exprimer une opinion sur l'inventaire physique des immobilisations corporelles et des stocks,
(c)     indiquer si les provisions constituees sont suffisantes et se prononcer sur la situation des
arridres,
(d)     proceder a l'examen du syst6me d'enregistrement manuel et informatique des opErations et les
systames de controle lids,
(e)     verifier quo les operations sur le compte Special sont corrctes, faire le rapprochement avec les
paiements effectudes par la Banque Mondiale at s'assurer que les operations du Compte SpEcial
sont conformes & l'Accord de Crddit,



ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
(f)      faire des recommandations pour ameliorer les systemes de contr6le intcrrne et les procedures
administratives et comptables.
11.                Qualifications des Auditeurs. Les auditeurs devront asoir Ics qualifications professionnelles
requises et une experience suffisante dans le secteur d'activitd A auditcr.



ANEX11
Pfge 1 i4
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
ProLect Obiectives and ImdeIMentation Idicators
Evaluation
Pkoject tCcaponent      Cou*et's objectives                                               Critical Steps - tndicators                                            Oates
Restructuring         Close three existing            Creation of an interministerial comittee with representatives from NINAGRA, NESRS, MINEF and    02-93 (c)
Process               parastatal extension            KINIFOB
agencies and create a
single private National         Completion of the staff census                                                                          02-93 (c)
Agricultural Services
Agency (ANADER) and             Selection of specialized private firms for staff evaluation and preparation of staff                    07-93 (c)
streamline MINAGRA's            setection
regiotal directorates
(DRAs)                          Creation of ANADER and official decision on restructuration of MINAGRA regional directorates            09-9?, (c)
Completion of job description of all staff concerned                                                    09-93 (c)
Completion of staff selection                                                                              05-94
Recruitment and start-up of training of the heads of the training and Human Resources                      05-94
Management Departments of the Agency at both central and regional level
Lay-off of contractual staff who are not selected to continue to work at MINAGRA or to join                08-94
the Agency
Creation of a specialized office to as ist redundant staff to seek new enploynent In the                 01-94 (c)
private sector
Completion of the identification of staff's training needs and the project's training prcgram              07-94
Final selection of the Director General of the Agency,                                                   03-94 (c)
Final select,on, of the Agency's national directors and of the heads of the regional                       05-94
financial services Land luman Resources Managemente
Creation of the National Agricultural Services Agency through Presidential Decree                        09-93 (c)
Appointment of all ANADER's staff                                                                          08-94
Appointment of a liquidator for the existing extension parastatals                                         04-94
Audit of 1992 accounts and evaluation of assets of existing extension parastatels                        02-94 (c)
Allocation of assets to the Agency                                                                         07-94
Audit at March 31, 1994 accounts of the former Agencies                                                    08-94
__________________   __________________________   Ministerial decree to reorganize the IIINAGRA's services                                              04-94



ANNEX 11
tgc 2 of 4
project toq      t      COaponent's Objecttves                       .                      . .Critical Steps   Indisators                                       Dates
Elimination of duplication of extension services                                                           01-95
ANADER -              tmprove organization and
Extension            management of existing           lultidisciplinarity of the extension service                                                              Contin.
extension services
EstabLishment of working programs for extension staff on all levels                                        03-95
Regular supervision of extension staff on all levels                                                     otntin.
Regular training for all staff                                                                  _cI corrin.
Appropriate logistic support for field and central staff                                              j    O3-95
Improve farmers, know-how       Regular fortnightly visits to farmers' contact groups                                              _       C3*95
end knowledge to increase
their productivity end          _nstaltation of demonstration ptots in farwer'' fidelds_ r                                                 t-95
income;__________________   Repetition of demonstration plots by elt interested farmers in  -'oiF- fie f's                                 05-95
Make thr existing farm          3evetopment of new technical messaces                                                                 !    's 
management systems more
productive, stable nrd          Focus on the farm as a whole
envirorenental I y
__________            sustainable                      SpeciaL emphasis on agro-forest'y end if'~r,rncd falc__                                                  _6,
ANADER - Adaptive   Elaborate technical               Establishment of one Systenic Resea'ch Adnp%sotrn Zt e (SfA V   i r c.     c'                 s
Res'arch             messages, base-d on a            possible in the inlsndiat.e surroundings ol the nbser'nzi-  2-:    .7.:iI:.. -:--^    t'                             b
thorough understanding of       to diminish costs -- to bridge the gsp bott^.Zer - rv.fc.rch rxu,l'  'bl,c -         ^-'   .n
existing farming                on the one hand, and technice~i roes,g ndem2 gle by  Car'ox, o'-2                  -
practices, permitting                   ,__
fermers -- in particuter i
womer and youth -- to         I Est4blishr.nt oa  one Observot ion P(t  n *  r-                      .t
increase their revenue end    them4rtic re-arcl3 progr,smr,; uo        nde;.akt u*i- 'r-i
productivity throL.qh
intensification of
cropping practces e,                    _      _     _
diversification into
profitable and                  l5rtatlation of On term Trials zo  t   'rs -i S    '.   tc 'tr. , '          c        C- cr Ci-
environmental suetainrble       farmers' own fields                                                                                                  j
activities;
improve resecrch-farmnr-        flrganization of Monthly Technical Revit'A Meetirfn  i5'q t S't'it , c-;..
extension linkages              researchers and SARS strff                         ___;___
Participation of the Agency (Directorate for Suprort tu Ada,ftii,   tc 'tey             *
Technical Programs of Research/Devcl=int_0ortt) in _leborr;iof -'X-a:-c-                           -_______
ANADER - Support      Promote and strcngthen          Recruitment of ?10 Farmers' Orgenizotions speriaHists (FOSs;.
to Farmers'           farm,ers' crganizations
Organizations                                         Regutlar meetirgs of FOSs and ebout 2Q farmers' organizations eoch Ze tra  -'t-e       e>'i-
participants on creation of faermes' organizotion3, corporete m&r.59r.cnt rnd ccc  nz                     Co- i r.
purchasing of inputs, rural credit, processirg of agric-ilturon 5:'_c en, "coaet;n, ,' d
retatiorns with other organizations In agri-business    _



ANNEX I1
Evaluation
Project component      lomponent's Objectives                                          Critical Steps - Indlictors                                          Daees
Improve and promote            Close collaboration between the Agency atu the EDF/UNOP/ILO Profeccional Orgntretionl
coordination among             Project which focuses on the crcation of second and third - level organizetiens                        Com' lIn.
farmers  organizations        ___    _                                                                           _
ANADER - Training   Create, within the Agency,    Completion of training of Hu:man Resources iarnagers erd Treiniing  uanclers                              08-94
and Human            the capacity to conceive
Resources            and organize training          Assurance of external supervision of trainers                                                          Cortin.
Management           programs;                       __-_._-_-                                                                                         __
Help staff adapt to new      C_mpletlon of first training of alt staff on job descripticn                                              C C3-95
l               ~~~~~task descriptions;
taskldescriptions;             CKr*ptetion of initial technical training for alt staff                                                 03-95
Improve technicat,             Provision of continuous technical training for all sta'f
managerial and                                                                                                                         C6-96
organizational   skilts;       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            _ _ _
Assure efficient humaen        Adaptation of training progranms to staff pe6Fc'rce                                                     i6-96
i__________________    resources  management
ANADER -             Monitoring the efficiency      Monitoring of farmerst participaticn in contact groupS ar. pro'es-.:ocI o -'irrizat e-        _         C6-95
Monitorino and       of the Agency's regional
Evaluation           branches;                      Monitoring of woewn farmers' partcipEtion                      _____C_6-°95
Monitoring of respect of working progrnms_                                                              C6-9_5 
Monitoring of quality and regularity of trainirg                       ____-95
Monitoring of cost effectiveness of ratios                                _ _ __                       0C6-95
l____________________________   Budgetary   control                                                                                    906-95
Monitoring and evaluation      Monitoring of variations in farmers' rcvenues                                                           09-95
of the quality and impact
of the ANADER's field work    Monitoring of women fermers' revenues         _                                                          09-95
Monitoring of farmers, reactions to technicAl themes                                                    09-95
Monitoring of edoption rates                                                                            0__-95
Monitoring of comrercial performance                                                                    09-95
Monitoring of benefits increase of farmers' organizations                                               09-__5
ANADER -             Assure the Agency's             Preaati   of annual budgets                                            _1-95
XAdministration       accountability 
and Finance                                          Assure general and analytical accountability                                                            03-9S
Assure budgetary control                                                                                03-95
Supervision of the accountability at the regional level                                                 03-95
Manage ANADER's goods and      Purchasing of goods and services                                                                        03-95
equipment
l_________________ ._______   Supervision of logistical management at the regionat tevel                                                03-95



ANNEX II
PAge 4 of 4
Evaluation
Project Component       Component's Objectives                                            CriticaL Steps - Indicators                                            Dates
Assure the administrative
aspects of human resources    Assure supervision of regional administrative human resources management                                     03-95
management
Institutional         Support to MINAGRA's            Formulation of the GCvernment's agricultural development policy                                            06-96
Strengthening of    National Directorate for
NINAGRA               Planning/Sub Directorate        Preparation of policy implementation programs, AnnuaL investrnnt budgctz, tern, of r-ofre-co                08-96
(National)            for Planning and eudgeting    for studies, and modalities for appropriate use and distribution of stLet reuts                           _ __
Monitoring and evaluation                                                                                  06-S5
Strengthening of MINAGRA's    Disengagement from all activities related to direct support to cooriirnt ves and tra ninq cf                 03-95
NationaL Directorate for        farmers
Cooperatives Support
Completion of the study possibility for the CIOT oriy to pur'har,  sc-d cctfu, rrc               e         12-95
fiber cotton trade
Completion of revisior cf the corerative legislation to mere it more            I-' .    rorl lat -        12-95
.________________________   Monitoring of policy implementation and enforcrrent o<' r-egiat>ors                    ,_3-96
Strengthening of MINAGRA's    Definition of the role of the Regional Directorat.r-  (a) e      e'a-)t C' r. i'-   -O    '
Regional DirectoraTes           policies; (b) monitoring and evaluation of poticy imile-en*t:ion; C')    S-c'.-
regulations; and (d) colletction and oroceTsirg of st-     iics, .
Organization of Regional Directorates with a Service for Programming, tV&E -xc .0''- a
Service for Administration and Finance, a Service foc Nauural  -eourre' ,   s    c- fc    :                  9$
Seeds and Veterinary Control, and a Service 'or Monitcr- e       of th' -           '
Selection and redeployment of staff                                                                        r.9-94
Institution          Strengthening of MESRS           Enhance the Sub-Directorate's capacity to oversee resoorrh ir5t itA        s   to
Strengthening of    Sub-Directorate for               research activities                                                                                         36-95
MESRS                 Adaptive   Research        .     _._._._.__ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __.___ __
Institutional         Strengthening of MIl-EF         Annual auditing of project corporents                                    ..,  96
Strengthening of    Sub-Directorate for
4INEF                 Management Control              Assure expLoitation of audit reports                                    _ _- ?6
Monitor implementation of auditor's recormendations                                                   I   le9c



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOJE
NATIONAL AGfCULTRAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
AG_RILT A  SERVICES PROGRAM PERFORMANCE
MONITORING AND EVALtJATION (M&E) INDICATORS IN RLAON TO OWECIES
arratiye Summanry                                             Obteclivcly )criibltc Indicators                               l     op;i'
(Actnal v. Tnrget)                                      A5L E1Oit
Qoalg
t. Incroase living stindaris of farm bouschold                I. 9t rise in averagk  hauscho?d nct ins&                 t                       ri
2. Increase labout efricicncy disaster                        2. 7% risc in returii pm Person d.y of "Arm t1o1               L.i e ieri:e or ftal
3. ieduce householJ rood scarcity.                            3. % f4al in food scatrc ItiIs                                .klic:' r3fnesI0rlk favnrahld
4. inprovc nutrition                                          4. % decrrsac in rntla i4rld6  citdrwn <.5 yrs
Purpose and objectives'
A. Production
1. Increased yield of ffunin crps                             I. Avcrage krstha yicid incruascs on main cr'rps                  n       yco rn o"
2. increased erea and output from maincrops                   2. % incs=sc in area and ouitpul fsrm main crops               Jc-w prm entod disinc
3. Incrcase food availability fmm own prodSuction             3. Proportion of fcod conwumerl  by htf t ro-n (a              ovfi4.ity of inpmts
4. Area under improved seeds                                  4. % incrcasc under in-proved secd for main. n
S. Adoption of agro-forestry                                  5. % inercase in farmers ucing agro-fnrcstry*
6. Adoption of improved cultivation practicrs                 6. % increasc in farnners using improved practicesO
7. Adoption of soillwater consctvalion tochnics               7. iners in fanners ndopting conserve. pracficesl 
8. Increase labout productiviRy of fcmnlc Inrmers             f. % of F fanners using labour saving tcch
9. 1ncrease cash income from livestock                        9. % of l1il income derived from livestock
I. lnstitutional
I. More cost-cfCective extension                              I. % rise in no. of mini-plots/mcctingsiFA unit cost
2. Improved dissemination capacity                            2. 9% rise in farmner understanding/awarcncss eCt              Mcssages re+.vAnt
3. lmproved relevance of extcnsion messages                   3. % rise in farmers adopting recommendations
4. Upgrading management/supervipory skills                    4. Staff assessment/job evalualions/rcporting
5. Increased efficiency and cffecct of research               5. % red. in costs/messagc; No. of low cost nr sgs             Dqeti ngre.c
6. Cost Accounting Systems operaming                          6. Funds disbursed and accounis produccd
7. Efricicncy of Agency management                            7. Farmers patrticipation in decisions                                                                        0
(national and regional.
S. Efriciency of OPA                                          S. Turnover increase, cconomic mnrng^mcot of tlc bcncfits
* These indicators.witl be desaggregated by gender and by farm size
For aU itms annual repoting wl be done



ANNEX 13
Page I of 4
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
Terns of Reference for the Project Completion Review
The Mid-Termn Review would take stock of progress and formulate recommendations with regard to appropriate actions to be taken in
the areas of project activity as described in the table below:
Project Activitv                                          Recommendations
1. The Restructurine Process
to what extent the restructuring process of the MINAGRA and
the creation of the Agency has been completed successfully;
the possibility and appropriateness of further adjustment;
to what extent both the regional directorates of MINAGRA  improve staffing
and the Agency are properly staffed;
the budgetary impact of the restructuring process;        further increase financial sustainability.
2. The ANADER
the participation of the different partners in the         the possibilities to increase the private sector's and in
capital structure                                         particular farmers' organizations-participation in the capital;
the private sector's capacities and interest to further   ways and means to increase the private sector's
assume responsibility for agricultural services;          participation;
the efficiency of the Agency's management structure, the  increase efficiency of management and farmers' participation
extent of decentralization, and the importance of farmers'  in the management of the Agency;
participation in the decision making process;
the number of women working in the Agency;                increase the number of female seaff;
the cost effectiveness of the Agency with regard to use of  increase the cost effectiveness;
equipment and vehicles; and the mission few
availability of counterpart funds;                        counterpart funds allocation and release.
3. Extension
the impact of the principal technical themes with regard to  improve relevance of technical themes;
agriculture, livestock and agro-forestry, on production and
farmers' revenue;
the cost effectiveness of the ratios applied by the Agency and
by other extension organizations.                         improve ratios;
the number of demonstration plots per contact group and per  increase the visibility of the extension activities; the
technical theme, and the number of farmers participating in  number of farmers adopting one or more technical themes;
the encounters with the FEWs;                             improve understanding of reasons for non-adoption.



ANN1h X H
Page 2 of 4
4. Adaptive Research
farmers', researchers' and extension agents' participation in  improve researcb - farmers - extension linkages;
Systemic Research Adaptation Sites;
the efficiency and regularity of monthly extension workshops;    improve the process of monthly revie% and finetuning of
technieal                                                   technical themes;
the efficiency, relevance and environmental impact of technical   improve technical messages
mlessages;A
the relevance of technical messages for special interest groups    improve technical messages:
such as women and youth
5. Parmers' Organizations
the number and quality of newly created first -, second -, and    improve conditions for the creation and promotion of
third - level farmers' organizations;                       farmers' organizations;
the financial management of farmers' organizations in terns of   improve management practices;
turnover, benefits and economic investments;
the number of Farmers' Organizations Specialists transferred  strengthen cooperative unions so as to enhance their managerial
from the Agency to farmers' cooperatives unions;            and financial responsibility for Farmers' Organizations Specialists;
the possibility for farmers' organizations to take direct and full   appropriateness to start a pilot operation and the geographical
responsibility for priee setting, marketing and exportation of  definition of pilot areas;
cotton, coffee, cocoa etc.;
the efficiency and relevance of the Agency's activities with
regard to strengthening of farmers' organizations, making the
Agency's fanners' organizations activities more demand-drive.
6. Training
the quality, relevance and cost of initial training of all staff;  improve the cost effectiveness of the training
the appropriateness and possibilities to improve initial
agricultural training programs;
the regularity and relevance of continuous training of all staff;   increase training's efficiency and relevance;
the efficiency of colLaboration between the Agency and other  ways and means to improve and expand collaboration with other
training organizations;                                     training organizations.
7. Administration and Finance
the maintaining of records and accounts reflecting adequately  improvements to the accounting procedures;
the Agency's operations and financial conditions;
the maintaining of records and accounts reflecting adequately  improvement to the accounting procedures;
the use of funds under the Institution strengthening component
(MINAGRA, MESRS, MINQF)



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 4
the timnely availability of certified copies of accounts as well  respect of delays for transmission of such accounts and audit
as of the annual audit report;                                reports;
the respect of Bank's procedures with regards to procurement    appropnate training to increase staff's capacities with regard
and disbursement                                              to procurement and disbursement;
the eligibility of payments made under the special account    proper use of special accounts;
the efficiency of financial and administrative procedures;    improve such procedures;
the efficiency of the budgeting process and the responsibility  increasing financial responsibility at the regional level for
of both the regional directorates and delegations;            the Agency and MINAGRA;
the availability of counterpart funds,                        timely release of these funds.
8. MonitorinE/Evaluation
the relevance of the indicators used by the M/E system;       improve the M/E system and training of M/E staff;
the reliability of information;                               procedures of data coUecting and processing;
the availability on the appropriate levels of MIE reports;    the production and distribution of M/E reports.
9. MINAGRAlNational Planning
the directorate's capacities to prepare and program           strengthen the directorates' staff through appropriate training
agricultural policy, annual investment budgets, and studies;  and other means.
10. MINAGRA/National Mutuality and Cooperatives
the directorate's capacities to prepare policy and legislation  strengthen the directorates' staff through appropriate training
and to enforce regulations with regard to cooperatives;       and other means.
11. MINAGRAIStatistics
the regularity and reliability of statistical reports;        strengthen the directorates' staff through appropriate training
and other means.
12. MINAGRA/Regional Directorates
the regional directorates' capacity to develop regional       strengthen the directorates' staff through appropriate training
agricultural policics, monitor and evaluate policy            and other means;
implementation, enforce regulations and produce reliable
statistics;
the autonomy of regional directorates with regard to budgetary    appropriateness to increase regional directorates' budgetary
planning;                                                     autonomy.
13. MESRS/National level
the directorate for valorization of research results' capacity  strengthen the directorates' staff through appropriate training
to monitor the different research institutes and research-    and other means;
extension linkages;
the efficiency of observation plots and on farm trials;       increase efficiency of observation plots and on farm tials;
the efficiency of the Systemic  Experimental Sites;           improve IDESSA, IDEFOR and IRDT systenic research
capacities;



ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 4
the participation of the Agency and other extension           improve research-extension linkcages.
organizaions in the definition of research priorities.
14. Ministr of Finance
the timely production of audit reports of each of the
implementation units;
the implementation of auditors' recommendations;              further improve financial and administrative procedures.



ANNEK 14
Page 1 of 2
NATIONAL AGRICULTUAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
SA PROAM BUDGETARY IPACT (OVER 5 YEARS/D1224-:8
(CFAF billion)
MINAGRA's   MTEI
ANAE             DRAs            MESRS   RESTRUC1  TOTAL
1. Project-Related
Budgetaxv Outlays
- Investment                                     7.8              3.6             1.0           0.5          12.9
- Operat. costs                                 12.8              2.6             0.6           0.5         16.5
- Salaries                                      30.0             21.0                             -         51.0
- Severance Payments                                                _                           3.0          3.0
Total (1)                                     50.61            27.2              1.6          4.0          83.4
2. Government's cur-ent budget (199U2
3 Former
Agencies
+ CIDT
- Investments                                    6.7                                                          6.7
- Operat. costs                                 28.5              1.7               _                       30.2
- Salazies                                      32.0             33.7         _                             65.7
Total Budget (2)                              67.2             35.4              0.0          0.0         102.6
3.Savings 2(2) - (1)
16.6             8.2            -1.6          -4.0          19.2
Note:
CFAF 192 billion savings wUl be made under the PNASA compared with the budget equivalent to be allocated if the current
situation remains.



CQ D'
NATONA AM =RLU SERVCES SUPPORT PRQ=
. m i.*      SiTUAllON APPJ3 REAT I .M N N
STATUT
SociftE
Services    d'Encadrement       Total      Services      ANADER    Transfgrt a      Mise i      Mise A la    Ddflat&s
Exteriems     (sans CIDI)                  Exterieurs                 SODEFOR   Disposition    retraite
Fonctlonnaires               3.355              911          4.266         2.060        1.376          576           7          247          -
Agents Tanporaires            435             2.599          3.034           240        1.399                        -           74        1.321
Agents Jourallers              -              1.893          2.224                       425                                     24        1.795
Agents Contatels               -                235           235                         10           -             -                      225
4.136            5.643          9.779         2.300        3.210          576           7          345        3.341
o ,
>



ECm 15
PApg I of I
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NAIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
ANADBR's Estimated Summear Fimancial Statenents
(USS million)
'P  t                                          PY 2
:;994)                                         (1995
. XPE?WZTUR$ .REVEUES                            EXPENDITURES             REVENUES
Gvt      :  4.1                                Gvt         Z.0
IDA      : 9.4                                 IDA         5.4
tnvestmEnts                   15.4           AfDg(a):  1.0                     7.9           AfDS (a)   0.4
IFAD     :  0.8                                IFAD        0.1
AGCD      :  0.1
Sataries                      19.0            Gvt       : 19.0                19.0           Gvt         19.0
Gvt        :  2.9                               Gvt         2.4
IDA       : 3.6                                 IDA         3.4
operating Costs               12.9           IFAD       :  0.8                 8.3           IFAD        0.2
AGCD       :  0.2                               AGM         0.2
AfDB (a):  0.4                                  AfD8  s): 0.4
CFO        :  5.1                               OPA (b)    1.0
(a)     ADB fAding would be provided by contrac betweCe AIDB Western Region project and ANADER.
(b)     Fmning by Fastmwr' Association (OPAs) would be the mesult of the strategy to gradually empower OPAs (parm 4.16). no thecent
maurestake by MINAGRA aiming to give the entire responsibility to the OPAs for primary collection of cash crops would reinforce
thcir fiancial capcwities, thereby increaing their possibilities to buy ANADER's servicoes.
M-6e:    The private etor, i.e suppliers of chemical produets and agro-industrial frms, etc, have expressed their inMrest to uw ANADER's services
On a payment basis. Fmaacing support from the private sector would ease the Govetnment budgetary burden.



MALI                                                                             BURKINA
TENORELA                                                         FASO
0
0
FERKESSMOUGOU)."r
0
oRrHo
BOUNDIALi
GUINEA                                                                                                                                               .OUNA
3.16"
0
D-0                                        e
0
D,,o
{-')ABAkAIA0
0 W-M6
Brit'? JKOIJ
UE           G)                           W O-LA
S
BOUAKE
M4N                                                                                    MW-'-                                      GHANA
DA                                              0
0                         -4
BOUAFLF                            -4
DALOA
"A
Si, H"                                                                                                                           AFFINGOUROL
0                                                      DlMBoKRc
0                                               N
0                                                                                                            X)II
'r T-4o.                                               ISSIA
GUIG[o                      CD                            OUME        T- -h
A
0
.NQA
Ti.-I,                  Ap
DN'O
LIBERIA                                         SOU5RE
LAKOTA
crd4.ho.
'4 d.
a -7h: W.z 8.4, G,-                                         OSASSANDItA
-d-Z,
3
2
NIGER
MALI
BURKINA PASO                                                         COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRiCULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
GUINEA
z                      PROJET NATIONAL DES SERVICES AGRICOLES
SiERRA)                                       0I
LEONF-
p
GHANA                                               Aq,,
LIBERIAN     ABIDJAN*                                                d, D,p-l
Sb P-f, I,-  B"",d                                    C, s", 0,
i--, d- S,- P-f,,,-,
Goll



