Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 18104-CL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 26364 VC)
June 30, 1998
Rural Development Operations III
Country Department 11
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization,



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CAF per US$
1990  -  272.56
1991   -  282.18
1992  -  264.45
1993  -  283.00
1994  -  546.721
1995   -  499.64
1996  -  511.27
1997  -  582.96
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank (Banque Africaine de Developpement)
ANADER        Agence National d'Appui aux Serves Agricoles (National Agricultural Services
Agency)
CFD          Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement (French Development Fund)
CIDT          Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le Developpement des Textiles (Ivorian Company
for Textile Development)
CIDV         Cie Ivoirienne pour le Developpement des Cultures Vivrieres (Ivorian Company
for Textile Development)
CREP         Caisse Rurale d'Epargne et Prets (Rural Savings and Loan Funds)
DRA          Direction Regionale Agricole (Regional Directorate ofAgriculture)
EU            European Union (Union Europeenne)
FOS           Farmer's Organization Specialist (Specialiste en Organisation Cooperative)
GVC           Groupement a Vocation Cooperative (Pre-cooperative group)
IDESSA        Institut des Savanes (Savannah Research Institute)
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development (Fond International pour le
Developpement Agricole)
MEFP         Minsitere de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan (Ministry of Economy,
Finances and Planning)
MESRS        Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherche Scientifique (Ministry
of Higher Education and Scientific Research)
MINAGRA    Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales (Ministry ofAgriculture
and Animal Resources)
PVA           Projet de Vulgarisation Agricole (Agricultural Extension Project)
R-D           Recherche-Developpement (Adaptive Research)
SARS          Site d'Adaptation de ta Recherche Systeme (Systemic Research Adaptation Site)
SATMACI    Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation de l'Agriculture
(Company for Modernization of Ivorian Agriculture)
SMS           Subject Matter Specialist (Technicien Specialise)
SODEPRA       Societe de Developpement de la Production Animale (Livestock Development
Agency)
T&V           Training and Visit (Formation et Visites)
UNDP          United Nations Development Program (Programme des Nations Unies pour le
Developpement)
Vice President       Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director     Shigeo Katsu
Sector Leader        Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader     Christian Fauliau
Abdoulaye Toure
In January 1994, the CFAF parity with the French franc (FF) wasrealigned from 50 CFAF per FF to
100 CFAF per FF.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUB3LIC OF COTE D'IVOIRlE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2636-IVC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ........ vi
-Evaluation Summary ................                                                                                                      vii
Key Lessons Learned ....................................................................V....................... ................ vii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION ]REPORT .......................................1
Part I: Project Implementation Assessnment .......................................1
Introduction ...........1....                           .............................
Project Objectives ...........I...........I
Evaluation  of Project Objectives .... ... ....................................2.................2
Achievement of Project Objectives ............................................................................................3
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................................ 10
Project Sustainability ................................................................................................................. 12
Bank Performance ................................................................................................ ................. 12
Borrower Performance .............................................................................................................. 13
Assessment of Outcome ............................................................................................................ 13
Future Operation ............................................................................................................ 13
Key Lessons Learned ..................................................... 14
Part II: Statistical Tables .........................                                                                                    15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .........................                                                                                15
Table 2: Related  Bank Loans/Cre(lits .........................................................                                          16
Table 3: Project Timetable .........................................................                                                      17
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated at(i ActuaL ............................ 17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Imnplementation .........................................................                             18
A. Extension  ...................1....8... ...........................                                             ...........      . 18
B. Partial and Total Adoption Rate .................................                                                                 22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ...................................                                                        22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ...........................                                                                        .23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 8A: Project Costs ..............................................                                                                23
Table 8B: Project Financing ..............................................                                                            23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..............................................                                                   24
Table 10. Legal Covenants ..............................................                                                               24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................................. 27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................................                                                  27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..............................................                                                     28
Appendices
ICR Mission Aide-Memoire
Completion Report prepared by Borrower
Map No. IBRD 25030



vi
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2636-IVC)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Agricultufal
Services Project in CMte d'Ivoire, for which credit 2636-IVC in the amount of SDR 15.7
million (US$21.8 million equivalent) was approved on September 12, 1994.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997, compared with the original closing date of
June 30, 1997. The last disbursement took place on June 4, 1998, at which time the
undisbursed balance of SDR 1,529,371.49 was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Yves-Coffi Prudencio2, AFTR3, of the Africa Region, with the
assistance of Soulemane Fofana (AFTR3) for Part II. The ICR was reviewed by Jean-
Paul Chausse, Sector Manager (AFTR3) and Shigeo Katsu, Country Director. The
borrower provided comments that are reflected in the text of the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR begun during the Bank's ICR mission in February 1998. It is
based on the ICR mission aide memoire and on material in the project file. The borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing views reflected in the mission's aide-
memoire, by commenting on the draft ICR, and by preparing its own evaluation of the
project's execution, which is attached as an appendix to the ICR.
2 Abdoulaye Toure, AFMCI assisted during the ICR mision



vii
IMPLEMENTAT][ON COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRIC1JLTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
('Cr. 2636-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
At the time of project preparation (1993/94) agriculture contributed about 30 percent of
GDP and over 70 percent of export revenues in Cote d'Ivoire. The country had been going
through a severe economic recession., and the Governemnt was implementing a structural
adjustment and recovery program, covering all aspects of the economy and especially its main
export sector.  It agricultural sector strategy had inter alia the following elements: (i)
retrenchment of Government from production and marketing activities; (ii) greater involvement
of young men and women in rural activities; and (iii) redefinition of agronomic research and
extension to better respond to farmers' circumstances. The National Agricultural Services Project
was to be instrumental in implementing this strategy.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the Project were to: (i) streamline and decentralize the organization of
agricultural services; (ii) enhance the role of the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRA) in policy
making and supervision of agricultural development; and (iii) increase farmers' participation in
the policy making process. In support of these objectives, the Project included the following
components:
(a)    Restructuring Process designed to: (i) revamp agricultural services through the
merging of three existing parastatal extension services into a single and
decentralized National Agricultural Services Agency (Agence National d'Appui
au Developpement Rural, ANADER) with management autonomy and strong
representation of farmers; and (ii) streamline MINAGRA. This component was
financed under the PPF and was to be completed before credit effectiveness.
(b)    Operating Support to ANADER designed to assist in all facets of ANADER's
operations, including adaptive research to be sub-contracted to research institutes
and support to farmers' organizations.  Extension training activities were
included to systematically upgrade ANADER's staff. This was known as Part A
of the Project.
(c)   Institutional Strengthening of central Directorates of Administration and Finance,
and Planning and Programming of MINAGRA, the Sub-Directorate of Adaptive
Research of the Ministry of Scientific Research and Higher Education
(Ministere de l 'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherche Scientifique,



viii
MESRS), and the Sub-Directorate for Control of the Ministry of Finance
(Ministere de 1 'Economie, des Finances et du Plan, MEFP), with a view to
strengthening ministerial structures involved in the support to agricultural
services. This was known as Part B of the Project.
Achievements of Objectives
The Project overall outcome is rated satisfactory. Within a short implementation period
(three years), the Project was able to establish a well functioning extension agency (ANADER)
and to involve farmers' organizations and the private sector, via their representatives on the
Board, in the management of extension services, thereby increasing quality and lowering cost. In
addition, substantial, though lesser progress was made in the strengthening of some key activities
of MINAGRA. Some impact of the project in terms of technology adoption is already visible
after only two agricultural seasons.
The record of achievements varied by component. The restructuring of extension was
successfully completed as planned before effectiveness, thereby creating ANADER, an
autonomous, semi-private extension service. Operating support to ANADER, including in the
areas of extension, adaptive research, training and human resource management, monitoring and
evaluation was all carried out; but support to farmers' organization was insufficiently provided.
Institutional strengthening of MINAGRA and its Regional Directorates was only partially
completed. While MINAGRA was streamlined in a manner consistent with its reduced role, it
performed really well only in the area of monitoring evaluation and cooperatives support.
Achievements were quite insufficient in the areas of sectoral policy formulation, investment
planning, and production statistics.
Implementation Performance
The project was well implemented by ANADER, which benefited from decision making
autonomy. MINAGRA's performance was weaker, due in particular to failure by the Ministry to
appoint on time and to adequately empower a unit to manage Part B, whose implementation
suffered as a result. Project costs appear to have been higher than expected, but this is largely
presentational since the difference accounts for items not originally included (salaries and
severance payments financed by the Government). Procurement was the source of substantial
delays early on due to slow national processes and untimely responses by the Bank. On the
technical side, problems were caused by the low skill level of extension staff, which made it
imperative to invest much more than expected in training. Initial low attendance ratios within
farmers' contact groups improved after the introduction of participatory diagnostics.
Sustainability and Follow up Project
The sustainability of the Project is very likely. Farmers and other beneficiaries
participation in the management of the extension services has increased their willingness to pay
for the costs of such services, since those services now better meet their needs. In fact, farmers
organizations have now agreed to buy 60 percent of ANADER's shares and to finance 60 percent
of its operating costs, initially through a state-authorized levy on the main export crops.
Financial sustainability of the backup support from MINAGRA is assured as agricultural



ix
productivity growth will result in greater government revenues to face the recurrent costs of such
support. Finally, the extended and adopted technologies will have a long lasting impact.
The institutional reforms will be sustained with further IDA support. A second phase
operation has been negotiated with the Government in May 1998. The proposed operation will
cover the first three years of an I 1-year program to be supported through an Adaptable Program
Loan (APL). The objective of this phase is to firmly establish responsive, cost-effective agencies
for agricultural research and extension services, largely owned and managed along private lines
by their beneficiaries, with no more than 40 percent of State participation.
Bank and Borrower Performance
The Bank's performance at all stages was satisfactory overall. The project's design was
innovative, and fitted well with Bank aind government strategies and with the socio-economic
context in Cote d'Ivoire at the time of project preparation. Supervision was adequately close in
time and space, with an experienced field-based agricultural services specialist and an
experienced headquarters-based Task M[anager. However, the Bank's performance with respect
to procurement was somewhat unsatisfactory.
The performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. The government demonstrated
commitment and facilitated the restructuring process, but much better in the case of ANADER
than in the case of MINAGRA. The government made financial and human resources available
to ANADER as planned and did not interfere with the autonomous management of such
resources.
Major Lessons Learned
(a)   Instututional reforms and capacity building so as to achieve sustainable and cost
effective agricultural services is a long term process which requires clearly
defined short-, medium-, and long-term objectives, and the long term
commitment of the government and of its development partners to support such
objectives;
(b)   Initiating the restructuring process during project preparation with PPF funding,
and making it an effectiveness condition was instrumental to the success of the
institutional reform;
(c)    Permanent and participal:ory diagnostics at contact group level, as well as village
level, significantly contr:ibuted to increasing farmers participation, the pertinence
of extended technologies and their impact;
(d)    Support to agriculture schools to increase the supply of adequately trained
extension workers would have helped and improve the quality of extension; and
(e)    Simultaneous restructuring and support to agricultural extension and agricultural
research institutions may significantly improve the cost effectiveness of the
adaptive research components of agricultural services projects.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2636-IVC)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    At the time of project preparation (1993/94) agriculture contributed about 30 percent of GDP and over
70 percent of export revenues in Cote d'Ivoire. The country had been going through a severe economic
recession that started back in 1985 and resulted in a decline of GDP per capita from $ 1,000 in 1980 to $ 700 in
1992, mainly as a result of declining cocoa and coffee prices. This led to a substantial reduction in the
government's budget and thereby in its ability to sustain salaries, other operational costs and investments in the
public services and parastatals. To correct the situation the government set in motion with the assistance of the
Bank and IMF several structural adjustment and economic recovery programs, including internal and external
adjustment measures such as the CFA franc (CFAF) devaluation in January 1994. In its policy framework paper
of March 1994 the government demonstrated through proposed adjustment measures a willingness to further
liberalize the economy, to stimulate private sector development and to enhance the country's intemational
competitiveness.
2.      In the National Agricultural Master Plan (1992-2015), the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal
Resources (Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales, MINAGRA) identified the following
constraints to agricultural development: (i) extensive farming systems; (ii) low use of modern inputs and
technologies; (iii) lack of market orientation of the household farm economy; (iv) research system poorly
attuned to farmers' needs; (v) absence of rural credit; (vi) weak marketing system with heavy government
interference; and (vii) an aging rural population. To address these constraints, MINAGRA set the following
objectives: (i) increase agricultural productivity and competitiveness through the introduction of modem farm
technology; (ii) enhance the quality of agricultural products; (iii) decrease the tax burden on these products; (iv)
enhance food security by increasing food crop and livestock production; and (iv) improve the management of
natural resources. To achieve these objectives the Government focused, inter alia, on the following areas: (i)
retrenchment of Government from production and marketing activities; (ii) greater involvement of young men
and women in rural activities; and (iii) redefinition of agronomic research and extension to better respond to
farmers' circumstances.
Project Objectives
3.    The project was to be instrumental in supporting Government's policy to develop the rural economy,
disengage from commercial and production activities, and promote effective participation of beneficiaries in the
definition, financing and implementation of agricultural services. The project was to be implemented over a
two-year period on a national scale. It was the first phase of a five-year program which had as its objectives to
support, through improved research and extension, the generation, dissemination and adoption of
environmentally sound technology required to sustain productivity gains in agriculture in the long run.



2
4.     The objectives of the first phase were to: (i) streamline and decentralize the organization of agricultural
services; (ii) enhance the role of MINAGRA in policy making and supervision of agricultural development; and
(iii) increase farmers' participation in the policy making process. In support of these objectives, the project
included the following components:
(a)    Restructuring Process designed to: (i) revamp agricultural services through the merging of
three existing parastatal extension services into a single and decentralized National Agricultural
Services Agency (Agence Nationale d'Appui au Developpement Rural, ANADER) with
management autonomy and strong representation of farmers; and (ii) streamline MINAGRA.
This component was financed under the PPF and was to be completed before credit
effectiveness.
(b)    Operating Support to ANADER designed to assist in all facets of ANADER's operations,
including adaptive research to be sub-contracted to research institutes and support to farmers'
organizations. Extension training activities were included to systematically upgrade
ANADER's staff. This was known as Part A of the project.
(c)    Institutional Strengthening of central Directorates of Administration and Finance, and Planning
and Programming of MINAGRA, the Sub-Directorate of Adaptive Research of the Ministry of
Scientific Research and Higher Education (Ministere de 1' Enseignement Superieure et de la
Recherche Scientifique, MESRS), and the Sub-Directorate for Control of the Ministry of
Finance (Ministere de 1'Economie, des Finances et du Plan, MEFP), with a view to
strengthening ministerial structures involved in the support to agricultural services. This was
known as Part B of the project.
Evaluation of Project Objectives and Risks
5.    The project's objectives, although a bit ambitious for the short time frame of two years, were relevant
and fitted well into the Government's and the Bank's agricultural strategies. Their timing, by introducing
needed reforms during a crisis situation to improve chances for their adoption, and by aiming at completion of
the restructuring process prior to effectiveness to minimize project implementation risks, was commendable.
However, there has been a lack of clarity, at least from the Borrower's point of view, over the time frame for
completing the objectives. It is the view of the Borrower, as expressed during the ICR mission, that the project
was initially designed for five years and was finally implemented in three years with insufficient adjustment of
the project objectives to the new time frame.
6.    The Staff Appraisal Report identified three major risks to the project: (i) Government's capacity to
complete the ambitious reform program; (ii) delayed availability or insufficient counterpart funds; and (c) low
farmer adoption rates. The first risk was fully addressed by making the completion of the reform program a
condition of effectiveness, by financing the reform with the PPF advance and by offering adequate severance
packages to the retrenched civil servants. The second risk was addressed by obtaining Government's
commitment to earmark all necessary counterpart funds in the national budget and setting strict time frame for
depositing such funds in the project account. In support of this, dated covenants were included in the
Development Credit Agreement. The third risk was addressed by incorporating extensive farmer participation
into the extension mechanisms. A risk that had not been identified at the time of appraisal, but which ended up
greatly affecting project implementation, was poor handling of procurement, which caused significant delays in
project implementation.



3
Achievement of Project Objectives
Overall Objectives
7.    Overall, the project's major objectives were substantially achieved.  ANADER was created and
extension services were decentralized and streamlined. An important start was made by including private
operators and farmers'organizations in the policy decision making process. The strengthening of selected
departments of MINAGRA, MESRS and M[EFP was accomplished as planned. However, the regional
directorates of MINAGRA were unable to fully achieve the objectives assigned to them under the project.
A. Restructuring Process
8.    The restructuring process was substantially completed with respect to the creation of ANADER, but
only partly completed with respect to MINAGRA's regional directorates. It was done as a condition of credit
effectiveness. Financing for this was provided by Government, CFD (Caisse Franqaise de DIveloppement) and
IDA (under a PPF advance). In September 1993, the three existing extension agencies (Company for the
Modernization of Ivorian Agriculture, SATMACI, Ivorian Food crop Development Agency; CIDV; and the
Livestock Development Agency, SODEPRA) were merged into ANADER. ANADER was established as a
semi-private enterprise with the Government as major shareholder (90 percent) and sole provider of operating
costs during the first five years, as projected during appraisal. ANADER was granted full management
autonomy and did actually exercise such autonomy in the management of its staff and in the management of
financial resources provided by the State. However, most of its senior staff (689 or 22 percent) remained civil
servants on leave without pay from the government's civil service during the three years of actual project
implementation, and did not leave the civil service on voluntary basis or resign from it within the first two years
of project implementation as originally planned. Although no direct interference of the government in the
management of the agency has been recorded the need for the management of ANADER to follow complex and
slow administrative procedures in dismissing or re-appointing its staff somewhat constrained its management
efficiency. This situation is expected to be resolved as part of the second phase project.
9.    The board of twelve members was composed out of fifty percent Government representatives (six) and
fifty percent representatives from the private sector (two) and farmers' organizations (four), as agreed at
negociations. Farmers organizations were represented by sub-sector (Cocoa, coffee, cotton, poultry) and the
private sector had one representative of agro-industry and one representative of the chamber of agriculture. The
board did actually influence the management of ANADER when reviewing the annual programs and budgets of
the agency. In 1996 for instance, it succeeded in cutting the budget and in limiting new recruitment, under
pressure from farmers' representatives. The goal of farmers' participation in the management decision making
process was thus being achieved and the ANADER experience could be credited for slowly creating a paradigm
shift in the mind of government officials in favor of more involvement of beneficiaries in the management of
public services. However, the power of ANADER's beneficiaries to influence management decisions was
fragile, as they were minority shareholders and contributed directly nothing to operation costs. This situation is
expected to change with the Government decision on April 2, 1998 to become a 40 percent minority shareholder
of the agency, with the private sector and farmners organizations becoming majority shareholders.
10.   The restructuring of MINAGRA's regional directorates was also carried out following a redefinition of
its mandate to focus on establishment and implementation of agricultural policies and regulations. Twelve
functions were identified out of which operational budgets were centrally provided only for two (cooperatives
support, monitoring and evaluation). A major problem was a lack of restructuring at the central level to insure
adequate correspondence between the functions at regional and national levels. Furthermore, following the



4
streamlining, most regional directorates were not provided with adequate personnel to carry out their duties, less
than 40 percent of planned staffing level was achieved.
11.   The streamlining process, according to the SAR, targeted 3,340 workers to be dismissed. By the end of
the project about 2,300 were dismissed following the dismantling of former agricultural services institutions
and about 150 were dismissed in streamlining MINAGRA's regional directorates. The discrepancy with the
appraisal figure appears to stem from an overestimation at appraisal. Dismissed workers received severance
packages funded by CFD, but the office set up to assist them, the Business Information Center (BIC) failed to
help most of the dismissed workers integrate the private sector.
B. Operating Support to ANADER
Extension
12.   The specific objectives of this sub-component were to: (i) improve organization and managementof
existing extension services; (ii) improve women and men farmers' knowledge and know-how to increase their
productivity and income; and (iii) make the existing farm management systems more productive, stable and
environmentally sustainable. These objectives were partially achieved.
13.     Extension activities did not begin until the 1996/97 planting season because of significant delays (14
months) in procuring basic equipment (motorcycles, vehicles, computers, etc.).  Ten regional extension
directorates were created, and by the end of the project, the extension staff was fully in place, with about 3,000
staff, of which 1,500 Field Extension Workers (Conseillers Agricoles, CA). In addition there were about 160
supervisors, 190 production subject matter specialists and 116 farmers organization specialists (FOS). Extension
field staff was about 80 percent of the numbers planned. Such level of staffing was judged appropriate for the
country by ANADER's management, except the staffing level of FOSs which was about half the amount
projected at appraisal (210). The extension service reached in 1997 about 21 percent of the country's 1,000,000
farm households (900,000 in SAR in 1994), that is about 211,000 farms3 through means of Contact Groups
(CG). This represents about 140 farrn households per CA. In 1997 each CA worked with about 12 to 16 CGs
(depending on region), compared with a goal of 24 CG per CA. Demonstration units (DU) were 1.6 to 2.6 per
CG compared with a goal of 5 DU per CG. Application units (AU) were 1.8 per DU compared with a goal of 5
AU per DU. The extensions service had developed 120 technical messages for the 1997 planting season, with
20 to 30 messages selected per supervision zone.
14    The quality of extension activities varied by region, influenced by the dynamism of managers (from
regional director to zone supervisors).  Contact groups were not always fully functional because of
inappropriate selection criteria (no natural affinities, divergent interests/constraints) which resulted in low
attendance rates (on average 37 percent in 1997 including 6 to 8 percent of women). The use of permanent
participatory diagnostic with CGs was still in its infancy. Despite training of all staff in 1996/97, the concept
was not well understood by all staff. The broader Village Participatory Diagnostic (VPD) which would have
helped the extension service in identifying together with communities the technical messages most relevant and
applicable to prevailing constraints, was also still in its infancy and was only used in a limited number of
villages. The VPD did however allow the creation of demand driven contact groups and significantly improved
farmers participation where it was properly applied. Exchange visits were used to help ANADER's trainers
learn from VPD experience in Benin so as to upgrade the CA's ability to conduct the diagnostic. The need to
3   256,000 farms at end 1997 according to the national report, but inconsistent with 21 percent of farms cited in the
national report.



5
identify contact groups more within farmers organizations as a means for increasing farmers' participation was
also being recognized.
15.   Several innovations were introduced by ANADER, such as the specialized advices, provided by subject
matter specialists to farmers who have an above average technical understanding. New initiatives have been
undertaken, such as specific activities geared towards addressing the pre-harvest and post-harvest needs of
women farmers. Several women farmer organizations involved in lowland vegetables and rice production were
covered by the extension system. In the Katiola region, for instance 76 percent of farmers in contact groups
were women. ANADER also started focusing on the specific needs of some sub-sectors such as rubber,
integrated pest management and soil fertility. In addition, a Seeds and Plants Unit was established.
16.   Regarding impact, no baseline survey took place at the beginning of project implementation or before,
which could serve as a guide to evaluate the impact of ANADER at the farm level. A survey was carried out by
ANADER during the 1996/97 planting season to collect baseline information on 10,000 farm households and
measure adoption rates of some extension thennes. The results are shown in Table 5B, Part II. Adoption rates
were measured on the basis of the number of farmers that were members of contact groups and were generally
in the range of 20 to 75 percent. It is not clear to what extent most adoption rates can be attributed to the efforts
of ANADER, rather than to previous projects financed by the Bank and other donors. However, the adoption of
some technologies such as tunnel nursery for coffee, vaccination of chickens against pest, construction of
improved hen houses and composting could mainly be attributed to ANADER. Analysis of the survey data in
terms of impact on yields and output was not yet completed at the time of this ICR to provide estimates of the
impact of ANADER on agricultural productivity growth. Adoption rates, albeit satisfactory given the short
implementation period of the project, were negatively impacted because the technical messages did not fully
address other critical resource constraints at the farm level (labor, credit, access to water, etc.). Farmers
generally appreciated the polyvalent support received from ANADER but complained about the lack of credit
support which they used to receive from the former extension institutions4.
Adaptive Research
17.   The specific objective of the adaptive research sub-component was to: (i) elaborate technical messages
based on a thorough understanding of existing farming practices; (ii) improve research-farmer-extension
linkages. The objective was subtantially achieved.
18.   The instruments set up to achieve the objectives were: the Regional Technical Committees (CTR,
Commites Techniques Regionaux), Observation Plots (PO, Points d 'Observation), Systemic Adaptive research
Sites (SARS), under the control of extension, the Systemic Experimental Sites (PES, Points d'Experimentation
Systme) under the control of the food crops research institute (IDESSA), three of which were set up as planned,
and the monthly technology review meetings (AMRT, Atelier Mensuel de Revue de Technologies). CTRs were
actually regional workshops, organized once a year, and where agricultural scientists, extension agents and
farmers meet to discuss production constraints and related technological solutions. Two CTRs were organized
in 9 regions in 1996 and in all ten regions in 1997. About 50 percent of participants were farmers, of whom 25
percent women, and 40 percent young farners. Participation by research staff in CTRs was normally high (on
average 14 scientists per CTR). Research activities initiated, following the CTRs were generally slightly less
4   MINAGRA 1997 evaluation report, page 25; AN4ADER's consultants report p. 19. Cattle herders in the
north feel that they used to receive better support services from SONAPRA (MINAGRA's 1997
evaluation report, page 23).



6
than those recommended, one reason being the fact that the scientists were not always able to provide extension
staff with solutions to problems discussed during the CTRs, post harvest technologies in particular. Nevertheless
the CTRs resulted in a substantial number of tests and trials in SARS as indicated below.
19.   ANADER established one PO in each of the ten regions, with a total of 23 application sites (Points
d'Application, PAs) for 18 trials (identified during CTRs) in 1995/96, followed by 26 PAs with 47 trials in
1996/97. The SARS approach initiated in 1996 with assistance from Bank staff resulted in 5 diagnostic SARS in
1996 in five regions, and 17 diagnostic SARS in 1997 in all regions, all of which led with CTR's
recommendations to 12 tests by 89 farmers in 1996 and to 43 tests by 425 farmers in 1997, compared with a
goal of 500 farmers set during appraisal (85 percent). Participation of researchers in SARS diagnostic was also
high (on average 5 researchers per SARS for 15 days) as opposed to their low participation in the follow-up
monitoring of the trials and tests.
20.   The results of two evaluation surveys in late 1997, one by independent consultants for ANADER and
one by MINAGRA indicate that farmers were generally satisfied with the new instruments and with the results
which indicated good prospects for technologies more relevant to their needs and circumstances. Such adapted
technologies are, however, not yet fully developed as a result of the short implementation period of the project.
21.   AMRTs which were the principal venue for contact between research scientists and extension subject
matter specialists,  were regularly organized for all specialties combined (perennial and annual crops,
horticultural crops, livestock), with at least one AMRT per month. Only one or two themes were selected each
month, depending on the results of the various diagnostic exercises and on the agricultural calendar. This
approach allowed the extension staff to focus better each month on only one or two key issues that were
considered relevant to farmers, and to immediately use information acquired from researchers to train farmers
during the fortnightly meetings organized during the same month. The approach chosen contrasts with the one
that consists of organizing one AMRT per specialty and per month and may indeed be more cost effective,
although it results in fewer discussion themes with farmers during the year. This calls for a comparative analysis
of the two approaches. A total of 11 AMRTs across the 10 regions were organized in 1995/96, followed by 54
AMRTs in 1996/97.
22.   The application of the R-D instruments allowed identification of technical messages more relevant to
farmers needs and circumstances, and did substantially improve research-farmer-extension linkages. Minor
problems related to insufficient involvement of extension R-D staff in the analysis of trials results, to
insufficient economic analysis of such results, and to inadequate R-D field staffing, were identified during the
ICR mission. Problems with adequate handling of diagnosis results particularly regarding non-agricultural
constraints were also raised in previous evaluation reports.
Farmer's Organizations
23.   The specific objectives of this sub-component were to:  (i) promote and strengthen Farmers'
Organizations (Organisations Professionnelles Agricoles, OPAs); and (ii) improve and promote coordination
among farmers' organizations. This objective was poorly achieved.
24.   Farmers' Organization Specialists (FOSs) helped  several farmers' organizations (OPAs) to register
with DOPAC (MINAGRA's directorate in charge of OPAs), and provided support in the areas of management,
credit, input purchasing, processing of agricultural production, etc. Their number (116 vs. 210 at appraisal)
was, however, insufficient relative to the demand for their services. Each FOS was to work with about 32 OPAs
once per month. In actuality, FOSs were only able to work with about 20. Collaboration between FOSs and
extension staff could have led to a better distribution of tasks between CAs and FOSs, and thereby to better



7
support to OPAs, but was on an informal basis and not systematically organized. The OPAs were generally
GVCs (Groupements a Vocation Cooperative) and their unions. A total of 9,300 OPAs (with 348,000 members)
were identified in 1997 of which 5,229 were operational (56 percent of OPAs). Thus, less than half of
operational OPAs received support from the FOSs.
25.    There was insufficient emphasis on democratic governance of the OPAs, and as a result most
governance institutions and instruments (Geneiral assembly, board, commissaire aux comptes, membership lists,
minutes of meetings, etc,) were functioning poorly or not at all. Emphasis was placed on management, but
management remained weak, with poor handling of accounting books and contracts. Promotion of coordination
among OPAs was not yet on the FOSs' agenda5.
Training and Human Resources Management
26.    The specific objectives of this sub-ccmponent were to: (i) create within ANADER the capacity to
conceive and organize training programs; (ii) help staff to adapt to new task descriptions; (iii) improve
technical, managerial and organizational skills; and (iv) assure efficient human resources management. These
objectives were substantially achieved.
27.    The Human Resources Department was able to formulate and supervise an ambitious training program
of all staff. Given the heterogeneity of backgrounds of staff at the beginning of the project, this required a time-
intensive approach. The initial training spanned a period of 14 months. All staff received training with the help
of internal and external resources. Training programs were developed for all levels of extension staff. Regular
fortnightly training was out in place for CAs. Subject Matter Specialists received initial training and participated
afterwards in monthly training sessions organllzed with research staff as part of the AMRTs. Other staff, in
particular administrative and management staff, received training inside C6te d'Ivoire, or participated in trips to
neighboring countries to share training experiences with other extension services. In general, the training
program was instrumental in raising the technical abilities of all staff, and particularly in providing a polyvalent
training to CAs. As expected, not all staff has reached the required skills level and ANADER will make staffing
changes as part of the second phase project.
28.    The lack of basic agricultural degree training for most CAs (over 50 percent) was and remains a major
constraint in ANADER's human resources development, with respect to adaptation of acquired knowledge to
realities in the field. Insufficient practices were provided during trainings and the polyvalence of CAs remains
weak with respect to livestock production. The FOSs in general lack professional basic training in cooperatives
organization and management.
Monitoring and Evaluation
29.   The specific objective of this sub-component was to: (i) monitor the efficiency of ANADER's regional
branches; and (ii) monitor and evaluate the quality and impact of ANADER's field work. These objectives
were partially achieved.
30.   The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit of ANADER identified a list of performance indicators to
assess the efficiency and effectiveness of its field activities and to produce its annual reports. Two to four
surveys were carried out per region during project implementation and the results were published in the annual
reports. However the results were insufficiently used to program and adjust extension activities. In the
5 According to the 1997 evaluation reports by MINAGRA (p.24) and ANADER's consultants report (p.23).



8
beginning there was no systematic collection of information on adoption rates of the technical themes. This
was, however, corrected towards the end of the project. Data on which to base the impact of the project is
therefore not available. A baseline survey has been established that will serve as the benchmark against which
the second phase can be evaluated.
C. Institutional Strengthening
MINAGRA
National Directorates
31.   National Planning. The Sub-Directorate for Planning and Budgeting within the Planning Directorate
was to be strengthened so as to to focus on (i) formulation of Government's agricultural development policy, (ii)
preparation of policy implementation programs, annual investment budgets, terms of reference for studies, and
modalities for appropriate use and distribution of study results; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation. The
achievement of this objective was negligible.
32.   A M&E unit was established within the sub-directorate for Planning and Budgeting of MINAGRA to
monitor and evaluate the implementation of agricultural projects. It was operational, established performance
indicators for this project and produced quarterly and annual evaluation reports of fair to good quality on the
project. With respect to other objectives the sub-directorate organized training workshops for the staff of
regional directorates on the subjects of M&E and agricultural policy design. Other objectives were not achieved
for the following reasons: (1) lack of designated implementation unit within MINAGRA for Part B of the
project. A coordination unit based within the General Inspection of Agriculture was created one year after credit
effectiveness but its operation modalities remained unclear and it could not properly coordinate the financial,
technical, M&E components which were handled by different departments within the ministry; (2) no training
was planned for the staff of the central directorates and (3) no restructuring of the central directorates was
planned and carried out to establish the adequate functional correspondences that would have helped to achieve
the objectives.6
33.   Agricultural Statistics. The achievement of the objective of regular production of reliable agricultural
statistics in the form of quarterly and annual reports in collaboration with the National Statistical Institute was
negligible. Almost nothing was accomplished at the time of mid-term review in late 1996. Lack of planned
Belgian technical assistance, lack of operational framework ("schema directeur"), insufficiently qualified staff,
were among the major constraints that limited the achievement of the objective. Problems were finally resolved
by the end of the project in preparation for the second phase and the Department for Statistics was finally
adequately staffed and became operational at the end of the project, and launched the gathering and publication
of agricultural statistics on the basis of norms established by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).
Measures have been taken for the objective to be finally achieved in the second phase of the project with
complementary financial contribution from EU and with technical assistance of FAO.
34.   Cooperatives Support. The objectives assigned to this component were substantially achieved. The
Department for Mutuality and Cooperatives (DMC) successfully transferred all activities related to supporting
cooperatives and training of farmers to ANADER and became the DOPAC (Direction des Organisations
Professionnelles Agricoles et du Credit). It focused its activities on the establishment of policies and
regulations of farmers groups and cooperatives, and on supervision of their implementation. It developed a
6 Based on MINAGRA 1997 evaluation report p.27,34.



9
national agricultural credit strategy on the basis of cooperative savings and loan associations. It also
successfully drafted, in collaboration with the cooperative movement, and got adopted by the parliament, at the
end of the project implementation period, in December 1997 (instead of December 1995 in SAR), a new law on
cooperatives, to facilitate the establishment and operation of OPAs7.
MINAGRA's Regional Directorates
35.    The role of the regional directorates was to be limited to: (i) development of regional agricultural
policies; (ii) monitoring and evaluation of policy implementation; (iii) enforcement of regulations; and (d)
collection and processing of statistics. The achievement of this objective was negligible. The regional
directorates have not been able to develop and implement regional agricultural policies for the following
reasons: (1) inadequate staffing -the staffing level in late 1997 was about 40 percent of planned level - (2) the
lack of restructuring at the central level of the ministry to link regional and central functions and to provide
operational budget; (3) incomplete deconcentration and decentralization of the functions of the planning
directorate toward the regional directorates, and absence of territorial decentralization law that would have
allowed any regional agricultural policy, when formulated to be implemented in harmony with the regional
policies of other ministries. The directorates continued to enforce phytosanitary and veterinary regulations.
Training in agricultural statistics was provided to some staff. The component was suspended following a
recommendation of the mid-term review (November 1996) and was not redesigned. Necessary corrective
measures are planned on a pilot basis for three regional directorates in the follow-up project.
MESRS8
36.    The objective of strengthening the Sub-Directorate for adaptive Research of the MESRS was
substantially achieved. Adequate support was provided to the sub-directorate (despite some complaints about
quality of vehicles) to coordinate and supervise the implementation of contractual arrangements between
ANADER and research institutes. The coordination and supervision responsibilities were satisfactorily carried
out as demonstrated by the effective organization of CTRs, of trainings (AMRTs) for extension staff, and of
participation of researchers adaptive research activities (SARs and POs). The three SESs were established and
made operational.
MEFP
37.    MEFP's Sub-Directorate for Control under the project was to arrange for and supervise the annual
external audits of ANADER, and monitor the implementation of the auditor's recommendations. Strengthening
of the sub-directorate was carried out as planned. During project implementation, the sub-directorate did
effectively arrange for independent firms to audit the accounts of ANADER and of Part B of the project, and did
analyze audit reports. However, as pointed out in the mid-term review report (p.62) the external audits reports
and their analysis by the sub-directorate were often not produced on time to be used to efficiently improve
project management. Nevertheless the analysis were generally good and helped in several instances to correct
financial management problems, particularly at the regional level. Lack of management training for managers
at the central ministerial levels, in the project design, was often pointed out as a major cause of the insufficient
achievement of Part B's objectives.
7 No mention was made in any of MINAGRA's reports on the cotton sector study, mentioned in the SAR, as being one
of the objectives assigned to the directorate, suggesting that the study was not carried out by DMC
s   The name of MESRS was changed to Ministere ade l'Enseignement Superieur et des Innovations Technologiques
(MESRIT) during project implementation. The original name was maintained in the ICR in order to avoid confusion.



10
Project Costs and Financing
38.   Actual project costs are estimated at US$90 million, versus an appraisal estimate of US$44.6 million.
The main reason for the higher than planned costs was a substantial increase in Government's contribution
compared with appraisal estimate, which did not include salaries and severance payments by the
Govervemment. Financing was provided by Government (US$58.2 million for salaries, severance payments and
operating costs, versus US$12.4 million planned at appraisal for operating costs alone), IDA (US$20.5 million
versus US$21.8 million planned), the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (US$5.3 million versus US$5.0
million planned), IFAD (US$ 6 million versus US$1.9 million planned). Support expected from AfDB (US$
(US$2.3 million), the United Nations Development Program and the Belgian Agency for Cooperation and
Development (US$0.5 million) did not materialize.9
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors under Government Control
39.   Restructuring during project preparation and government commitment. Completion of the restructuring
process during project preparation, with financing from PPF and other sources, government commitment to the
process and the use of it as condition for effectiveness, considerably reduced project implementation risks and
helped to save time. This enabled the project to focus on key institutions strengthening aspects and thereby
increase its chances of success.
40.   Counterpart Funding. The government provided about two thirds of the total cost of the project. The
disbursement on a regular basis of such funds by the government, as a result of government commitment to the
project, and as a result of preventive measures taken during project preparation, allowed for a smooth
implementation of the project without any financial crisis.
41.   MINAGR  's Handling of Part B. The fact that no implementing unit for Part B was clearly designated
on time within MINAGRA and given the necessary power to manage the component, the absence of
restructuring at the central level, incomplete decentralization and incomplete de-concentration of MINAGRA,
all contributed to the insufficient performance of Part B.
42.   Procurement Delays. The fact that basic project equipment was not acquired until fourteen months after
effectiveness significantly reduced the time available to carry out the project and thereby limited the potential
achievements and impact of the project. The complexity of national procurement procedures, insufficient
procurement training at various levels within ANADER and within the central directorates, as well as,
insufficiently and inadequately computerized accounting systems at the beginning of the project, including long
delays in provision of non-objections by the Bank, all accounted for such delays.
43.   Short duration of project and extension of closing date. The short initial implementation period of 2.5
years was insufficient to achieve the ambitious project objectives. The six- month extension of the closing date
enabled ANADER to work through two agricultural seasons to more or less adapt its extension tools and to
show a minimum of impact. The extension of the closing date, following government request, was determinant
for the achievement of a minimum number of Part B's objectives as many of such objectives were achieved or
9   According to the National Report.



11
started being achieved by the end of 1997, such as adoption of the new cooperative law and the launching of
agricultural statistics.
44. Autonomy and stability of ANADER 's Mdanagement. The relative autonomy, granted by the government,
which ANADER had over the management of personnel and financial resources allowed greater flexibility and
cost effectiveness in resources use, such as changes in regional directors, timely funding of new initiatives, etc,
than would have probably been the case wiithout such autonomy. The stability of the management team,
appointed by the government, further allowed continuity and consistency in project management.
Factors under Implementing Agencies' Control
45.   Project Supervision. Frequent supervision of the project in collaboration with experienced Bank's staff,
and particularly the timely mid-term review, two years after effectiveness, as well as the Monitoring and
Evaluation reports of ANADER and of MINAGRA helped to make necessary adjustments in project design and
implementation and helped the project to remaiin on track.
46.   Implementation of the Training and Visit Methodology. Problems in adapting the T&V concept
adequately to local circumstances, such as the creation of contact groups within farmers organizations where
feasible, and insufficient incentives from the hierarchy within ANADER to enable field staff to implement
initiatives, led to relatively low attendance ratios within the contact groups and thereby to limited efficiency and
effectiveness in technology transfer.
47.   Farmers Organizations Specialists. The limited number of Farmers' Organization Specialists relative to
the number of farmers organizations and the lack of systematized working relationships between the FOS and
other field extension workers, to achieve adequate complementarity, led to insufficient achievements with
respect to support to farmers organizations.
48.   Diagnosis Tools and R-D Instruments. The introduction of diagnosis tools in the extension systems in
various ways (SARS, permanent diagnosis, village level diagnosis) although not yet well mastered by the
extension agents, and the use of Research-Development instruments (CTR, OP, SARS) initiated the
development and transfer of technologies more relevant to farmers needs and circumstances
Other Factors
49.   Basic Skills of Extension Agents. The fact that ANADER inherited from previous extension agencies an
heterogeneous field staff (CAs or VEWs) with limited sector knowledge, most with no basic agricultural degree
training, led to a large amount of resources and time being spent on training at the expenses of extension
activities and contributed to sub-optimal achievements of the project
50.   Fragmented Reseach System. The fragmentation of the research system led to the need for the
intervention of MESRS to coordinate and resulted in high transaction costs to strengthen the research-extension
linkage, which, despite progress made during project implementation, remains non-sustainable in such
conditions.
51.   Previous agricultural extension project. The introduction of the T&V system by previous agricultural
extension project such as PVA (Projet de Vulgarisation Agricole) in some regions reduced the learning cost for
the project by providing human resources and farmers who were used to the approach.



12
52.   Preparation of the follow-up project. The preparation of the second phase which started in 1996,
provided incentives to the government for achieving some of the objectives of the project which were lagging
behind schedule, such as the cooperative law.
Project Sustainability
53.   The sustainability of the project is overall likely. The participation of farmers or beneficiaries in the
management of the extension services in Cote d'Ivoire is likely to increase their willingness to pay for the costs
of such services, as long as the services provided meet their needs. The financial sustainability of ANADER is
likely through cost recovery. During the pre-appraisal of the follow-up project, farmers organizations agreed to
buy 60 percent of ANADER's shares and to finance, 60 percent of its operating costs. This will be done initially
through a state-authorized voluntary levy on the main export crops. The government agreed to set up an
autonomous and sustainable financing system for ANADER, and full implementation of such system will be a
trigger for the second phase. Financial sustainability of the backup support from MINAGRA and other
ministries is likely, since the expected agricultural productivity growth is likely to result in greater government
revenues to face the recurrent costs of such support.
54.    The institutional sustainability of ANADER is likely, if the shift from public to private management is
successfully completed and if its human resource base is successfully upgraded. The sustainability of impact is
also likely given the fact that the project contributed to improvement of farmers' technical knowledge and given
the long lasting impact of the extended and adopted technologies.
Bank Performance
55.    Preparation and Appraisal. The Bank's performance at these stages was satisfactory. The project's
design was innovative, adequately opportunistic and fitted well with Bank and government strategies and with
the socio-economic context in C6te d'Ivoire at the time of project preparation. Adequate measures were taken to
minimize implementation risks. However, confusion in the project time frame somewhat negatively affected
such a performance.
56.   Supervision. The Bank 's performance at this stage was also satisfactory. Supervision was adequately
close in time and space, with an experienced field-based agricultural services specialist and an experienced
headquarters-based Task Manager. The mid-term review took place slightly less than two years following credit
effectiveness and was instrumental in making necessary adjustments to project design and implementation.
Field supervision was carried out frequently (monthly or bi-monthly) in close contact with beneficiaries.
However, the Bank's performance with respect to procurement was deficient, as a result of long delays in
providing non-objections. This was partly responsible for the fourteen month-delay experience in effective
project implementation. However, the Bank's performance with respect to disbursement/fund replenishment and
audit control was much more satisfactory.
Borrower Performance
57.   The performance of the borrower was satisfactory. The government demonstrated commitment and
facilitated the restructuring process, but much better in the case of ANADER than in the case of MINAGRA.
The government made financial and human resources available to ANADER as planned and did not interfere
with the autonomous management of such resources. The government, through MINAGRA, carried out
frequent supervision of the project and made recommendations that helped to keep the project on track.
However, serious delays in procurement due partly to the national procurement commissions and late analysis
of audit reports by MEF negatively affected such a performance.



13
58.   The performance of ANADER in implementing Part A of the project was also satisfactory. No serious
problem in the management of the agency has been recorded. Adequate human resources were made available
to improve project management at the regional level and audit reports were generally unqualified. MINAGRA
on the other hand as the implementing agency for Part B of the project failed to adequately assign effective
implementation responsibilities within the ministry, and reserves related to insufficient documentation of
expenses were issued against some of its regional directorates by auditors. Most audit recommendations were
generally adequately implemented by both ANADER and MINAGRA.
Assessment of Outcome
59.    The project's outcome is rated satisfactory. Despite the short implementation period of the project (3
years) and its relatively ambitious objectives, the project was able to establish a well functioning extension
agency (ANADER) and to involve farmers'organizations and the private sector, via their representatives on the
Board, in the management of extension services, thereby increasing its accountability to the quality of the
services and its cost. In addition, substantial progress was made in the strengthening of some key activities of
MINAGRA, and some impact of the project in terms of technology adoption is already visible after only two
agricultural seasons.
Future Operation
60.   The Government had originally viewecd the project as the first phase of a long term program and had
therefore planned that the achievements of the project be sustained by a second phase operation The second
phase operation has been prepared and negotiations between the Government and IDA took place in May 1998.
EU and other donors are also expected to provide financial contributions to the follw-up project. The latter by its
design takes into account most of the lessons learnt during the first phase and aims at a more cost effective
achievement of the development objectives set forth in the first phase. In partcular it seeks to deepen the
institutional reforms achieved under the firsi project, so as to ensure the financial sustainability of the
agricultural research and extension system, by further transferring decision-making on strategic and
management issues to beneficiaries (farmers, farmers associations and other agricultural/agro-industrial
investors) who will bear an increasing share of the cost of these services. A core component of this strategy,
and of the proposed Program, will be the continued support to the emergence of efficient, autonomous farmers'
organizations.
61.   In recognition of the long-term support required to achieve these reforms, the follow-up project has
been designed as an eleven-year Adaptable P'rogram Loan (APL). The program will continue to support
ANADER, and in addition will also provide support for the creation of a new national agricultural research
center (CNRA), decentralized and privately owned and managed like ANADER by its main clients. Support to
key directorates of MINAGRA will contnue under the new program, but on a pilot basis with respect to the
decentralization of the Planning Directorate. The program will further reinforce sustainability and cost-
effectiveness of the national technology development and transfer system by also supporting rural community
radios for the dissemination of technical and market information.
62.   Key Lessons Learned
(a)    Instututional reforms and capacity building so as to achieve sustainable and cost effective
agricultural services is a long term process which requires clearly defined short-, medium-, and
long-term objectives, and the long term commitment of the government and of its development
partners to support such objeclives. The short duration of the project in face of relatively



14
ambitious objectives, contributed to some confusion in the Borrower's mind. The lesson has
been applied in the second phase operation, by designing it as an APL.
(b)    Initiating a restructuring process during project preparation, funding it from the PPF, and setting
the completion of the bulk of the restructuring process as a condition for effectiveness,
significantly reduce project implementation risks.
(c)    Simultaneous restructuring and support to agricultural extension and agricultural research
institutions may significantly improve the cost effectiveness of the adaptive research
components of agricultural services projects.
(d)    The restructuring process within a ministry must be comprehensive, and not partial, in order to
be successful. It must include all central and decentralized directorates. An implementing unit
vested with all necessary power must be designated to coordinate the restructuring and
institution strengthening process
(e)    Reforms leading to the design and implementation of regional agricultural  development
policies may not be effective if carried out within a single ministry of agriculture without a
national territorial decentralization law applicable to all ministerial departments. It may be
better handled with a structural adjustment loan.
(f)    Permanent and participatory diagnostics at contact group level, as well as village level
diagnostics, significantly contribute to increasing farmers participation, the pertinence of
extended technologies and impact. However, considerable time, resources, practices and well
thought training strategies are necessary to train extension workers to reach the adequate skill
level; but not all extension workers have the natural skills to become proficient in diagnostics,
thereby the need for team works in applying the tool.
(g)    Basic degree training in agriculture for extension workers and thereby support to agricultural
schools is essential for improving adaptation of extension tools to farmers circumstances.



15
IMPLEMENTATI:ON COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL AGRICIJLTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(Cr. 2636-IVC)
PART 11: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Substantial   Partial  Negligible  Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives     (X)        (X)       (X)           (X)
Macroeconomic policies            _X
Sector policies                                     X
Financial objectives              _X
Institutional development      X
Physical objectives                _                              X
Poverty reduction                         X
Gender issues                             X
Other social objectives             _                             X
Environmental objectives                                          X
Public sector management       X
Private sector development                    _                   X
Likely    Unlikely     Uncertaia
(X)        (X)           (X)
B. Project sustainability                    X X
C. Bank performance                     _
Identification                                         X
Preparation assistance                                 X
Appraisal                                              X
Supervision              -                             x    l
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                                           X
Implementation                                        X
Covenant compliance          -                        X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome                l_        l     X       |_l



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/ IDA Credits
Loan/Credit title                     Purpose                   Year of     Status
approval
Preceding operations
Forestry II         Establish forest plantations to substitute for  1985  Completed
(Ln. 24960)         dwindling natural forest reserves by dubbing area
planted under first project
Palm Oil V          Replanting and new planting of estate and   1985      Completed
(Ln. 26270)         smallholder plantations
Ag. Extension       Improvement of agriculture extension in     1986      Completed
(Ln. 27650)         country's three main general extension agencies
Rubber V            To increase area of rubber planted and to   1987      Completed
(Ln. 28740)         diversify participation by increasing proportion of
small and medium size growers
Ag. Sector          To consolidate and further expand structural  1989    Completed
Adjustment Loan     adjustment reforms mainly in the field of resource
(Ln. 31270)         management and institutional improvements
including agricultural credit and marketing
institutions
Pilot Women in      Support for several large scale pilot projects  1990  Completed
Development         including a) support for rural women's groups, b)
(Ln. 32510)         creation of rural development fund, c) support for
cooperative savings and credit organizations, d)
pilot land tenure improvement and e) studies
Forestry Sector     To stop destruction of the rain forest, ensure  1991  Completed
Project             sustainable production in the timber industry,
(Ln. 31860)         improve the efficiency of the domestic wood
processing industry, protect national parks and
promote better coordination between the
agriculture and forestry sectors
Rural Savings       To strengthen the network of mutual savings and   1994  Active
(Cr. 25970)         loan cooperatives through technical and financial
assistance
Ag. Export Promotion  To diversify and expand agricultural exports and   1995  Active
(Cr. 27490)         sales and contribute to private sector development
Ag. Sector          To pursue suitable policy reforms in the    1995      Completed
Adjustment Credit    agriculture sector (coffee/cocoa, rice and trade)
(Cr. 27790)         following the CFAF devaluation
(Cr. 27791)
Rural Land Mgt.     To enhance the standard of living of rural  1998      Active
(Cr. N0220)         population by empowering communities,
stimulating local investment and facilitating
sustainable management of natural resources and
rural infrastructure



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date Planned (1)     Date Actual/
|___ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ _ _   | _Latest Estimate
Identification                                                November 1991
Appraisal                                March 1993           April 1993
Negotiations                             June 1993             March 1994
Board Presentation                       July 1993             June 1994
Signing                                                        September 1994
Effectiveness                            September 1994        December 1994
Mid-term review                          June 1996            November 1996
Project Completion                       December 31, 1996    June 30, 1997
Credit Closing                           June 30, 1996         December31, 1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY94      FY95        FY96       FY97      FY98
Appraisal Estimate                1.2        12.8       19.8       21.8        -
Actual                            _ _____    1.3         5.7       17.1       20.4
Actual as % of Estimate                      10.2       28.8       78.4       94
Date of Final Disbursement                          June 4, 1998



IMPLEMENTATION  COMPLETION  REPORT
REPUBLIC OP COTE D'IVOIRE
Table  5A. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
Proiect Obiectives and lmplementation Indicators
|Restructuring        Close three existing           Creation of an interministerial committee with representatives from MINAGRA, MESRS, HINEF and    02-93 (c) l
Process              parastatal extension           MINIFOBi
agencies and create aI
single private National        Completion of the staff census                                                                        02-93 (c) 
Agricultural Servicesl
Agency (ANADER) and            Selection of specialized private firms for staff evaluation and preparation of staff                  07-93 (c)
streamline MINAGRA's           selection_ 
regional di rectorates.
(DRAs)                         Creation of ANADER and official decision on restructuration of MINAGRA regional directorates          09-93 (c)
Completion of job description of all staff concerned                                                 09-93 (c)
Completion of staff selection                                                                           05-94
Recruitment and start-up of training of the heads of the training and Hluman Resources                  05-94            -
Management Departments of the Agency at both central and regional level o
Lay-off of contractual staff who are not selected to continue to work at MINAGRA or to join             08-94     l
the Agency.
Creation of a specialized office to a:ist redundant staff to seek new employment in the              01-94 (c)l
private sector
Corpletion of the identification of staff's training needs and the project's training program           07-94
Final selection of the Director General of the Agency,                                                03-94 (c)
Final selection, of the Agency's national directors and of the heads of the regional                    0594 
financial services Land Humsdan Resources  anagemente 
Creation of the National Agricultural Services Agency through Presidential Decree                     09-93 Cc
Appointment of all ANADER's staff                                                                        08-94
Appointment of a liquidator for the existing extension parastatals                                       04-94
Audit  of 1992 accounts and evaluation of assets of existing extension paeastatals                    02-94 (c)
Allocation of assets to the Agency                                                                       07-94
RrAudit at  March 31s   1994 accoanits of  the former Agencies                                          08-94
..________________  H_______________________ CrMinisterial decree  to reorganize the  liNAGRA's services                                          04-94     l
private~.   :-ect,o.r0.:



Elimination of duptication of extension services                                                          01-95
ANADER -.            Improve organization and
Extension            management of existing          hultidisciplinarity of the extension service                                                             Contin.
extension services
Establishment of working programs for extension staff on all levels                                       03-95
Regutar supervision of extension staff on all levels                                                     ContIn.
Regular training for all staff                                                                           Contin.
Appropriate logistic support for field and central staff                                                  03-95
Improve farmers' know-how      Regular fortnightly visits to farmers' contact groups                                                      03-95
and knowledge to increase
their productivity and         Installation of demonstration plots In farmers' fields                                                     06-95
income;                        Repetition of demonstration plots by all interested farmers in their own fields                            06-95
hnke the existing farm         Development of new technical messaSec                                                                      06-95
management systems more                                                                                                              I
productive, stabte and          Focus on the farm as a whote                                                                              06-95
envirormentalty                                                                                                                             -
sustainable                    Speciat emphasis on agro-forestry and improved fatlow                                                      06-96
ANADER - Adaptive   Elaborate technical              Estnblishment of one Systemic Research Adaptation Site (SARS) in each region -- as much as
Research             messages, based on a            possible In the immediate surroundings of the observation plots tohfacilitate management and
thorough understanding of      to diminish costs -- to bridge the gap between research results, both systemic and thematic,               04-95
existing farming               on the one hand, and technical messages, adoptable by farmers, on the other hand
practices, permitting
farmers -- in particular
women and youth -- to          Establishment of one Observation Plot in each region to serve as multi-local trial sites for
increase their revenue and    thematic research programs to undertake varietal tests                                                      04-95
productivity through
intensificationi of
cropping practices and
diversification into
profitable and                  InstaLlation of On Farm Triats to test varieties, selected through the observation plots, in
envirormentaL sustainable       farmers' own fields                                                                                       04-95
activities;
Improve research-farmer-       Organization of Monthly lechnical Review Meetings with SPSs, thematic and systemic
extension linkages              researchers and SARS staff                                                                                03-95
Participation of the Agency (Directorate for Support to Adaptive Research/Service for
Technical Programs of Research/Develoypnent Stpport) in elaboration of research programs                  02-95
AJADER - Support    Promote and strengthen           Recruitment of 210 Farmers' Organizations Specialists (FOSs)                                               01-95
to Farmers'          farmers' organizations
Organizations                                        Regular meetings of FOSs and about 20 farmers' organizations each to train and advise
participants on creation of farmers' organizations, corporate management and accountancy,                Contin.
purchasing of inputs, rural credit, processing of agricultural production, marketing, and
-elations with other organizations in agri-btminess



Improve and promote            Ctose collaboration between the Agency and the EDF/UNDP/ILO Professional Organizations
coordination among             Project which focuses on the creation of second and third - level organizations                           Contin.
farmers' organizations
ANADER * Training   Create, within the Agency,    Completion of training of Humaa  Resources Managers and Training HMnagers                                     08-94
and Huaan            the capacity to conceive
Resources            andp organize training          Assurance of external supervision of trainers                                                             Contin.
Management           programs;
Help staff adapt to new        Completion of first training of all staff on job description                                               03-95
taEsk descriptions;
task____descriptions;_______   Completion of initial technical training for all staff                                                     03-95
Improve technicat,             Provision of continuous technicat training for all staff
managerial and                                                                                                                            06-96
organizational skills;
Assure efficient human         Adaptation of training programs to staff performance                                                       06-96
resources management
ANADER -             Monitoring the efficiency       Monitoring of farmers' participation in contact groups and professional organizations                      06-95
Monitoring and       of the Agency's regionat
Evaluation           branches;                       Monitoring of women farmers, participation                                                                 06-95
Monitoring of respect of working programs                                                                 06-95
Monitoring of quality and regularity of training                                                          06-95
Monitoring of cost effectiveness of ratios                                                                06-95
Budgetary control                                                                                         06-95
Monitoring and evatuation      Monitoring of variations in farmers' revenues                                                              09-95
of the quatity and impact
of the ANADER's field work    Monitoring of women farmers' revenues                                                                       09-95
Monitoring of farmers' reactions to technical themes                                                      09-95
Monitoring of adoption rates                                                                              09-95
Monitoring of commnercial performance                                                                     09-95
Monitoring of benefits increase of farmers' organizations                                                 09-95
ANADER -              Assure the Agency's             Preparation of annual budgets                                                                             01-95
Acdinistration        accountabitity
and Finance                                          Assure general and anatyticat accountabitity                                                               03-95
Assure budgetary controt                                                                                  03-95
Supervision of the accountability at the regional level                                                   03-95
Manage ANADER's goods and       Purchasing of goods and services                                                                          03-95
equipment                      Survision of logistical management at the regional level
Supervision oflogisticat mangement at the  esional level03-95



Prjc toqmn    |ooe~   Objective                                                      CriticaL Step    Indiat                                             blX0; ;9^a M0Ites |
Assure the administrative
aspects of human resources    Assure supervision of regional administrative human resources management                                03-95
management
Institutional       Support to MINAGRA's           Formutation of the Government's agricultural development policy                                         06-96
Strengthening of    National Directorate for
MIUAGRA              Planning/Sub Directorate      Preparation of policy implementation programs, annual investment budgets, terms of reference            08-96
(National)           for Planning and Budgeting    for studies, and modalities for appropriate use and distribution of study results
Monitoring and evaluation                                                                              06-95
Strengthening of HINAGRA's    Oisengagement from all activities related to direct support to cooperatives and training of             03-95
National Directorate for      farmers
Cooperatives Suowort
Completion of the study possibility for the CIDT only to purchase seed cotton, processing and          12-95
fiber cotton trade
Completion of revision of the cooperative legislation to make it more simple and operationat           12-95
Monitoring of policy implementation and enforcement of regulations    &                                03-96
Strengthening of MINAGRA's    Definition of the role of the Regional Directorates: (a) development of regional agricultural
Regional Directorates         policies; (b) monitoring and evaluation of policy implementation; (c) enforcement of                    06-95
regulations; and (d) collection and processing of statistics
Organization of Regional Directorates with a Service for Programming, M&E and Statistics, a
Service for Administration and Finance, a Service for Natural Resources, a Service for Pests,          06-95
Seeds and Veterinary Control, and a Service for Monitoring of the Cooperative Movement
Selection and redeployment of staff                                                                    09-94
Institution         Strengthening of MESRS         Enhance the Sub-Directorate's capacity to oversee research institutes as to their adaptive
Strengthening of    Sub-Directorate for            research activities                                                                                     06-95
MESRS                Adaptive Research
Institutional       Strengthening of MINEF         Annual auditing of project components                                                                   06-96
Strengthening of    Sub-Directorate for
MINEF                Management Control            Assure exploitation of audit reports                                                                    03-96
Monitor implementation of auditor's recommendations                                                    11-96



22
Table 5: Key Indicators for project Implementation
Table SB. Partial and Total Adoption Rates for Selected Technical Messages (1996/97)
Technical Message                     Partial Adoption        Total Adoption
(percentage)          (percentage)
Anti-miride treatment                         8                    57
Coffee tree pruning                          19                    20
Coffee plant density                         8                     53
Row planting for maize and rice              13                    65
Row transplanting for irrigated rice        18                     16
Fertilization                               20                     50
Coffee "tunnel" nursery                                            48
Coffee cuttings                                                    56
Composting                                                          13
Anti-PPAV vaccination                                              74
Internal and external deparasitizing                               65
Construction of improved hen houses   _    _      _                31
Construction of improved barns    I      __                        43
Table 6: Key Indicators for project Operation
Key Indicators                             Estimated                  Actual
Staffing Ratio
Farmer households per extension               200                      140
agents
Supervisor to extension agents                1/8                      1/10
Training Schedule
Bi-weekly                                    5,640                     1,260
Monthly                                       120                       54
Number of contact groups                    36,320                    24,000
Percentage of all farmers                     50                        21
contacted
Percentage of Professional                   3,552                     1,231
Organizations contacted



23
Tableau 7: Studies Included in project (carried out)
Study                    Status               Impact of Study
Agricultural Statistics Restructuring and  Completed  Production of a comprehensive agricultural
Development                                       statistics strategy and action plan under
implementation
Setting up of the Agricultural Statistics  Completed  Production of a comprehensive agricultural
Operational Planning                              statistics strategy and action plan under
implementation
Computerization of MINAGRA's Services   Completed  Computer system master plan
Setting up of a Program for the       Completed  Improvement of strategic support to OPA's
improvement of Cooperatives
Scientifical and Technical Information  Completed  Design of the information system for
Management                                       agronomic research
Consideration of Gender Aspects in    Completed  Improvement of Gender integration in
Extension Projects                                extension and research activities
Management of Human Resources         Completed  Conception of a decentralization strategy
under implementation
Table 8 A: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Project Component            Appraisal Estimate (US$M)        Actual (US$M)
1. Vehicles                        5.9                         6.4
2. Equipment, Furniture and        2.0                          3.0
Computers
3. Consultant Services             0.4                          1.0
4. Training                        1.3                          2.0
5. Operating Costs                 6.3                         6.9
6. PPF Refinancing                 2.0                          0.4
7. Studies                         2.0                          0.8
8. Non Allocated                   1.9                         0.0
Total IDA Credit                 21.8                        20.5
Table 8 B: Project Financing
Source                      Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Government                         12.4                        58.2
IDA                                21.8                        20.5
UNDP                               0.7                          0
AFD (ex-CFD)                       5.0                          5.2
AGCD                               0.5                          0
IFAD                               1.9                         6.0
AfDB                               2.3                          0
TOTAL                              44.6                        90.0



Table 9: Economic costs and benefits
No economic analysis was caried out at appraisal. Given the objectives of the project and the short implementation period, it was considered not
useful to carry out an ex-post evaluation
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit Agreement       Covenant Type    T Present Status    Original           Revised         Description of Covenant                                      Comments
Section                                  l                  Fulfillment Date    Fulfillment
3.01 (a) (ii)          05                  C                                                   The Borrower shall cause ANADER to perform in accordance with    Fulfilled
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
ANADER therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services & other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ANADER to perfofmf
l______________                                      such obligations which would prevent or interfere with
3.01 (b)               3                   C                                                   The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit available  Fulfilled
to ANADER under financing agreement to be entered into between
l__________                        the Borrower and ANADER.
3.01 (d)               5                   NC               Soon                               The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance  This part of the project  4"
with Implementation Program (Schedule 4).                   will be integrated in the
future rural capacity
building operation.
3.02 (a)               3                   C                                                   The Borrower shall establish and maintain, for the purposes of Part   Fulfilled
A of the Project, a Project Account in CAA to be used exclusively
for the purposes of meeting expenditures incurred under Part A of the
Project, which are not extemally financed.
3.02 (b)               4                   C                                                   The Borrower shall establish and maintain, for the purpose of Part B   Fulfilled
of the Project, a Project Account in CAA to be used exclusively for
the purposes of meeting expenditures incurred under Part B of the
l ____________________                                       ________________                   Project, which  are not extemally  financed.
3.02 (c)               4                   C                                                   The Borrower shall deposit into each of the Project Accounts,  Fulfilled
promptly before each fiscal quarter, sufficient funds to pay the
Borrowers contribution to the financing of the Project required for
such quarter, as estimated by the Borrower in consultation with the
Association.
3.04                   10                  CD                                  12/31/94        The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1994, transfer to  Fulfilled
ANADER the assets of SATMACI, CIDV & SODEPRA necessary
for ANADER's operations.
3.06                   4                   C                                                   The Borrower shall make available to ANADER funds and resources  Fulfilled
necessary for the payment of salaries of ANADER's staff and
ANADER's operating costs for the Project.
3.07                   10                  NC                                                  The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1995, revise, as  Delayed by participative
necessary, the applicable regulations relating to agricultural  process requested by the
cooperatives.                                               Bank



3.0S                      3                     C                                                         Procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for    Fulfilled
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
.________________  ________________                   Development Credit Agreement. .
3.09 (a)                  9                     CD                                                        The Borrower shall by April 30, 1996 carry out jointly with         Fulfilled
Association and ANADER a midterm review of the Project.
3.09 (b)                  9                     CD                                                        The Borrower shall carry out after the Mid Term Review such         Fulfilled
corrective actions as the Borrower and the Association will
determine in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the
Association.
3.09 (c)                  9                     CD                                                        In order to facilitate the Mid Term Review, the Borrower shall      Fulfilled
prepare and submit to the Association, not later than four weeks
before the scheduled date of this review, a report of Project activities
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested.
4.01 (a)                  I                     C                                                         The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to maintained records and     Fulfilled
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounts
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
Part B of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
I responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof
4.01 (b) (i)              I                     C                                                         The Borrower shall have the records and accounts, including those   Fulfilled
o r    c- Ad.   --cal..cot B f-o -ah jr-1s   ...Adie, n.acof9c
with appropriate auditing principles consistendy applied, by
i___________________  I________________  I_____I                        _____ I_   independent auditors acceptable  to  the Association
4.01 (b) (ii)             I                     C                                                         The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, as soon as available,    Fulfilled           lun
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each a
I_._I_I  _        I_I_I certified copy of the audit report.
4.01 (b) (iii)            I                     C                                                         The Borrower shall furmish to the Association such other information   Fulfilled
concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the
l______________ l______________ l____________  Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
4.01 (c) (i)              I                     C                                                         For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the     Fulfilled
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
l___l_______i______                                                               reflecting such expenditures.                                     l       _l
4.01 (c) (ii)             I                     C                                                         For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the     Fulfilled
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall retain, until at least one year after
the Association has received the audit report the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the
SA was made, alt records evidencing such expenditures.           I         _        _
4.01 (c) (iii)            I                     C                                                         For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the     Fulfilled
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall enable the Association's
I__________________  I_______________  I_____________  I______________  I____________  representatives to  examine  such   records.                 I_l
4.01 (c) (iv)             I                     C                                                         For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the CA    Fulfilled
were made on the basis of SOEs the borrower shall ensure that all
records and accounts are included in the audit & that the report of
such audit contains a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures &
intemal controls involved in the preparation.                      _       _       _



[ Schedule 3 Section I  3                                                                           Goods for Part B of the Project shall be procured under contracts  Fulfilled
Part 1: 1.                                                                                           awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and 11 of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits".
Schedule 3 Section II 1.   3                 C                                                      The Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,     Fulfilled
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with the 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants".
Schedule 5 (2.)         3                    C                                                      Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for    Fulfilled
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
|2.01(a)                3                    C                                                      ANADER ( ...) shall carry out Part A of the Project with due    Fulfilled
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial & shall provide, or cause to be provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the project.
2.01 (b)                 5                   C                                                      ANADER shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with  Fulfilled
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
2.02                    3                    C                                                      Procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for    Fulfilled
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be govemed by the provisions of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
2.03                     5,9                 C                                                      ANADER shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03,    Fulfilled
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 & 9.08 of the General Conditions in respect of
the Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
2.04                    3                    C                                                      ANADER shall duly perform all its obligations under the Financing   Fulfilled
Agreement. ANADER shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Financing Agreement or any provision thereof
2.05 (a)                9                    C                                                      ANADER shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views  Fulfilled
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Financing Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
2.05 (b)                9                    C                                                      ANADER shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interfere or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by ANADER of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Financing Agreement.
3.01                    5                    C                                                      ANADER shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in  Fulfilled
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical,
environmental and scientific practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
l______________   ________________                     adequate  numbers.
3.02                    5                    C                                                      ANADER shall at all times operate and maintain its machinery,   Fulfilled
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals, all in accordance
with sound technical and financial practices.



3.03                     5                     C                                                        ANADER shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers      Fulfilled
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
3.04 (a)                 9                     C                                                        ANADER shall by April 30, 1996, carry out jointly with the        Fulfilled
Association and the Borrower a midterm review of the Project which
shall cover, inter-ail, the actual setting-up and operations of the new
structures.
3.04 (b)                 9                     C                                                        ANADER shall, after the midterm review, carry out such corrective
actions as the Borrower and the Association shall determine in
accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the Associations.
3.04 (c)                 9                     C                                                        In order to facilitate the midterm review, ANADER shall prepare   Fulfilled
and submit to the Association, not later than four weeks before the
scheduled date of this review, a report of Project activities of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonable
requested.
4.01 (a)                                       C                                                        ANADER shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in   Fulfilled
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
4.01 (b) (i!              I                    C                                                        ANADER shall have its records, accounts and financial statements    Fulfilled
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) and the records and accounts for the Special Account A
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association.
4.01 (b) (ii)             I                    C                                                        ANADER shall fumish to the Association as soon as available, but    Fulfilled
in any case not later than six months after the end of each year, (a)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (b) the report of such audit.
4.01 (b) (iii)            1                    C                                                        ANADER shall fumish to the Association such other information      Fulfilled
conceming said record,
4.01 (e) (i)              I                    C                                                        For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the    Fulfilled
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
ANADER shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures.
4.01 (c) (ii)             I                    C                                                        For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the    Fulfilled
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, ANADER shall retain, until at least I year after the
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the CA payment out of the SA (a) was
made, all records evidencing such expenditures.
4.01 (c) (iii)           9                     C                                                        For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the    Fulfilled
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
ANADER shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records.



4.01 (c) (iv)                              C                                                    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the CA    Fulfilled
were made on the basis of SOEs ANADER shall ensure that such
records and accounts are included in the audit, and that the audit
contains a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures & intemal controls
involved in their preparation, can support related withdrawals
Schedule I Section 1   3                   C                                                   Goods for Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts  Fulfilled
Part 1: 1                                                                                      awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits".
Schedule I Section I1    3                 C                                                   ANADER shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience  Fulfilled
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants".
Schedule 2.1 (d) (i)   9                   C                                                   ANADER, in collaboration with MINAGRA, will prepare           Fulfilled
semiannual progress reports on Project's implementation to be
submitted to the Borrower and the Association.
Schedule 2.1 (d) (ii)  9                   C                                                   ANADER shall communicate to the Association, or comments,    Fulfilled
before October 31 of each year, the program of operations and a
detailed annual training program for Part A of the Project for the
following year.
Schedule 2.1 (d) (iii)  9                  C                                                   ANADER shall, in collaboration with MINAGRA, prepare the     Fulfilled
Project Completion Report within 6 months following the
completion of the Project.
Status:                                                           Covenant Class:
C: Complied with                                                  1: Accounts/Audit
CD: Complied after delay                                          2: Financial Performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries                                                      co
NC: Not Complied with                                             3: Flow and utilization of Project funds
Soon: Compliance expected in Reasonably Short Time                4: Counterpart funding
CP: Complied with Partially                                       5: Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
NYD: Not Yet Due                                                  6: Environmental covenants
7: Involuntary resettlement
8: Indigenous people
9: Monitoring, review and reporting
10: Implementation
11: Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12: Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13: Other



29
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
The project complied with operational manual
statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                                    Actual
Project Cycle
Wee-ks                                       US$
($000)
Through Appraisal                             224.4                                       554.9
Appraisal-Board                                81.8                                       231.3
Supervision                                   144.0                                       358.7
Completion                                     12.0                                        34.4
TOTAL                                        462.2                                     1,179.30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Project phase    Month/Year          Number  Days in   Specialized               Implementation    Development  Types of
of       Field     Staff Skills             Status          Objectives     problems
Persons           Represented
Identification
Preparation
Pre-appraisal                                                                   __=
Appraisal        April 1993         7         10        EC, SE, FA, AE, TR, EX
(2)                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Supervision I    August 1994        8                   EX, AE, TR, LS, SE       S               S
Supervision II   May 1995           7                  EC, EX (3), AE, PS, LS,    S              S
SE__                        _ _ _  _ _
Supervision III  March 1996         8         10        PS, FA (2), EX (3), AE,    S             S             P, D
SE__                        _ _ _  _ _
Supervision IV   November 1996      3         10        AS, EC, EX               S               S
Supervision V    February 1997      2         10        AS, EX, Soil Scientist   S               S
Supervision VI  T May 1997        f3        1 7 [       AS, EX, Soil Scientist    SS
Supervision VII*  June 1997       |10       [ 7         AS, EX, FA, LS            SS
Supervision    j December 1997   110       [C          AS,EX,FA,LS,PS,EC E       S             | S
* Joint mission: PNASA I Supervision/PNASA II Pre-Appraisal 1 &2
Types of problems:                                            Subject specialty:                       SE: Social Economist
D: Slow Disbursement                                          AE: Agricultural Economist               TR: Training Specialist
F: Availability of counterpart funds                          AS: Agricultural Services Specialist
FP: Financial problems                                        EC: Economist
L: Adherence to legal clauses                                 EX: Extension Specialist
M: Project management                                         FA: Financial Analyst
P: Progress with procurement                                  LS: Livestock Specialist
TA: Progress with technical assistance                        PS: Procurement Specialist
TR: Training



30
APPENDICES



31
REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
BANQUE MONIMALE
MISSION DE RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PNASA I
(du 9 au 21 fevrier 1998)
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    La mission du rapport d'achevement du Projet National des Services Agricoles (PNASA 1) a eu lieu du
9 au 21 fevrier 1998 en C6te d'Ivoire. La mission etait composee de M. Yves-Coffi Prudencio, Specialiste de la
recherche et des services agricoles au siege de la Banque A Washington, chef de mission ; M. Abdoulaye Tourd,
Specialiste des services agricoles et charg6 du projet a la mission residente de la Banque A Abidjan ; et de M.
Yao Koffi, Coordonnateur du projet A la Direction de la Planification du Ministere de l'Agriculture et des
Ressources Animales (M1NAGRA). La mission a eu des discussions avec les responsables de la Direction de la
Planification (DP) du MINAGRA, avec les responsables de I'ANADER et avec la Direction de la Recherche du
Ministere de I'Enseignement Superieur, de la Recherche et de l'Innovation Technologique (MESRIT). La
mission a ensuite effectue des visites de terrain dans quatre des dix regions d'encadrement de I'ANADER, A
savoir les regions d'Abidjan, Abengourou, Yamoussoukro et Bouakd. La mission a eu lors de la tournee sur le
terrain des discussions avec le personnel de I'ANADER, avec le personnel des directions regionales ou
departementales de I'Agriculture, avec des paysans et organisations professionnelles agricoles (OPA), et a pu
visiter plusieurs realisations du projet. Les conclusions auxquelles ont abouti les discussions sont exposdes ci
dessous.
Objectifs et Duree du Projet
Objectifs
2.     Selon les termes de I'Accord de Credit le projet avait deux volets A et B. Le volet A visait la mise en
place d'une structure nationale unique de vulgarisation, autonome, fonctionnant comme une societe d'economie
mixte et devant etre operationnelle A la fin dlu projet. Le volet B visait le renforcement de la capacit6 des
directions regionales du MINAGRA A formuler et mettre en oeuvre des politiques agricoles regionales. Le volet
B comportait egalement des appuis en equipement au MESRIT et A la Direction du Controle des audits du
Ministere des Finances.
3.    La partie Ivoirienne a souhaite que le rapport d'achevement s'en tienne surtout aux objectifs de
restructuration et de renforcement institutionnels d6crits dans l'Accord de Credit et d'eviter autant que possible
de mettre dans l'immediat l'accent sur l'impact du projet. Mais la mission a decide de prendre en compte
l'evaluation des premiers resultats et effets de I'ANADER dans son analyse pour tenir compte du fait qu'on ne
peut pas objectivement evaluer le bon fonctionnement des organes mises en place sans mesurer ce que ces
organes ont produit sur le terrain.



32
Durde
4.     Selon les termes de l'Accord de Credit le projet devait durer deux ans et demi au plus (de decembre
1994 A juin 1997), mais a finalement dure trois ans (jusqu'en decembre 1997) suite A une extension de six mois.
L'Accord de Credit mentionne en fait deux durees contradictoires, une duree de deux ans et demi en page 5 et
une duree de deux ans en page 19.
5.     Le projet avait initialement 6te prepar6 pour une duree de cinq ans. Dans la situation de crise pre-
devaluation, la Banque avait limite son engagement A deux ans et demi alors que le FIDA qui cofinan,ait le
projet s'engageait sur cinq ans. Les n6gociations ont ent6rin6 un accord pour une duree de deux ans et demi. La
partie Ivoirienne a fait remarquer que dans la precipitation elle n'avait pas suffisamment ajuste les objectifs et
les documents du projet pour les adapter A la duree de deux ans et demi finalement retenue. La consequence en a
e  que la duree initialement prevue est restee ancree dans la memoire de plusieurs des cadres charges de
l'execution du projet. La mission a tenu A preciser que le projet tel que defini dans I'Accord de Credit devait
etre execute effectivement sur deux ans et demi.
Lecons
6.     Concernant les lecons a tirer de cette experience, il a ete retenu que compte tenu du fait que quoi qu'il
en soit la tendance gen6rale est de rechercher l' impact d'un projet comme preuve de son bon fonctionnement,
meme s'il s'agit d'un projet de restructuration et de renforcement institutionnel, il serait plus judicieux de
determiner la duree du projet de telle maniere que les nouvelles institutions puissent etre mises en place,
puissent commencer a fonctionner correctement et A avoir un impact sur le terrain. Comme propose et retenu
pour la deuxieme phase du projet (PNASA II), la mise en place d'un pr8t adaptable (APL) de 3 + 4 + 4 ans
serait plus approprie pour une restructuration et une execution des activites de services agricoles.
7.     La perception par la Banque des risques li6s au contexte macro-economique pr6valent lors des
negociations a ete un facteur determinant dans la fixation de la duree du projet dans la mesure oui, bien que le
projet ait e  prepare pour cinq ans, dans le contexte de surevaluation du franc CFA qui prevalait en 1993, la
Banque nWavait pas voulu s'engager sur 5 ans si la devaluation n'etait pas faite.
I - LE VOLET A
8.    Le volet A concernait un soutien A I'ANADER (Agence Nationale pour le Developpement Rural) et
visait les objectifs suivants:
(a)   le renforcement des services de vulgarisation A travers l'organisation de leur gestion au niveau
national et regional, et A travers l'adaptation et l'application des techniques de formation et
visites (F&V);
(b)   le renforcement des interactions entre la recherche et la vulgarisation A travers l'elaboration et
la mise en place d'un programme de recherche adaptative, utilisant des P.O., des PES et des
SARS, pour une intensification et une diversification des pratiques culturales;
(c)   le renforcement des organisations professionnelles agricoles (OPA) A travers un deploiement de
SOPs sur le terrain;
(d)    une formation reguli&re des agents de l'ANADER;



33
(e)   l'acquisition d'equipements (vehicules, motos, ordinateurs, etc.).
9.     Les discussions et observations concemant chacune des composantes ci-dessus mentionnees du Volet A
ont conduit aux conclusions suivantes:
A - Renforcement des Services de Vulgarisation et Appui aux Organisations
Paysannes
Vulgarisation/Maltrise des Outils
Acquis et Insuffisances
10.   Dans l'ensemble le recrutement du personnel a ete fait avant la mise en vigueur du projet. La formation,
le deploiement, l'installation des agents de vulgarisation ont suivi immediatement apres. Mais le demarrage
effectif des actions de vulgarisation sur le terrain a pris beaucoup plus de temps que prevu, les premiers
equipements n'ayant ete acquis que quatorze nnois apres la mise en vigueur du projet. Ce temps a ete mis a
profit pour entreprendre la formation des agents. Par consequent les actions de vulgarisation par I'ANADER
n'ont effectivement demarre qu'au cours de la campagne agricole 1996/97.
I1.   Le dispositif actuel dispose de dix regicns d'encadrement couvrant toute 1'etendue du territoire national
avec pres de 3000 agents dont environ 1500 conseillers agricoles. L'objectif initial de recruter environ 3500
agents a ete reajuste, environ 80% de cet objectif a ete realise et couvre globalement les besoins en ressources
humaines de I'ANADER. Le taux de couverture des exploitations agricoles presentement atteint par I'ANADER
est d'environ 25%.
12.   Le systeme de vulgarisation est operationnel sur le terrain avec des resultats variables d'une region A
une autre en fonction de la qualite des agents de base et du leadership des directeurs regionaux et des chefs de
zone. Les Groupes de Contact (GC) en general ne fonctionnent pas correctement en raison des faibles taux de
participation, en dessous de 50%, ce qui limite la rapidite de diffusion des bons resultats obtenus. Le Diagnostic
Participatif (DP) introduit au cours de la campagne 96/97 a e  enseigne A tous les agents et a permis
d'am6liorer la pertinence des themes techniques. Mais quoique les themes proposes en vulgarisation refletent en
general les preoccupations des producteurs, le DP n'est pas encore bien mattris6 par l'ensemble des CA.
L'ANADER a opte pour le Diagnostic Participatif Global Village (DPG) qui est conduit par une equipe
pluridisciplinaire de niveau ingenieur. Introduit au cours du deuxieme semestre 97, le DPG permet d'identifier
les contraintes de developpement au niveau du village et d'aboutir A un plan de developpement communautaire.
Le DPG a l'avantage d'ameliorer tres nettement la participation de la communaute villageoise dans les activites
de vulgarisation et de mieux prendre en compte les preoccupations des differents groupes sociaux du village
(homme, femme, jeunes et autres). Il a 6te pour l'instant execut6 dans quelques villages pilotes et donne de bons
resultats, mais le rythme auquel il avance est relativement lent. En outre la gestion de l'apres-diagnostic village
reste encore insuffisamment maltrisde et les paysans ne sont pas suffisamment impliques dans le suivi de la
mise en oeuvre des plans d'action arrets. Dans ce cadre l'ANADER a envoye une equipe de huit personnes
visiter l'experience du Borgou au Benin sur l'approche village et elle a commence A introduire les formations et
ameliorations n6cessaires pour accroitre les performances de la demarche village en C6te d'Ivoire.
13.   Le personnel d'encadrement de base (CA) est hetdroclite, comportant pour la plupart des agents de
differents niveaux scolaires, sans formation agricole de base (pas de diplome en agriculture). Toutefois, environ
80% des agents sont issus des anciennes structures d'encadrement dissoutes (CIDV, SATMACI, SODEPRA,
etc.) dans lesquels ils ont recu l'essentiel de leur formation en agriculture. Ils disposent donc de connaissances



34
pratiques acquises dans leur ancienne fonction mais qui sont des connaissances sectorielles. La mission a
constate sur le terrain des cas de manque d'initiatives pour adapter les themes diffuses aux realit6s du terrain, ce
qui pourrait resulter de cette absence de formation scientifique thdorique de base en agriculture et 6levage.
14.    Le dispositif s'est toutefois enrichi de certaines innovations telles que le conseil specialise pour les
exploitations ayant atteint un niveau de technicite au dessus de la moyenne. La polyvalence des agents A la base
est entrain de devenir un acquis ainsi que la planification des activites A tous les niveaux. De nouvelles
initiatives sont amorcees telles que la prise en compte des besoins specifiques de la Femme, la prise en compte
du developpement de certaines filieres (hevea, palmier A huile, anacarde...), la prise en compte de nouveaux
themes tels que le GID et le GDS, la mise en place d'un service de semences et plants.
15.    Neanmoins, si au niveau national et regional l'ANADER a une vision et des strategies d'intervention
claires, les mecanismes de planification A la base pour mettre en oeuvre ces strategies demeurent encore un
point faible.
Lecons et Correctifs
16.   II se pose un probleme de taux de participation des paysans dans les groupes de contact. Une forme
d'adaptation consisterait par exemple A faire un choix judicieux dans la formation des groupes de contact.
17.    L'hypothese selon laquelle il serait plus efficace de prendre les groupements naturels ou les
organisations paysannes au sein du village comme groupes de contact, lA of ils existent, ou de se servir d'eux
comme bases pour constituer les groupes de contact, a ete discutee en long et en large avec les agents de
vulgarisation sur le terrain. La revue A mi-parcours avait dejA recommande en Decembre 96 que "IA ou c'est
possible, les GC soient issus des groupes existants (formels ou informels)". II ressort du constat de ceux qui ont
pris l'initiative de travailler avec de telles organisations comme groupes de contact (groupements de maraichers,
de jeunes, de femmes, d'entraide, GVC, etc.) et de plusieurs observations faites par la mission sur le terrain que
le taux de participation est beaucoup plus eleve que dans les groupes de contact ordinaires, et que du fait d'une
plus grande cohesion et discipline au sein de ces organisations, il est beaucoup plus facile et plus efficace de
travailler avec elles, ce qui se traduit en gain de temps, en moindre effort/cout et plus d'impact de la
vulgarisation sur le terrain.
18.    Les initiatives positives d'adaptation aux realites du terrain la ou elles existent ne sont pas suffisamment
valorisees par la hi6rarchie (superviseurs, chefs de zone, directions regionales) qui devrait analyser les bonnes
pratiques, encourager et motiver les agents ayant pris ces initiatives, puis enfin favoriser l'6change
d'experiences entre agents et la gen6ralisation de ces initiatives.
19.    La mission a juge que la Direction de I'ANADER devrait prendre toutes les dispositions necessaires
pour encourager l'usage des groupes naturels et organisations paysannes comme groupes de contact ou comme
bases/relais pour la constitution de groupes de contact, et pour egalement encourager et suivre la prise
d'initiative par les agents A la base pour tenir compte des realites du terrain et amplifier la diffusion des bonnes
pratiques.
20.    Une meilleure maltrise du diagnostic participatif et du DPG  par les agents devrait egalement permettre
de constituer des groupes d'interet plus interesses et plus motives pour chacune des contraintes identifiees. Ce
qui permettrait d'accroltre les taux de participation et l'impact de la vulgarisation.
21.    La systematisation de visites d'echange d'experience entre paysans, villages regions et pays pour elargir
les horizons technologiques des uns et des autres devrait etre une composante importante du dispositif de



35
vulgarisation. Elle permettra de pallier en grande partie au faible niveau de technicite actuel des agents A la base.
11 faudrait toutefois limiter son application A un petit nombre de paysans leaders d'opinion pour en minimiser les
couts. La diffusion des meilleures pratiques paysannes (technologies endogenes) a travers le dispositif de
recherche developpement constitue egalement une alternative A prendre en compte comme mesure
complementaire ou comme substitut selon le cas.
22.    Le developpement et la documentation d'une strategie et d'une planification regionales de vulgarisation
avec une vision long terme jusqu'A l'an 2010 s'impose.
Appui aux OPA
Acquis et Insuffisances
23.    La mission a constate que dans les zones visitees des Specialistes en Organisations Paysannes (SOP)
sont effectivement en place, ont recense les OPA dans leurs zones d'intervention et apportent A un grand
nombre d'entre eux des conseils de gestion en amont et en aval de la production agricole. Toutefois,
I'ANADER a assign6 aux SOP un objectif de travailler au moins une fois par mois avec trente deux OPA, mais
dans la realite, ils arrivent A peine A travailler avec une vingtaine, ce qui correspond aux objectifs initiaux prevus
au cours de l'evaluation du projet.
24.    L'echange d'informations entre le SOP d'une part, les TS et les CA d'autre part, s'effectue au cours
des reunions de quinzaine ou de maniere informelle et n'est pas systematise.
Lecons et Correctifs
25.    La prise en compte des organisations paysannes par les conseillers agricoles comme groupes de contact
constituerait un appui aux organisations paysarines au sens large et concorderait donc avec l'objectif d'appui
aux OPA du projet.
26.    L'hypothese selon laquelle le dispositif fonctionnerait de maniere plus efficace si les SOP formaient les
CA pour l'accomplissement de certaines taches organisationnelles simples aupres des OPA de maniere A ce que
le SOP puisse deleguer certaines de ses responsaebilites au CA a ete discutde par la mission avec les agents sur le
terrain. Les avis recueillis aupres des CA et SOP rencontres confirment cette hypothese. Une telle approche
permettrait au CA de s'impliquer en conseils depuis l'approvisionnement en intrants jusqu'A la
commercialisation des produits. Cela lui permettra aussi de travailler en synergie avec le SOP pour aider les
paysans A lever les contraintes en amont et en aval de la production qui emp8chent l'adoption des technologies
qu'il vulgarise. Le SOP en tant que Technicien Sp6cialise en OPA pourrait alors dispenser des formations de
quinzaine comme les autres TS, confier des taches relativement simples aux CA et se focaliser sur des taches
plus complexes, ce qui lui permettrait de gagner du temps, et d'8tre plus efficace dans sa tAche.
27.   11 convient toutefois de remarquer que cette hypothese s'applique surtout aux petites organisations
paysannes et qu'elle relativise en fonction de la complexite de l'OPA et de la tache A accomplir. II est evident
que pour des OPA de tailles moyennes ou grandes et aux activites relativement complexes ou specialisees, les
conseils specialis6s des TS et des SOP seraienl les plus judicieux et qu'il conviendrait a ce niveau de mettre
l'accent sur la professionnalisation du metier de vulgarisateur avec formalisation ou systematisation du cadre de
rencontre et d'echange d'information entre les TS et les SOP.



36
28.    Le nombre relativement faible de SOP par rapport aux OPA, aux CA et aux TS se trouve a la base des
difficultes rencontrees par I'ANADER pour apporter un appui adequat aux OPA. II conviendrait par consequent
A I'avenir de rechercher et de maintenir des ratios plus efficaces.
La Liaison Recherche- Vulgarisation
Acquis et Insuffisances
29.    Le dispositif Recherche/Developpement (R/D) est effectivement en place et est operationnel. Toutefois
l'organigramme en place, initialement propose par le rapport d'evaluation, parait surcharge et il n'est pas
evident que tous les postes prevus dans le dispositif soient necessaires et que certains agents en place disposent
des competences requises pour etre des interlocuteurs valables de la recherche. La restructuration du dispositif
R/D avait ete envisag6 suite aux recommandations de la revue a mi-parcours mais I'ANADER a juge que sa
mise en oeuvre necessite des ressources supplementaires et attend le demarrage du PNASA II pour faire les
reamenagements necessaires. II ressort des discussions que le contact entre la recherche et la vulgarisation a ete
effectue surtout au cours des CTR et au cours des diagnostic SARS oui on enregistre generalement une forte
participation des chercheurs. Toutefois les chercheurs sont moins assidus ou se font rares dans le suivi des
activit6s R/D mises en place avec la vulgarisation, ils eprouvent dans quelques cas des difficultes A proposer ou
A apporter des solutions techniques A faible cofit aux contraintes identifi6es et leur temps de r6ponse parait
parfois relativement long aux yeux de la vulgarisation.
30.    Les AMRT qui constituent un cadre de rencontre entre la recherche et les TS s'organisent regulierement
pour l'ensemble des specialites (cultures vivrieres, cultures maraicheres, cultures perennes, elevage) A raison
d'au moins un atelier par mois. Toutefois la planification se faisant de maniere A traiter seulement une specialite
ou deux par mois afin de focaliser les formations de quinzaine des CA et des producteurs sur un seul sujet A la
fois, laisse des TS sans AMRT pendant plusieurs mois de l'annee. Dans la region de Bouake par exemple, les
TS-elevage et les TS-cultures maraicheres n'ont eu aucun AMRT entre juillet et decembre 1997 bien que 13
AMRT aient ete organis6s au cours de l'annee (4 en cultures maraich6res, 4 en cultures vivrieres, 2 en elevage
et 3 eni cultures perennes). Cette approche qui est differente de celle pratiqu6e dans certains pays oui les AMRT
sont dispenses chaque mois pour chacune des specialites permet de concentrer les efforts sur des themes
majeurs et non sur la formation des TS. Elle a certainement des merites, mais aussi des inconvenients par la
limitation des contraintes ou themes traitees annuellement. Une etude economique de l'efficacite des deux
approches serait utile.
31.    La mission n'a toutefois pas pu visiter de PO ou de PES mais a pu visiter deux paysans SARS dans les
regions d'Abengourou et de Bouake. Elle a constate que le dispositif n'implique pas les paysans avoisinant les
sites SARS comme observateurs pour accroltre l'impact potentiel des actions R/D entreprises. Elle n'a pas pu
voir les fiches de collecte de donn6es pour apprecier si les parametres pris en compte sont suffisants pour
evaluer la faisabilite et l'efficacite economique des technologies testees. II a e  egalement constat6 A travers les
discussions avec les agents R/D que les analyses techniques des donnees recueillies sur les PO et les sites SARS
sont effectuees uniquement par les chercheurs sans aucune implication du personnel R/D, notamment les
techniciens SARS. Pour les SARS une seance d'evaluation publique est organisee avec l'ensemble du village
chaque annee.
Lecons et Correctifs
32.    La mission a emis l'hypothese que les CA des villages SARS pourraient valablement etre aussi les
techniciens SARS de ces villages (ou vice versa) quitte a ce que leurs tAches soient allegees par ailleurs. Ceci
faciliterait l'identification et l'adoption de technologies adaptees au cours des tests, faciliterait l'implication



37
d'un plus grand nombre de paysans de villages voisins encadres par les CA des villages SARS dans les tests au
moins en tant qu'observateurs, et par consequent accroitrait les chances d'adaptation, d'adoption et d'impact
des technologies testees en milieu SARS. Cefte hypothese a et6 confirmee par les avis des agents et paysans
rencontres sur les sites SARS au cours de la mission.
33.    La restructuration du dispositif de recherche envisagee par I'ANADER qui a decide de transferer les P0
ou ont lieu les recherches multilocales au CNRA, et de garder une equipe pluridisciplinaire de techniciens
SARS devrait permettre d'alleger l'organigramme R/D qui ne comprendrait plus les postes de responsable
SARS, chef cellule SARS, responsable P0, observateurs P0. L'equipe de techniciens SARS actuelle serait
remplacee par des agents de niveau plus eleves capables d'etre des interlocuteurs valables des chercheurs et
capable de faire l'analyse scientifique des donnees SARS collectees avec ou sans la collaboration des
chercheurs.-
Formation
Acquis et Insuffisances
34.    L'ANADER ayant h6rite des ancienrnes societes d'intervention d'un personnel heteroclite ayant des
connaissances de base et des niveaux differents, CEPE a BAC en ce qui conceme par exemple les conseillers
agricoles, a eu a entreprendre des seances de formation pour une remise A niveau et pour amorcer la polyvalence
des agents. Tous les CA, Superviseurs et TS ont pu suivre ces formations qui ont 6te dispensees en utilisant des
personnes ressources intemes et extemes a I'ANADER. Le personnel administratif de soutien a egalement subi
une formation de remise A niveau. Ces formations de base ont pris beaucoup de temps (6talee sur 14 mois) et ont
necessite la mise en place d'une strategie de formation de formateurs et de responsabilisation des regions pour
conduire les programmes de formation en ce qui concerne les agents issus des anciennes structures. La
formation de ces agents a ete faite sous forme de stage de duree moyenne 15 jours alternee avec des periodes de
retour dans leur lieu de travail. Par contre la formation des nouveaux agents recrutes a ete faite sous forme de
stage de plus longue duree (2 mois) r6alises dans les centres de formation suivis de trois mois de stage pratique.
35.    Les formations de quinzaine ont lieu de facon reguliere dans la majorite des zones, mais l'apprentissage
des CA A travers des travaux pratiques n'est pas toujours suffisamment developpe.
36.    Les visites de partage d'experience A l'interieur et a l'exterieur du pays par les agents n'ont pas ete
suffisamment budgetisees au moment de la pr6paration du PNASA I.
Lecons et Correctifs
37.    Les difficultes rencontrees pour remplir les differents postes ouverts A I'ANADER avec des techniciens
dipl6m6s d'ecoles d'agriculture, parce que rares sur le marche du travail, d6montrent la necessite d'apporter des
appuis aux ecoles de formation des techniciens d'agriculture, dans le cadre des projets de soutien aux services
agricoles. Ceci demontre egalement la necessite d'associer ces 6coles aux formations de courte duree des
agents.
38.    L'usage du PPF pour effectuer l'audit du personnel des anciennes societes a et6 vue comme une
exp6rience interessante. La s6lection du personnel a e  realisee sur la base de publication des postes et de
soumissions de candidatures sur la base de questionnaires qui ont e  depouill6s par des cabinets sp6cialises
ext6rieurs. Cette disposition realis6e sous la pression des syndicats s'est avere en faite plus economique et plus
pratique que le schema initial qui prevoyait un contr6le de connaissance g6nerale pour tous les agents.



38
39.    D'autres correctifs a apporter decoulent naturellement des insuffisances mentionnees ci-dessus, telles
que une meilleure organisation et dotation en ressources des travaux pratiques d'apprentissage des CA au cours
des formations de quinzaine, un renforcement des appuis techniques aux CA au cours des supervisions, la prise
en compte de visites d'6changes d'experiences dans la formation des agents.
Equipement
Acquis et Insuffisances
40.    Les equipements prevus ont e  acquis, mais avec un grand retard (14 mois). A ce niveau, les
responsabilites sont partagees entre l'ANADER pour des retards dans la passation des marches, et la Banque
pour de notables retards dans l'octroi de non-objections.
41.    La mission a enregistre plusieurs plaintes des agents sur le terrain concernant l'inadaptation des
mobylettes des CA aux reafites du terrain, et sur des photocopieurs tombant regulierement en panne.
Lecons et Correctifs
42.    Les lecons et correctifs a apporter decoulent logiquement de ce qui precede, a savoir la mise en place
d'un systeme plus efficace et plus rapide au niveau de I'ANADER et de l'Etat Ivoirien pour la passation des
marches, une plus grande promptitude dans l'octroi des non-objections au niveau de la Banque, et l'acquisition
d'equipements plus adaptes au terrain.
Aspects Institutionnels
Acquis et Insuffisances
43.    L'objectif de mettre en place une structure nationale de conseil au monde rural a ete realise avec la
creation de I'ANADER qui est venu remplacer les anciennes societes de developpement SATMACI, CIDV,
SODEPRA et en partie CIDT dans les zones de developpement. L'ANADER a acquis une reelle autonomie vis
A vis de l'administration dans la gestion des ressources mises a sa disposition et dans la gestion de son personnel
et de ses programmes.
44.   Le conseil d'administration compos6 a 50% de representants de paysans (4) et du secteur prive (2) a
joue un r6le important dans la revue des budgets et des programmes de I'ANADER et dans l'orientation des
programmes. En 1996, il a oblige la Direction de l'ANADER a reduire son budget et a geler un certain nombre
de recrutement.
45.   Neanmoins, I'ANADER demeure une societe d'economie mixte a caractere particulier car l'Etat est le
principal bailleur de fonds ; les paysans n'ont pas de poids veritable car ils n'apportent pas de financement et
l'Etat peut faire passer toutes les decisions qu'il juge utile. En plus la perennisation des financements n'est pas
assuree.
Lecons et Correctifs
46.   La structure de l'ANADER devra evoluer pour la rendre financierement plus autonome vis a vis de
l'Etat et plus dependant des b6neficiaires qui auront ainsi plus de legitimite et d'autorit6 pour mieux orienter les
programmes et les activites de I'ANADER. Les ameliorations institutionnelles prevues dans le PNASA II
semblent appropriees pour r6pondre a cette preoccupation.



39
] - VOLET B
47.    Le volet B concernait principalement le renforcement institutionnel de trois ministeres: le MINAGRA,
le MESRS, et le Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances Publiques (MEFP).
A - Le MINAGRA
48.    Au niveau du MINAGRA l'objectif etait de rationaliser et de renforcer la Direction de la Planification
(DP) A travers ses sous directions de la planification et des statistiques agricoles, de maniere a aboutir a une
restructuration totale des Directions regionales du MINAGRA qui leur permettrait d'6laborer et de mettre en
oeuvre des politiques agricoles regionales. Un autre objectif etait de renforcer la DOPAC pour lui permettre de
bien accomplir ses taches.
Acquis et Insuffisances
49.    Les directions regionales n'ont pas ete en mesure d'6laborer et de mettre en oeuvre des politiques
agricoles regionales ou d'acquerir les capacites necessaires pour le faire. Les raisons incluent: (1)
l'inadequation quantitative et qualitative du personnel mis A la disposition des directions regionales, moins de
40% de l'effectif requis serait en place dans la region la moins pourvue ; (2) le manque de restructuration du
MINAGRA au niveau central, principalement le manque de nomination d'un r6pondant au niveau central pour
les directeurs regionaux ; et plus important, (3) I'absence de toute loi de decentralisation territoriale qui aurait
permis la mise en oeuvre de politiques regionales agricoles, si elles parvenaient A etre elaborees, en harmonie
avec les politiques regionales des autres ministeres.
50.    Toutefois le MINAGRA a fait de gros progres en ce qui concerne le suivi/evaluation des projets et a pu
relancer la mise en place des statistiques agricoles actuellement en cours selon les normes de la FAO.
51.    La DOPAC (Direction des Organisations Professionnelles Agricoles et du Credit) a pu abandonner son
r6le d'appui aux cooperatives comme pr6vu pour s'occuper de la legislation et du contr6le, ce qui constitue une
avancee majeure. Elle intervient dans la legislation sur les OPA, 1'enregistrement des OPA, dans le suivi et le
contr6le de l'action cooperative, notamment le contr6le de la gestion des OPA, et apporte aussi son appui A
l'ANADER dans la formation des OPA. Dans le domaine du credit, le r6le de la DOPAC sur le plan national
n'est pas clairement defini. Comme acquis, la DOPAC a pu faire passer la nouvelle loi cooperative, et a
developpe une strategie nationale de credit agricole sur la base des experiences des caisses et cooperatives
d'epargne et de credit (CEMEC, COOPEC).
Lecons et Correctifs
52.    L'objectif d'accroitre l'efficacite de la deconcentration du MINAGRA central par le renforcement de
capacite des Directions regionales A formuler et mettre en oeuvre des politiques agricoles regionales etait,
certes, noble. N6anmoins, de telles politiques si fbrmulees n'auraient pu etre mises en oeuvre en isolation sans
le soutien des autres ministeres (transport, finances, industrie, etc.) si ceux ci ne disposent pas egalement de
politiques regionales en harmonie avec les politiques regionales du MINAGRA. La strategie n'aurait ete
efficace que si des politiques de developpement regionales, tous secteurs confondus, pouvaient 8tre elaborees,
ce qui n'est faisable efficacement que dans le cadre d'une decentralisation territoriale.



40
53.   Une loi de decentralisation territorialeaurait donc dfu faire partie des conditions prealables pour la mise
en vigueur du projet, s'il etait pressenti lors de la preparation du projet que le gouvernement s'engageait dans
cette voie. Trois ans apres la mise en vigueur du projet la loi de decentralisation demeure toujours un projet du
gouvemement. Dans ces conditions l'objectif fixe aux directions regionales 6tait trop ambitieux et peu realiste.
54.    La mise en place d'une loi associative adaptee aux OPA aurait egalement pu etre une des conditionsde
mise en vigueur du projet. Cette loi vient neanmoins d'etre promulguee par l'assemblee nationale plus de trois
ans apres le demarrage du projet. Elle aurait pu l'etre plus t6t dans un cadre de conditionalites ou de gachettes
("triggers") au demarrage ou A mi-parcours du projet.
B - Le MESRIT
Acquis et Insuffisances
55.    La Direction de la Recherche du MESRIT (precedemment MESRS ) a re,u un appui dans le cadre du
projet pour gerer et coordonner les conventions entre les differents instituts de recherche et I'ANADER. II
ressort des discussions avec cette direction et avec des repr6sentants de quelques instituts (IDESSA, IDEFOR,
CIRT) que les conventions de formnation et de recherche sont effectives et generalement appliquees de maniere
relativement satisfaisante. Les chercheurs interviennent dans les CTR, dans la formation des TS et dans le
dispositif de Recherche Developpement, mais avec les problemes mentionn6s plus haut.
56.    La recherche a mentionne que le niveau de base heterogene des TS (Agronomes. APVA) rend difficile
la formation, qu'il y a parfois un manque de realisme dans le calcul des nombres de formation et dans leur
programmation. Les difficultes eprouvees par la recherche pour repondre aux attentes de la vulgarisation,
notamment le long temps de reaction et les difficultes A proposer des solutions adaptees, ont et reconnus en
partie.
57.    Deux vehicules sur trois prevus ont ete mis A la disposition de la Direction de la Recherche pour faire le
suivi/evaluation des conventions de formation et de recherche, et des Comites Techniques Regionaux (CTR),
mais ces vehicules etaient inadapt6s A la tache (vehicules de ville au lieu de vehicules de terrain) et sont devenus
non-operationels. Deux micro-ordinateurs avaient 6te egalement mis A la disposition de la Direction de la
Recherche.
Lecons et Correctifs
58.    L'hypothese selon laquelle le dispositif Recherche Developpement devrait etre le demembrement
naturel en milieu paysan du systeme de recherche a ete posee et discut6e. La logique d'une telle hypothese a e
reconnue mais son application a e jugee non faisable dans le contexte Ivoirien caracterise par une atomisation
de la recherche. Un prealable pour la mise en pratique du principe de base de cette hypothese serait la
restructuration du systeme de recherche pour lui donner une unicite de direction. II a ete reconnu que l'ideal
aurait ete une restructuration simultanee des structures de recherche et de vulgarisation dans le cadre du projet et
non une restructuration differee de la recherche comme c'est le cas actuellement avec le PNASA II. Cette
solution aurait resolu la plupart des problemes mentionnes plus haut dans le domaine de la liaison recherche-
developpement.



41
C - Le MEFP
Acquis et Insuffisances
59.    L'objectif etait de renforcer la Direction du Contr6le et des Audits du ministere pour lui permettre de
jouer correctement son r6le dans l'execution du projet. La mission n'a pas pu avoir des discussions avec cette
direction , faute de temps, mais il apparait selorn le rapport de la revue A mi-parcours que"cet appui ne s'est pas
r6vele tres productif dans la mesure oui les audits prevus n'ont pas ete fournis dans les d6lais"(p. 62). II se
poserait donc un probleme de suivi de la r6alisation A temps des audits par cette Direction. Toutefois il a ete
souligne que des efforts interessants d'analyse des audits de I'ANADER par cette Direction ont et6 faits ce qui
aurait permis de corriger A temps certaines lacunes constatees.
Le,ons et Correctifs
60.    La necessite de planifier rigoureusemerit les audits ainsi que leurs contr6les et de les effectuer au plus
t6t avant le milieu de l'annee fiscale suivante s'iimpose.
D - SUIVI ET EVALUATION
Acquis et Insuffisances
61.    La mission a constate l'existence de deux structures de suivi-evaluation du projet, l'une au niveau de la
Direction de la Programmation du MINAGRA (suivi evaluation externe et l'autre (suivi evaluation interne) au
niveau de I'ANADER. Les deux structures sont operationnelles et produisent regulierement des rapports de
bonne qualite. En l'absence d'indicateurs de performance detailles dans les documents du projet, les structures
de suivi-evaluation du MINAGRA et de l'ANADER ont 6labore chacune un guide de suivi-evaluation.
L'ANADER n'avait pas au debut un systenme de suivi de l'adoption des themes techniques vulgarises
(indicateurs, etudes, etc.). Cette situation a et corrige au cours de la derniere annee du projet. Les premieres
etudes d'impact ont ete executees et les estimations de taux d'adoption viennent de paraitre.
62.    L'absence de donnees de base sur les parametres economiques et technologiques des exploitations
agricoles, constatee au demarrage du projet, a et6 corrigee par la realisation d'une enqu8te de base survenue au
cours du projet qui a permis d'avoir une base de donnee de reference sur un echantillon de 10 000 exploitations
agricoles.
Lecons et Correctifs
63.    L'essentiel des lecons a retenir est la necessite de disposer au demarrage des projets d'indicateurs de
performances suffisamment detailles, de donnees de reference et d'un systeme de suivi des adoptions.
64.   Le document d'evaluation du projet qui a servi de base pour l'Accord de credit contient des indicateurs
de performance, mais pas suffisamment precis et detailles (cf. annexe 11). Le PNASA II qui fait suite a ce
projet a dejA tire les lecons necessaires, et a elabore un cadre logique avec des indicateurs tres pertinents.
65.    Dans la mesure oui l'impact d'un projet de services agricoles s'effectue A travers l'adoption des
technologies vulgarisees, il conviendrait des le demarrage du projet d'inclure dans le systeme de suivi-
evaluation un systeme de suivi de l'adoption des themes techniques vulgarises, a travers des paramOtres
techniques de l'exploitation suivis en permanence et des etudes ponctuelles d'adoption.



42
66.   Le fonds de preparation de projet (PPF) pourrait etre utilise pour entreprendre les etudes de base
necessaires pour avoir des indicateurs de reference.
67.   Les donnees sur les indicateurs ne devraient pas etre simplement reportees et decrites dans les rapports
mais etre analysees pour en comprendre les causes et les consequences, et &re utilisees pour prendre
effectivement avec promptitude des decisions de gestion du systeme de vulgarisation.
III - IMPACT DU PROJET
68.   La mission a pu constater que le projet commence effectivement A avoir de l'impact sur le terrain.
L'adoption de themes tels que le bouturage sous tunnel du cafe par des paysans membres de groupements
villageois, constate au cours de la mission en est une preuve. Mais force est de constater que plusieurs themes
techniques ne passent pas A cause de contraintes liees au manque de technologies economisatrices de main
d'oeuvre rendant le travail agricole moins penible, A P'acces A 1'eau, au credit, aux intrants et au marche.
69.   L'introduction d'outils ameliores pour faciliter le travail agricole (machinisme agricole) dans la
production et la transformation des produits agricoles, la dotation du monde paysan en infrastructures rurales
elementaires tels que I'amenagement de point d'eau, la connexion avec des structures de credit et avec le
marche A travers des infrastructures routieres, la disponibilite d'intrants (semences, plants, produits chimiques)
sur le march6, I'alphabetisation au moins fonctionnelle et l'acces A l'information orale et ecrite semblent
indispensables pour creer les conditions favorables A un bon impact des projets de services agricoles.  -
IV - VIABILITE DU PROJET
70.   Le probleme de cofits recurrents compromet la viabilit6 du renforcement institutionnel des ministeres. II
se pose dejA des problemes financiers et budgetaires pour les reparations des vehicules, photocopieuses et autres
6quipements.
71.   En ce qui conceme la viabilite de l'ANADER en tant que service autonome d'appui au monde rural,
cela ne deviendra possible qu'A long terme lorsque les organisations paysannes et le secteur prive agricole en
general seraient suffisamment forts et auraient des marches suffisamment remunerateurs pour payer en grande
partie, directement ou indirectement, les services de l'ANADER.
72.   A ce propos, la conception du PNASA II integre la mise en place d'un mecanisme perenne de
financement a travers une forte participation des OPA et du secteur dans le financement de l'ANADER (60%).
73.   La viabilite de 1'ANADER d6pendra incontestablement de la qualite de son appui aux OPA et au
secteur prive agricole en general.
V - PREPARATION DU RAPPORT NATIONAL D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
74.   L'equipe nationale chargee de rediger le rapport national d'achevement du projet a ete constitue et est
dirige par M, YAO Koffi de la DP du MINAGRA. M. YAO Koffi a participe activement a la mission et a re,u
un exemplaire de rapport national d'achevement de projet en Cote d'Ivoire, ainsi qu'un resume de rapport
national d'achevement d'un projet de services agricoles a Madagascar pour s'en servir comme guide. La
mission a constate que les rapports d'evaluation du projet par le MINAGRA et les autres rapports de
supervision et d'evaluation du projet contiennent la plupart des e1lments necessaires A la confection du rapport.



43
75.   II a ete convenu que le rapport national d'achevement du projet prepare par la partie Ivoirienne devrait
etre finalise et etre envoye a la Banque (Mission Residente) au plus tard le 30 Avril 1998.
VI - SUITE DU PROJET
76.   La mission a constate que plusieurs elements du diagnostic fait avaient ete precedemment identifies et
que des ameliorations on ete apportees dans la deuxieme phase du projet (PNASA II) pour corriger les
faiblesses du PNASA I. Neanmoins les correctifs supplementaires suggeres par la mission devraient etre
integres le plus t6t possible par les services agricoles sans attendre la mise en vigueur.
77.   Les problemes fondamentaux rencontres dans la mise en oeuvre du PNASA I ont ete la base des
elements de preparation du PNASA II. Cette deuxieme operation comprend 4 composantes a savoir: (i)
restructuration du statut et renforcement de I'ANADER, (ii) restructuration de la recherche agronomique, (ii)
installation de radios rurales, (iv) appui a certaines directions du MINAGRA.
78.    L'ANADER va devenir avec l'implication des producteurs et du secteur prive qui vont apporter environ
60% du financement une veritable societe d'economie mixte appartenant aux ben6ficiaires. L'Etat continuera a
garder 40% de financement mais sera actioniaire minoritaire. La repartition des actions suivra la meme
r6partition. Tous les agents de I'ANADER seront a partir de 1999 des contractuels. Un systeme de captage de la
participation des producteurs a ete mis au point et sera fonctionnel a partir de 1999.
79.   La recherche agronomique pour repondre a la reorganisation des services agricoles va egalement etre
restructuree en une seule societe d'economie mixte appelee Centre National de Recherche Agronomique
(CNRA) repondant au meme principe que ceux dlcrits pour I'ANADER.
80.   Le renforcement du pouvoir des paysans sera donc reel dans le cadre du PNASA II puisque les paysans
apporteront une partie importante du financement de I'ANADER et du CNRA.



YK/YK                        44
MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE                               REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVbOIRt-
ET DES RESSOURCES ANIMALES                       -             UNION - DISCIPLINE - TRAVAIL
DIRECTION DE LA PROGRAMMATION
B.P. V 82 - TEL  21-08-33
Abidjan, le  ..1.......9.... 1    9   ....... . 19 .
-.'Rdf. n ,,,,,,......... /MINAGRAID.P.
INCI - MCS - DP                Le Ministre de I'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales,
V/Lettre no AG/359 du 04 juin 1998
Objet: RCI - Projet Natiornatd'Appui aux.
Services Agricoles I (PNASA I). (Cr-263 6-IVC)          a  Monsieur le Directeur des
Operations pour la Cote d'Ivoire
Banque Mondiale
ABIDJAiN
Monsieur le Directeur des Operations,
J'ai l'honneur d'accuser reception du Rapport d'Achevement et de l'aide-memoire de la
mission de post-evaluation du Projet National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles I, que vous avez bien
voulu m'e transmettre par votre courrier cite en reference.
La lecture et l'analyse attentives de ces documents font ressortir la pertinence des idees
exprimees. Les le,ons a retenir et les correctifs proposes seront fort utiles pour la bonne execution
de la phase II. Les principaux points du Rapport d'Achevement rencontrent par ailleurs mon
agrement.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le Directeur des Operations, I'assurance de mes sentiments
distingues.
I*OUF *MIistre et par &6i6gaj
/t     w    cteur de Cab1ng
j1                                     9' -         Nn 



45
REPUBLIQLUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE
UNION - DISCIPLINE - TRAVAIL
MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE ET
DES RESSOURCES ANIMALES
g   4--  -- ,V,- -   I    .    --.-  I
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU
PROJET NATIONAL D'APPUI AUX SERVICES
AGRICOLES I (PNASA I)
DIRECTION DEE LA PROGRAMMATION
JUIN 1998



46
INTRODUCTION
Au terme du Projet National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles I (PNASA I) mis en ceuvre par le
Gouvernement avec l'appui technique et financier de la Banque Mondiale, et conformement aux
dispositions relatives a la presentation d'un rapport d'achevement dudit projet par chacune des parties
(Etat de Cote d'Ivoire et Bailleurs de fonds), la partie ivoirienne propose les conclusions suivantes.
1. CONTEXTE DE MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET
Le Projet National d'Appui aux Services Agricoles a et con,u par le Ministere de l'Agriculture et des
Ressources Animales (MINAGRA) avec I'appui financier et technique de la FAO, du PNUD, de la
CFD, du FIDA et de l'IDA pour etre << au centre de la strat6gie gouvernementale de relance d'une
croissance soutenable en ameliorant la fourniture de services agricoles et en redefinissant le r6le de
l'Etat dans le secteur rural >)
Objectifs et duree du projet
Objectifs:
La strategie de mise en oeuvre du PNASA I prevoyait:
- la creation d'une agence unique de vulgarisation, I'ANADER, en lieu et place des agences
parapubliques de vulgarisation anterieures (SATMACI, CIDV, SODEPRA)
- l'appui operationnel a l'ANADER(Agence Nationale d'Appui au Developpement Rural)
- la restructuration des services d6centralises du MINAGRA
- le renforcement institutionnel de certains services centraux (MESRIT, MEF, MINAGRA).
L'accord de credit a et signe entre le Gouvemement de la C6te d'Ivoire et la Banque Mondiale le 12
septembre 1994.
Duree:
Le projet a demarre en decembre 1994 et a pris fin en decembre 1997 apres un report de la date de
cl6ture fixee initialement au 30 juin 1997.
2 - ZONE DU PROJET
Le projet couvre 1'ensemble du territoire national. L'heterogeneite du champ d'action du projet
necessite des approches variees et une adaptation des interventions.
3 - CONCEPTION INITIALE ET EFFETS ATTENDUS DU PROJET
Le projet contribue a la realisation de la politique gouvemementale de developpement economique,
notamment par le desengagement de l'Etat des activites de production et de commercialisation, la
promotion de la participation effective des beneficiaires a la defmition, au financement et a la
fourniture des services agricoles.



47
3.]1 - COMPOSANTES
Quatre composantes ont ete definies pour realiser l'objectif global du projet.
Composante 1 : Restructuration des serviices agricoles
La realisation de cette composante devrait se traduire par (i) une baisse du budget des services
agricoles par rapport a celui de l'annee 1994 consideree comme annee de reference et (ii) la
decentralisation effective des services agricoles. Trois sous-composantes devaient conduire a ce
resultat ; il s'agit de: (i) la liquidation des ex-EPN (CIDV, SATMACI et SODEPRA) et leur
remplacement par une seule structure de vulgarisation operationnelle, I'ANADER; (ii) la redefinition
des fonctions des Directions Regionales de l'Agricultures et des Ressources Animales (DRARA), et
(iii) la reinsertion du personnel licencie des ex-EPN.
Composante 2: Mise en place d'un service agricole efficace
L'atteinte d'un niveau de professionnalisme satisfaisant par un grand nombre d'agriculteurs/eleveurs et
la participation active des exploitants a l'elaboration de tous les programmes, constituent les elements
de mesure de l'aboutissement de cette composante. Pour y parvenir, il a e  prevu: (i) le renforcement
des echanges entre la Recherche et les agriculteurs ; (ii) une contribution significative a la productivite
des exploitations, et (iii) l'emergence d'OPA (Organisations Professionnelles Agricoles) viables.
Composante 3: Redynamisation des DRARA
Les resultats suivants devraient permettre de juger de l'atteinte de cette composante: (i) les politiques
agricoles sont elaborees, executees et suivies par les DRARA et (ii) les DRARA se concentrent,
notamment sur les fonctions de contr6le et (Ie reglementation.
Composante 4: Renforcement des capacites de I'Administration.
La realisation de cette composante devrait aboutir a la levee des blocages lies au manque de moyens
materiels et/ou de textes reglementaires relatifs a leurs attributions, evoques par les Directions
Centrales. De ce fait, un appui au benefice de la DP/MINAGRA, de la DOPAC/MINAGRA ( ex-
DMC), de la SDRD/MESRIT (ex-MESRS) et de la SDCG/MEF, devait etre assure.
3.2. 'ILOTAGE DU PROJET
Les quatre composantes ci-dessus ont ete regroupIes en deux volets:
le volet A comprenant la composante 2 ; le volet B comprenant les composantes 1, 3 et 4.
La maltrise d'ceuvre du volet A a et6 assuree par 1'ANADER, tandis que la coordination de la mise en
aeuvre du volet B a ete confiee a l'Inspecteur General du Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Ressources
Animales.



48
Le Suivi-Evaluation exteme de l'ensemble du projet a ete assure par la Direction de la Programmation
du Minist&e de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales.
Les premieres actions du projet qui ont porte sur le processus de restructuration ont e mises en oeuvre
par un comite de restructuration des Institutions de developpement agricole (CRIDA) et suivies par un
comite interministeriel cre6 en mars 1993 et compose de representants du Ministere de l'Agriculture et
des Ressources Animales, du Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur, de la Recherche et de
l'Innovation Technique, du Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances et du Ministere de l'Emploi, de la
Fonction Publique et de la Prevoyance Sociale. En outre, le BIC, bureau d'informations et de conseils,
cree par arrete ministeriel en avril 1993, etait charge d'orienter les agents licencies afin de leur
permettre de trouver un emploi.
3.3 - Financement du projet
Le projet est finance par un credit fourni par l'IDA, la CFD et le FIDA et sur des fonds de contrepartie
BSIE du Gouvemement de CMte d'Ivoire.
Tableau 1 : Plan de financement (millions de F CFA)
Sources               Gouverneme IDA           CFD        FIDA       TOTAL
Financement            nt
PNASA A : appui aux 29992  74%  7446  18%  0    0    3417 8%   4085  100
operateurs         de                                                5    %
I'ANADER
PNASA B: structuration 2774   28%  4094 42%  3000 30%  0    0    9868  100
et        renforcement                                                     %
institutionnel
TOTAL                  32766    =   1154   =  3000   =  3417   =  5072
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _   0                _ _ _13
Le couAt global du projet s'elve donc A environ 50,723 milliards de F CFA dont 40, 855 milliards
destines aux appuis A I'ANADER (PNASA A), 5, 782 milliards au renforcement ministeriel (PNASA
B) et 4,086 milliards au processus de restructuration.
3.4 - MISE EN OEUVRE
Le projet est execute sous la tutelle du Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales. La
Direction de la Programmation du MINAGA est charg6e du suivi-evaluation exteme.
Le comite de restructuration des Institutions de developpement agricole (CRIDA) et la Liquidation des
EPN dissous (CIDV-SATMACI-SODEPRA), assurent l'execution de la composante << restructuration
des services agricoles>
L'Agence Nationale d'Appui au Developpement Rural (ANADER) assure l'execution de la
composante << mise en place d'un service agricole efficace>



49
La coordination des activites de la composante orenforcement des capacites de I'Administration>> est
confiee au Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales ; chaque Ministere ( MESRIT, MEF)
assurant 1'execution de la partie du Projet le concernant.
La mise en oeuvre du projet compte deux etapes. La premiere, d'une duree de deux ans, conceme la
restructuration des services agricoles. Sa realisation effective et positive conditionnait la seconde etape
qui, sur trois annees, devait permettre de consolider et de poursuivre les acquis sur << I'amelioration de
I'element couit-efficacite et qualite des services agricoles, ainsi que la d6centralisation effective du
MINAGRA >.
L'entiere responsabilite de la vulgarisation est deleguee par le Gouvemement A l'ANADER dans les
regions oui il n'y a aucune autre agence. Ailleurs, le caractere complementaire et cooperatif de
I'ANADER avec les autres agences d'exe cution, devrait etre sp6cifie par un accord ou par des
arrangements.
Le processus de restructuration devrait etre termine au bout de deux ans a 1'exception des operations du
BIC qui devraient courir sur toute la periode d'execution du projet.
4. REALISATIONS DU PROJET
Conformement aux objectifs de restructuration et de renforcement institutionnels, les resultats suivants
ont e enregistrks au terme de la premiere phase du projet dont la duree a ete portee de 2 ans A 3 ans.
4.1 - ASPECTS TECHNIQUES
4.1.1 - Composante 1: restructuration des services agricoles
a) Liquidation des EPN
Les trois EPN (CIDV-SATMACI-SODEPRA) ont ete dissous. Un comite de liquidation compose du
MINAGRA, du MEF, du MEFPPS et du Liquidateur, a 6te constitue en vue de leur liquidation
effective ; 1'operation qui a demarre en 1994 est en cours.
Le montant des dettes de ces ex-EPN, 6valu( A 5,6 milliards de FCFA decomposes comme suit:
- (i) organismes sociaux : 2, 520 milliards de F CFA
- (ii) fournisseurs : 3,467 milliards de F CFA.
Ces dettes sont transferees au Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances depuis le 16 aofit 1996 (cf.
lettre de la Liquidation N157 du 16 aouit 1996).
b) Redefinition des fonctions des DRARA,
Le role des DRARA est desormais recentb- et porte sur le controle et 1'e1aboration des politiques
agricoles regionales (arrete n081 du 28 mars 1994 abrogeant les dispositions de l'arr8te n165 du 3
septembre 1991).



50
c) Reinsertion du personnel ficencie des ex-EPN (CIDV, SATMACI et SODEPRA)
Tous les agents des ex-EPN au nombre de 2290 et ceux des directions regionales de l'Agriculture et
des Ressources Animales (au nombre de 134) licencies, ont percu leurs indemnites, selon la procedure
en vigueur.
Le BIC qui devrait etre une societe de type prive dont la mission devait consister a aider le personnel
des EPN dissous non engage A I'ANADER A trouver des emplois dans le secteur prive n'a pas pu
mener efficacement ses activites.
4.1.2 - COMPOSANTE 2: MISE EN PLACE D'UN SERVICE AGRICOLE EFFICACE
a) Contribution du systeme de vulgarisation i l'amelioration de la productivite de l'exploitation
a.1. Les objectifs
Pour y parvenir 1'ANADER s'est assignee les objectifs suivants:
- ameliorer l'organisation de la vulgarisation
- ameliorer la connaissance et le savoir faire des exploitants pour augmenter leur
productivite et leur revenu
- promouvoir des systemes de production stables et durables preservant
1'environnement.
Pour realiser ces objectifs, la strategie adoptee par 1'ANADER et qui se fonde sur le systeme
o(formation-visites >> adaptee A la Cote d'Ivoire vise entre autres:
- A mettre en place un dispositif avec un agent de base (conseiller agricole) polyvalent, charge
d'apporter aux agriculteurs, les conseils necessaires
- A assurer une formation permanente du personnel afin qu'il soit A meme d'apporter
efficacement les r6ponses techniques aux preoccupations des exploitants
- A renforcer la collaboration entre la recherche et la vulgarisation en vue de transf6rer les
acquis de la recherche
a. 2. Les acquis
On note au terme du projet que:
- l'amelioration de l'organisation et de la gestion des services de vulgarisation est realisee a
travers:
- la mise en place d'un dispositif oiu l'exploitant a un interlocuteur unique A savoir le CA,
- l'utilisation du Diagnostic Participatif (DP) permettant une meilleure prise en compte des
besoins des exploitants
- la programnmation des activites A tous les niveaux en vue de rationaliser l'utilisation du temps
et des moyens
- la formation continue de tous les agents
- la dotation de tous les agents en moyens necessaires A l'ex6cution des taches qui leur sont
confiees
- la population agricole beneficiaire des services de I'ANADER est passee de 162 371



51
exploitants en 1996 A 239 743 et A 255 645 exploitants a la fin du projet, soit 57%.
- le nombre de Groupes de Contact, unites primaires de diffusion des messages a evolue de
14 036 GC en 1996 A 24 000 en 1997 (+71%)
- les Unites de Demonstration implantees dens le milieu ont connu des evolutions
successives: elles sont passees de 19012 en 1996 A 61 460 A fin 1997 soit une augmentation
de 223%
- le taux d'encadrement s'est egalement ameliore sur la periode de 1996-1997 passant de 16,7%
a 2lpercent. Toutefois, ce taux est en decA de 50percent de la population agricole objectifpotentiel de
l'ANADER au terme du PNASA I
- la polyvalence des agents est effective, permettant desormais de prendre en compte
l'exploitation agricole dans sa globalite.
Ces donnees montrent que le dispositif de vulgarisation a amorce une prise reelle sur le terrain et
s'emploie A assurer une bonne diffusion des messages techniques dans le milieu rural, A travers les
Groupes de Contact.
a. 3 Les faiblesses et axes d'amklioration
- maitrise insuffisante par les CA de la conduite du diagnostic participatif ; la formation des
CA A une utilisation efficace de cet outil, amorcee lors du demier exercice sera poursuivie.
Le CA sera systematiquement assiste dans l'utilisation de cet outil par le superviseur ou le
TS
- un nombre relativement important de GC ne sont pas fonctionnels ; en effet la mise en
place des GC jusqu'alors liee A des concepts figes d'affinite et de situation geographique
des exploitants connait une evolution, notamment par la prise en compte des groupes
naturels, des groupes d'entraide, des groupements formels tels que les GVC...
- unites de demonstration: bien que menees correctement, leur nombre reste faible ; les
nouvelles orientations definies dans ce sens devront permettre de cibler 3 A 4 speculations
principales par zone et le developpement de 2 A 3 themes nouveaux par speculations avec
pour effets de reduire le nombre de themes a diffuser et couvrir 20 A 50% des GC avec des
demonstrations
- faible participation des femmes dans les GC (8%): les actions entreprises pour corriger
cette situation et qui se sont traduites, notanament par la cr6ation d'un service <( Genre et
D6veloppement >> et la definition d'une strategie, seront poursuivies
- prise en compte de l'elevage: A l'exception de l'aviculture villageoise, les actions en
matiere d'elevage, d'une maniere generale doivent 8tre renforcees
- I'accent sera mis sur le developpement du conseil specialise en vue de repondre aux
attentes des exploitants agricoles d'un niveau de technicite eleve



52
b ) Renforcement des 6changes entre la Recherche et les Agriculteurs
b .1 Les objectifs
Le renforcement des echanges entre la Recherche agronomique et les agriculteurs a pour objet de
rapprocher les resultats de la Recherche systemique et thematique des messages techniques adoptables
par les agriculteurs ; des points d'application (PA) et des SARS oui 600 familles d'agriculteurs
(20/Sars) participeraient a l'elaboration des themes d'essais qu'elles experimenteraient dans leurs
propres champs, devaient etre mis en place dans chaque region.
Dans ce sens, I'ANADER a defini une strategie qui consiste:
- a mettre en place dans chaque region un PO et des SARS pour tester et adapter les
propositions de la recherche
- a faire participer activement la Recherche a la formation des TS (AMRT) et aux CTR
- a faire exploiter par les Chercheurs les resultats des diagnostics SARS et CTR.
b. 2 Les acquis
Les actions menees au cours de la periode du projet peuvent se resumer comme suit:
- confirmation des sites PO et rehabilitation des points d'application (PA): 10 PO et 23
PA
- mise en place d'essais: 18 en 1996 et 47 en 1997
- mise au point d'une strategie SARS avec une demarche participative assurant l'interaction
exploitants, chercheurs et vulgarisateurs
- realisation de diagnostic SARS : 5 en 1996 et 17 en 1997
- realisation de tests en SARS: 12 en 1996 avec 84 exploitants et 43 en 1997 avec 425
exploitants
- tenue de comites techniques regionaux : 9 en 1996 et 11 en 1997
- realisation d'ateliers mensuels de revue de technologie: 11 en 1996 et 54 en 1997
On note que le renforcement des liens entre et le developpement s'est traduit par une
descente des chercheurs sur le terrain
b. 3 Les difficultes et Axes d'amelioration
La difficulte majeure reside dans le retard pris au niveau de la mise en oeuvre de cette sous-
composante, du fait essentiellement de procedures longues de signature des accords entre ANADER et
Instituts de Recherche.
Les axes d'amnlioration qui suivent reposent sur les autres faiblesses relevees:
- renforcement de la tenue des CTR par l'implication effective de toutes les autres
composantes techniques de l'ANADER (appui aux OPA, vulgarisation, formation, etc.) pour
ameliorer la mise en oeuvre des recommandations
- mise en place de commissions de suivi des recommandations des CTR pour pallier
l'insuffisance dans la prise en compte des recommandations dans les programmes
d'activites des services regionaux
- e1aboration et utilisation d'un guide de I'AMRT pour ameliorer la mise en oeuvre de cet
outil par les differents partenaires



53
- utilisation du guide SARS elabore par I'ANADER afin de permettre aux differents
partenaires de s'approprier la demarche SARS
- renforcement du profil des techniciens SARS avec une option nette en faveur de la
pluridisciplinarite de 1'equipe, en vue d'une meilleure couverture des preoccupations des
exploitants
c) Emergence OPA
cl. Les objectifs
Les axes d'actions definis par I'ANADER aii titre de cette composante sont:
- promouvoir et rationaliser les OPA
- ameliorer et promouvoir les relations entre les OPA
- apporter un appui aux associations informelles et A leurs membres
c2. Les acquis
Les resultats enregistres restent marques en partie par les h6sitations du Bailleur de Fonds principal
(Banque Mondiale) au demarrage du projet qui se sont traduites par des modifications au niveau de la
strategie de I'appui aux OPA. Le nombre de SOP prevu a ete reduit de moitie.
Toutefois, on indiquera que:
- 116 SOP sont en place (4 en detachement aupres d'organismes: Unions de GVC,
Projets, sur la base de conventions passees avec I'ANADER)
- la situation de reference definie en 1996 a permis de denombrer 9300 OPA avec
environ 348000 adherents dont:
* 7328 dans le secteur cafe-cacao
* 1105 dans le secteur coton
* 455 dans le vivrier
* 87 dans le marai^chage
* 74 dans I'elevage et 12 dans l'artisanat
* 239 dans les autres secteurs d'activite
- la definition d'une nouvelle strategie d'appui aux OPA
- 1'etude du milieu entreprise en 1996 s'est poursuivie en 1997 ; les monographies
realisees sont passees en nombre de 1809 A 2165
- I'appui technique aux cooperateurs par la formation administrative et comptable, l'education
et la formation cooperative, l'approvisionnement en intrants, la commercialisation des
productions, la diversification des activites., l'acquisition de credits et leur remboursement, le
fonctionnement des organes (notamment les Assemblees Generales)
c3. Les faiblesses et axes d'amelioration
- mailtrise insuffisante de I'elaboration du contrat-objectif par les SOP: les formations realisees
dans ce sens au cours de la phase 1 se poursuivront
- mailtrise insuffisante par les OPA des problemes de gestion
- faible integration des OPA dans les activites de Vulgarisation et Recherche/Developpement:
les actions visant a assurer une meilleure gestion de l'interface



54
vulgarisation, appui aux OPA s'inscrivent au centre des ameliorations a apporter au systeme
de vulgarisation.
d) Formation et Gestion des Ressources Humaines
dl . Les objectifs
La strategie mise en place par I'ANADER s'articulent autour des actions suivantes:
* creer a l'interieur de l'Agence, la capacite de concevoir et d'organiser des programmes
de formation
* renforcer la capacit6 de l'equipe a la description de nouveaux postes de travail
* am6liorer les techniques de management et de capacite organisationnelle
* conforter l'efficience de la gestion des ressources humaines
* selectionner et recruter les personnels
* mettre en oeuvre les formations initiales
* prevoir les formations de perfectionnement
d2. Les acquis
- 89% du personnel est en place a la fin du projet. Sur 3042 agents concernes : 82,4% sont
des agents techniques et 2,3% sont au siege
- formation d'appui generale de mise a niveau : les formations realisees en 1996 ont repose sur
28 themes et necessite 43 500 joumres-stagiaires ; 22 themes sont enregistres en 1997 avec
37 700 journees-stagiaires.
Ces formations ont permis d'ameliorer substantiellement le niveau technique des agents de
base et d'assurer leur polyvalence.
d 3. L es faiblesses et axes d'amelioration
- la programmation des formations n'a pas touj ours cible les periodes de basse activite,
evitant des arr8ts d'activites au niveau des agents de base (CA notamment) ; une meilleure
prise en compte de cette contrainte sera assuree dans les prochains programmes
- la faible implication de cabinets prives dans la r6alisation des formations n'a pas permis
de liberer les capacites internes souvent appelees a realiser les sessions de formation ; pour
les prochains exercices, le recours aux personnes ressources intemes va constituer
1'exception.
e ) Suivi-evaluation
el Les objectifs
Cette composante doit permettre de suivre l'etat des realisations de I'ANADER et d'evaluer les effets
et impacts des activites.
e 2 .L es acquis
- tout le personnel du dispositif de S/E est forme et maitrise suffisamment les outils et les



55
techniques de S/E
- un guide de suivi-evaluation inteme a ete elabore
- un systeme de collecte de donnees par les services techniques a ete con,u et repose pour
chaque agent sur un cahier d'activites et un canevas de rapport periodique;
- differentes enquetes (2 a 3 voire 4 par region) sont menees ; la synthese des enquetes menees
chaque annee est etablie et diffusde
- les tableaux de bord des indicateurs de suivi des activites de I'ANADER sont mis a jour
regulierement (diffuses tous les trimestres)
- une enquete de base a e  realisee pour defunir la situation de reference qui faisait defaut
au demarrage du proj et; les resultats sont disponibles et serviront de base pour la mesure
des effets des messages techniques sur la productivite agricole, les rendements
l'accroissement des superficies et des revenus
- une methodologie de determination des tatux d'adoption des themes vulgarises a ete elabor6e: les
premiers effets des activites de la vulgarisation ont ete mesures
e 3 . Les faiblesses et axes d'amelioration
- absence de cadre logique formel du PNASAI, corrige par la definition d'un systeme
d'information et de gestion
- le PNASA I prevu pour 5 ans, puis ramene a 2 ans, a maintenu les objectifs de la phase de 5
ans de sorte que I'ANADER a souffert de cette equivoque qui n'a ete levee qu'A la mission
d'achevement
- faible implication des services techniques dans le processus de S/E pour en faire un outil
de pilotage
- prise en compte insuffisante des resultats d'enquete dans l'elaboration de nouveaux
programmes de travail
- malitrise insuffisante des indicateurs permeltant de prendre les mesures
correctives necessaires, eu egard aux contre-performances qu'ils peuvent reveler par leur
mesure.
4.1.3 - Composante 3: Redynamisation des DRARA
Les objectifs assignes aux Directions Regiornales de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales dans le
cadre de cette composante sont: (i) elaboration de la politique agricole regionale ; (ii) suivi et
evaluation de la mise en oeuvre des politiques: (iii) suivi du respect de la reglementation; et, (iv)
collecte et traitement des donnees statistiques.
L'arrete n081 du 28 mars 1994, qui remplace I'arrete n165 du 3 septembre 1991, definit le role
essentiel des Directions Regionales de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales. notamment le
recentrage de leur role dans les missions cle conception de politiques agricoles, de controle et de
reglementation.
Afin de permettre aux DRARA d'accomplir leurs taches, des moyens materiel, humain et financier
etaient indispensables.



56
Mise en place des equipements et du personnel
Les DRARA ont et equipees en moyens de deplacement, en materiel informatique et de bureau. Un
budget de fonctionnement leur est alloue a cet effet. Le taux moyen actuel de mise en place du
personnel est tres faible (37%). Le processus de restructuration des services agricoles a conduit au
licenciement de 2290 agents.
Le projet n'a pas tenu compte des effectifs reels et de la qualification des agents en place. Les profils
exiges pour de nombreux postes ne pouvaient etre satisfaits par les agents car les niveaux exiges etaient
eleves. Le projet ne pouvait pas recruter;  la Fonction Publique Ivoirienne sous les auspices des
Bailleurs de fonds ayant recu pour mission, dans le meme temps, de reduire la masse salariale par une
diminution des effectifs des agents de 1'Etat. Le projet n'a pas prevu de volet formation, ni de stage de
recyclage des agents retenus. Le projet devra prevoir, dans sa deuxieme phase, ce volet en vue de
parfaire le niveau de connaissance des agents.
Elaboration des politiques agricoles
Cette activite n'a pas ete menee par les DRARA du fait de la non maTitrise des outils de planification et
I'absence de personnel qualifie. Le projet de ddcentralisation des missions de la Direction de la
Programmation en cours d' elaboration permettra de donner une formation idoine aux Directeurs
Regionaux de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales pour mener a bien cette activite. Il est entendu
que cet objectif ne sera realis6 que si la loi sur la decentralisation regionale envisagee par le
Gouvemement est effective.
Accomplissement des fonctions de controle par les DRARA
Les fonctions de contr6le des DRARA se sont limitees aux activites phytosanitaires et veterinaires
qu'elles exercent en exclusivite.
Elles n'elaborent pas encore les politiques agricoles de leur region.
4.1.4 - Composante 4: Renforcement des capacites de I'Administration
Appui i la Direction de la Programmation (DP/MINAGRA)
Afin de soutenir la DP dans l'accomplissement de ses taches, le Projet l'a equipee de deux vehicules et,
de deux micro-ordinateurs. L'ensemble de ce materiel a ete livre depuis janvier 1996. Un budget de
fonctionnement lui est alloue. La Direction de la Programmation du Ministere de l'Agriculture et des
Ressources Animales a effectu6 cinq missions de suivi-evaluation externe sanctionnees par des
rapports diffuses a tous les partenaires du projet. Un rapport d'evaluation ex-post du PNASA I a e
egalement produit et transmis aux parties interessees.
L'organisation, grace au financement apporte par le Projet, d'ateliers de planification regionale et de
suivi-evaluation au profit des DRARA a permis d'initier ces dernieres aux processus d'elaboration des
politiques agricoles.



57
Appui a la Direction de l'organisation Prolessionnelle Agricole et du Credit (DOPAC,ex-DMC)
Le renforcement des capacites de cette direction devait conduire a (i) promouvoir les OPA et (ii)
ameliorer les relations entre elles (les OPA).
Dans ce cadre, cette Direction devrait etre equipee de deux vehicules et deux micro-ordinateurs. Depuis
janvier 1996 ce mat6riel est mis A la disposition de la DOPAC. Les agents des Services des
Organisations Professionnelles et des Institutions Agricoles (SOPIAC) et ceux des Cellules des
Organisations Professionnelles et des Institutions Agricoles (COPIAC) des Services exterieurs du
MINAGRA ont et equipes. Un budget de fonctionnement alloue a la DOPAC A cet effet lui a permis
d'effectuer des missions de contr6le et d'inspection des OPA.
Par ailleurs, une Circulaire n4063 du 28 decembre 1994 portant r6orientation de la mission de la
DOPAC a et6 etablie; De meme, la DOPAC a proced6 A la revision de la legislation cooperative
ivoirienne avec le concours des partenaires du mouvement cooperatif. Depuis le 18/11/97, le projet de
loi presente au parlement par le MINAGRA a ete vote et promulgue le 23 decembre 1997.
Appui a la S/Direction de la Recherche et Dveloppement, Ministere de l'Enseignement
Sup6rieur, de la Recherche et de l'Innovation Technologigue (MESRIT)
Cette Sous-Direction etait chargee surtout de veiller au bon deroulement des activites entre la
Recherche et la Vulgarisation. L'objectif d"equiper cette Sous-Direction en vehicules et en materiel
informatique a ete atteint, ce materiel lui ayant ete livre depuis janvier 1996. Le budget de
fonctionnement qui lui a ete alloue lui a permis de prendre part aux comites techniques regionaux
(CTR) organises dans les dix delegations regionales de I'ANADER.
L'appui apporte par le projet A cette structure a permis une meilleure coordination des activites entre la
recherche et la vulgarisation. Le bon fonctiolnement des CTR et des SARS en temoigne.
Appui A la Sous-Direction du Contr6le de Gestion (Direction des participations et de la
privatisation, Ministere de I'Economie et des Finances) (MEF)
Dans le cadre de ce projet (PNASA), la Sous-Direction du Controle de Gestion du Ministere de
l'Economie et des Finances est responsable de la verification annuelle des comptes du Projet, realis6e
par un Cabinet d'Audit independant.
L'objectif d 'equiper la Sous-Direction dans le but de lui permettre d'executer sa mission a ete atteint.
En effet, cette structure est equipee d'un vehicule et d'un micro-ordinateur depuis janvier 1996.
L'appui du PNASA I, par cet apport de materiel roulant, informatique et de budget de fonctionnement
A cette structure, est perceptible A travers l'audit des comptes des cellules realise par le cabinet commis.
En effet, les comptes de 1'ANADER et du PNASA I partie B des exercices 1995 et 1996 ont et6
audites. L'exploitation interne des rapports est faite par la Sous-Direction de Controle de Gestion.



58
Cependant 1'effet reel global recherche n'est pas atteint car les procedures de gestion ne sont pas
encore bien maitris6es par la partie B du Projet.
4.2 - ASPECTS FINANCIERS
Ils concement les avances percues, l'execution budgetaire des DRARA et de I'ANADER.
Avances
Le financement de la preparation du projet (PPF) a enregistre trois avances rappelees comme suit
Avances      Dates            Montants  ($) Montant    des Montant rembourse
Avances        Avances          (F CFA)
(FCFA)
1            Octobre 1992     300 000        75 000 0000      150 000 000
2            Juin 1993        600 000         150 000 000     300 000 000
3            Fevrier 1994     200 000         100 000 000     100 000 000
TOTAL        __ _      _ _ 1 100 000          325 000 000      550 000 000
La premiere avance a servi a financer les operations de la cellule de preparation du projet et les services
de consultants specialises. La deuxieme a permis de financer l'6 valuation du personnel par des cabinets
conseils prives, les audits techniques et financiers des ex-EPN dissous et les activites de formation du
personnel du projet. Quant a la troisieme avance, elle a servi a financer les principales activites de
lancement du projet.
LES DRARA
Le tableau ci-dessous presente les consommations budgetaires des dix Directions regionales de
I'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales (en milliers F CFA).
Annees      Budget (a)    Avances       Consomma-         % (c/a)    % (c/b)
percues (b)   tion (c)
1996        132 000       132 000       113 989,5         86%         86%
1997       250 000        115 500      99519,5            40%         86%
Total       382 000       247 500       213 504           56%         86%



59
L'ANADER
Consommation budgetaire (en milliers fraxncs CFA)
EXERCICE 94/95          EXERCICE 95/96    EXERCICE 96/97
Budget   Consomm %   Budget   Consom  % Budget Consomm %
m
Investissements 7 456 849 243 803   3   6 391 503 5   023 7 1   579 114 916   7
822     9 416
Fonctionnement 11 034 089 6 394 339 58  11309106 9845152 8 1121479 10   594 94
7 0        084
Total Budget  18 490 938 6 638 141 36  17 700 609 14  868 8 12  794 10    709 84
_________ _____ __ _  974  4   206  000
Le tableau ci-dessus relatif a la consommation des budgets 1994/1995, 1995/1996 et 1996/1997 appelle
les commentaires suivants: le niveau de consommation budgetaire de 1'exercice 1994/1995 est de
36%. Cette consommation tres moyenne s'explique par le fait qu'elle s'est executee au cours de la
periode de demarrage de I'ANADER marquee par la non execution des fournitures par appel d'offres.
En 1995/1996, un niveau de consommation de 84% est obtenu avec I'amorce de la phase de croisiere.
Ce qui denote un effort de mobilisation des lfonds.
4.3 - EXECUTION DU PROJET
4.3.1 - ANADER
L'ANADER est constituee juridiquement depuis le 24 juin 1994 sous forme de societ6 d'economie
mixte, a participation de l'Etat et de prives constitues essentiellement d'organisations professionnelles
agricoles. Pour initier un esprit de << service ) dans la vulgarisation, la conception initiale prevoyait que
1'ANADER fonctionne avec du personnel recrute du secteur prive. Aujourd'hui 652 agents sur 3045
(21%) sont encore des fonctionnaires au sein de la structure. Tout le personnel emarge & 100% sur le
budget de l'Etat. Neanmoins, il faut admettre qu'un effort appreciable a e  fourni pour la mise en
place d'une structure aussi importante. Ceci se traduit par la conception d'une gestion au niveau
national et regional, la formation du personnel et la mise a disposition du materiel logistique et
infrastructures d'accompagnement.
4.3.2 - Partie B
La mise en oeuvre de la partie B du Projet n'a pas connu la reussite escomptee. Ceci resulte surtout de
l'insuffisance en quantite et en qualitd de Ressources Humaines dans les Directions Regionales de
I'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales (DRARA), et dans une moindre mesure d'un pilotage flou de
ce volet en debut de projet.



60
5. Viabilite du projet
La volonte politique de promouvoir des services agricoles efficaces est manifeste. Les mesures
actuelles, notamment la creation de 1'ANADER, le recentrage des fonctions des DRARA en leur
confiant des r6les eminemment valorisants de concepteurs des politiques agricoles regionales,
confirment cette volonte. Ces el6ments justifient la vision A long terne des politiques agricoles.
Cependant, en ce qui conceme les DRARA, les acquis de cette phase du projet ne seront durables que
si les moyens humain, materiel et financier accompagnent les efforts de restructuration. Quant a
I'ANADER, sa viabilite dependra de sa capacite A faire face aux besoins des populations agricoles et
OPA viables dont elle aura reussi A favoriser l'emergence et le professionnalisme, les rendant par
consequent capables de participer au financement de l'ANADER.
6. Effets et impacts du projet
Les effets du projet sont perceptibles au plan institutionnel, notamment en ce qui conceme la reduction
du personnel des services agricoles (effet attendu) et des besoins en personnel qualifid fortement
exprimes dans les DRARA (effet negatif non attendu).
Au niveau des exploitations agricoles, il faut noter la determination des taux d'adoption des principaux
themes techniques diffuses par l'ANADER dont l'analyse permet d'apprecier l'impact des actions
men6es par la structure de vulgarisation au cours des 3 annees ecoulees. Les rendements moyens issus
de l'enquete de base menee en 1997 permettent par leur rapprochement A ceux de la periode de
d6marrage (1 994/1995) de noter un croit significatif dans certains cas.
7. Conclusion
Le defaut d'un cadre logique formel et la duree du projet ramende 5 ans A 3 sans que les objectifs aient
zte revus et adaptes ont ete A l'origine d'une equivoque qui n'a pas facilite le consensus sur la necessit6
de mesurer les effets du projet au terme de la periode de mise en place.
On peut noter que globalement les objectifs du projet ont dte atteints, mais des adaptations seront
necessaires au cours des annees a venir pour la foumiture plus efficiente de services aux producteurs.



MAP SECTION



MALI                0BURKINA
1GRELA                                                       FASO                               I
LIBERIA                  SOUBBE                           DN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEKESFOUGO BAIE
GUINEA                                                                                                                                          BU
<  qibO Sww    }R  HNdmmme_   iNORTH EAST 
N                      tQ T                                CENTE 
DANAN~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                       KATOLAF 7r
wn_ tV~~~~STD                 l           u                                                                          Z*)_i K 0  )ABENGOURO E
Oi,yo  ot,  J  *                              5ou  
LIBERIA W                                     S
~r-    I  -t~  oa9_5/~ 
BRKINA FASO                                                          COTE D        fIVOIRE
A G=  f_ d      ~       . wmmI. _                                        Pw
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
GUINEA                        ----- t,
JN_J                            z                     PRO JET NATIONAL DES SERVICES AGRICOLES
SIERRA)                                     o 'I
UEONEy - Im                                   i
u  COTE D'IVOIRE    GHN                                 Ag7onI7o,.I R,i-  .. ~d.n.                    MINA GRA~ R.,is..O. I Di ... ... 1. G
C               5  .5                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--Z.OOO,, Byd... d0i  Sob-l.P77-o, CopSok
LIBERIA     AND       .,AN17,d, .,...y                                                                     Ch.f.-Li-7, d S,n,-Pp,f.-,
-     17777007do,oI Bo,oyd.oi.,                *    N,,ij...I C,,i,.1
li,,-.  dE7c. CNpiARA                              dEVIE                                   C
GUNE   V07!e                               1<POETNTOA   E   ERIE   GIOE



