Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2636 IVC
Project Agreement
(National Agricultural Services Support Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGENCE NATIONALE D'APPUI AU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
Dated September 12, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2636 IVC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AGENCE NATIONALE D'APPUI AU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL 
(ANADER).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
fifteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,700,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that ANADER agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ANADER, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to ANADER on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said Financing Agreement; and  
WHEREAS ANADER, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ANADER declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ANADER shall otherwise agree, ANADER shall carry out 
Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. ANADER shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. ANADER shall duly perform all its obligations under the Financing 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ANADER shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ANADER shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)
ANADER shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ANADER of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ANADER
Section 3.01. ANADER shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical, environmental and 
scientific practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ANADER shall at all times operate and maintain its machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound technical and 
financial practices.
Page  3
Section 3.03. ANADER shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. ANADER shall: (a) by April 30, 1996, carry out jointly with the 
Association and the Borrower a midterm review of the Project which shall cover, inter 
alia, the actual setting-up and operations of the new structures;
(b)
thereafter carry out such corrective actions as the Borrower and the 
Association shall determine in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(c)
in order to facilitate this review, prepare and submit to the 
Association, not later than four weeks before the scheduled date of this review, a 
report of Project activities of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ANADER shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
ANADER shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account A for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, ANADER shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account (A) was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audit 
referred to in 
paragraph (b) (i) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related 
Page  4
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ANADER thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii)
the date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify ANADER of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making  such 
request. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For ANADER:
B.P. V183
Abdijan
Cote d'Ivoire
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ANADER may be 
taken or executed by ANADER's Director General or such other person or persons as 
ANADER shall designate in writing, and ANADER shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
Page  5
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
AGENCE NATIONALE D'APPUI AU DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
By /s/ Moise Koumoue Koffi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
 
Part 1:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part 2 hereof, goods for Part A of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those 
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). 
2.
(a)
For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part 1, ANADER shall 
use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, ANADER shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
Part 2:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.
Items, or groups of items, of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
Page  6
$200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part 3:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account A, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account A in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account A, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist ANADER in carrying out Part A of the Project, ANADER shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, ANADER shall employ such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, ANADER shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
ANADER shall be responsible for the overall implementation, monitoring and 
supervision of activities under Part A of the Project.
Page  7
ANADER shall be the Borrower's principal implementing agency with regard to 
extension, adaptive research and support to farmers' organizations and shall adopt a 
decentralized administrative structure.
1.
At the National level
 
(a)
ANADER's Board of Directors:
 
ANADER's Board of Directors shall generally direct, monitor and supervise 
ANADER's activities on the Borrower's territory. The Board shall also be responsible 
for the adoption of ANADER's annual work programs and budgets. ANADER's Board of 
Directors shall review, after their consolidation by ANADER's central management, the 
work programs submitted by ANADER's regional directorates on the proposal of the 
regional advisory committees. The Board of Directors thereafter will adopt ANADER's 
annual work programs. ANADER's Board of Directors shall meet every 6 months to assess 
at a national level the results of the work programs and redirect, if necessary, the 
work programs.
(b)
ANADER's Management:
 
(i)
ANADER shall be headed by one Director General, assisted by four 
Technical 
Directors, one Director of Administration and Finance 
and three other unit 
chiefs. The chairman of ANADER's Board 
may serve as ANADER's Director General.
(ii)
ANADER's Director General is responsible for the overall 
supervision and 
coordination of ANADER's operations.
 
(c)
ANADER's Directorates and Units:
 
ANADER shall be composed of four technical directorates, one directorate for 
administration and finance, and three support units. 
(i)
ANADER's technical directorates:
 
(A)
The Extension Directorate shall design extension programs 
and monitor 
their implementation and administration.
 
(B)
The Directorate for Support to Adaptive Research shall be 
responsible 
for the design of adaptive research programs 
integrating the results of 
research conducted by research 
institutes into technical solutions 
adapted to the 
farmers' needs.
(C)
The Directorate for Support to Farmers' Organizations shall 
design and 
implement ANADER's national strategy to promote and 
strengthen farmers' 
organizations. In the design of this 
strategy, the Directorate shall 
seek farmers organizations' 
input.
(D)
The Human Resources Training and Management Directorate 
shall, be 
responsible for the management of human 
resources and the design, 
implementation and supervision of 
training activities.
(E)
The Administration and Finance Directorate shall manage 
ANADER's goods, 
assets, and equipment and deal with the 
administrative aspect of 
personnel management.
 
(ii)
ANADER's support units:
 
(A)
M & E Unit: This unit shall be responsible for the 
elaboration and 
implementation of the M & E system at 
the local, regional and national 
levels. It will exchange on a 
systematic basis all relevant information 
with MINAGRA's 
Division responsible for Statistics as referred to in 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Page  8
(B)
Internal Auditing Unit: This unit shall secure the 
systematic internal 
financial control, issue recommendations 
relating to the improvement of 
ANADER's financial and 
administrative procedures. 
(C)
Computer Unit: This unit shall be responsible for the 
computerization 
of ANADER's data processing and the 
identification of staff needs for 
computer training.
 
(d)
Communication between ANADER and the Association 
 
(i)
ANADER shall be generally responsible for monitoring the 
implementation of 
Part A of the Project. ANADER, in 
collaboration with MINAGRA, will prepare 
semiannual progress 
reports on Project's implementation to be submitted to the 
Borrower and 
the Association. These semiannual progress reports, shall assess 
the 
progress in Project implementation from a financial, budgetary and 
institutional points of view. They shall assess, inter alia, through 
monitorable indicators acceptable to the Association, (A) the Project's 
impact 
on agricultural production, (B) progress in implementing the 
institution 
strengthening component of the Project, and (C) the 
evolution of farmers 
associations, with emphasis on the 
improvement of their structuring and 
financial sustainability, 
and their increased and effective participation in 
the overall 
evolution of the agricultural sector.
(ii)
ANADER's shall communicate to the Association, for comments, 
before October 31 
of each year, the program of operations and a 
detailed annual training program 
for Part A of the Project for the 
following year.
(iii)
ANADER's shall, in collaboration with MINAGRA, prepare the Project 
Completion 
Report within 6 months following the completion of the 
Project.
(2)
At the Regional and Field level  
(a)
ANADER's Regional Offices:
 
(i)
ANADER shall be composed of ten regional offices located in each 
of the 
Borrower's administrative region. The regional 
offices shall have extensive 
autonomy in the management of human 
resources, the preparation of proposals of 
annual work programs and 
execution of annual work programs and budgets.
(ii)
ANADER's regional offices shall generally organize and direct the 
services 
responsible for the improvement of production 
conditions and techniques, and 
products marketing and processing; they 
shall as well implement the training 
programs for producers and assist 
and support private initiatives from 
farmers, farmers' 
organizations, agro-industries or other economic agents.
(iii)
Each regional office shall be headed by a regional representative 
and shall 
comprise the three following technical services, extension 
and adaptive 
research, farmers organizations, training and human 
resources management. Each 
regional office shall also comprise one 
service for administration and finance 
and one monitoring/evaluation 
unit:
(A)
The service for extension and adaptive research of ANADER's 
regional 
offices shall supervise the extension activities at 
the regional level:
-
its unit for extension shall organize the extension 
activities 
according to Training and Visits principles, 
improve the 
implementation of extension techniques 
Page  9
and oversee the design of 
technical extension programs;
 
-
its unit for adaptive research shall participate in 
the 
development of technical programs designed for 
observation 
points, observation plots, and SARs, 
secure the coordination 
between these technical 
programs and the research activities 
conducted at 
the regional level, and participate in the 
identification of priorities for regional research programs.
(B)
The regional service for support to farmers' organizations 
shall 
participate, through the deployment in the field of 
FOSs, in the 
elaboration of managerial techniques for 
farmers' organizations, and 
the development of strategies 
conducive to the creation and promotion 
of farmers' 
organizations at the regional level; this service shall as 
well 
prepare and organize monthly workshops for FOSs and secure their 
training on management techniques.
(C)
The Training and Human Resources Management Service shall 
design and 
implement training programs for farmers and ANADER's 
staff in 
collaboration with training organizations, 
such as the National 
Institute for Socio-Economic 
Development, the Agronomic Institute of 
Bouake and the 
National High School of Agronomy.
(D)
The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit shall assess the 
efficiency of 
ANADER's regional offices by reference, 
inter alia, to the farmers' 
participation in contact 
groups and professional organizations, the 
compliance 
with ANADER's work programs, and the quality and regularity 
of training. This unit shall as well assess the quality and impact of 
ANADER's regional offices' field work by reference, inter alia, to the 
evolution in farmers' revenues, the farmers organizations' commercial 
performance, and the farmers' responsiveness to ANADER's technical 
recommendations.
(iv)
ANADER Regional Offices shall be responsible for the preparation 
of annual 
work programs intended to respond to the farmers' 
needs. Proposals for work 
programs shall be initially established at the 
local level during annual 
programming workshops attended by ANADER 
Regional Offices staff and field 
staff, farmers and 
representatives of agro-industries. To design the 
proposals, 
the local workshops will capitalize on the findings of monthly 
technical review meetings conducted by ANADER's field staff, the data 
collected through the M&E System and the relevant information gathered through 
daily contacts between ANADER field staff and the farmers during 
fortnight 
visits and monthly workshops. These proposals shall 
then be transmitted by 
ANADER Regional Offices Management to 
the ANADER's regional advisory 
committees referred to in 
paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule.
(b)
ANADER's Regional Advisory Committees
 
(i)
Regional Advisory Committees shall be established within each 
region of the 
Borrower's territory and shall be composed of 
MINAGRA's regional director, one 
regional representative of the Ministry 
responsible for Trade, one regional 
representative of the Ministry 
responsible for Economy, Finance and Planning, 
one regional 
representative of the Ministry responsible for Women Promotion, 
one 
representative of agricultural research institutes, representatives of 
farmers organizations, and other significant players in the rural development 
sector. Farmers organizations representatives shall represent at least 
50% of 
the members of the regional advisory committees.
 
(ii)
These regional advisory committees shall generally monitor, at the 
regional 
level, the adaptive research, extension and farmers 
Page  10
organizations support 
activities implemented  within each 
region. The regional advisory committees 
shall meet annually to 
assess the results of the work program of the preceding 
year and make 
a regional work program proposal for the incoming year.
