CREDIT NUMBER 2636 IVC
Development Credit Agreement
National Agricultural Services Support Project
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     4e   L, 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2636 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  -fi4k    4-0t /2- , 1994, between REPUBLIC
OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
June 15, 1994, from the Borrower describing a program of actions
designed to implement the Borrower's strategy in the Agricultural
Services Subsector (hereinafter called the Agricultural Services
Program), and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of such program;
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS (C) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the
Agaence Nationale d'Apui au Dfveloppement Rural (ANADER) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to ANADER part of the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS (D) by agreement dated January 13, 1994 (the IFAD Loan
Agreement), the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) has agreed to make a loan (the IFAD Loan) to the Borrower in
an aggregate principal amount of 7,050,000 DTS, part of which
proceeds will assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in the IFAD Loan Agreement;
WHEREAS (E) by agreement dated October 16, 1992 (the AfDB Loan
Agreement), the African Development Bank (AfDB) has agreed to make
a loan (the AfDB Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal
amount of 65,600,000 UCB, part of which proceeds will assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the
AfDB Loan Agreement;
WHEREAS (F) by agreement dated October 16, 1992 (the FAD Loan
Agreement), the African Development Fund (ADF) has agreed to make a
loan (the ADF Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount
of 8,500,000 UCF, part of which proceeds will assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the ADF Loan
Agreement; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with 'the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ANADER of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "ANADER"  means  the  Aence   Nationale  d'Appui   au
Dveloppement Rural established by presidential decree No. 93-777,
in date of September 29, 1993 of the Borrower;
(c)   "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ANADER pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Financing Agreement;
(d)   "CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, a public
financial institution of the Borrower;
(e)   "CEAF" or "CFA francs" means the currency of the
Borrower;
(f)   "CIDT"  means  the   Compagnie  Ivoirienne  Rour   le
Dfveloppement des Textiles, a soci-te d'conomie mixte, operating
within the Borrower's territory, created by Decree No. 74-282, in
date of June 20, 1974 of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(g)   "CIDV"  means  the   Compagnie  Ivoirienne  pour   le
Dgveloppement des Cultures Vivrieres, a parastatal agency of the
Borrower liquidated by Decree No. 94-67 dated February 23, 1994 of
the Borrower;
(h)   "FEW" means Field Extension Worker;
(i)   "FOS" mans Farmers' Organization Specialist;
(j)   "M&E" means Monitoring and Evaluation;
(k)   "HEFP" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
economy, finance and planning;
(1)   "MESRS" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
higher education and scientific research;
(m)   "MINAGRA" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
agriculture and animal resources;
(n)   "OP" means Point d'Observation or Observation Point;
(o)   "PES" means Point d'Etude Syst6me or System Experimental
Site;
(p)   "SARS" means Systemic Research Adaptation Site;
(q)   "SATHACI" means the Societe d'Assistance Technique ROME
la Modernisation Agricole de la C-te d9Ivoire, a parastatal agency
of the Borrower, liquidated by Decree No. 94-68 dated February 23,
1994 of the Borrower;
(r)   "SMS" means Subject Matter Specialist;
(s)   "T&V" means Training and Visits;
(t)   "SODEPRA" means the Soci4t6 de D6veloppement des
Productions Animales, a parastatal agency of the Borrower,
liquidated by. decree No. 94-69 dated February 23, 1994 of the
Borrower;
(u)   "Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) and (c) of this Agreement;


﻿-4-
(v)    "Project Account" means any of the accounts referred to
in Section 3.02; and
(w)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 2, 1992 and
August 25, 1992 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the
Projectq open and maintain in CFA francs a special deposit account
(hereinafter referred to as Special Account A) in CAA on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account A shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, open and maintain in CFA francs a special deposit account
(hereinafter referred to as Special Account B) in CAA on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account B shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn


﻿-5-
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The comitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1
commencing August 1, 2004 and ending February 1, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1,
2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each


﻿-6-
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms. of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end: (i) shall carry out Part B of the
Project through MINAGRA with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, scientific
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project; and (ii) shall, without any limitation or restriction upon


﻿-7-
any of its other obligations under this Agreement, cause ANADER to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations of ANADER therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable ANADER to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the
Credit available to ANADER under a financing agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ANADER, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Financing
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without Laitation upon any of its obligations
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)   establish and maintain, for the purposes of Part A of
the Project, a Project Account (hereinafter referred to as Project
Account A) in CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association to be used exclusively for the purposes of meeting
expenditures incurred under Part A of the Project, which are not
externally financed;
(b)   establish and maintain, for the purposes of Part B of
the Project, a Project Account (hereinafter referred to as Project
Account B) in CAA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association to be used exclusively for the purposes of meeting
expenditures incurred under Part B of the Project, which are not
externally financed; and


﻿-8-
(c)   deposit into each of the Project Accounts, promptly
before each fiscal quarter, sufficient funds to pay the Borrower's
contribution to the financing of the Project required for such
fiscal quarter, as Mstimated by the Borrower in consulta-'ion with
the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Section 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively), in respect of Part
A of the Project shall be carried out by ANADER pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Sec-ion 3.04. During the liquidation of SATMACI, CIDV and
SODEPRA, the Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1994
transfer to ANADER the assets of SATMACI, CIDV and SODEPRA necessary
for ANADER's operations.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall be solely responsible for
SATMACI, CIDV and SODEPRA's debts atLd shall dispose of them under
its national debt restructuring program.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall make available to ANADER
funds and resources necessary for the payment of salaries of
ANADER's staff and ANADER's operating costs for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1995, revise, as necessary, the applicable regulations relating to
agricultural cooperatives operating on the Borrower' s territory with
a view to facilitate their establishment and operation, and provide,
inter alia, for: (i) the holding of mandatory annual meetings; (ii)
the conduct of annual verifications of the cooperatives' books and
records by independent reviewers and their approval during the
cooperatives' annual meetings; (iii) the organization of periodical
elections every three years for the selection of the cooperatives'
board members; and (iv) the deliberative nature of the decisions,
including decisions on economic matters, taken during the annual
meetings.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) by April 30, 1996 carry
out jointly with the Association and ANADER a midterm review of the
Project which shall cover inter alia the actual setting-up and
operations of the nev structures;
(b)   thereafter carry out such corrective actions as the
Borrower and the Association shall determine in accordance with a
time schedule satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)   in order to facilitate this review, prepare and submit
to the Association, not later than four weeks before the scheduled
date of this ran     a report of Project activities of such scope
and in such d. ?- as the Association shall have reasonably
requested.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account B for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit


﻿- 10 -
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain,  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and    accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until   at least one year     after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; aad
(iv)    ensure that all records and accounts are included
in the audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditures
submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   ANADER  shall have failed    to perform   any  of  its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation


﻿- 11 -
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that ANADER will be
able to perforn its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   Decree No. 93-777 of the Borrower or ANADER's by-laws
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ANADER to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ANADER or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Borrower's Agricultural Services Program, or a significant
part thereof, will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has opened Project Accounts A and B
respectively and has deposited therein the initial deposits in an
amount in CFA francs equivalent respectively to one billion five
hundred million (1,500,000,000) and sixty million (60,000,000);
(b)   the Borrower has submitted- detailed closing audit
reports on SATMACI, CIDV and SODEPRA's accounts and operations as of
March 31, 1994, satisfactory to the Association;


﻿- 12 -
(c)   the Borrower has submitted ANADER's opening balance
sheet after its review and approval by MEFP;
(d)   ANADER's  Manual  for   Human  Resources  Management
Procedures has been completed in a form and substance satisfactory
to the Association;
(e)   ANADER and MINAGRA Regional Offices' selected Project
staff have been employed and all other staff of CIDV, SATMACI and
SODEPRA have been either reassigned or dismissed;
(f)   the Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and ANADER;
(g)   the Borrower has submitted a detailed work program,
including the training program, for the first year of Project
implementation satisfactory to the Association; and
(h)   the Borrower has submitted drafts of bidding documents
for the procurement of vehicles, goods and equipment and the
selection of consultants satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
executed by ANADER, and is legally binding upon ANADER in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)   that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
executed by the Borrower and ANADER and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and ANADER in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for economy, finance and planning is designated as


﻿- 13 -
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
B.P. V 125
Abidjan
Republic of C8te d'Ivoire
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                    23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D' IVOIRE
B y l/r /7 Aa 4 Cf-d  CO   -- ccofA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   AlVftk
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount,of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Vehicles:                                   100%
(a) under                  2,600,000
Part A of
the Project;
and
(b) under                  1,700,000        100%
Part B of
the Project
(2) Equipment,
furniture
and computer
units:
(a) under                    720,000        100%
Part A of
the Project;
and
(b) under                    720,000        100%
Part B of
the Project


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3) Consultants'                 300,000        100%
services under
Part A of
the Project
(4) Training                     950,000        100%
under Part A
of the
Project
(5) Operating
costs:
(a) under                  4,200,000        70%
Part A of
the Project;
and
(b) under                    360,000        40%
Part B of
the Project
(6) Studies                    1,450,000        100%
under Part B
of the Project
(7) Refunding of               1,450,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
tion Advance                                2.02 (d) of this
Agreement
(8) Unallocated                1,250,000
TOTAL                15,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means the Project related costs incurred for incremental travel


﻿- 17 -
allowances, vehicle and equipment maintenance and operation, office
supplies, and offices maintenance and rehabilitation.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
such expenditures for goods and services under contracts not
exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) streamline and
decentralize the organization of agricultural services; (ii) enhance
the role of MINAGRA, and particularly of MINAGRA's Regional
Directorates, in policy making and supervision of agricultural
development; and (iii) increase farmers' participation in the policy
making process in the agricultural sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Support to ANADER
1.    The strengthening of agricultural extension services through
the organization of their management at both national and regional
levels and the adaptation and implementation of training and visits
techniques.
2.    The reinforcement of the interaction between research and
extension activities through the elaboration of an adaptive research
program, including OPs, PESs, SARs and on farm trials, geared
towards the intensification and diversification of existing cultural
practices.
3.    The strengthening of farmers' organizations through the
training and deployment in the field of FOSs.
4.    The carrying out of regular skill upgrading training programs
for ANADER'S staff.
5.    The acquisition of vehicles, motorcycles, computer units,
office furniture and equipment.
Part B:     Institutional Strengthening
1.,   MINAGRA
The strengthening of MINAGRA through the streamlining of its
planning directorate, directorate responsible for mutualist and
cooperative  institutions  (Direction  de  la  Mutualitf,   de  la
Cooperation et de l'Animation Rurale) and regional departments'


﻿- 19 -
activities and the acquisition of vehicles, motorcycles, computers,
office furniture and equipment.
2.    MESRS
The strengthening of MESRS' Division for Adaptive Research
through the acquisition of vehicles, computers, office furniture and
equipment.
3.    MEFP
The strengthening of MEFP's Directorate responsible for
parastatals regulation through the acquisition of vehicles,
computers, office furniture and equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part 1:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part 2 hereof, goods for Part B of the
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into -   unt in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
1, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the.
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000
or more each.
Part 2:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 21 -
2.    Items, or groups of items, of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part 3:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account B, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account B in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account B, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Emplovment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,


﻿- 22 -
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Schedule
MINAGRA shall be responsible f or the overall coordination,
monitoring and supervision of activities under Part B of the
Project.
1.    MINAGRA
(a)   At the National Level:
(i)   The  Division  responsible   for  Planning   and
Budgeting within MINAGRA's Planning Directorate
shall be responsible for: (A) the formulation of
the Borrower's agricultural development policy,
(B) the preparation of policy implementation
programs, annual investment budgets, terms of
reference for studies, and (C) the establishment
of   modalities    for   appropriate   use   and
distribution of study results.
(ii) MINAGRA's Division responsible for Statistics
within the Planning Directorate shall take all
necessary  actions   and  measures   to  produce
reliable agricultural statistics on a regular
basis, and shall exchange, on a systematic basis,
all relevant information with ANADER's Monitoring
and Evaluation unit as referred to in Schedule 2
to the Project Agreement.
(iii)   MINAGRA's Directorate responsible for mutualist
and cooperative institutions shall establish
policies regarding farmers associations and
cooperatives, issue and circulate regulations
regarding their establishment and operations, and
oversee the implementation of these regulations.
This Directorate shall jointly conduct, with CIDT
and ANADER, by December 31, 1995, a study to
assess the feasibility for CIDT to engage
exclusively in the purchase of cotton-seed, the
processing of cotton-seed and the marketing of
cotton-fiber.


﻿- 24-
(iv)   MINAGRA shall be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of Part B of the Project. MINAGRA
will communicate to the Association, before
October 31 of each year, the program of
operations and a detailed annual training program
for Part B of the Project for the following year.
In collaboration with ANADER, MINAGRA will
prepare semiannual progress reports, to be
submitted to the Borrower and the Association, on
Project's   implementation   and   the   Project
Completion Report within six months following
Project's completion.
(b)   At the Regional Level:
(i)   MINAGRA' s regional directorates shall mainly work
on: (A) the development of regional agricultural
policies, (B) the monitoring and evaluation of
policy implementation, (C) the enforcement of
regulations,   and   (D)  the   collection   and
processing of statistics.
(ii) Each regional directorate shall be composed of
the five following services: Programming, M & E
and Statistics; Administration and Finance;
Natural Resources; Pest Seeds and Veterinary
Control; and the Service for Monitoring of the
Cooperative Movement.
(iii   Each regional directorate shall be represented at
the   departmental  level   by  a   departmental
director.
2. .HEFP
MEFP's Sub-Directorate for Management Control within the
Directorate responsible for parastatals regulation shall be
responsible for the annual auditing by qualified independent audit
firms of each of the Project's implementation units. This Sub-
Directorate shall secure a timely transmission of the audit reports
to the Association and supervise the implementation of the audit
reports' recommendations by each of the Project's implementing
units.


﻿- 25 -
3.    MESRS
MESRS' Division responsible for Adaptive Research shall
coordinate scientific research activities.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)(a),
(2)(a), (3), (4) and (5)(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect to Special Account A and
Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), (5)(b) and (6) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect to the
Special Account B;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount of
CFAF 300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into Special Account A; and (ii) an amount of
CFAF 150,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into Special Account B all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,      the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association


﻿- 27 -
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn   amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered. into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.


﻿- 28 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


