                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 36532

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (CPL-41480)

                                              ON A

                                             LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 100 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                             TO THE

                             FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                             FOR A

 NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
                                     RIO GRANDE DO SUL




                                          June 20, 2006




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                  Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                               R$ = US$ $ 1.05
                        US$ 1.00 = R$ 0.95
             Rate at Completion US$ 1.00 = R$ 0.46
                         FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1      December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BANRISUL             Bank of Rio Grande do Sul
ASTRF                Border Rural Workers Association
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
COPTEC               Coopertativa de Tecnicos
EER                  Economic Rate of Return
EMATER               State Agency for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
EMBRAPA              Brazilian Corporation for Agricultural Research
FECOTRIGO            Cooperative Wheat Federation
FEE                  Fundação de Economia e Estadisticas
FEPAGRO              Foundation of Agriculture Studies and Research
FEPAM                Environmental Protection Agency
FRR                  Financial Rate of Return
FUNAI                Fundação Nacional do Indio
FURG                 Federal University of Rio Grande Foundation
GEF                  Global Environment Facility
GIS                  Geographic Information System
IERR                 Internal Economic Rate of Return
IPEA                 Institute of Applied Economic Research
MTR                  Mid-term Review
PANPA        Programa de Apoio a Novos Produtos Agropecuarios
SAA                  Secretariat of Agriculture
SCP                  Secretariat of Coordination and Planning
SEP                  Project Executing Unit
SIMPRO               Project Management System
SISAGRI              Agricultural Information System
SPA                  Animal Protection System
UFSM                 Universidade Federal de Santa Maria
UFRGS                Universidade Federal de Rio Grande do Sul



                 Vice President:      Pamela Cox
               Country Director       John Briscoe
                 Sector Director      Laura Tuck
             Task Team Leader         Michael Carroll

                                           BRAZIL
    Natural Resources Management & Rural Poverty Alleviation - Rio Grande do Sul


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29

Project ID: P043868                                                  Project Name: Natural Resources Management & Rural
                                                                     Poverty Alleviation - Rio Grande do Sul
Team Leader: Michael G. Carroll                                      TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Natural Resources Management & Rural Poverty             L/C/TF Number: CPL-41480
                            Alleviation - Rio Grande do Sul
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Micro- and SME finance (24%); Health (24%); Animal production (24%); Crops (24%);
                            Central government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Land administration and management (P); Water resource management (P); Rural services
                            and infrastructure (S); Rural policies and institutions (S); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/21/1995                                     Effective: 01/01/1997                06/01/1997
     Appraisal: 01/07/1997                                         MTR: 01/01/2001                  05/06/2002
      Approval: 04/22/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2006                 12/30/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          STATE OF RGS/STATE SECRETARIAT OF AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               John Briscoe                                   Gobind Nankani
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Constance A. Bernard
Team Leader at ICR:             Michael G. Carroll                             Michael G. Carroll
ICR Primary Author:             Michael G. Carroll and Diego
                                Paysse


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As defined at appraisal, the project sought to improve natural resources management and sustainability, to promote
an integrated strategy of sound soil and water management practices and to improve poor communities' income
generation, in Rio Grande do Sul. This would protect and sustain natural resources, alleviate poverty and improve
quality of life. The principal objective was to be reached via the achievement of eight subsidiary objectives:

1. Improvement of family infrastructure, through the provision of electricity, drinking water supply and better
    housing conditions;
2. Development of social organization and promotion of rural communities, by supporting communal
    infrastructure, productive associations and other collective actions;
3. Beneficiaries and their organizations participation on problem identification, project generation and program
    evaluation;
4. Additional income generation on family production units, increasing productivity and adding value to primary
    products;
5. Soil recovery through natural resources management practices based on technological alternatives which
    increase agricultural productivity;
6. Technical training of small farmers on the implementation of new activities supported by the Project;
7. Further research on environmental monitoring and on appropriate technology for small family units; and
8. Strengthening of general capacity of public and private institutions responsible for natural resources
    management and services provision to rural areas.

Background: Rio Grande do Sul faces several environmental problems such as soil erosion, inadequate use of
agro-chemicals, degraded native vegetation and water pollution, among others. Poorer farmers are generally
located in marginal areas, with steep hills and fragile soils, which are in many cases degraded by inappropriate
management practices.

There are about 430,000 farmers in the State of which 360,000 (90%) are small farmers. About 234,000 small
farmers are below the poverty line (income under 1.5 minimum salary per family). The main characteristics of this
farming segment are small farm sizes and inadequate production patterns which promote capital deterioration,
natural resource losses and exclusion of a large number of poor families from the overall trend of the rest of the
economy. The resulting low productivity makes the way poor farmers manage their soils even worse, thus
promoting a vicious circle of degradation and poverty.

The social and macroeconomic consequences of degradation and poverty show how deep reforms must be in order
to reverse this downwards trend. A study carried out by the Institute of Applied Economic Research (IPEA) in
1990 found that there is a positive statistical correlation between rural poverty and land concentration and between
very small farms, poor soil quality and high levels of rural poverty.

In small farmer communities there is lack of appropriate infrastructure, poor housing and water availability, fragile
and degraded soils, shortages of productive animals and machinery, low levels of knowledge of optimal
agricultural practices and very low levels of income.

Apart from farmers there are also other rural communities such as small scale fishermen, indigenous families and
groups descended from former slave communities (quilombolas) which suffer various kinds of social exclusion.
The process of including these communities into the overall economic development trend requires much more than
credit access, technical assistance, human capital formation and training. There is a need for coordinated efforts
aimed at productivity improvement, better natural resources management practices, income generation and
preservation of biological diversity which should be based on organization of communities, local planning and the
building up of human and social capital and entrepreneurial confidence.


Definitions of types of beneficiaries




                                                          - 2 -

"Small farmers" eligible for support were defined as owners, renters or share croppers that live in the
project area and have farms of: i) less than 4 "fiscal modules" in the southern region and the highlands
region; and ii) less than 2 "fiscal modules" in the rest of the project area. (The area of a fiscal module varies
between 5 and 15 ha and is defined by the state to approximate areas of land from which similar economic
returns are possible.
"Agrarian reform farmers" are defined by the project as those settled in official settlements established
either by the State Government or by the Federal Government organization INCRA and that otherwise have
the same characteristics as "small farmers" defined above.
"Fishermen" beneficiaries were eligible for support if their livelihoods depend on fishing and their boats are
less than 10 tons and they live within the project area.
"Indigenous people" eligible are those that are both recognized by FUNAI as indigenous and are living in
rural areas identified by the project.
"Quilombolas" eligible are families that both live in groups descended from former slave communities (and
recognized as such by CODENE) and live in rural areas identified by the project.



3.2 Revised Objective:
Objectives remained unchanged during the implementation period.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was comprised of the following five components. The projected costs included provisions for price
and physical contingencies.

(i) Natural Resources Management Subprojects. (US$65.2 million about 31.2% of total project cost) Under this
component, the project would finance small grants for demand driven subprojects prepared by a group of
beneficiaries within hydrographic microcatchments, aimed at water and soil conservation, erosion control,
degraded and fragile areas protection and improved systems for agrotoxic disposal.

(ii) Rural Poverty Alleviation Subprojects. (US$103 million about 49.5% of total project cost) This component
would include small grants for demand driven subprojects prepared by eligible communities on a small social and
productive scale, including activities such as water provision, sewage, social well being and rural and non rural
income generation.

(iii) Support Services. (US$21.9 million about 10.5% of total project cost) This component would support
technical assistance and extension, training and competitive adaptive research aimed at Project beneficiaries.

(iv) Institutional Development. (US$12.4 million about 6% of total project cost) This component would strengthen
selected units of the Secretariat of Agriculture (SAA) of the State Government, which are crucial for the
implementation of the Project, including those related to the Geographic Information System (GIS), State Parks
and natural reserves, land property rights and animal health.

(v) Project Management. (US$5.9 million about 2.8% of total project cost) This component would attend the
establishment of a special unit within the SAA responsible for the overall project coordination, project
implementation supervision and project monitoring and evaluation.

The components were specifically related to the achievement of the objectives and were well within the capacity of
the implementing agencies.

The design of the project included lessons learned from earlier projects implemented in the sector, in Brazil and
elsewhere. Special consideration were given to lessons learned with the State of Parana Project Ln 4060-BR
(Paraná Rural Poverty and Natural Resources Management Project) and its predecessor Ln 3018-BR (Land
Management I ­ Paraná Project).




                                                          - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:
There were two formal revisions of the project's components. Operational adjustments were made throughout the
life of the project to fit into the priorities of two new state administrations. Since changes were considered to
improve programs' integration and to be more conducive to achieving the project's objectives, the Bank
maintained its continued support.

The original project design was modified slightly because of the different financial circumstances experienced by
the state government and the occurrence of two severe droughts that compelled the state government to reassign
funds towards related activities designed to have a more immediate impact on the emergency.

Importantly, these revisions were reflected in the Project Manual which was continually updated and improved
throughout the project. The final Project Manual has thus has taken account of all the lessons learned and is can be
considered as a guide of "best practice" procedures for undertaking such a project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's objectives were highly relevant and consistent both with the Government of Rio Grande do Sul's and
the Government of Brazil's priorities and also with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as stated in
document discussed at the Board on June 29, 1995 and in the progress report of June 27, 1996. The objectives
were highly compatible with the Bank's strategy regarding the provision of loans to Brazilian states. It was built
on the existing policy and institutional framework and did not pursue key policy and institutional reforms, but
rather focused on strengthening the decentralization process and progressive delegation of decision-making
responsibilities at the state and local levels. It based its operational approach on the main elements raised by
previous Bank experience in other Brazilian states in order to alleviate rural poverty and improve natural resources
management. It also focused on demand-driven and on participatory approaches as the core of a capacity building
process in which beneficiaries would become responsible for the definition of priorities.

This was the first Bank loan to address Rural Poverty and Natural Resources Management in Brazil and given the
project's highly decentralized nature, a detailed comprehensive project manual to coordinate and guide the project's
work was developed. The manual was continually revised and improved throughout the project and is currently
still being used to guide the project's follow-on activities.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The principal objective of the project was to improve natural resources management and sustainability, promote an
integrated strategy of sound soil and water management practices and to improve poor communities' income.
Project implementation, performance and achievements are considered satisfactory and substantial progress was
made towards achieving the principal and subsidiary objectives defined in Section 3.1. There was no order of
priorities assigned to the subsidiary objectives which were seen as inter-locking parts designed to contribute to the
achievement of the principle objective.

The project developed a very solid and comprehensive monitoring system. This tool permitted monitoring of
project results and based on this, the project has reached the following outcomes.

The socio-economic evaluation, conducted by FEE (Fundação de Economia e Estadisticas), showed that 63.89% of
beneficiaries had some kind of increase in family income as a result of project support activities and that the level
of family income increased on average 25.65%. These figures are much higher than the targets established which
were a reduction of 40% in rural poverty figures in the project area and a family income increase of 15% in the
various types of project beneficiaries. There has been a coverage of 36.36% of the 234,000 small farms in the
project area which received support by the project. This figure is higher than the target of 35% that was set in the
Project Monitoring Letter.



                                                            - 4 -

The project also directly contributed to improving soil and water quality. There was a reduction of 13% in the
variation of water infiltration which indicates an improvement of humidity retention as a consequence of better soil
management practices. They estimated that the target figure of 5% increase in water retention capacity of soils
was largely surpassed. The environmental monitoring also showed that water quality measured through the
reduction of solid matter in suspension, improved much more than the target figure of 10% which was considered
in the Project Monitoring Letter. Monitoring demonstrated a 27% reduction of sediment concentration in the
places where improved practices of natural resources management were implemented. It was estimated that the
specific sediment production in tons/sq.kmt./year had a 41% reduction as a consequence of better management
practices.

The promotion of an integrated strategy of sound soil and water management practices was made possible through
the participative subproject formulation scheme that was implemented at the local level. Municipal councils, where
a great number of institutions representative of the major components of the local communities could discuss
priorities altogether with technical specialists from State Agency for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
(EMATER), built up a sense of integrated approach to the problems faced by individual farmers. It also contributed
to the development of the social organization of rural communities and self assurance about their role in the
development process.

4.2 Outputs by components:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory Overall

The natural resources management and the rural poverty alleviation subproject components were initially
implemented in a separate manner. At the beginning Municipal Councils presented both types of subprojects for
approval which in many cases included the same families as beneficiaries, thus duplicating time and efforts. From
1999 when a new administration took over, both components were merged into a single component that was called
Integrated Subprojects. When this occurred there was also a modification in the consideration of new communities
as potential beneficiaries of the project, allowing the incorporation of agrarian reform farmers, artisan fishermen,
livestock family farms and quilombolas.

Component 1.Integrated Special and Emergency Subprojects Component (80.7% of total project costs):
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Output by type of subproject

Integrated Subprojects

Six of the eight subsidiary objectives described in Section 3.1 are closely related to this component. Only the last
two have no direct relationship with integrated subprojects. There have been three types of subprojects included in
this component: a) integrated subprojects; b) special subprojects and c) emergency subprojects. There have also
been three different types of actions involved in this component: a) management and conservation of natural
resources; b) income generation; and c) basic social infrastructure. A special type of subprojects implemented
under a program called PANPA (Programa de Apoio a Novos Produtos Agropecuarios) deserves special
consideration. It started in 1997 funded by Pro-Rural as an independent subproject addressing agro-industrial
marketing and new business promotion and generation. In 1999 it was partially integrated into the project and
from 2003 it was fully integrated into the project under this component.

The results obtained in this component were very good. The subproject functioned by responding to demand which
was generated at the local level by Municipal Councils. There were 9,131 subprojects formulated and implemented
and 197,782 families were attended at least once. The total number of families reached by the subproject including
repetition was 249,795.

TYPE of                  NUMBER of                 NUMBER of BENEFICIARIES            NUMBER of BENEFICIARIES




                                                          - 5 -

SUBPROJECT              SUBPROJECTS                  (without repetition)                (with repetition)
Integrated                     3,177                          105,315                             133,909
Subprojects
Special Subprojects            1,638                           18,157                              21,930
Emergency                      4,316                           74,310                              93,956
Subprojects

TOTAL                          9,131                          197,782                             249,795

The target figures included in the Project Monitoring Letter for the different types of subprojects were 9,500
subprojects formulated, 8,600 subprojects approved and 6,000 groups of beneficiaries organized. More than 9,500
subprojects were formulated and actual figures for subprojects approved and groups organized were far above the
target figures.

It is important to consider that the figure of 197,782 beneficiaries included 100,045 small farms. They represent
about 43% of all small and poor farms which have been estimated as 234,000 in Rio Grande do Sul.

Integrated Subprojects.

Small farmers were the largest group of beneficiaries in this group. They represented 64% of integrated
subprojects and 80% of all families being beneficiaries of the project. There were 2,031 family farms subprojects
and they included 84,728 families directly attended by the subproject at least in one occasion. Only 4% of those
families were included in more than one subproject.

Agrarian reform farmers represented the second group of farmers in terms of importance. They accounted for 22%
of integrated subprojects and 9% of beneficiaries. There were 688 subprojects for agrarian reform farmers and they
included 9,570 agrarian reform families. About 65% of these families were supported by more than one subproject
so the number of beneficiaries with repetition has been 15,835 families. The number of agrarian reform families
attended by the project accounts for almost 100% of all agrarian reform families in the State.



TYPE OF BENEFICIARY                           NUMBER of                NUMBER of                 NUMBER of
                                              SUBPROJECTS              BENEFICIARIES             BENEFICIARIES
                                                                       (without repetition)      (with repetition)
Small farmers                                        2,031                    84,728                    93,132
Agrarian reform farmers                                688                     9,570                    15,835
Fishermen                                              177                     4,804                     7,168
Indigenous people                                      233                     4,382                    16,031
Quilombolas                                             48                     1,301                    1,743

TOTAL                                                3,177                   105,315                   133,909



There were 177 subprojects involving artisan fishermen. Those subprojects attended 4,804 families. About 49% of
these families were supported by more than one subproject which makes the figure of families being attended with
repetition 7,168.

Indigenous communities were attended both by Municipal Council non integrated subprojects and as integrated
subprojects. Resources were given to these communities through 233 subprojects which accounted for 4,382
indigenous beneficiaries. This number represents almost 100% of the people in indigenous communities,
including Guarani and Kaingang ethnicities. The indigenous communities were attended on average four times by
the project and the number of beneficiaries with repetition amounted to 16,031.



                                                         - 6 -

A total of 48 subprojects were conducted regarding communities of quilombolas including 1,301 beneficiary
families. Families attended by the project represent 100% of all quilombolas families, as identified in a special
study carried out by the project.

Special Subprojects

In 2003, when a new administration took over, some modifications were introduced in project components. These
modifications expanded some activities and also introduced new ones through developing special subprojects. This
also included considering more municipalities as potential clients of project activities and expanded limits of
resources per municipalities and beneficiaries. The special subprojects focused on expanding subproject activities
concerning Income Generation and those carried out with PANPA and also included developing subprojects
focused specifically on Reforestation, Biodiversity and Animal Health. There were 366 municipalities throughout
the state that received support by means of specialsubprojects. 1,638 specialsubprojects were approved, reaching
18,157 beneficiaries without repetition and 21,930 with repetition.

The two most demanded specialsubprojects were income generation and PANPA. They accounted for almost 85%
of all specialsubprojects and for about 68% of specialsubproject beneficiaries. PANPA had two major groups of
subprojects. One group included marketing of agricultural products through commercial promotion, publications
and participation in fairs. The other referred mainly to studies on the structure and performance of various
markets with emphasis on agro-industrial chains. By 2003, 1,226 PANPA subprojects had been approved with
7,771 beneficiaries. Since 2003 there have been and additional 143 PANPA subprojects and 3,429 additional
family units have received PANPA support.

In contrast, the demand for biodiversity subprojects was far below expectations. There were only 38 subprojects
approved and the number of beneficiaries was just 828. Major factors which could explain this low interest in
biodiversity subprojects were the small acreage of potential beneficiaries, the historical tendency of small farmers
to cut down natural forests to expand cropping areas and the lack of income perspectives from preserved areas.

Both reforestation and animal health subprojects also had a low level of demand. There were only 45 reforestation
subprojects involving 2,101 beneficiaries. In the case of animal health subprojects the number of subprojects was
24, the number of beneficiaries were only 64 and they mainly covered brucellosis and tuberculosis control in bovine
and swine herds.

Emergency Projects

During project implementation the State of Rio Grande do Sul experienced several emergencies related to climatic
disasters, and animal health problems. Five types of emergency subprojects were implemented: RS drought: RS
seeds; RS water disposal; RS infrastructure; and RS foot and mouth. All five categories involved family farmers.
In the case of RS water disposal subprojects, agrarian reform farmers, quilombolasand livestock farmers were also
involved.

RS drought, RS seeds and RS water-disposal jointly accounted for 3,953 subprojects representing 92% of all
emergency subprojects. They were aimed to give relief to small farmers affected by two severe droughts. They
supported 70,674 family farmers which represent 95% of all beneficiaries of emergency subprojects.

Output by type of action

Resources were applied through integrated and special subprojects to three types of actions: a) natural resources
management and conservation; b) basic social infrastructure; and c) income generation. Intervention through these
actions constituted the central strategy to comply with the main objective of the project.




                                                         - 7 -

     TYPE of ACTION                    NUMBER of               NUMBER of                    NUMBER of DIRECT
                                       MUNICIPALITIES SUBPROJECTS                           BENEFICIARIES
Natural Resources management
and conservation                             427                         2,665                     86,126
Basic social infrastructure                  450                         2,693                     65,284
Income generation                            471                         4,155                     81,083

      TOTAL                                  480                          4,786                   118,715

Management and Conservation of Natural Resources

Natural resources management and conservation involved a key group of actions throughout the implementation of
the project. Most of the beneficiaries were very much dependent upon natural resources for families feeding needs
and for income generation. The most demanded actions within this group have been erosion control practices like
soil protection techniques, water movements control and adaptation of soil use to its natural capacity.

Soil protection techniques like the incorporation of green crops into soils, crop rotations and the use of plants
which recover degraded soils, were included in 1,780 subprojects, reached 60,866 beneficiaries and involved a
large soil area. The incorporation of green crops into degraded soil involved 171,159 hectares of land. Water
control activities were demanded by 32,741 beneficiaries grouped in 1,128 subprojects comprising 90,534 hectares.
Actions involving the adaptation of soil use to its natural capacity were less demanded, probably because of small
farm size, kind and magnitude of labour supply and lack of elasticity to change cropping patterns. Only 926
subprojects involving 18,331 beneficiaries included this type of actions.

There were also a number of other types of actions like organic production, recycling of disposals and pollution
control demanded by integrated and special subprojects. Organic fertilizing was carried out by 8,205 beneficiaries
and 48,695 cubic meters of organic fertilizers were applied to soils representing 25 cubic meters per hectare.
Other kinds of actions involving domestic sewage and disposal of residues were demanded by 20,370 beneficiaries.

Reforestation activities with both exotic and native species were implemented by 23,862 small farmers that were
grouped in 1,139 subprojects. A total of 22,612 hectares were reforested and 70% of the area was planted with
exotic species. About 8,175 km of rural roads for improving access to farm houses were implemented in several
micro-catchments but there was no restoration of other roads within micro-catchments as was originally proposed.
Activities related to biodiversity conservation had a low level of demand by integrated subprojects. Less than 1%
of resources applied by integrated subprojects were referred to biodiversity activities. Some action was taken after
2003 in order to change this situation and a special biodiversity subproject was implemented.

Basic Social Infrastructure

Taking into consideration all different publics reached by the project, there were 2,693 subprojects involving
65,281 beneficiaries, aimed at the provision of basic social infrastructure. The most relevant practices supported
were those associated with the quality of living conditions. A total figure of 34,991 families had either new houses
built or their old houses reformed. In 17,445 cases old houses were provided with new bathrooms.

Rural electricity was provided to 11,730 families and potable water to 12,092 families.

Income Generation

Income generation activities demanded by beneficiaries through different type of subprojects were mainly grouped
into three categories. The most demanded one was the improvement of productive infrastructure and capacity.
This group of activities was conducted by 57,000 beneficiaries. Within this group the most common activity,
demanded by 24,640 small farmers, was the improvement of milk production by means of buying more productive
cows, equipment and milking parlors. There were also 5,798 farmers demanding improved pastures and rotational



                                                         - 8 -

grazing systems for their dairy farms.

A second group of practices was related to the development of marketing and agro-industrial enterprises, most of
them included in special PANPA subprojects. The most demanded activities by beneficiaries were equipment
acquisition for agro-industrial purposes (2,955 cases) and the construction and reform of working space for
marketing purposes (3,241 cases).

The third group of income generation actions was geared towards production diversification and accounted for
17,825 beneficiaries. The diversification activities most commonly demanded were honey production, fruit and
horticulture production and reforestation with exotics which were demanded by 10,000 beneficiaries.


Component II, Support Subprojects (10.5% of total project costs)
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

This component was design to fulfill two of the eight project subsidiary objectives. The one related to the
strengthening of the capacity of public and private institutions responsible for natural resources management and
the provision of services to the rural sector, and the other related to technical training of small farmers on the
implementation of new activities supported by the project. There were four sub-components included in support
subprojects.

Sub-component Research and Studies

Four types of actions were involved: a) research open to demand; b) contracted research; c) special studies; and d)
strategic studies.

There were 19 research works generated by demand implemented by 8 research institutions which also involved as
partners another 34 research institutions. EMATER was responsible for 9 research subprojects most of them
related to validation of new technologies at the farm level. The Federal University of Rio Grande Foundation
(FURG) executed 2 research subprojects on fishing subjects and the Border Rural Workers Association (ASTRF)
conducted 2 subprojects on the adaptation of sugar cane, mango and abacaxi to conditions in the north west of the
State. Every institution organized field days, regional seminars, technical seminars and ecological tours, which in
total amounted to 393 events, in order to communicate subproject results and train beneficiaries on new developed
technologies. Research subprojects took place all over the state and involved 53 municipalities. A very important
seminar was held with participants from many research institutions in Rio Grande do Sul to discuss the findings of
the research subprojects. Many documents were prepared, 19 reports and 14 leaflets, among others, with
summaries of the research subprojects results.

Contracted research activities were carried out by 3 research institutions in 4 different regions of the state, with one
research subproject each, and 34 associated research institutions contributed to their implementation. Research
activities took place in 4 research stations and in 30 small farms located in 21 municipalities. The institutions
involved were Brazilian Cooperation for Agricultural Research (EMBRAPA), Foundation of Agriculture Studies
and Research (FEPAGRO) and Cooperative Wheat Federation (FECOTRIGO) Centre for Research, which
organized 79 extension and training events and produced 21 technical publications with the most important results
of research subprojects.

There were 5 special studies carried out by 4 institutions and 1 individual consultant. They addressed several
subjects including diagnosis, characterization and evaluation of rural credit, agricultural production systems, dairy
production and quilombolascommunities. There also were 2 strategic studies supervised by the Secretary for
Coordination and Planning (SCP) dealing with planning support programs and the modernization of public
management in Rio Grande do Sul.

Sub-component Training




                                                          - 9 -

In order to improve the performance of training activities 13 training centers were either built or reformed. In
those centers 37 training units were developed with the purpose of facilitating the process of learning while doing.
During project life 104 training events took place where 1,854 technical staff from co-executing institutions
participated. There was a constant need to train technical staff on the computerized system for the formulation of
subprojects as well as to train them on participative quick diagnosis activities required for the setting of priorities.

The project gave special attention to the training of beneficiaries. There were 3,310 training events during project
implementation and 69,024 beneficiaries participated as trainees. Training activities took place in
micro-catchments, various communities, units of production and in SAA training centers specially adapted with
project support. Most training activities were directly related to the beneficiaries of the integrated subprojects. It
was very important to be able to organize training activities with the support of adaptive research and a network of
referring units and promoting partnership between the project, SAA, private firms and foundations in Rio Grande
do Sul.

Sub-component Technical Assistance

Both in the PAD and in the Operational Manual special emphasis was given to the importance of technical
assistance as one of the project's three basic supporting elements alongside the correct setting of priorities at local
level and adequate, decentralized, financial and monitoring management. Municipal councils were responsible for
promotion and setting priorities at local level, Bank of Rio Grade do Sul (BANRISUL) managed financial and
monitoring aspects of the project. EMATER was the most important institution regarding technical assistance.

Provision of technical assistance has been vital to the general performance of subprojects, both at formulation and
execution level. EMATER was in charge of 8,734 technical subprojects involving various subjects, COPTEC was
in charge of 297 subprojects involving agrarian reform families, private technical assistants supported 394
subprojects and other type of institutions, like FIDENE/UNIJUI in the case of indigenous communities, were in
charge of the other 100 subprojects.

Sub-component Referring Units Network

Two networks were organized by the project, one based on EMBRAPA in the southern part of the state and the
other based on EMATER in the Alto Uruguay region. In the first one EMBRAPA and other institutions of the
State, jointly with municipal councils and farmers associations, motivated farmers to participate in the network,
selected the most appropriate farms, prepared a technical, social, economic and environmental diagnosis and
produced a report describing the main characteristics of each referring unit. In the case of the other network in
Alto Uruguay EMATER and the municipal councils used the participative quick diagnosi methodology to identify
the appropriate unit, prepare an overall diagnosis and define the main characteristics of each unit.

The production systems that were addressed in both networks included organic soybean, varieties of corn, milk
from pastures, medicinal plants, organic fruit, "caipira" poultry and ecological citrus production.

Component III Institutional Development
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Since the beginning of the project special consideration was given to the creation of partnerships between the
project, SAA, municipalities, private institutions and state foundations. Twelve institutional partnerships were
consolidated and 13 formal agreements were signed in addition to a significant number of agreements signed every
year with municipalities where project activities took place.

A significant number of goods and equipment were bought by the project to support the Project Executing Unit
(SEP), various SAA departments and other partner organizations. A total of 471 computers, 196 printers and other
computer inputs, 347 vehicles and 200 units of office furniture were bought and 1,470 territorial photos were
provided by the project.




                                                         - 10 -

Many works were performed by the project to strengthen partner organizations. In 1997 different kind of works
were carried out in 13 training centers and in 2005 another 2 training centers had their buildings repaired and
modernized.

The GIS of SAA was provided with 2 new computer stations one for graphics and the other for geographical
processing. Special software for GIS was bought and used intensively by the current administration during 2000 to
2002 as support for planning activities with land reform settlers. There was no fulfillment of target figures for GIS
and no thematic maps with soils, rivers, roads and vegetation were prepared although some courses for software
users were undertaken.

The SAA information on animal production in the State has always been substantial but not well organized. The
project aimed at providing a data base called Agricultural Information System (SISAGRI) that could be efficiently
used by SAA technical staff. Consultant work was contracted in order to make a diagnosis and propose a plan of
hardware and software acquisition. Consultants highlighted the need for equipment, software and training and
SAA started building up SISAGRI at the end of 2004. It is important to express that the current administration
gives high priority to the joint development of GIS and SISAGRI as a new Animal Protection System (SPA) which
will continue in 2006 funded by state budget.

The PAD included supporting actions directed to improve the rate of land titles and cadastre maps provided to
farmers. Target figures were not attained mainly because of continuous changes in agencies responsible for the
bureaucratic procedure but still a great progress was achieved. There were 1,934 new land titles with 3,177
cadastre maps made available for small farmers.

Activities to improve parks and reserves were included in the PAD specially referred to preservation and
maintenance of natural resources in 5 state parks. A private firm was contracted to develop management plans for
those state parks which were concluded almost at the end of the project. Another private firm was contracted to
elaborate the necessary technical subprojects for the implementation of plans. The current administration has
recently stated that the execution of the 5 plans will be done by the Secretary for the Environment with resources
provided by private firms through compensation procedures.

A series of consulting firms were contracted to carry out important tasks throughout project implementation. The
Getulio Vargas Foundation was contracted to assist in the socio-economic evaluation. The Magna Engineering
Ltd. Firm was contracted to develop the management plans for the five conservation units. Softplan Poligraph was
contracted for the development, installation, maintenance and training of SIMPRO, the project management
system. HLB Auditors were responsible for the external auditing of the project. The two special Strategic Studies
aimed at supporting the Coordination and Planning Secretary (SCP) were carried out by three important consulting
firms:

a) Booz Allen Consortium with FIPE and HLC; b) ECOPLAN Engineering Ltd. and c) Boucinhas & Campos
Consultants S/C.

The first Strategic Study was called Planning and Strategic Policy Formulation Support Program for Rio Grande do
Sul and was divided in two major components. The first one covered territorial planning and regional
development. The second component covered transport logistics. The final result of this study is a very important
input for any new investment planning by public and private institutions from year 2006 up to year 2015.

The second Strategic Study referred to Public Management Modernization and Improvement in Rio Grande do Sul
and was divided into two modules. The first module covered the diagnosis, evaluation and proposals aimed at the
improvement of State Government global performance. The second module aimed at improving the performance
of State Government Secretaries, Autarchies and Foundations. The main results of this Strategic Study has been
the definition of a program portfolio with a series of articulated subprojects and a group of regional strategies for
nine planning regions in Rio Grande do Sul.

Component IV Project Management


                                                         - 11 -

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The coordinating unit SEP has been a key part of project implementation whose role was to coordinate the
implementing agencies and the various disciplines involved, provide technical back-up to relevant actors in the
project, keep records for monitoring and evaluating the project and implement the decisions taken by many
institutions in a very de-centralized and participative way.

Bearing in mind the relevant importance of this component SEP devoted considerable effort to developing an
efficient, transparent and planned system for the project cycle from definition of priorities at the local level up to
the final payment to beneficiaries. The environmental monitoring of micro-catchments which was the
responsibility of FEPAGRO (Fundação Estadual de Pesquisa Agropecuaria), UFSM (Universidade Federal de
Santa Maria), UFRGS (Universidade Federal de Rio Grande do Sul) and EMATER and quick diagnosis with
participative quick diagnosis methodologies at the micro-catchment level with EMATER support; continuous
selection and setting of project priorities at municipal level by local councils; efficient project analysis by SEP
technical staff; and quick disposal of payments by BANRISUL, were some of the key elements managed by SEP to
make the project cycle as short as possible.

Before the mid-term review (MTR) the period of time from the initial selection of subprojects until the final
payment to beneficiaries was from 4 to 8 months and sometimes almost 12 months. The SEP then improved the
project information system, the qualification of technical staff involved in project planning and implementation
and the coordination with other state government agencies to secure a quick disposal of funds to the project. As a
result of that improvement project implementing time was reduced significantly to an average of 3 months.

SEP have been capable of detecting bottlenecks and providing the necessary solutions showing great flexibility.
That has been the case with the definition of target publics, area coverage, eligibility criteria and limits of money
paid to beneficiaries.

Two important actions under SEP responsibility were the environmental monitoring of pilot micro-catchment and
the socioeconomic evaluation of the project. The first one started in 2001 and finished in December 2004 due to
some problems in the early days with signing the necessary agreements with partner institutions. The second one
had an early start in 1997 and was implemented in 2 stages from 1997 to 2000 and from 2000 to 2003.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The PAD estimated a 20.9% economic rate of return (ERR) for the project based on the extrapolation of expected
results of 6 representative farm models for livestock production, water supply and marketing and agro-industrial
initiatives as grain dryers and stocking spaces. As for the evaluation, the benefits considered through the
aggregation of farm models included increased production and lower farm costs, but no allowances were made for
benefits resulting from soil erosion and loss of productivity as a consequence of soil fertility decrease. Given the
policy reforms and the opening of the economy, the rate of exchange of the Real has been determined in the open
market and domestic prices were considered in general in line with border economic values. Border price
adjustments were considered only for some tradable commodities produced by the project. Under these
assumptions, the ERR estimated in the PAD was not very different from the financial rate of return (FRR). Water
supply and livestock production models resulted in higher ERR (> 35% and 23%) than the other models. In the
case of very poor small farmers that were supported through basic infrastructure improvement and small
investments in tools and small livestock, no rate of return was calculated.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial analysis was carried out in the PAD where a 33.3% financial rate of return (FRR) was estimated using
the same models used for EER calculations. With the information gathered throughout the monitoring and
evaluation of the project, EMATER calculated an ex-post FRR based on a new set of models. Many of these
models were similar to those used in the PAD but they also included new models to cover certain types of
production activities that were not foreseen ex-ante. All models showed a much larger FFR than the ones
calculated in the PAD as the following table shows.

TYPE of ACTIVITY               NUMBER of FAMILIES              INITIAL INVESTMENT                       FRR
                                                                      (Reales)                          ( % )
                                                          - 12 -

Honey Production                                                     2,197                       67.0
Honey Production                                                     1,869                       60.7
Swine Production                          1                          3,029                       61.9
Grain Dryer                               3                          2,477                       31.4
Grain Dryer                              79                        28,438                        31.4
Grain Dryer                                                        15,341                        25.3
Water Reservoir and Fish                  1                            612                       72.7
Water Reservoir and Fish                  1                          1,020                       64.0
Water Reservoir and Fish                  1                          2,459                       61.7
Milk Cooler Tank                          1                            728                       78.9
Milk Cooler Tank                         32                        24,552                        69.4
Milk Cooler Tank                          1                          2,045                       69.2
Livestock Acquisition                     4                          1,800                       87.8

Given the resulting high levels of FRR there were no EER calculations ex-post. It is estimated that they should be
high enough to surpass the estimates included in the PAD.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact of the project was significant. Various SAA agencies were strengthened, new institutions were
supported at the local level such as the municipal and regional councils, EMATER gained substantial expertise in
dealing with rural poverty alleviation and natural resources management and beneficiaries associations were
consolidated through technical advice, capacity building and training.

During implementation the project ensured that a participatory approach was used in defining of participant areas
and communities, in the setting of priorities and planning the most relevant activities and in the final execution of
proposed lines of action.

Although the project changed its name from Pro-rural to RS Rural after the first administration change, there is
significant name recognition and in public discourse, RS Rural is always associated with poverty alleviation, good
natural resources management and income generation.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Rural poverty and natural resources mismanagement has been an endemic problem in Brazil and Rio Grande do
Sul since shortly after colonization. Land ownership systems and lack of land rights had produced a limiting
fragmentation of agricultural land that kept rural areas impoverished and posed a threat to natural resources.
Small farms with less than 20 hectares were unable to produce at competitive prices.

One important factor affecting the project has been the rate of exchange of the domestic currency against the U.S.
dollar. After the crisis of January 1999 the exchange rate suddenly rocketed from 1 to more than 2 Brazilian reales
per U.S. dollar. All financial calculations were distorted as a consequence of the new rate of exchange and the
State administration had to finance greater amounts of domestic money than what was initially estimated. This fact
had implications on delays in making counterpart money available and affected the performance of the project.

The project was also greatly affected by several climatic and animal health crises. In years 2000, 2004 and 2005
severe droughts had large negative effects on crops, fruits, horticulture and animal production. The state
administration formally requested the Bank to consider a series of measures within the framework of the Loan
Agreement which would mitigate the effect of these droughts. The measures were mainly directed towards the
provision of water and seeds to help small farms to recover as quickly as possible. There were also serious animal



                                                        - 13 -

health problems in 2001 with out-breaks of foot and mouth disease that affected exports of Brazilian beef to major
beef markets and consequently diminished domestic prices, forbade the transit of animals to other states and
cancelled animal auctions and shows. In this case mitigating measures were directed towards buying vaccines and
improving veterinarian support to small livestock farmers. Climatic and sanitary problems also had serious direct
and indirect effects on integrated subprojects and research implementation timing. As a consequence of supporting
emergency subprojects the sub-component related to rural roads was suspended and finally was not implemented at
all.

There were some important limitations in the gathering of inputs and capital goods price offers at local levels when
very small municipalities were involved. This fact in many cases affected the speed of the project's cycle.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Implementation was slowed down by the changes in administration that occurred twice during the life of the
project. The first one occurred in 1999 less than two years since the beginning of the project execution. The
second one was in 2003 shortly after the mid term review of 2002 and not far from the project initial closing data
of December 2003. Each of the three administrations had their own views on how to organize and manage the
project. There were delays in the execution of some components and sub-components because of changing
strategies. That was the case of the environmental monitoring which started in 2001 and allowed for only three
years of monitoring instead of eight years. Also PANPA subprojects, SIG, SISAGRI and parks and reserves
sub-components were delayed and only started in 2003. The computerized Project Management System (SIMPRO)
which has been vital for recording data and supporting project decisions by SEP also got off to a late start,
beginning in 2000.

Almost from the beginning of the project, significant budgetary restrictions were imposed. These kinds of
restrictions became even worse after the financial crisis in January 1999 and ultimately led to the loan's closing
date being extended by two years. Budgetary restrictions and delays in transferring counterpart funds to the project
and the failure to maintain a reasonable balance of funds available affected the timing of almost every project
component. Additionally, certain slow bureaucratic routines were not synchronized with agronomic cycles and
thus produced further delays in the implementation of integrated subprojects.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project implementation was closely coordinated by the SEP which had a small but well qualified and motivated
technical staff. SEP had the means and the ability to coordinate with all major institutions related to natural
resources management and rural poverty alleviation matters.

5.4 Costs and financing:
By the revised closing date, 100% of the loan's budget had been disbursed. Actual total project expenditures, at
US$161,281,000 accounted for 77.4% of the amount estimated in the PAD at US$208,400,000. This reduced
figure was due to the multiple revisions and reformulations which meant that the counterpart funding was reduced
from US$108,400,000 to US$61,281,000.

                                      BANK                     STATE GOVERNMENT                TOTAL
Projected in the PAD           US$100,000,000                US$108,400,000                 US$208,400,000
Actual                         US$100,000,000                US$ 61,281,000                 US$161,281,000

As counterpart funding was reduced, the relative proportion of Bank and State contribution changed. In the PAD
it was estimated that Bank contribution would be 48% of total costs and finally the contribution was 62%.

Annex 2 contains a table that shows how financial resources were distributed in the four project components. The
support subprojects component had the worse comparative performance with 38% accomplished while the project
management component disbursed 178% of the estimated figure in the PAD. The other two components had a
relative performance similar to the project as a whole which shows a figure of 77% of accomplishment compared
with the PAD estimates as a consequence of the reduction in the counterpart amount provided by the State



                                                        - 14 -

government.

Income generating support through integrated and special subprojects, above certain limit of money per family, had
to be repaid with 2 to 3 years of grace and an amortization period from 5 to 7 years. Up to now the experience with
cost recovery has been positive. By the end of 2005, more than US$4 million has been recovered which accounts
for 83.25% of the money that should have been paid in that period. The total repayment amount to be paid from
2001 up to 2011 is US$10 million. If the same recovery rate is maintained until 2011 the total amount of money
recovered should be more than US$8.3 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of project benefits is considered highly likely. At the end of the project RS Rural had become
institutionalized and was considered a model for natural resources management and poverty alleviation. The State
Government has allowed US$7 million of the state funds in the 2006 budget, to be used in support of 150
integrated subprojects in 150 municipalities involving small farms. A Global Environmental Facility (GEF)
project is currently under preparation and will be submitted during 2006. This project is proposing actions on
biodiversity conservation in 6 regions of Rio Grande do Sul following the technical and methodological strategy
used in RS Rural. Many of these follow-on activities are benefiting from guidance of the comprehensive Project
Manual developed for this project.

Based on the experience gained with RS Rural, the State Government, jointly with the Ministry for the
Environment, the Ministry for Agrarian Development, the Ministry for Mines and Energy and other federal
agencies, agreed to coordinate actions to support indigenous communities. Support will include public funds for
development subprojects, food safety, water supply, housing improvement and reforestation activities.

The positive cost recovery of income generating subprojects made it possible to strengthen the state-owned fund for
small farmers FEAPER and many investments are being financed by this fund to improve production systems and
secure the acquisition of appropriate seeds. Many natural resources management, income generation and social
infrastructure practices that have been applied by RS Rural will continue to be applied by means of extension work
organized by EMATER. It is almost certain that EMATER, both on its own and with partner institutions, will
continue promoting the application of new technologies which have been developed during the execution of RS
Rural in the fields of production systems, network of referring farms, ecological practices, environmental
monitoring and beneficiaries training.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Activities carried out under the project were aimed at improving natural resources management and income
generation and promoting better integration of sound water and soil management practices. However, there is still
room for improvement and this will be necessary in order to consolidate what has been done through RS Rural. It
is therefore highly desirable that a follow-on project be implemented in order to consolidate strategies and practices
all over the state and especially in those regions which fall below the average level of development. New
subprojects should work against development inequalities through an integrated approach providing better
financing, technical assistance and training to the relevant actors of less developed regions.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance is considered to have been satisfactory. The project was identified in 1996 as a
result of the Bank's former experience in other southern states in Brazil regarding natural resources and poverty
alleviation. Throughout the processing of the loan, from identification to approval, there was a strong dialogue
within the Bank and between the Bank and the government of Rio Grande do Sul concerning key aspects of project
design. The Bank preparation team managed to get involved and find the means to introduce its vast experience
gained in other Brazilian states in the design of objectives, components, strategies and operational practices. The



                                                         - 15 -

Bank has continuously provided its considerable experience on policy dialogue and operations dealing with rural
investment funds and facilitated access to information and advisory capacity on design issues and lessons learned
with comparable projects.

The project was prepared by the Bank with the support of FAO/CP and the government of Rio Grande do Sul and
was appraised in March 1997. Attention was paid during preparation (and included in the PAD) to issues of
appropriate technology, to the need to balance increased production, income generation, quality of life and natural
resources conservation and to the need for institutional strengthening, coordination and development at state,
regional and local level.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is considered to have been satisfactory. An intensive supervision strategy
was implemented, which included 18 supervision missions in addition to the MTR mission in March 2002 and the
ICR mission in April 2006. This intensive effort was also characterized by continuity as the project had the same
Task Manager from appraisal to ICR and the supervising team had very few modifications. The Bank was flexible
and supportive giving quick responses under the Borrower's changing conditions when the new state
administrations took place. The Bank's approaches provided a combination of fiduciary monitoring and technical
assistance and resulted in the development of a strong relationship with the SEP and with authorities of SAA, SCP,
EMATER as well as other important institutions in Rio Grande do Sul. The Bank supervision missions,
responsiveness and client oriented approach helped to address various problems that arose during the project like
the severe droughts in 1999, 2003 and 2004 and the foot and mouth outbreaks in 2001. The MTR was carried out
in March 2002 and the mission defined a series of actions to improve the implementation of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is considered to have been satisfactory. The project was identified as a result of a
thorough and timely analysis of Rio Grande do Sul's agricultural problems and its preparation was an inter-active
exercise involving the State administration, FAO/CP and the Bank in which the latter played a key role. The Bank
committed itself to producing work of a high standard during preparation and implementation and assigned top
expertise, adequate resources, intensive supervision and proactive dialogue. Project supervision focused on key
aspects and Bank management showed a pragmatic flexibility in the face of changing circumstances, particularly
with the exogenous factor of climate and the impact of difficulties of budgetary allocations. This flexibility
resulted in amendments, the extension of the closing date and the necessary adjustments to allow for the financing
of specific activities to alleviate the impact of the various shocks experienced by Rio Grande do Sul during this
time.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower was fully committed to the project and to its aim of developing improved natural resources
management practices, to improve poverty alleviation in the rural sector and to develop an integrated strategy of
sound water and soil management practices, all of it favoring decentralized and participatory planning and demand
driven strategies. There was ample scope for the interchange of freely expressed opinions and there was a highly
participative approach involving public institutions at central and local levels, private institutions and beneficiaries
associations and organizations. Two extremely detailed Project Implementation Manuals were prepared in a timely
manner, each of them with specific indications on target publics, types of subprojects, limits per family and other
considerations.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Project management was satisfactory during most of implementation period although sometimes counterpart funds
were not assigned in a timely manner. There were also some delays in the acquisition of certain project inputs that
subsequently created problems with the adjustments of investments to the proper biological timing needs at the
farm level. The project implementing agencies were coordinated by the project SEP and its performance was
satisfactory. The municipalities that participated in the project had an important role in its promotion and
implementation. They participated as partners providing technical staff, machinery and equipment and made it




                                                           - 16 -

possible to accomplish certain tasks including building farm access roads, water reservoirs and communal centers.
The total contribution of municipalities to the project has been estimated at US$18 million adding about 15% to
the total project figures. Beneficiaries have also contributed to the success of the project by providing family labor,
inputs and some financial resources which is calculated as a total of US$32 million which adds about 25% to the
total project figures.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agencies were coordinated and guided by the SEP in a satisfactory way. The SEP was integrated at
a central level and was responsible for procurement, audits, monitoring and evaluation and supervision of the
decentralized operations. The integration of SEP suffered relevant changes each time administration changed but
throughout the quality of the technical staff was very good.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is assessed as satisfactory despite the challenges that have been covered
above. Its commitment to the project was permanent and clear and the limitations observed had marginal impact
on the achievements of the project.

8. Lessons Learned

In projects like RS Rural, where agricultural time-tables mean activities cannot be postponed as a result of
bureaucratic delays, it is vital that there be on-time provision of counterpart funds with strict compliance with the
amounts of money included in annual budgets.

When there are continuous administration changes, it is important for the Bank to organize very frequent
supervision missions. It is also important to keep a flexible attitude towards changes and to facilitate adjustments
such as those involving types of beneficiaries, limits in the provision of funds to individual family beneficiaries and
special support to help beneficiaries face emergency situations.

Projects aimed at improving natural resources management, rural poverty alleviation and income generation in
very poor communities should always include an effective process of participatory and decentralized planning. It
has proved very efficient to set priorities at the local level with the participation of local institutions, like municipal
councils, where public and private bodies and organizations within poor communities discuss priority activities.

Demand-oriented subprojects based on micro-catchments, where a range of the most relevant issues faced by poor
communities are treated in an integrated way, such as combining poverty alleviation, income generation, natural
resources management and biodiversity activities, have proved to be highly efficient.

The availability of sound project management tools like SIMPRO has been very important in terms of SEP
performance. SEP performance could have been further improved if the delays occurring during the first three
years of getting SIMPRO to effectively work could have been avoided.

It has been very important in RS Rural to deal with each type of beneficiary community separately. This approach
allowed specific attention to be paid to each community, taking into consideration their different cultural values
and characteristics.

EMATER has proven to be an essential tool for the implementation of the project. Its wide-spread organization
with well trained technical staff in every municipality of the State, has been vital for the success of planning
integrated subprojects and providing the necessary technical assistance to subproject beneficiaries.

Project implementation benefited greatly from training technical and administrative staff of partner institutions
working on administrative and managerial tools like SIMPRO, participative quick diagnosis methodology and
specific new productive technologies.

Support activities such as research subprojects, technical studies, technical assistance and training of beneficiaries



                                                           - 17 -

have been provided in an integrated way. This kind of integration allowed for the generation of new technologies,
their validation through field testing and their application by project beneficiaries.

A project such as this relies on having a high quality, comprehensive project manual to guide and coordinate
activities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Partner's comments can be found in the attached letter.




                                                          - 18 -

(b) Cofinanciers:




                     - 19 -

There were no other co financers to this project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners involved in implementing this project.

10. Additional Information

The average amount of money going to each beneficiary is as follows. This must be considered with regard to the
significant fluctuations in exchange rates during the life-time of the project from initially 1:1 at the beginning to a
peak of 1:3.5 during implementation and 1:2.2 at closure. In the following table, the amount expressed is the
average amount paid in Reales throughout the project. The dollar amount is calculated using the fixed current
exchange rate of 1:2.2.

Beneficiary                            Amount in Reales per family              Amount in US$ at the exchange rate
                                                                                of 1:2.2

Small Farmers                          1,652                                    760
Agrarian Reform Farmers                4,246                                    1,953
Indigenous Families                    2,286                                    1,052
Fishermen                              2,221                                    1,022
Quilombolas                            3,380                                    1,555




                                                         - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
- Improve natural resources management and 3.1 million ha.                                  860,000 ha.
soil productivity
- Implementation of integrated conservation      46,000 farmers                             94,300 farmers
plans benefiting farmers in 900
microcatchments;
- Rehabilitation of five state parks and natural estimated area of 20,000 ha.               5 executive projects
reserves
- Implementation of social infrastructure and    37,000 social infrastructure, 31,000       2,689 subprojects, 4,155 subprojects,
income-generating subprojects benefiting         income-generating subprojects, benefitting 197,782 rural poor
rural poor and small farmers;                    85,000 rural poor and small farmers
- Reduction in incidence of rural poverty in     40% reduction                              63.89%
the project priority area
- Average beneficiary household income           15%                                        25.65%
increased


Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Component 1a. Natural Resources
Management
Projects executed                                      900                                    2,670
  ha attended                                      1.35 million                               860,000
  Project beneficiaries                            112,000                                    86,430
  ha reforestation fragile areas                   10,000                                     22,612
  Installations for agro-chemicals                 5,000                                      80
  Rural roads rehabilitation                       2,000 km                                   0
  Better water retention                           5%                                         13%
  Better water quality                             10%                                        27%


Component 1 b. Poverty Alleviation
Infrastructure projects executed                     3,700                                     2,689
  Families receiving infrastructure                43,000                                     65,284
  Income generation projects executed               3,100                                     4,155
  Families receiving income generation             42,000                                     81,084
  Infrastructure and income generation               300                                        233
projects for indigeneous communities                                                          4,382
executed
  Total indigenous population attended            50%                                         4.38%
  Increase farm beneficiaries income              15%                                         25.65%
  Increase of profitability production systems    15%                                         37.59%
Component 2 Support services
Technology validation projects contracted         5                                          4
  Production systems identified                    4                                          8
  Technical staff trained in adding value          360                                        260
  Farmers trained adding value                     730                                        850
  Trials for synthesis of productive systems       14                                         16
  Demand projects approved                         67                                         19
  Special studies contracted                       6                                          5
  Training centers recovered                       13                                         13
   Farmers trained in centers                      26,000                                     14,108
   Farmers trained outside centers                 54,000                                     54,000
   Courses in centers                              1,800                                      1,030
   Courses outside centers                         3,600                                      3 057
   Training courses                                23                                         104
   Technical staff trained                         4,755                                      1,854
   Projects formulated by EMATER                   8,000                                      8,734
   Farmers assited by EMATER                       130,000                                    146,134
   Groups organized by EMATER                      1,800                                      3,563




                                                                   - 21 -

   Projects formulated private T.A.          1,500               412
   Selected farms in referred network        45                  15
   Farm diagnosis for referred network       500                 50
   State referred network                    1                   1
   Regional referred network                 3                   2
  Identification of new business by PANPA    64                  15
  Seminars organized by PANPA                17                  18



Component 4 Institutional Development
Cartographic maps in SIG                    467                 0
  Map soil classification in SIG             1                  0
  Map vegetation in SIG                      1                  0
  Map roads in SIG                           1                  0


 Map water resources in SIG                  1                  0
  Data base organized in SISAGRI              1                  1
  Management plans formulated and             5                  5
executed in parks and reserves
  Land titles to farmers                     2,150               1,934
  Cadastral surveys                          3,583               3,177
  Projects analised by municipal councils    10,500              9,562
  Projects approved and executed by          9,500               9,145
municipal councils
  Project proposal not executed evaluated by 10%                 4.4%
municipal councils
  Meeting of municipal councils per year     3                   4
  Technical staff trained in environmental   100                 120
licenses by FEPAM
  Environmental license for micro-catchment  1                   0
by FEPAM
  Vaccines and tests by DPA                 1,200                34,253


Component V. Project Management
Projects with farmers contracted            8,600               9,131
  Management and administration reports      12                  14
  Seminars on project evaluation             54                  60
  Municipal council report per year per      1                   1
municipality
  Projects audited                           860                 900
  Beneficiaries attended                     132,000             159,318
  Poverty reduction in project area           40%                63.89%
  Micro-catchment under monitoring            N/A                4
  Socio-economic evaluation implemented       N/A                1
Addtional targets agreed with Bank for
Extended period 2003-2005
Strategic studies contracted                  2                   2
Projects for agrarian reform farmers          664               727
  Agrarian reform families attended           16,600              16,129
Projects for professional artisan fisherman   161               180
  Professional artisan fisherman families     6,000              7,203
attended
Project in indigenous communities            235                  239
  Families attended in indigenous            14,000              16,031
communities
Projects for quilombolas                      32                  51
Quilombilas families attended                2,200              1,301

1 End of project




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Integrated, Special and Emergency Projects                 157.00          132.80               85
Support Projects                                            20.10             8.30              41
Institutional Development                                   11.60             9.70              84
Project Management                                           5.40           10.50              194

Total Baseline Cost                                        194.10          161.30
 Physical Contingencies                                      2.20             0.00               0
 Price Contingencies                                        12.10             0.00               0
                         Total Project Costs               208.40          161.30
                   Total Financing Required                208.40          161.30


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            24.10        93.80          12.80       130.70
                                  (0.00)          (12.00)      (46.70)         (0.00)      (58.70)
2. Goods                           3.10             6.60        42.70          0.00         52.40
                                  (1.80)           (3.40)      (17.30)         (0.00)      (22.50)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        16.80          0.00         16.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (13.80)         (0.00)      (13.80)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         6.60          0.00          6.60
Training Services                 (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.30)          (0.00)       (4.30)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         1.10          0.80          1.90
Recurrent Costs                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.70)          (0.00)       (0.70)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           3.10            30.70       161.00          13.60       208.40
                                  (1.80)          (15.40)      (82.80)         (0.00)      (100.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           6.50            0.00         0.27           0.00         6.77
                                  (3.49)          (0.00)       (0.14)         (0.00)       (3.63)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         2.84           0.00         2.84
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.13)         (0.00)       (0.13)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00

                                                - 23 -

   Training Services                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
   Recurrent Costs                         (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                6.50               0.00              3.11             0.00              9.61
                                           (3.49)             (0.00)            (0.27)            (0.00)           (3.76)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Integrated Projects
Support Projects
Institutional Development
Project Management
TOTAL




                                                           - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                     Models Developed by EMATER to Calculate FRR

         PROJECT                        TYPE of ACTIVITY       NUMBER of INITIAL
        NAME AND        MUNICIPALITY                           FAMILIES  INVESTMEN      FRR
        NUMBER                                                           T
                                                                               (Reales) ( % )
        PO              Pouso Novo      Honey Production
        302-004/2002                                                        2,197       67.0
       PO               Putinga         Honey Production
       215-001/2005                                                         1,869       60.7
                        Camargo         Swine Production               1
                                                                            3,029       61.9
       PO               Coqueiro Baixo  Grain Dryer                    3
       487-001/2002                                                         2,477       31.4
       PO               Forquetinha     Grain Dryer                   79
       479-001/2002                                                       28,438        31.4
       PO               Cacapava do Sul Grain Dryer
       013-004/2001                                                       15,341        25.3
       Francisco Jorge Lagoa dos Tes    Water Reservoir and            1
       Eckstein         Cantos          Fish                                  612       72.7
       Dionisio         Lagoa dos Tes   Water Reservoir and            1
       Antonio Scheffel Cantos          Fish                                1,020       64.0
                        Tapejara        Water Reservoir and            1
                                        Fish                                2,459       61.7
       PO               Porto Vera Cruz Milk Cooler Tank               1
       394-001/2000                                                           728       78.9
       PO               Sao Paulo das   Milk Cooler Tank              32
       227-001/2000     Missoes                                           24,552        69.4
       PO               Tucunduva       Milk Cooler Tank               1
       150-001/2000                                                         2,045       69.2
       PO               Fazenda Vila    Livestock Acquisition          4
       444-001/2002     Nova                                                1,800       87.8




                                              - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              October 1995


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              January 1997


 Supervision

              02/02/1998                3    SR. AGRICULTURALIST (1);         S               S
                                             INSTI. COMPONENT (1); AG.
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              07/14/1998                2    AGRICULTURALIST (1); AG.         S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              05/18/1999                2    SR. AGRICULTURALIST (1);         S               S
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              11/06/1999                2    SR. AGRICULTURALIST (1);         S               S
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              05/25/2000                4    SR. AGRICULTURIST (1); AG.       S               S
                                             EONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1)
              11/30/2000                3    TTL/ SR. AGRICULTURIST           S               S
                                             (1); AG. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              02/16/2001                3    TTL/SR. AGRI. (1); AG.           S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                                             OPERATION OFFICER (1)
              02/16/2001                2    SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);           S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              02/16/2001                2    AG. ECONOMIST (1); SR.           S               S
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1)
              02/16/2001                3    SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);           S               S
                                             RURAL POVERTY SPEC (1);
                                             AG. ECONOMIST (1)
              05/12/2003                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
              11/21/2003                6    SR. NARURAL RES MGM SP           S               S
                                             (1); FM AND AUDIT SPEC. (1);
                                             AG. ECONOMIST (2);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL DEV. SPE
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              04/16/2004                5    SR. NATURAL RES MGM SP           S               S
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1); AG.




                                              - 26 -

                                            ECONOMIST (2);
                                            INSTITUTIONAL DEV SPEC
                                            (1)
               10/08/2004              4    LEAD NAT RES MGMT SPEC            S    S
                                            (1); AG. ECONOMIST (2);
                                            INST DEVELOPMENT SPEC
                                            (1)


 ICR
               03/09/2006             2     LEAD NAT RES MGMT.                S    S
                                            SPEC (1);
                                            CONSULTANT(1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            49.7                         189.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 72.4                         296.0
  Supervision                          69.73                         623.1
  ICR                                     9.9                          67.2
  Total                              201.73                         1179.7




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


l Loan Agreement 4148-BR
l Project Appraisal Document ­March 31, 1997
l Project Physical and Financial Execution Semi-annual Reports
l Aide Memoires
l Loan Agreement Amendments
l Mid Term Review Report
l Socio-economic Evaluation Report
l Micro-catchment Environmental Monitoring Report
l Project Operational Manuals
l Contracted and Demanded Research Report
l Project Component Final Report
l Support Component Final Report
l Institutional Development Component Final Report
l Project Management Component Final Report




                                               - 30 -

- 31 -

