Report No. PIC5381
Project Name               Brazil-Rio Grande do Sul Natural Resources  r+c N
Management and Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
Region                        Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                        Agriculture
Project ID                    BRPA43868
Borrower                      The State of Rio Grande do Sul
Implementing Agency           Secretaria de Agricultura e Abastecimento (SAA)
Mr. Cezar Schirmer, State Secretary
of Agriculture Mr. Jose Luiz Azambuja,
Project Coordinator
Projeto Pro-Rural 2000
Av. Getulio Vargas, 1384
Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil CEP 90150-   044
Tel: 55-51-233-1611/211-3198
Fax: 55-51-231-6570/211-3198
Date PID Updated              April 1997
Appraisal Date                January 1997
Board Date                    April 22, 1997
1       Background. Small farms dominate the rural sector of the
State of Rio Grande do Sul, where most farm holdings are under 20
ha. Despite the State's relatively high per capita income, rural
poverty is pervasive. Approximately 75% of the small farm
households live below the poverty line and about 40% live in
extreme poverty. Rural living standards measure poorly against
conventional parameters such as delivery of water, electricity and
social services. More than 70% of poor rural households are without
electricity and 80% lack an adequate supply of water. The
illiteracy rate among the rural poor over age 15 reaches 60%.
2       Deterioration of natural resources, especially soil and
water, is significant. Poor management of fragile soils threatens
the productivity of the State's valuable resource base. Over 50% of
agricultural land is estimated to be in need of improved soil
management to reduce erosion and sustain productivity. In addition,
the areas with the highest concentration of small farmers tend to
be those with the most severe agro-ecological limitations.
3       The successful domestic economic reform program (Plano Real),
which inter alia, reduced farm subsidies, altered the economic
environment within which farmers in Rio Grande do Sul operate and
deepened rural poverty. In addition, greater competition resulting
from regional trade liberalization (i.e. MERCOSUL), is forcing the
rural economy to adjust and become more efficient in primary
production, as well as in agro-processing and marketing. Farm
households, both small and medium-sized, are struggling to respond
quickly enough and find economically viable and environmentally
sustainable farm production alternatives to maintain or improve



their current living standards.
4       Project Objectives and Benefits. The objectives of the
project are to improve the management and conservation of Rio
Grande do Sul's natural resources by promoting an integrated
strategy involving the adoption of sustainable land management and
soil and water conservation practices, and improving the income and
living conditions of rural poor communities. This would be achieved
through actions involving (i) implementation of integrated natural
resources management plans in microcatchments; (ii) support for
poverty alleviation initiatives aimed at increasing incomes and
access to basic services of rural poor communities; and (iii)
strengthening of the overall capacity of public and private
institutions responsible for natural resources management and
delivery of services to the rural areas.
5       The proposed project is expected to have a considerable
impact on the social, productive and environmental conditions of
the rural areas of Rio Grande do Sul. The project would benefit
more than 132,000 rural families, representing about 40t of the
total rural population. An estimated 112,000 families of small
farmers would benefit from natural resources management activities
and technological improvements in their agricultural production
systems. Project interventions are expected to have a direct impact
in reducing the degradation and promote the replenishment of the
State's valuable soil and water resources. By introducing
sustainable natural resources management practices to over 3.1
million ha, the project would also provide productivity gains and
better market access to project beneficiaries.
6       Approximately 98,000 beneficiary families currently living
below the poverty line, would benefit from both poverty alleviation
and natural resources management investments. The poverty
alleviation component would provide small grants or subloans to
finance community-demanded subprojects aimed at improving the
quality of life of eligible families. Subproject investments would
provide improved social services and household infrastructure, as
well as increased income and employment opportunities through
small-scale productive activities and employment-oriented training.
By requiring considerable levels of beneficiary participation and
cost-sharing, the project would facilitate the mobilization of
local resources towards sustainable social and economic development
and growth in the rural areas.
7       In addition to direct financial support, project
beneficiaries would also receive improved services from a series of
public agencies required to assist communities in the preparation
and implementation of subprojects. The project would also
strengthen the operation of local institutions involved in the
management of natural resources. Rural municipalities would benefit
by improving the targeting of public investment to priority needs
of poor communities for infrastructure and income-generating
investments. As a result of the project, municipal capacity to
plan, design, implement and maintain key rural investments,
benefiting primarily the rural poor, would increase. Through the
- 2 -



establishment of Municipal Councils, the project would also
strengthen the participation of the rural community in the
decision-making process at the municipal level, providing them an
active role in the prioritization and implementation of investments.
8       Project Description. Through active beneficiary participation
and highly decentralized implementation mechanisms, the project
would provide demand-driven financial and technical assistance for
improved social infrastructure, natural resources management and
productive sub-projects for eligible beneficiaries. The project
would utilize microcatchments as the primary planning and
operational unit. Because of the project's strong poverty focus,
there would be clearly defined targeting mechanisms to verify the
eligibility of potential beneficiaries. Sound project supervision
and performance monitoring systems would be established to
complement the project's highly decentralised nature.
9       The proposed project would have four components: (i) Natural
Resources Management; (ii) Rural Poverty Alleviation; (iii) Support
Services; and (iv) Institutional Strengthening. The first two
components (representing over 80t of total project costs) would
finance goods, works and services required to implement small-scale
community subprojects related to land and water management
practices in microcatchments, social infrastructure, and on- and
off-farm income-generating initiatives. The Support Services
Component would finance the provision of essential technical
services to ensure adequate and sustainable utilization of project
funds by the beneficiary communities, while the Institutional
Strengthening Component would improve the operation of selected
State agencies involved in natural resources-related activities,
including management of parks and reserves, environmental
monitoring, and geographical information systems.
10      Project Cost and Financing. Total project costs, including
contingencies, taxes and duties, are estimated at US$208.4 million
equivalent, of which US$17.8 million (8%) represent foreign
exchange costs. About US$65 million, or 31% of project costs, are
expected to be demanded for improved natural resources management
activities; US$103 million, or about 49% of total project costs,
would finance social infrastructure and income-generating sub-
projects (See 1/); US$21.9 million would be allocated to the provision of
support services (technical assistance and training) to project
beneficiaries; US$12.4 million to Institutional strengthening, and
US$5.9 million to finance the operation of a Project Management Unit.
11      The Bank loan of US$100 million equivalent would be assumed
directly by the State of Rio Grande do Sul with the guarantee of
the Federal Government. The proposed loan would be at the standard
variable interest rate for a term of 15 years, including five years
of grace. Based on sub-project demand estimates, the main
expenditure categories would be: (i) minor civil works, US$130.0
million (62.4% of project cost); (ii) goods, US$52.4 million
(25.1%); (iii) consulting services, technical assistance, and
training US$23.4 million (11.2%); and (iv) recurrent costs, US$1.9
million (0.99).
-3-



12      Project Implementation. The Secretariat of Agriculture (SAA)
would be responsible for project implementation. The Project
Management Unit (SEP), within the SAA, would coordinate project
activities executed by state and municipal agencies participating
in the project, as well as project monitoring and evaluation. The
Project Council (Conselho Superior do Projeto, CSP), comprised of
state and municipal representatives from the public and private
sector, would provide policy-related orientation and general
oversight of project implementation. The decentralized nature of
the project would require the establishment of Municipal Councils
in each participating municipality.
13      Several state entities would play key roles in project
implementation. The Bank of Rio Grande do Sul ( Banrisul), with
extensive experience as a financial channel for State development
programs, would be responsible for transferring, and monitoring,
project resources to beneficiaries. SAA's technical assistance and
extension agency (EMATER-RS) would provide technical assistance
through social promoters and agricultural extension workers to
beneficiary communities and Municipal Councils. NGOs and private
sector institutions are expected to have an active participation in
the project, especially in: (i) project promotion; (ii) assistance
to beneficiaries of the poverty alleviation initiatives in the
identification, preparation and implementation of subprojects; and
(iii) delivery of adaptive research programs, to be awarded through
a competitive system. Other participating agencies include FDRH,
responsible for the implementation of training activities; DRNR,
for the rehabilitation of five state parks and reserves; DACC, for
the provision of land titling services; DPA, for the inspection of
livestock-related subprojects; CEPA, for the development of
improved information systems; and FEPAM, to strengthen the
environmental capabilities of SEP, EMATER, and municipal staff
through training and supporting the process of screening and
monitoring of subprojects.
14      Project Sustainability. The project's subproject criteria
would ensure sustainability by selecting only investment proposals
with demonstrated technical, environmental and economic viability.
In addition, the project would be premised on the successful Land
Management I Project (Loan 3018-BR), implemented by the neighboring
State of Parana, which confirmed the sustainability of natural
resources management investments in improving local resource
conservation and agricultural production. Also, beneficiary
ownership, a critical factor in project sustainability, would be
strong, as beneficiaries would: (i) identify and prepare subproject
proposals; (ii) contribute their own funds and/or labor to sub-
project implementation; and (iii) maintain subproject infrastructure.
15      Poverty Category. The project would meet the criteria for the
Program of Targeted Interventions. Although the project would take
into account municipal poverty levels, the target population of the
poverty alleviation component would be comprised of individual
beneficiaries living below the poverty line meeting a series of
easily verifiable eligibility criteria.
- 4-



16      Environmental Aspects. The project has been assigned a 'B'
environmental classification. The utilization of microcatchments as
the operational unit for the Natural Resources Management
component, based on the successful experience of other Land
Management Projects in Brazil, would result in an integrated and
sustainable approach to soil and water conservation. In the case of
project-funded feasibility studies for larger agro-enterprise
investments, the project would ensure proper environmental
screening and strict enforcement of measures to prevent any
negative impact. FEPAM, the state agency responsible for
environmental protection, would actively participate in project
implementation, assisting the SEP in the environmental monitoring
of beneficiary subprojects, as well as providing training to EMATER
and municipal field staff on environmental matters, particularly
the application of a comprehensive environmental check-list for
subproject screening. Specific mechanisms were developed to ensure
participation of indigenous communities in project activities,
particularly access to financing for eligible subprojects. These
mechanisms were documented in the Indigenous Peoples Plan, which
would be incorporated into the Project Implementation Manual.
17      Program Objective Category. The project's primary program
objectives are Poverty Alleviation and Environmentally Sustainable
Development.
1/ Cost breakdowns are indicative, as the subprojects to be financed
would be based on beneficiary demand.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 27, 1997.
- 5 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
1.      The project is classified within the Bank's Environmental
Category B and, given its orientation to natural resources
management, is expected to be environmentally beneficial in most
respects. Further to the primary objective of reducing soil erosion
and degradation, the design of the project specifically excludes
negative environmental features including:
-- no deforestation;
-- no land clearing;
-- no threat to biodiversity;
-- no construction of new roads or large water control works; and
-- no prejudicial impact on ethnic groups.
2.      Incorporation of environmental aspects into project design,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) center on:
-- the legal authority and institutional capability of the
agencies which will support the project in implementing
the environmental procedures and in enforcing environmental regulations;
-- the views of NGOs and other interest groups on
environmental aspects that should be incorporated into the project;
-- environmental screening criteria and procedures for
subprojects to be funded in the various components; and
-- indicators of environmental performance which will be
subject to M&E as part of the above procedures.
3.      The Federal and State legislation applicable to the project
area provides reasonable safeguards for environmental protection,
since it covers: soil degradation; forestry; damage to flora,
fauna, air and water, and risks to human, animal and plant health.
Standards for environmental quality meet Bank requirements. The
State and Federal apparatus for enforcement of environmental laws
and regulations has a sound record of effectiveness. The agencies
responsible will enforce regulations for activities funded under
the project following procedures routinely applied state-wide.
4.      The watershed approach to be used by the project, in
particular, the Natural Resources Management component, would
increase agricultural production and significantly contribute to
soil and water conservation, increase the area under permanent
cover and encourage rational use and disposal of agrochemicals.
Most income and employment-generating subprojects under the Poverty
Alleviation component would be small in scale, posing little or no
threat to the environment. The project would ensure proper
environmental screening and incorporation of environmental rules
for construction contracts, as well as enforcement of measures to
prevent any negative impact, especially for civil works and larger
- 6 -



agro-processing investments.
5.      The State's Environmental Protection Agency (FEPAM) would
hire three additional environmental specialists, ensuring adequate
support to the project. In addition, one senior specialist of FEPAM
would be seconded to SEP. This support would ensure that all
projects are subject to an environmental screening process, as
outlined in the Project's Implementation Manual, and that any
required mitigative actions are implemented. In addition,
environmental considerations have been taken into account in
setting criteria for determining activities which would not be
eligible for project support, i.e., proposals involving destruction
of natural vegetation, threats to biodiversity, land clearing or
new road construction. Finally, the project will provide intensive
training to staff of implementing entities, particularly EMATER and
BANRISUL, to strengthen their capacity to evaluate the
environmental impact of beneficiary subprojects, design mitigation
actions, and monitor impacts.
6.      All subproject proposals submitted for financing would be
screened for their potential environmental impacts. Screening would
require the application of a check-list to classify the proposals
for environmental purposes. This check-list would be incorporated
into the Implementation Manual prior to loan effectiveness. On the
basis of this check-list, proposals would be classified as: "A"
requiring no further environmental analysis; "B", which require an
environmental study of predetermined areas; or "C", which would
require a full environmental impact analysis.
- 7 -



