Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4148-BR
Loan Agreement
(Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Alleviation Project - Rio Grande do 
Sul)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Dated July 11, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4148-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain  obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
“The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: 
(a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of 
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
(d)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the 
Loan for a continuous period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the 
Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, 
the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged 
in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, 
the Bank determines that the procurement 
of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received 
notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the 
right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such 
amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“APANPA” means Assessoria do Programa de Apoio a Novos Produtos 
Agropecuários, the unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Annual Operating Plan” means each plan referred to in Section 3.07 (d) 
of this Agreement;
(c)
“Banco Central” means Banco Central do Brasil, the Guarantor’s Central 
Bank;
Page  3
(d)
“BANRISUL” means Banco do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul S.A., a commercial 
bank controlled by the Borrower, established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 
4,079 of June 22, 1928;
(e)
“BANRISUL Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (b) 
of this Agreement; 
(f)
“Beneficiary” means the individuals or the entities in the Borrower’s 
private sector which are responsible for the carrying out of aan Income Generating 
Subproject, a Land Management Subproject or a Social Infrastructure Subproject (as 
such terms are  hereinafter defined);
(g) 
“CEPA” means Coordenadoria Estadual de Planejamento Agrícola, the 
coordination unit within SAA (as hereinafter defined), responsible for, inter alia, 
agricultural planning and information; 
(h)
“Communal Facilities” means the facilities used or to be used by the 
local communities for the delivery of health, education and other social and 
productive services;
(i)
“DACC” means Departamento Agrário de Cartografia e Cooperativismo, the 
cartography and cooperative department of SAA (as hereinafter defined) responsible 
for, inter alia, land regularization activities in the Borrower’s rural areas;
(j)
“DPA” means Departamento de Produção Animal, the animal production 
department of SAA (as hereinafter defined), responsible for, inter alia, the 
inspection of livestock production in the Borrower’s territory; 
(k)
“DRNR” means Departamento de Recursos Naturais Renováveis, the natural 
resources department of SAA (as hereinafter defined) responsible for, inter alia, the 
coordination of the Borrower's forestry policy and for the management and protection 
of the Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined);
(l)
“EMATER” means Associação Riograndense de Empreendimentos e de 
Assistência Técnica e Extensão Rural, the Borrower’s company responsible for 
implementing the Borrower’s technical assistance and rural extension policy, 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 75,373 of February 14, 1975;
(m)
“EMBRAPA” means Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária, the 
Guarantor’s company responsible for coordinating the Guarantor’s agricultural research 
policy, established pursuant to the Guarantor’s Law No. 5,851 of December 7, 1972;
(n)
“Executing Entity” means any of the following entities: (i) EMATER; (ii) 
EMBRAPA; (iii) FDRH (as hereinafter defined); (iv) FEE (as hereinafter defined); and 
(v) FEPAM (as hereinafter defined); and “Executing Entities” means collectively all 
such entities;
(o)
“FDRH” means Fundação de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Humanos, the 
Borrower’s human resources development agency established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Law No. 6,464 of December 15, 1972;
(p)
“FEE” means Fundação de Economia e Estatística, the Borrower’s agency 
responsible for researching and producing economic data, established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Law No. 6,624 of  November 13, 1973;
(q)
“FEPAM” means Fundação Estadual de Proteção Ambiental, the Borrower’s 
environmental protection agency established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 9,077 
of  June 4, 1990;
(r)
“Grant” means a grant to be made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, 
through SAA, to a Beneficiary, partially out of the proceeds of the Loan, for the 
purposes of financing an Income Generating Subproject, a Land Management Subproject or 
a Social Infrastructure Subproject;
(s)
“Income Generating Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred 
to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
Page  4
(t)
“Income Generating Subloan Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(u)
“Income Generating Subproject” means a project selected by the Borrower 
pursuant to the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual 
(as hereinafter defined) and in the relevant Operating Arrangement (as hereinafter 
defined), consisting of investments and other activities to be partially financed by a 
Grant or by a Subloan (as hereinafter defined), in any of the areas referred to in 
Part C of the Project;
(v)
“Land Management Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements, referred 
to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(w)
“Land Management Subproject” means a project selected by the Borrower 
pursuant to the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual 
(as hereinafter defined) and in the relevant Operating Arrangement (as hereinafter 
defined), consisting of investments and other activities to be partially financed by a 
Grant in any of the areas referred to in Part A of the Project;
(x)
“Management Plan” means a document, approved by DRNR, containing: (i) a 
detailed description of the physical, biological and social characteristics of a 
Protected Area; (ii) an analysis of the potential for eco-tourism in such Protected 
Area; (iii) a set of management objectives for such area based, inter alia, on the 
analysis referred to in the preceding Subparagraph (ii); and (iv) a description of the 
activities required to achieve such objectives;
(y)
“Microcatchment Plan” means each of the Borrower’s plans, satisfactory to 
the Bank, for the management of its respective microcatchment areas;
(z)
“Municipal Councils” means Conselhos Municipais, the Borrower’s municipal 
councils referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (v) of this Agreement;
(aa)
“Operating Arrangement” mean each of the arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; and “Operating Arrangements” means 
collectively all such arrangements;
(bb)
“Project Council” means Conselho do Projeto , the Borrower’s Project 
council referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iv) of this Agreement;
(cc)
“Project Implementation Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
describing the priority areas to benefit from Project activities, and containing inter 
alia, the operating procedures for the execution of the Project, including those 
procedures related to research, training, technical assistance, environmental 
conservation, rehabilitation of roads and other activities to be carried out under the 
Project, as well as the criteria for the selection, and procedures for the carrying 
out, of Income Generating, Land Management and Social Infrastructure Subprojects, and 
the standard form of an Income Generating, a Land Management and a Social 
Infrastructure Grant Agreement, and of an Income Generating Subloan Agreement;
(dd)
“Project Monitoring Letter” means the letter dated March 27, 1997 
delivered by the Borrower’s Secretary of Agriculture to the Bank, setting forth the 
indicators and targets to be used in monitoring the progress of the implementation of 
the Project and in the evaluation of its results;
(ee)
“Protected Area” means each area of: (i) Espigão Alto, a park established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 658 of March 10, 1949; (ii) Ibirapuitã, a state 
park established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 24,622 of June 10, 1976; (iii) 
Litoral Norte, a state park established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 34,712 
of April 24, 1993; (iv) Rondinha, a state park established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Decree No. 30,645 of April 22, 1982; and (v) Turvo, a state park established pursuant 
to the Borrower’s Decree No. 2,312 of March 11, 1947;
(ff)
“SAA” means Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura e do Abastecimento, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Agriculture;
(gg)
“SAA Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (d) 
Page  5
of this Agreement;
(hh)
“SEP” means Secretaria Executiva do Projeto, the unit referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(ii)
“SMG” means Sistema de Monitoramento Gerencial, the Project’s management 
information system, an instrument, satisfactory to the Bank, comprised of the 
following Project-related elements: (i) input and output information; (ii) baseline 
data; and (iii) information exchanged among the Executing Entities and SAA;
(jj)
“Social Infrastructure Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements, 
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(kk)
“Social Infrastructure Subproject” means a project selected by the 
Borrower pursuant to the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual and in the relevant Operating Arrangement consisting of 
investments and other activities to be partially financed by a Grant in any of the 
areas referred to in Part B of the Project;
(ll)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(mm)
“Subloan” means a loan to be made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, 
through SAA, to a Beneficiary, partially out of the proceeds of the Loan, for the 
purposes of financing an Income Generating Subproject.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred million dollars 
($100,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
Page  6
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
“Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
“(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period.”
“(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter.”
“(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year.”
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Secretary of SAA, and the person or persons designated in 
writing by such Secretary, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SAA with the assistance of the Executing Entities and with the 
participation of the Beneficiaries, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with: (i) the Project Implementation Manual; (ii) the Annual Operating 
Plan; and (iii) appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, agricultural and 
land management practices, and substantially in accordance with the targets set forth 
in the Annex to the Project Monitoring Letter, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i)
through SAA, enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, 
with the Executing 
Entities (the Operating Arrangements) to determine, 
Page  7
inter alia, the respective 
roles of the Executing Entities 
in the execution of the Project;
(ii)
establish and thereafter maintain until the completion of the 
Project, a unit 
within SAA (the SEP) with responsibilities, 
structure and functions satisfactory to 
the Bank, and with staff 
in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for 
the purposes 
of, inter alia: (A) assisting SAA in the carrying out of the Project; 
and (B) reviewing and approving proposals for Income Generating, Land Management 
and Social Investment Subprojects; all in accordance with the 
Project Implementation 
Manual;
(iii)
establish and thereafter maintain until the completion of the 
Project, a unit 
within SAA (the APANPA) with responsibilities, 
structure and functions satisfactory 
to the Bank, and with staff in 
adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, 
for the 
purposes of, inter alia, assisting SAA in the promotion of export oriented 
ventures of agricultural products, in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual;
(iv)
establish and thereafter maintain until the completion of the 
Project, a council 
(the Project Council) for the purposes of, 
inter alia, advising SAA with respect to 
the coordination of the 
activities under the responsibility of the Executing 
Entities; and
(v)
through arrangements with municipalities benefiting from Project 
activities cause, 
as provided in the Project 
Implementation 
Manual, to be established and thereafter 
maintained until the 
completion of the Project, the municipal councils (the 
Municipal Councils) necessary for the carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, for the purposes of, inter alia: (A) promoting the Project at 
the 
municipal level; (B) providing information to 
prospective Beneficiaries with 
respect to Income Generating, 
Land Management and Social Infrastructure Subproject 
conditions and 
procedures; (C) subject to the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual, participating in the selection of Income Generating, Land 
Management and Social Infrastructure Subprojects.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than October 31 of each year during Project 
implementation, furnish to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the 
Borrower shall have allocated in its budget proposal for the next succeeding year the 
amounts required for the carrying out of the Project during such year.
(d)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and, for the purposes of providing the counterpart funds required for the 
implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall open and thereafter operate and 
maintain, in SAA, an account (the SAA Project Account) under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, with a monthly balance of at least $1,200,000 equivalent 
during Project implementation.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of  carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
Enter into a grant agreement with each of the Beneficiaries (the Income 
Generating Grant Agreement, the Land Management Grant Agreement or the Social 
Infrastructure Grant Agreement, as the case may be) to finance the costs of an Income 
Generating Subproject, a Land Management Subproject or a Social Infrastructure 
Subproject, respectively, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which 
shall include, inter alia, the terms and conditions set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual, provided, however, that Income Generating Subprojects shall be 
financed through Subloans in the cases referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
Through SAA, enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with 
BANRISUL (the BANRISUL Agreement), whereby BANRISUL shall: (i) serve as the financial 
agent of the Borrower in respect of Income Generating, Land Management and Social 
Infrastructure Subprojects; (ii) agree to assist SAA in the supervision of the 
execution of such Subprojects; and (iii) be entitled to a fee in an amount not 
Page  8
exceeding the equivalent of 1.0% (one percent) of the amounts disbursed by BANRISUL 
under the respective Grant or Subloan. 
(c)
Observe, or cause each respective Beneficiary to observe, strict 
compliance with the relevant Microcatchment Plan.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
Whenever an Income Generating Subproject meets the particular eligibility 
criteria required for the provision of a Subloan, as specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual, and subject to the provisions set forth in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, enter into a subloan agreement with a Beneficiary (the Income Generating 
Subloan Agreement) to finance the costs of such Income Generating Subproject, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, inter alia, the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Project Implementation Manual.
(b)
(i) Not later than six months after the Effective Date, furnish to the 
Bank for comments, the study referred to in Part F.6 (c) of the Project; and (ii) 
amend, as may be recommended by such study (after incorporating the Bank’s comments 
thereon), the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual regarding eligibility 
criteria and implementation procedures related to Income Generating Subprojects.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of  carrying out Part E of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: 
(a)
Maintain the current boundaries and substantially conserve the biological 
integrity of each of the Protected Areas; and 
(b)
Furnish to the Bank, by not later than twelve months after the Effective 
Date, a Management Plan, satisfactory to the Bank for each of those areas, and, 
thereafter, implement each of those plans in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the Operating Arrangements, the Income Generating Grant Agreements, 
the Income Generating Subloan Agreements, the Land Management Grant Agreements, the 
Social Infrastructure Grant Agreements and the BANRISUL Agreement in such a manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of such Operating Arrangements, 
Income Generating Grant Agreements, Income Generating Subloan Agreements, Land 
Management Grant Agreements, Social Infrastructure Grant Agreements and the BANRISUL 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
Not later than thirty six months and sixty months, respectively, after 
the Effective Date, furnish to the Bank an evaluation of the socio-economic impact of 
the Project on the rural communities which have benefited from Project activities at 
the time of such evaluation;
(b)
In the months of January and July of each year during Project 
implementation, furnish to the Bank reports on the progress in the implementation of 
the Project during the previous six months, which shall take into consideration the 
targets and indicators set forth in the Annex to the Project Monitoring Letter, and to 
be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(c)
In the months of February and August of each year during Project 
implementation, hold reviews jointlywith the Bank (the review to take place in August 
of the year 2000 to be the mid-term review), such reviews to be based on the reports 
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above (as applicable) and, thereafter, take or 
cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon by the Borrower 
Page  9
and the Bank, during the reviews referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the 
efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action 
to be taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such reviews; 
and
(d)
In the month of November of each year during Project implementation, 
furnish to the Bank an annual plan satisfactory to the Bank (the Annual Operating 
Plan), describing, inter alia, the Project activities to be carried out during the 
next calendar year, including the cost thereof, such plan to take into account 
recommendations made by the Project Council, the Municipal Councils and the Executing 
Entities.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than ninety days after the Effective 
Date, put into effect the SMG.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation  thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
Prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and
        (b)
Afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
Executing Entities and of the departments and agencies of the Borrower and in charge 
of the execution of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
Page  10
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
That the SEP, the APANPA, the Project Council, and at least thirty  
Municipal Councils have been established;
(b)
That the BANRISUL Agreement has become effective;
(c)
That the Annual Operating Plan for the first year of Project 
implementation has been furnished to the Bank;
(d)
That the SAA Project Account has been established and an initial deposit 
of at least $1,200,000 equivalent has been made therein;
(e)
That at least one hundred Microcatchment Plans have been furnished to the 
Bank;
(f)
That the Project Implementation Manual has been adopted by the Borrower; 
and
(g)
That the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central. 
Central Bankof Brazil
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly 
registered by Banco CentralCentral Bank of Brazil.
Section 5.03. The date October 14, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the 
Secretary of Coordination and Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  11
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado da Coordenação e Planejamento
Avenida Borges de Medeiros 1501 - 5o. andar
90.119-900 Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul  
Brazil
       Telex:
       519702
With copy to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
611146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
By /s/ Antonio Britto
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                  Amount of the
                  Loan Allocated
       % of
                  (Expressed in 
   Expenditures
Category
              Dollars)
  to be Financed 
(1)
Goods, works
and  consultants’ services
under:
Page  12
(a) Land Management
       22,800,000
 50%
    Subprojects
(b) Social Infrastructure
19,500,000
 50%
    Subprojects
(c) Income Generating
19,000,000
 50%
    Subprojects
(2)
BANRISUL Fees                 700,000
 50%
(3)
For Part D of the Project:
(a) Works
       7,700,000
 34%
(b) Consultants’ Services
  800,000
 100%
(4)
For Parts E and F of the Project:
(a) Goods
       5,400,000
 60%
(b) Works
              3,200,000
 50%
(c) Consultants’ Services
12,200,000
 100%
(5)
Operating Costs
          750,000    75% up to an 
 aggregate amount 
equivalent to 
 $250,000 has been 
 withdrawn; 50% 
 thereafter up 
 to an aggregate amount 
 equivalent to 
$500,000 
 has been  withdrawn; and 25% 
 thereafter
(6)
Unallocated
        7,950,000
      ___________
TOTAL
            100,000,000
     ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “BANRISUL Fees” means the fees for the services provided by 
BANRISUL to the Borrower under the BANRISUL Agreement and as provided in Section 3.02 
(b) of this Agreement; and
(b)
the term “Operating Costs” means expenditures made for office supplies, 
communications, travel and per diem for the purposes of supporting the coordination 
and supervision activities to be carried out by SEP.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$5,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after December 16, 1996 or a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement, 
whichever is later;
(b)
expenditures made by any Executing Entity, unless the relevant Operating 
Arrangement has become effective; and
Page  13
(c)
expenditures under the first five Income Generating Subprojects, the 
first five Land Management Subprojects and the first five Social Infrastructure 
Subprojects, unless the Bank has approved such Subprojects.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures: (a) under Income Generating, Land 
Management or Social Infrastructure Subprojects; (b) for Operating Costs; and (c) 
under contracts for: (i) goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (ii) works 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (iii) services of consulting firms costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent; and (iv) services of individual consultants costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to conserve the Borrower’s natural resources 
and improve living conditions of approximately 330,000 rural poor and small farmers 
located in the Borrower's territory, by: (a) increasing their income and access to 
basic services; (b) promoting the adoption of sustainable soil and water management 
practices; and (c) strengthening the overall capacity of public and private 
institutions in charge of managing natural resources and delivering basic services to 
the rural poor.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Land Management
Carrying out of microcatchment-based projects consisting of land management 
activities to include, inter alia: (a) soil improvement measures including: (i) 
correction of soil acidity through liming; (ii) recovery of soil fertility through the 
use of green manure crops and balanced use of chemical fertilizers; and (iii) use of 
alternative tillage methods to improve soil structure and avoid soil compacting; (iv) 
reforestation of about 10,000 hectares aiming at the conservation of river banks and 
other unstable or fragile areas, which shall include the reforestation of about 1,500 
hectares of native forests; (v) other land management practices such as erosion 
control,  vegetative contours, terracing and stonewalling; (vi) conservation and/or 
establishment of permanent vegetation on fragile areas; (vii) provision of soil 
improvement inputs; (viii) water pollution control measures such as construction of 
about 5,000 agro-chemical mixing and disposal plants; and (ix) minor improvements of 
existing rural roads, inc
luding, inter alia, leveling, crowning and construction of simple canals for directing 
water run-off.
Part B:
Poverty Alleviation through Investments
Carrying out of infrastructure projects consisting of:
1.
rehabilitation and/or expansion of houses;
2.
construction of Communal Facilities; and
3.
provision of basic services such as, inter alia, rural water and sanitation 
services and small scale energy infrastructure.
Part C:
Income Generating Activities
Carrying out of on-farm and off-farm projects consisting of:
1.
on-farm activities to include, inter alia: (a) investments (including provision 
of selected inputs and materials) for crop improvements and diversification; and (b) 
small-scale livestock production in the areas of dairy, poultry, pigs  and fish; and
Page  14
2.
off-farm activities to include, inter alia: (a) construction of milling 
facilities; (b) construction of cottage agro-processing facilities; (c) construction 
of dairy and food processing facilities; (d) provision of equipment for agricultural 
services; (e) construction of basic marketing facilities and infrastructure 
facilities; and (f) construction of post-harvest agricultural storage facilities.
Part D:
Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Supervision 
Rehabilitation of approximately  2,000 kilometers of rural feeder roads, within 
the microcatchment areas to benefit from the activities set forth in Part A of the 
Project, and aimed at reducing water run-off and soil erosion.
Part E:
Protected Areas
Provision of support to the administration, management and protection of the 
Protected Areas consisting of :
1.
institutional strengthening of DRNR through the provision of technical 
assistance, and office equipment, including computers;
2.
preparation and implementation of Management Plans for each of the Protected 
Areas; and 
3.
provision of equipment and construction of minor infrastructure to assist in the 
management and conservation of Protected Areas.
Part F:
Institutional Development and Technical Support Services
1.
Carrying out of adaptive research and dissemination activities aiming at 
cost-effective rural technologies through a network of selected model farms located 
within the Borrower’s rural areas.
2.
Carrying out of adaptive research activities to investigate selected income 
generation and natural resources conservation issues identified by the Beneficiaries.
3.
Carrying out promotional activities aiming at developing export oriented 
ventures of agricultural products, through, inter alia, the provision of technical 
assistance, trade-shows and marketing of agricultural products.
4.
Institutional strengthening of EMATER through the provision of support for 
conducting extension activities such as, inter alia, field-days, technical visits, 
publications and seminars, and provision of vehicles, technical assistance and office 
equipment, including computers.
5.
Training of: (i) Beneficiaries; (ii) Executing Entities’ and SAA’s staff;  and 
(iii) other small farmers in the preparation and implementation of Income Generating, 
Land Management and Social Infrastructure Subprojects, and provision of support for 
infrastructure investments, in order to upgrade about 13 agricultural schools of the 
Borrower into full-service training centers.
6.
Carrying out of studies, including:
(a)
a diagnosis of rural poverty in the Borrower’s territory;
(b)
an evaluation of the environmental impact of the Project in selected 
microcatchment areas; 
(c)
an assessment of a cost-recovery mechanism and rural finance alternatives 
for income-generating activities in the Borrower’s rural areas;
(d)
an evaluation of small-scale agricultural systems in the Borrower’s 
territory; and
(e)
an assessment of the integration between the industrial and agricultural 
sectors.
7.
Provision of equipment and technical assistance to CEPA, including training, 
Page  15
necessary for the adoption of a geographic and agricultural information systems, so as 
to enable the Borrower to monitor changes in natural resources use and management.
8.
Institutional strengthening of DACC for the purposes of expediting the issuance 
of land titles under such department’s responsibility through the provision of office 
equipment and vehicles, and the payment of travel expenses.
9.
Institutional strengthening of DPA for the purposes of improving its capacity to 
conduct inspections of small-scale livestock production in the areas of dairy, 
poultry, pigs and fish, through the provision of office equipment and technical 
assistance.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 2002
through May 1, 2012
5,000,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respectie dates of 
withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 3.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate expressed as a 
percentage per annum applicable 
to 
the Loan on the day 
of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
Page  16
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years 
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for computers and contracts for vehicles 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (other than computers and vehicles) estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent 
or more per contract, but less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, and works 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per contract, but less than $5,000,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of 
goods and works under this Part C.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the 
Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
Page  17
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
International Shopping
(a)
Vehicles estimated to cost  less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Computers costing in the aggregate not more than $100,000 equivalent may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods (other than computers and vehicles) estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $43,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $94,000,000 equivalent,  may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at 
least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; and (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; 
Page  18
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes 
includes the Guarantor’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
(Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), established 
pursuant to the Guarantor’s Decree-Law No. 1142 of December 30, 1970, as amended on 
December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of 
the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank for the use of its borrowers, with such modifications thereto as shall have 
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: ( a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal  to $7,000,000, or 
such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $3,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $12,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  19
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
Page  20
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
