Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3078 
Operation Name 
Vietnam: Developing Advanced Institutions for Higher Order 
Capacity (DAIHOC) Program 
Region 
East Asia and Pacific 
Sector 
Tertiary education (100%) 
Project ID 
P104694 
Recipient 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Education and Training (MOET) 
49 Dai Co Viet 
Vietnam 
Tel: (84-4) 869 4795 
Fax: (84-4) 869 4085 
Date PID Prepared 
April 19, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 26, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 15, 2009 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Vietnam has been one of the best performing economies in the world over the last decade
.
Real GDP 
has grown by 7.3 percent over the last 10 years with per capita income rising by 6.2 percent. The 
economy has proven resilient to shocks growing by 7.8 percent in the last three years; income per capita 
rose from $260 in 1995 to $400 in 2000 to a current level of $640. At this pace Vietnam would enter the 
ranks of middle-income countries by surpassing US $1,000 per capita in 2010. 
Vietnam has become increasingly integrated with the world economy, and joined the WTO in November 
2006
.
The share of agriculture in GDP declined from 27 to 21 percent of GDP over 1995-2005 while 
that of industry rose from 29 to 41 percent over the same period.  The services sector picked up in the 
last two years to record an average growth of 7.2 percent over 2001-05.  Tourism-related services have 
been especially buoyant. The share of the domestic private sector in total investment has risen from 23 
percent in 2001 to over 32 percent in 2005, while that of the state-owned sector has declined from about 
60 percent to 52 percent.  Foreign investment has picked up strongly in the last two years. 
Reassuringly, public debt stood at a manageable 43 percent of GDP at the end of 2005
.
This figure also 
includes realized contingent liabilities from banking sector reform. However, the problem is manageable 
especially if the recently adopted banking reform roadmap is implemented as planned.
 
The 
Government’s current revenue more than covers current expenditure and borrowing is undertaken only 
for investment 
Broad-
based growth has been accompanied by a continuation of Vietnam’s remarkable record in 
poverty reduction
.
Data collected through the Vietnam Household Living Standard Survey (VHLSS) 
shows that the percentage of the population living in poverty has fallen from 58.1 percent in 1993 to 
19.5 percent in 2004. The proportion of poor people now is only about one-third of what it was a decade 
ago, while measures used to track inequality suggest that there has been only a modest increase in 
inequality over that time. However, these impressive achievements sit alongside much slower progress 
for ethnic minorities. The recent trends in poverty in Vietnam demonstrate keenly that growth alone 
cannot tackle all the problems of poverty and social exclusion. Progress has been more rapid for the 
majority Kinh and Chinese population groups, even in when they live in remote and mountainous areas. 
Page  2
There was a noticeable acceleration, starting around 2001, of the Government’s drive towards relying 
on market mechanisms, building a multi-stakeholder economy and further integrating with the region 
and the world
.
The vision underlying this drive was articulated in several strategic plans and 
documents, including the Ten-Year Socio-Economic Development Strategy 2001-2010, the Five-Year 
Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP) 2001-2006 and the Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and 
Growth Strategy (CPRGS). These strategic plan represented a sharp improvement from earlier planning 
documents based on a “command and control” view of the economy spelling out detailed sector-by-
sector production targets. 
In this impressive economic growth, there is increasingly high demand for tertiary graduates in relevant 
disciplines, the need to improve the match between graduates’ skills and employers’ requirements and 
the need for change of HE system to be more efficient and responsive to on-going changes of economy 
and society. 
GOV sets clear goals for higher education in its “Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010,” 
(SEDP).
1
The SEDP aims for an overall quantitative goal of “increasing enrollment in universities and 
colleges by 10 percent annually, to reach a level of 200 students over 10,000 population by 2010” and an 
overall qualitative goal of “approaching the advanced education standards of the region and the world,” 
specifically inter alia by: renovating curricula and teaching methods; developing systems that increase 
study opportunities through transfers; renovating financial mechanisms and policies to make institutions 
more pro-active and responsible for finance, staff and organization;  renovating management with 
stronger decentralization, and clearer responsibilities and authorities for different entities; implementing 
quality assurance and accreditation schemes, gradually applying standards and criteria used by 
developed countries and joining international educational quality accreditation systems; encouraging the 
establishment of private institutions, including high-quality, accredited and 100 percent foreign-invested 
institutions in science, technology, and economic management; encouraging foreign scientific and 
educational experts and Vietnamese expatriates to teach in Vietnam. 
GOV elaborates on its goals for higher education in its “Higher Education Reform Agenda” (HERA).
2
HERA develops forward-looking strategy for the development of higher education and research. 
Through HERA, GOV shows its commitment to improving the higher education system in a rapidly 
changing economic and social environment.  It is strategic and comprehensive, with major emphasis on 
key operational reforms that the World Bank supports, namely: (i) improving the quality of teaching and 
research, with a view to integration into the increasingly globalized economy; (ii) extending HEI 
autonomy, especially in academic and administrative matters, with a view to improving responsiveness 
to the needs of beneficiaries; and (iii) increasing private sector investment, vital in the fiscal 
sustainability of an expanding sector.  GOV’s main challenge is to operationalize these strategic goals 
by addressing broad governance issues (e.g. legal and financial frameworks) while promoting local, 
HEI-level modernization. 
The World Bank’s five-year Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
3
supports the GOV’s “Five-Year 
Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010.” Under CPS Pillar I, which aims to assist GOV in its 
transition to a market economy, the World Bank’s program will help to “develop a higher education 
system that produces graduates better suited to the new economy’s needs,” measured by changes in the 
proportion of students finding employment within six months of graduation by field of study. 
1
Kê
hoa
ch Pha
t
triê
n
Kinh tê
-
Xa
hô
i
5
n
m
2006
-2010
 (Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010), attachment to 
Government Resolution No. 25/2006/NQ-CP, dated October 9, 2006.  
2
Nghi
quyê
t
vê
ô
i
m
i
C
ba
n
va
Toa
n
diê
n
Gia
o
du
c
a
i
ho
c
Viê
t
Nam Giai 
oa
n
2006
-2020
 (Government Resolution 
No. 14/2005/NQ-CP, dated November 2, 2005, on substantial and comprehensive renewal of 
Vietnam’s tertiary education in 
the 2006-2020 period).  See Annex 1. 
3
Report No. 38236-VN, dated January 3, 2007. 
Page  3
Building a higher education system in Vietnam that is innovative, responsive to the demands of the 
market and of high quality is essential to the economic growth and development of Vietnam. GOV has 
requested the World Bank to provide c
ontinued support for Vietnam’s higher education agenda, 
recognizing the success of past collaboration in the sector.  
The World Bank looks at economic development in a comprehensive way and can therefore work with 
GOV on a higher education strategy that is consistent with, and in support of, Vietnam’s overall 
development strategy.  This is all the more critical at a time when Vietnam, having recently acceded to 
membership of the World Trade Organization, is looking to develop a skilled population, with a strong 
knowledge base, that will position the country well for expansion and integration with the global 
economy. 
More specifically, the World Bank can bring its international experience in the higher education sector 
to help Vietnam implement its HERA program. The World Bank has in-depth experience across many 
higher education projects in the design and implementation of competitive funding, institutional 
autonomy and performance-based financing to drive improved standards in research and teaching and 
improvements in the relevance of higher education, all of which are important objectives set out in 
HERA.   
2. Proposed objective 
The proposed program aims to support the government in the implementation of HERA to improve the 
higher education responsiveness and overcoming skill bottlenecks for a rapidly changing economic and 
social environment. In particular, the proposed program, through a Development Policy Lending 
instrument, will assist the Ministry of Education and Training to develop and implement a series of 
policies and regulations defined in HERA which will create a more flexible, responsive and diverse 
higher education system, with more private sector participation, supporting governance and financing 
frameworks. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The program would consist of a series of key policy measures, each financed by a separate credit, linked 
to an indicative program of reform. Measures implemented by Government on the basis of policy 
analysis and development carried out with technical assistance under grant-financed component of the 
Second Higher Education Project (P079665) in the four key areas, including governance, financing, 
quality assurance and public finance management. The brief description is follow: 
Governance
.
The proposed program aims to improve the governance of the higher education and 
research system at both national, regional and local levels, This implies, in particular, giving greater 
autonomy to individual institutions, increasing their accountability and introducing measures in order to 
create a climate of competition between and within institutions that promotes improvement. 
Financing.
 The proposed program aims to enhance efficiency and equity of higher education financing 
through promoting greater autonomy of higher education institutions in managing their own finance and 
ensuring equitable opportunities to all students based on ability and aspirations and society’s needs. 
Quality assurance.
 The proposed program aims to improve the quality of teaching and research of 
higher education to meet the market demands by establishment of independent quality assurance system 
using standards –based and credit - based framework for higher education institutions qualifications. 
Public finance management. 
The proposed program aims to improve the efficiency and transparency in 
public resource use by adopt and apply a reliable financial management system, including internal and 
external audit system in accordance with sound financial management practices.  
4. Environment Aspects 
Page  4
The environment safeguard policy (OP 4.01 and OP 4.012) is not triggered. 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
40 
 Total 
40 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Jeffrey Waite 
Title: Senior Education Spec. 
Tel: +84-4-934-6600 
Fax: +84-4-934-6597 
Email: jwaite@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD)
 
