Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4528 
Operation Name 
Higher Education Development Policy Program 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Tertiary education (100%) 
Project ID 
P104694 
Borrower(s) 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Education and Training 
49 Dai Co. 
Hanoi 
Vietnam 
Tel: (84-4) 869-2479 
Date PID Prepared 
March 3, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 16, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
May 28, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Vietnam has experienced rapid and consistent growth and poverty reduction since launching its 
transition towards market mechanisms (
ô
i
m
i) in 1986
.
The 
ô
i
m
i
reforms strengthened individual 
land tenure security, permitted freer trade in agricultural products, and ensured provision of improved 
agricultural support services, resulting in a boom in farm production and exports and leading to a 
dramatic reduction in rural poverty.  GDP growth has averaged over 7.5 percent over the past ten years.  
The poverty rate has declined from 58.1 percent in 1993 to 16.0 percent in 2006, and has continued to 
decline since.
1
Vietnam is also well on-track to achieve most of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). 
 
A
key challenge is to maintain growth in the context of global integration and to address concerns of 
increasing inequality.  
Vietnam has pursued a trade-led growth strategy resulting in a steady increase in 
both exports and imports as a proportion of GDP.  The accession to WTO in 2007 is driving further 
lib
eralization of the economy.  Economic integration is also increasing the country’s exposure to global 
economic volatility, requiring increasing sophistication of macro-economic management to respond to 
capital flows, inflation pressures and shocks in financial markets.  Liberalization, while driving poverty 
reduction amongst all groups, has also resulted in increased inequality between rural and urban areas, 
and in particular amongst ethnic minorities whose poverty rate remains over 50 percent. 
 
The education sector in Vietnam has expanded rapidly, with the exponential growth in the upper levels 
of education, in particular higher education
.
The enrolment in colleges and universities has doubled 
from eight hundred thousands students in 2001 to more than 1.6 million students in 2008.  This can be 
explained by: (i) the historical low gross enrolment rate (less than 10 percent); (ii) high demand for 
higher education as a result of higher returns to skills; and (iii) the government active policies in 
expanding the sub-sector. 
 
The aggressive policy of introducing cost-recovery in higher education has resulted in a rapid increase 
in the share of tuition fees in the total revenues of higher education institutions, sometime as high as 70 
1
The more recent statistics are not directly comparable to the 1993 and 2006 figures, but the poverty reduction trend is 
continuing since 2006.  See the poverty reduction section below. 
Page  2
percent.
 
This strategy helped Vietnam to expand the sector rapidly without creating a heavy burden to 
the state budget.  However, this may have strained the capacity to pay and put a significant risk to the 
quality of provision. 
 
There was a noticeable acceleration, starting around 2
001,
of
the Government’s drive towards relying 
on market mechanisms, building a multi-stakeholder economy and further integrating with the region 
and the world
.
The vision underlying this drive was articulated in several strategic plans and 
documents, including the Ten-Year Socio-Economic Development Strategy 2001-2010, the Five-Year 
Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP) 2001-2006 and the Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and 
Growth Strategy (CPRGS). These strategic plans and documents aimed at building a market economy 
with a socialist orientation. They built on the successes of the 
ô
i
m
i
(“renovation”) process initiated in 
the late 1980s, while also preserving the strong poverty focus which has characterized the reform 
process of Vietnam. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The Higher Education Development Policy Program, along with the Second Higher Education Project 
(HEP2) and the New-
Model Universities Project (NMUP), is designed to support the Government’s 
implementation of its “Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010” (SEDP) and its “Higher 
Education Reform Agenda” (HERA)
.
In particular, HEDPP aims to strengthen governance, rationalize 
financing, improve the quality of teaching and research, improve accountability for performance, and enhance 
transparency in financial management within the higher education sector.  
The proposed operation would be 
the first in a programmatic series of three annual single-tranche Development Policy Credits (DPCs) to 
support the sustained implementation of the reform elements of this Government program
.
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The World Bank’s five-year Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
2
supports the GOV’s “Five-Year 
Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010.”
 Under CPS Pillar I, which aims to assist the 
Government
 in its transition to a market economy, the World Bank’s program will help to “develop a 
higher education system that produces graduates better suited to the new economy’s needs,” measured 
by changes in the proportion of students finding employment within six months of graduation by field of 
study.  The project contributes directly to this objective by improving the quality of higher education in 
ways that enable central government and universities to:  (i) produce graduates with the knowledge and 
skills that meet labor market demands, and (ii) support the national innovation system through relevant 
basic and applied research. 
 
4. Financing 
 
This is the first of a series of three (3) annual single-tranche operations, each for US$50.0 million 
equivalent.  There is no co-financing. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Implementation
.
MOET has established a Higher Education Development Program Unit
3
The Program 
Unit is led by the MOET’s Director of Higher Education and comprises eight other MOET staff each 
2
Report No. 38236-VN, dated January 3, 2007. 
3
Decision No. 3822/
Q
/BGD
T, dated 
July 10, 2008 and signed by Vice-Minister B
ành
 Tiê
n
Long
 (complementing 
Decision No. 5587/
Q
/BGD
T, dated August 30, 2007
 and signed by Vice-Minister Bành
 Tiê
n
Long
). 
Page  3
responsible for a different component of the program.  The Program Unit can draw on HEP1 funds for 
the preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the operations in the HEDPP series.  For 
each of the three operations (HEDPP1-3) making up the program series, the Program Unit is responsible 
for: (i) drafting the Government
’s Program Documents; (ii) monitoring and evaluating in an on-going 
way the progress towards meeting the agreed policy measures that figure as triggers and prior actions in 
the program policy matrix, (iii) collecting and submitting to the Bank documentation (e.g. plans, 
regulations, reports) that required for negotiations as proof that the agreed policy measures have been 
completed; (iv) monitoring the Government’s approval process and reporting on progress to MOET and 
the World Bank team; and (v) mobilizing Government to ensure high degree of readiness for Bank 
missions. 
 
Monitoring and evaluation
.
MOET’s Program Unit will have responsibility for monitoring both 
performance in implementing the program and progress in moving towards the program’s development 
objectives.  The Government’s Program Document contains, in addition to the policy matrix, (i) a more 
detailed plan of steps for carrying out the measures set out in the matrix, and (ii) an operational timeline 
against which implementation progress can be assessed. 
 
Fiduciary aspects.  With the DPL instrument, the MOET will use Government procurement procedures 
and Government financial management system in executing the HEDPP.  To address fiduciary risks in 
the foreign exchange control environment, the Borrower will maintain a dedicated foreign currency 
deposit account (DA) for the proceeds of the Credit, and will report on the funds flow of the dedicated 
deposit account. The Government will, if deemed necessary by IDA, allow an independent external 
audit of the dedicated foreign currency deposit account (DA).   
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits
:
Students access higher education more efficiently and equitably; students receive better quality 
and more relevant education services; graduates and employers refer to more transparent qualifications 
framework; Government and households hold higher education providers more accountable. 
 
Policy-related risk
:
MOET may have weak capacity in developing coherent policy.  
Mitigation
:
HEP2 
provides for technical assistance aimed at building capacity. 
 
Institutional risk
:
MOET and HEIs may not be fully effective in applying the regulations to their full 
potential.  
Mitigation
:
NMUPs will provide a privileged locus for testing the full application of the new 
body of regulations and offering a demonstration effect for roll-out to other HEIs. 
 
Fiduciary risk
:
Weaknesses identified in the 2007 CFAA will likely take some time to remedy in the 
higher education sector.  
Mitigation
:
HEDPP includes an explicit strand of prior actions aimed at 
continuous improvement in financial management. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and social impacts
.
Overall, HEDPP will contribute to increasing the skills of higher education 
graduates, development of research activities and other improvements in the higher education system 
which are all expected to have a positive economic return for the larger Vietnamese society.  While 
HEDPP is not designed with a specific poverty reduction focused, the inclusion of a measure that charts 
the take-up of the Government’s pro-poor student loans scheme ensures a focus on access to higher 
education for disadvantaged youth.  Beyond this, the emphasis on efficiency, quality, transparency and 
accountability will benefit all those who access the higher education system (including the poorest). 
Page  4
Environmental aspects
.
This operation raises no particular environmental issues. 
 
8. Contact point: 
 
Contact: Jeffrey Waite 
Title: Lead Education Specialist 
Tel: 5777+384 / 84-4-3934-6600 
Fax:  
Email: Jwaite@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
