 IEG
                                                                                         Report Number: ICRR14827

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                          Date Posted: 10/13/2015

               Country: Vietnam
                        Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                  Yes      No
                           How many operations were planned for the                             3
                          series?
                           How many were approved ?                                             3
             Series ID: S116354
       First Project ID : P104694                                            Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name: Higher Education            Project Costs (US$M):                    50                  52.4
                          Development Policy
                          Program - First
                          Operatio
 L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                     50                  52.4
      Sector Board:       Education                Cofinancing (US$M):                      0                    0

          Cofinanciers:                            Board Approval Date :                                  06/23/2009
                                                          Closing Date:           12/31/2009              12/31/2009
         Sector(s):      Tertiary education (100%)
         Theme(s):       Education for the knowledge economy (70%); Public expenditure; financial management and
                         procurement (30%)
    Second Project ID :P116353                                                  Appraisal            Actual
        Project Name: Higher Education               Project Costs (US$M):                   50              51.5
                         Development Policy
                         Program - Second
                         Operati
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                    50              51.5
     Sector Board:       Education                    Cofinancing (US$M):                     0                 0
                                                      Board Approval Date :                            03/16/2011
           Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:         06/30/2011         06/30/2011
          Sector(s):     Tertiary education  (100%)
         Theme(s):       Education for the knowledge economy (100%)
       Third Project ID :P116354                                                Appraisal            Actual
        Project Name:    Higher  Education           Project Costs (US$M):                   50              49.5
                         Development Policy
                         Program - Third
                         Operation
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                    50              49.5
     Sector Board:       Education                    Cofinancing (US$M):                     0                 0
                                                      Board Approval Date :                            08/02/2013
           Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:         06/30/2014         06/30/2014
          Sector(s):     Tertiary education  (100%)
         Theme(s):       Education for the knowledge economy (42%), Public expenditure, financial management and
                         procurement (25%), Other public sector governance (17%), Other
                         accountability/anti-corruption (16%)
Evaluator:               Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Erik A. Bloom            Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The first two operations of the series had the same objectives. The third operation revised the objectives.

    First and second operations:

    "The Program aims to strengthen governance, rationalize financing, improve the quality of teaching and research,
    improve accountability for performance, and enhance transparency in financial management within the higher
    education sector (First Program Document, page 11 and Second Program Document, summary section). "

    Third operation:

    The objectives of the Higher Education Development Policy Operation (HEDPO) were to strengthen governance,
    financing, and quality of higher education by: (i) improving the responsiveness of higher education and research
    and increasing the quantitative capacity of the system; (ii) enhancing fiscal transparency, sustainability and
    effectiveness of the higher education sector; and (iii) improving the quality of Higher Education institutions
    (Program Document, page 24).

    The changes in objectives between the second and third operations largely represented an attempt to clarify and
    make the terms more precise. They do not represent any material change in the objectives. This review will use
    the objective from the third operation as the basis of the validation.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    All three operations had the same policy areas:

    Policy area 1: Governance. This aimed at improving the responsiveness of higher education and research and
    increasing the quantitative capacity of the system.

    Policy area 2: Financing and financial management (known as Financing in the first and second operations).
    This focused on fiscal transparency, sustainability, and effectiveness of the higher education sector.
    Policy area 3: Quality (known as Quality Improvement in the first and second operations). This aimed at
    improving the quality of higher education institutions.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    Project costs
    Each of the operations was for US$50 million. The disbursement for the first, second, and third operations was
    US$52.4 million, US$51.5 million, and US$49.5 million, respectively. The three operations were fully disbursed.
    The differences between the approved amount and the disbursed amount are entirely due to changes in the
    exchange rate.

    Dates
    The first operation was approved in June 2009, become effective in November 2009, and closed in December
    2009.

    The second operation was approved in November 2010, become effective in March 2011, and closed in June
    2011.

    The third operation was approved in February 2013, become effective in August 2013, and closed in June 2014.
    There was a delay in approving the third operation, which was approved 26 months after the second operation
    closed. Standard procedures require a period of no more than 18 months between operations. The Bank received
    a waiver for this delay as the government was in the process of approving a new Higher Education Law.
3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Both objectives (for HEDPO I & II as well as for HEDPO III) have a high level of relevance both at the time of
   approval and at present. The World Bank Group's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), which was approved in
   2011, explicitly includes in Outcome 1.3: Increased Capacity for Innovation and Value Addition support for Skills
   and Innovation Systems. The CPS includes a direct reference to the Higher Education Development Policy
   Program (HEDPP) series and more specifically the series' focus on improving higher education governance. The
   CPS proposes technical work focusing on higher education, which would support both the CPS objectives and
   the objectives of HEDPP.

   The government’s ten-year development strategy, the Socio-Economic Development Program 2011-2020, makes
   specific reference to the importance of increasing the role of research (particularly research in science and
   technology) as an important tool to improve the economy’s competitiveness as well as the relevance of education
   for the labor market (ICR, pages 2-5 and 13; Program Document for HEDPO III, pages 10-19). HEDPP was
   designed around the government's plan for higher education, the Higher Education Reform Agenda (HERA).
   HERA remains central to the ongoing reform process, and the support provided by HEDPP in its three policy
   areas is a key element in implementing HERA.


b. Relevance of Design:

   The series' design had substantial relevance. Although the objectives changed between HEDPO II and HEDPO
   III, there was no material change in the objectives and the design stayed the same. The series design followed
   HERA and adopted its themes: (i) governance; (ii) financing; (iii) quality improvement; and (iv) quality assurance.
   The series also included financial management as an area of support (ICR, page 7). These themes were then
   organized into the series' three policy areas (Governance, Financing and Financial Management, and Quality).

   These areas are mutually reenforcing. Reforms in one area supported the actions in another. Reforms to higher
   education governance focused on granting greater autonomy to universities and on gradually transforming the
   role of the Ministry to that of a steward of the sector, reducing its role in directly managing higher education
   institutions. Reforms to financing, allowing universities to rely more on tuition to cover their expenses will allow
   them to make independent and demand-driven decisions. This also facilitates competition with private
   universities and gives public universities both the resources and the incentives to improve quality. Likewise,
   reforms to financial management allow for greater accountability. Many reforms to improve quality and develop
   quality assurance will also strengthen autonomy; quality assurance systems will allow the Ministry to better
   supervise the autonomous system, and the introduction of a credit-based system will give students and
   universities more flexibility (see pages 2 to 5 of the ICR).

   The relevance of the overall program's design depends on the relevance of each of the individual elements in the
   program. The series had a relevant design related to governance and quality. However, the series was weaker in
   its support for improving finance.

   Strengthen governance , which was in HEDPO III as well as in HEDPO I & II (included in the objectives for
   HEDPO I & II as well as HEDPO III). This also includes improve accountability for performance (included in the
   objectives for HEDPO I & II), which is important for governance.

   The series included prior actions that were well thought out and likely to contribute to the objective of improving
   governance. The design included significant support to improving governance, with policy areas that focused on
   regulations supporting both new and existing universities. The series initially included the development of a
   Master Plan to strengthen the higher education series as a trigger and proposed prior action; this was upgraded
   in HEDPO III to approval of a Higher Education Law. Additional steps included the decrees increasing autonomy
   and encouraging foreign investment in higher education. The introduction of a credit-based system to replace the
   centralized curriculum (dictated by a university's parent ministry) also represents an advance that will contribute
   to university autonomy.

   Strengthen quality , which also covers Improve the quality of research and teaching in the objectives for HEDPO
   I & II.

   The design, as outlined in the HEDPO I project document (pages 46-52), included support for strengthening
   quality assurance mechanisms as well as some reforms of academic processes within universities. The proposed
   prior actions directly related to quality assurance were dropped and replaced by the Higher Education Law, which
   reenforced and strengthened the quality assurance mechanisms and gave them a strong legal basis (page 34 of
   the ICR). The growing role of the private sector and the need to regulate potential "diploma mills" was another
   important rationale behind the quality assurance system (page 33 to 34 of the HEDPO III Project Document).

   The prior actions involved the creation of independent accreditation agencies and of internal quality assurance
   units in a large number of universities. These have the potential to contribute to improving quality. Likewise, the
   introduction of credit system can give universities more flexibility to adjust their curricula to reflect developments
   in the field and the changing capacity of the faculty. Seen together, this represents a strong logical chain from
   policy to results.

   Strengthen financing , which also covers Rationalize financing and enhance transparency in financial
   management in the objectives for HEDPO I & II.

   The prior actions only focused on limited aspects of higher education and did not focus on other aspects of higher
   education financing, such as reforms to tuition or student loan policy. HEDPO II included a prior action on the
   regulation of student tuition, but these were not pursued in HEDPO, which eliminated a trigger to support greater
   a comprehensive policy but were never included as prior actions (page 48 of HEDPO I project document and
   pages 31 to 33 of the HEDPO II program document). While the government is pursuing these policies, they were
   excluded from the program (pages 19 and 20 of the ICR). The prior actions were built around the introduction of
   annual financial reports in a large number of higher education institutions. Likewise, the series included audits for
   a number of universities. In this case, the prior actions were essentially outputs that represented evidence of the
   reform's support for university autonomy.

   The macroeconomic and country framework

   The series' design took into account Vietnam's strong economic conditions and was designed to reflect the need
   for greater flexibility in the labor market. The reform program was based on the assumption of greater
   government commitment to higher education. This was realistic, given the level of economic growth in Vietnam
   (page 6 of HEDPO II of the Project Document) even in a period of global economic slowdown. The demand for
   higher education is also increasing as more students graduate from secondary school (pages 2-3 of the ICR).
   Likewise, the debt level in Vietnam was sustainable, justifying a Development Policy Operation focusing on a
   particular sector reform.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The assessment of achievement of objectives is divided into three sub-objectives that capture the program
   objectives from both HEDPO I & II as well as HEDPO III.

   Overall, the number of students in higher education increased from 2.0% of the population in 2008 to 2.5% in
   2010. During the same time, enrollment in higher education became more gender balanced. In 2008 there were
   1.2 female students for every male ; by 2010, the ratio was 1 to 1. While these indicators were assigned to
   governance, they are not directly related to any of the three sub-objectives and represent the overall impact of the
   series and the reform program. They represent the context in which the reform is operating.

   Strengthen governance

   All three operations included "strengthening governance," which for HEDPO I & II explicitly included "improve
   accountability for performance." HEDPO III continued to support improving accountability through its prior
   actions. Although the reforms were implemented more slowly than had been expected, the impact was generally
   as expected and represented a general improvement of higher education governance. Achievement of this
   objective is therefore rated substantial.

   Under this objective, the series supported actions to improve the regulatory environment both for public and
   private higher education providers. The various actions to support private and foreign higher education providers
   seemed to open up the sector, with a number of private and foreign institutions entering. By the end of HEDPO II
   (2010), 16 percent of students were studying in non -public institutions compared to the baseline value of 13
   percent in 2008. While this did not meet the target of 17 percent, it does show the growing size of the private
   sector in higher education. Likewise, the ICR reports that by the end of the series, 339 curricula were developed
   in cooperation with foreign institutions , compared to a target of 300 curricula. Likewise, many of the actions
   supporting this pillar contributed to improved governance, such as the introduction of internal and external audits
   and the development of a quality assurance system.
The series supported greater university autonomy under all three of the sub-objectives (page 4 of the ICR). By
the 2014-15 school year, all 505 higher education institutions in the country were granted autonomy over their
size and program content . When the series began in 2009, only two universities had this autonomy. The target
was originally set at 16. This represents a change in government policy, towards a "big bang" approach to
autonomy. The ICR reports that the universities have adopted autonomy to differing degrees (page 17). A
university council plays an important role in promoting autonomy, with some power over appointments. In the
2014-15 school year, 14 universities had established university councils , which was below the target of 20
university councils. In the 2008-09 school year, these bodies did not exist.

Strengthen quality

All three operations included prior actions to focus on improving the quality of teaching and research in
universities, including the items in Policy Area 3 (Quality) in HEDPO III, which was largely built around the
implementation of a quality assurance system, including accreditation. Achievement of this objective is rated
substantial.

At the policy level, the reform focused on various forms of quality assurance as a key to improving the quality of
education. The pressure of a quality assurance system and accreditation played an important role in "upgrading"
the qualifications of researchers. Between 2007 and 2009, the proportion of researchers with at least a Master 's
and with a doctoral degree increased from 36.1% and 10.5% to 57.2% and 14.0%, respectively. This was
supported by other government initiatives to improve quality. This is an important increase, and the decision to
introduce minimum standards made a contribution to the increase in the credentials of faculty (pages 28 and 34
of the ICR). There was rapid growth of internal quality assurance, with 301 institutions (out of 419) having
internal quality assurance units (page 23 of the ICR). Other government programs also made a similar
contribution to raising quality, such as the Higher Education Project II and other government programs (the
government's evaluation report on pages 44 and 46 of the ICR).

Likewise, the share of universities that were accredited increased from 4.9 % in 2008 to 6.0% in 2010, meeting
the target. This was done based on criteria introduced in national decrees and was carried out by international
agencies (interview with TTL). External accreditation started in 2014 with two national accreditation centers and a
corps of 240 trained accreditors, of which 60 have full certification.

At the same time, Vietnamese universities have gradually adopted the credit-based graduation system, with 16
percent of students now enrolled in such programs (from a baseline of 10 percent in 2009). This gives
universities more flexibility to tailor their teaching and research programs to specialization of their staff and the
needs of the market.

These intermediate outcomes suggest that Vietnam's universities are developing the necessary conditions to
carry out research. From 2008 to 2011, the annual number of articles in international academic journals
increased from 1,090/year to 1,563/year, against a target of 1,625/year. The ICR also reports that from 2009 to
2014, the number of articles increased by nearly 100%, implying around 1,900 articles/year in 2014 (PDO
Indicator Table and IEG calculations). Given the support that the government has provided in improving quality
through a number of actions both within and outside of the DPO series' program, the DPO series is likely to have
a made a contribution to improving research quality.

Measuring teaching quality has always posed a challenge for the education sector. The program supported a
number of initiatives that are likely to have improved quality, such as the accreditation process (which includes
minimum standards for instructors) and the expansion of the credit-based system; other government action
related to the program as also likely to have had an impact. Likewise, efforts to include the private sector in the
accreditation process will help to make the curriculum more relevant for students (pages 21 to 23 of the ICR). As
with virtually all education projects, there is no quantifiable way to measure changes in teacher quality.

Strengthen financing

The reform focused on strengthening the capacity of higher education institutions to manage their finances.
Achievement of this objective is rated modest.

The series included indicators for the share of the education budget dedicated to higher education ; this share
moved from 11.3% in 2007 to 11.2% in 2009 (HEDPO I, against a target of 11.9%), from 11.7% in 2008 to
12.1% in 2010 (HEDPO II, against a target of 11.2%), and from 11.7% in 2009 to 11.5% in 2014 (HEDPO III,
against a target of 12.5%). Based on these data, it appears that there has been little change in the overall
share, although the ICR reports that total public financing for higher education increased by 16% driven by overall
growth in the education sector. Under HEDPO I, total public financing per student increased from VND 5.5
   million in 2007 to VND 6.0 million in 2009, against a target of VND 6.6 million. Under HEDPO II, total public
   financing per student decreased from VND 6.2 million in 2008 to 6.0 million in 2010, compared to a target of
   VND 6.7 million.

   The percentage of students who received student loans increased from 27.7% in 2008 to 30% in 2010 (HEDPO
   II), and then increased to 70% in 2014 (HEDPO III). These figures exactly met targets. This represents an
   important increase in coverage and an important shift in how higher education is financed. Likewise, the share of
   higher education revenue generated from tuition increased from 36% in 2008 to 42% in 2010 (HEDPO II, target
   of 42%), and from 36% in 2009 to 39% in 2014 (HEDPO III, target of 45%). It appears that there was no
   important change in the share of revenue generated from tuition during the series. While both of these gains are
   related to the series' objectives, they are not related to the prior actions.

   During the series, the number of universities that produced annual reports increased from 0 in 2007 to 20 in
   2009 (HEDPO I), and then later to 45 in 20014 (HEDPO III), in both cases meeting targets. At the same time, the
   number of institutions that had an independent audit increased from 0 in 2007 to 12 in 2009 (HEDPO I), and
   from 12 in 2008 to 27 in 2011 (HEDPO II), exceeding the target of 20. Both of these indicators are consistent
   with the series' objectives as well as with policy actions supported by the reform.

5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The relevance of objectives is rated as high, given the central role that higher education and the reform play in
   the government's and the Bank's strategies. The relevance of design is rated substantial, as the program
   provided support to all three aspects of the objectives. The reform made a substantial contribution to
   strengthening higher education governance and strengthening quality, and a modest contribution to
   strengthening financing .

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Although many elements of the reform were implemented more slowly than expected, the government maintains
   strong ownership of the reform process and continues to include the reform in its development strategy, giving it
   a high priority. This continued political support is essential to ensure that the law and decrees are effective. In
   addition, the government was proactive in seeking consensus among stakeholders. This will also makes it more
   likely that the reform will be sustained. Universities have also responded to the policy reforms, including the
   establishment of university councils.

   The series is part of a larger World Bank engagement to support higher education in Vietnam. The other
   operations and knowledge work are complementary and support the series (ICR, page 25). Vietnam is also
   receiving similar support from other development partners that should help to sustain the reform.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    The series was developed from strong technical and operational foundations. These foundations included the
    Bank's support for the Second Higher Education Project (P079665, approved in 2007) and the New Model
    University Project (P110693, approved in 2010) that contributed to the development of the policy framework.
    In addition, the Bank supported a number of technical documents that focused on issues included in the
    series (Annex 4 of HEDPO I program document). Much of this work was incorporated by the government into
    its strategy for higher education, HERA (ICR, page 26).

    As required by Bank guidelines, the team carried out financial due diligence for each operation, as reflected in
    the program documents. The discussion of risk considered sector risks, such as the Ministry of Education and
    Training's (MOET's) capacity or lack of capacity (for example, page 36 of the HEDPO I Program Document).
   In HEDPO III, the team also considered fiscal risks and built on the Macroeconomic Outlook section of the
   Program Document.

   The series used an ambitious set of indicators, based on an optimistic view of the speed with which prior
   actions could be adopted. However, these actions and impacts were not beyond the government's capacity
   and represented a "stretch target" (page 26 of ICR). The indicators were all based on data that is available
   (page 32 of HEDPO I Program Document). However, in retrospect, this optimism did not take into account
   the difficult political challenges that higher education reform might face (page 26 of ICR). At the same time,
   the Bank and the government adjusted the targets and the indicators to reflect changes on the ground; in
   some cases these involved introducing more complicated reforms (such as having a law instead of decrees)
   and in other cases, reducing targets. This flexibility reflected changes in the reform process and the Bank's
   capacity to understand the process.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The Bank provided timely support during the implementation of the series. The Bank had a number of
   complementary projects and was in constant dialogue with MOET on higher education, both on policy
   (through the series) and implementation (through the investment projects). In addition, the Bank provided
   complementary technical assistance as part of ongoing support to the higher education sector (ICR, page 26).
   The TTL for most of the series was based in the country office, as were additional technical and support
   personnel (information provided by the project team).


  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The government of Vietnam was committed to the reform of higher education and the actions in HERA and
   the HEDPO. The government provided an increase in its financial support for higher education over the
   length of the series, with spending increasing by 16 percent (Indicator 4 of HEPDO III, as reported in the ICR).
   The government was able to pass the expected law and decrees, essentially turning the triggers into policy
   actions. In addition, the passage of the Higher Education Law formalized into law many of the earlier decrees
   The government made significant effort to build consensus among multiple stakeholders. Although this
   occasionally led to delays, it likely strengthened both the ownership and impact of the reform.




  Government Performance Rating :                              Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The implementing agency for the programmatic series was originally the Higher Education Program Unit (for
   HEDPO I and II). For HEDPO III, the program was mainstreamed and placed in the Higher Education
   Department. Both operated under the Ministry of Education and Training. Overall, at the central level, the
   Ministry provided continuous and effective support in the implementation of the reform. However, the ICR
   (page 27) reports that the implementing units were often slow in collecting and analyzing data. Likewise, the
   ICR reports that MOET often faced challenges in supporting private higher education institutions as well as
    public institutions that report to other ministries.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The series benefited from a relatively strong information system at both the national and university levels. The
   first two sets of indicators (corresponding to HEDPO I and II) were well within the capacity of the government to
   collect. However, many of these indicators did not correspond well with the policy matrix. For example, ensuring
   ethnic and gender equality are laudable goals, but they are not related to the policy matrix supported by the Bank.


   The third operation in the series, HEDPO III, revised the set of indicators. The new indicators were better aligned
   with the series' objectives and prior actions. These indicators were relatively straightforward.

b. M&E Implementation:

   Data were collected through the series and were regularly reported. As the data were available from existing
   sources, there are no reported problems with M&E. The only exception was one indicator (percentage of students
   receiving [student] loans) in HEDPO3, for which data could not be fully collected due to a lack of coordination
   between MOET and the Bank of Social Policies (ICR, page 12).

   The development of the M&E system and the collection of data were facilitated by the preparation of the
   complementary investment loan (ICR, page 12).

c. M&E Utilization:

   The data played an important role in adjusting the DPO series to the changing nature and speed of the reform.
   Likewise, the M&E system supported the design and implementation of other Bank operations (particularly the
   Higher Education Development Project II) as well as the government reform process.

 M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   During preparation of the first operation, the team argued that the reform would have limited impact on the
   environment and would require no resettlement (pages 30-31 of HEDPO I Project Document). This was repeated
   in HEDPO II and III. The ICR does not discuss safeguards, and the reform did not support construction or new
   infrastructure.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   For all of the operations in the series, the Bank confirmed that the country had a sufficient public management
   framework in place. This included reviews of government and central bank audit practices. The ICR does not
   report any fiduciary issues during implementation.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.
d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately           .
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The series highlights the difference between changes in the legal framework and changes on the ground. It
    supported an ambitious package of reforms for all three operations. However, the reform's impact was perhaps
    less than could have been expected. One clear lesson is that the Bank has to look beyond the legal
    framework and take into account political considerations and the challenge of pushing a reform forward .

    The series showed how a DPO and an investment credit can support one another . The investment credit
    supported a great deal of the logistics necessary to monitor the reform. It also supported efforts to implement
    the steps required to turn the approved policies (prior actions) into reality. The overall reform benefits from this
    dual channeling of reform .

    The ICR's discussion of lessons (pages 27-28) also mentions these points. In addition, it introduces several
    other lessons, including:

         In Vietnam, consensus building takes time, and Bank support should reflect this.
         Likewise, the Bank's support can show flexibility in identifying prior actions for the next step of a DPO
          series.
         Identifying realistic outcomes is important, and too often DPO series focus more on developing prior
          actions and triggers. The selection of outcomes needs to take into account the time necessary for the
          policy to have impact. This was not the case for this DPO series, particularly for HEDPO I and HEDPO II.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why? A more detailed evaluation of the series can contribute to two areas in the IEG work plan. The first is an
evaluation of higher education; a PPAR has already been prepared for the Higher Education Project in Vietnam. The
second is IEG's work on the impact of DPOs; Vietnam is a case study for this work, and input on this DPO can
strengthen the analysis.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is informative and well organized. It provides detailed information on context and macroeconomic
    developments, and on the implementation of prior actions that affected preparation and implementation. The ICR
    has a number of strengths: :

         Quality of evidence . The ICR presents detailed information and data about what happened during the reform
          and afterwards. It is frank in explaining the series' limitations as well as its strengths. This is reflected in the
          text as well as in the Results Framework Analysis.
         Quality and relevance of lessons . The ICR presents seven lessons that provide good insight about the
          reform and the series. These lessons are based on the findings in the ICR.
         Results orientation . In addition to presenting the achievement of indicators, the ICR provides good and
          candid discussion of the impact of the reforms.
         Internal consistency . and consistency with guidelines . The ICR presents a clear narrative about what the
          Bank did and what happened with the reform. This meets the guidelines provided for ICRs.
         Conciseness. Although the ICR is relatively long (29 pages), this reflects the complexity of the series --
          essentially a review of three different operations. The ICR uses its length wisely to convey the major issues
          and provide frank analysis.

    The ICR's main shortcoming is related to the depth of the analysis and the development of a storyline. Likewise,
    the discussion of the design misses some of the complementarity between the various actions supported by the
    program.

    The government's Completion Report (pages 36 to 48 of the ICR) is also quite well written and useful in
    understanding the series' context and the government's actions.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
