Report No. 335a-IVC
Appraisal of a                                                                      FILE
Telecommunications Project
Ivory Coast
April 9, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. tt may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Croup does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRE»CY EQUIVAIE:NTS                         WEIGHTS AND MEJSURES
US$1           CFA1250                       1 km    0.62 mile
CFAEt         = US$o.oo4                          2
CFAF1 ,00,0OO = US$49000                      1 hn    0 0.386 squzare mile
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBRt-VIUTIOÇS, ACRTYMS N)D DEFINITIOe4S
APT               - Administration des Postes et Télécomaunicatibns
(Posts and Telecommunications Administration)
CCCE              - Caisse Central de Coopération Economique
(French lending agency)
Carrier           - A system providing several chamnels through one
transmission mode
Charmel           - Frequency band of a carrier system carrying telephone,
telegraph or data signals
CCITT             - Comité Consultatif International Téléphonique et
Télégraphique (International Telephone and
Telegraph Consultative Committee)
CGPTEAO           - Conférence Administrative des Postes et
,Téléconnunications de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
(West Africa Post and Teleconmnmications Organization)
FAG               - Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération (Development Aid
Agency of the French Government)
7CR               - Compagnie France Cables et Radio
HF                - High frequency (3-30 MH)
IDET-CEGOS        - French Management Consultants
INTELCI           - Société des Tlécommunications Internationales de
Côte d'Ivoire (International Telecommunications
Company of Ivory Coast)
ITU               - International Telecommunication Union
MHz                - Megahertz
Microwave          - Radio system vorking at frequencies above 300 MHz
but normally applied to systems working at frequencies
above 1,000 MHz
Multiplex          - Part of the equipment in a carrier system (see above)
which shifts and stacks the different circuits in the
frequency spectrum appropriate to the particular
carrier system
OPTCI             - Office des Postes et Télécommunication de Côte d'Ivoire
(Ivory Coast Posts and Telecommunications Office)
SOFREcoM          - Sociéte Française d 'Etudes et de  Réalisations
d'Equipements de Tél6communications (French consulting
firm for telecommunications studies and equipment
construction)
STET              - Societa Finanziaria Telefonica (Italian financial
consultants for telecommunications)
Telephone Stations- Locations where telephone instruments on direct
exchange lxnes or extensions are fitted
Telex             - Teleprinter Exchange Service
UNDP              - United Nations Development Program
VHF                - Very high frequency (30-300  Hiz)
VF                - Voice frequency (300-3,400 Hz) .



IVORY (OAST
AIs114ISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMeiUNICATIONS (APT
APPRAISAL OF A TELECONMUNICATICNS PROJECT
TABLE 0F CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMUQ,EU AND CONCLUSIONS .... *.........***........*.........           i-ii
1.    DINTRODUCTION ................................... ......... .......       1
2.    THE ECONOIY AND THE TELECCMaMIICATIONS SECTOR .............              1
The Economy                                  ..................  ......... 1
The Telecommunications Sector                                          2
Existing Telecommunications Facilities            ....                 2
Sector Development Objectives ...........................              3
3.    TH   ROJECT ..............o........................................      4
Cost of the Project ...S............... . ..................           5
Project Flnancing Arrangements ...........................             6
Procurement        .............................................       7
Implementation .................................                       7
Lisbursement .*...... .. *  .a *. *. . ... ....*                       7
h.    JUSTIFICATION ......*....................**.............                  8
Support of Country's Economic Development ...............              8
Support of Institutional Improvement in the
Telecammunications Sector ........... .....                   9
Market Demand  ....... .............. .....              ..            9
Least-Cost Solution-and Optimization of Project
Construction Period ...*.....*..................             10
Ret1urn on Investiment  i...........     ...........*.......          il
5.    THE BENEFICIARY (APT) .......i...*         ....... ..*..........*.      il
Organization and Management ...i.........l...     ..............     11
Staff and Training          ................ *......                  12
Investment Planning                                                  13
Subscribers Installation and Maintenance Services                     13
Accounting ......13.
Telecommunications Billing and Collection   ............              1h
Audit                                .                                15
Tariffs                                                               15
Postal/Financial Department .....16
6.    FINANCES .................................                              16
Telecommunications - Past Finances                        ...         16
Telecommunications - Financing Plan 18.............. ..               18
Telecommunications - Future Finances                                  20
Fiscal Impact .......                 ...****e@*@*...... *-**         21
7.    REC- C J*dZENDATIONS ............................ .............         21
This report is based on information provided by APT and on the findings of
the mission composed of Messrs. J. G. Davis and G. A. V. Buttex which visi-
ted Ivory Coast in July/August 1973.






LIST 0F ANNEXES
1. International Statistical Data
2. Organization Chart
3. Basic Data                                         )
h. Existing Telecommunications Facilities             )
5.  The Project - Cost Estimates                      )
6.  Construction Schedule of the Project              )
7.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan)
8.  Economic Analysis of the Project                  )
9.  Summary of Tariffs                                )
10.  Income Statements - 1970-1980                     ) Telecommunications Department
11.  Balance Sheets - 1970-1980                        }
12.  Sources and Applications of Funds - 1970-1980   )
13.  Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements   )
1h.  Financial Rate of Return - 1979-1983              )
15.  Long-term Debt                                    )
16.  Performance Indicators                            )
17.  Telecommunications Billing and Collection         )
18. Financial Aspects - 1970-1980            )
19.  Income Statements - 1970-1980           )
)Postal/Financial Department
20.  Balance Sheets    - 1970-1980                s
21. Sources and Applications of Funds - )
1970-1980         )
Maps
Telephone Exchanges and Long Distance Links   I9RD-10684(R)
Abidjan's Urban Telephone Network               IBRD-1 0685 (R)






IVOtY COAST
AKZI 3TRATION DES POSTES ET TEL3CO&MUNICATIONS (APT)
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMTJNICATIONS PROJECT
SUIARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The project is the 1974-1978 telecommunications development
program of the Administration des Postes et Tlécommunications (APT),
a Government entity under the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
responsible for all postal and domestic public telecommunications
services in the Ivory Coast. The project, estimated to cost US$53.6
million, aims to improve the present poor quality of service and meet
demand until 1980 in Abidjan and in 39 provincial towns by expanding
local and long distance facilities; in addition, service will be extended
to 21 rural localities that presently have inadequate or no communications.
ii.       A Bank loan of US$25.0 million is proposed, which would cover
about 63e of the foreign and 47% of the total cost of the project.
iii.      This would be the Bank's first telecommunications project in
the Ivory Coast. The borrower would be the Government, and the project
would be executed by APT with the assistance of consulting engineers.
iv.       Since 1971, APT has been carrying out the first phase of a
development program originally intended to cover the period 1971 through
1975; the foreign costs of these works have been financed by suppliers
credits, French bilateral assistance, and APTts on>m resources.  APT has
now revised its requirements and established a program of works to be
executed from 1974 through 1978.  The 1974-1978 program comprises ongoing
works carried over from the earlier development program and new works to
be undertaken through December 1978.
v.        In the past APT has purchased its imported equipmenit either on
a negotiated contract basis or after limited competitive bidding. How-
ever, with the exception of contracts already awarded or equipment which,
for reasons of technical compatibility must be obtained from existing
suppliers, the Government has now decided to go to international competi-
tive bidding, with Bank financing, for all other equipnent to be imported
directly for the project. This is expected to result in decreases in
switching equipment prices compared iwith the high prices previously paid
and also have a downward influence on prices for equipnent to be procured
under negotiated contracts with existing suppliers.
vi.       The institutional development of APT has been allowed to lag
and at present the entity's internal organization is not equipped to meet



- ii -
the demarids being made upon it.  With the failure to progressively develop
its orgarization by way of experienced and adequately qualified managerial,
technical and financial staff, satisfactory planning systems, operational
routines and controls, APT now finds itself with many institutional pro-
blems, some of which are serious. APT requires long term institutional
assistance and policy guidance. The proposed project, supported by the
Bank, will help to bring about the improvements that are critical if the
entity is to adequately fulfil-1 its role in the telecoamunications sector.
vii.      Although postal operations are carried out at a loss, because
of its profitable telecommunications operations APT is earning a surplus
from its overall operations. However, owing to delays in subscriber
billing, poor collection procedures, non-payment of Government bills and
lack of adequate financial and budgetary control, APT has a serious liqui-
dity problem and is relying heavily on the overdrâft facilities available
fro-m the National Treasury.
viii.     The project is technically sound and financially and economically
justified; it would provide support for the Government's development schemes
for industry, commerce, agriculture and tourism. The project would also
contribute to the expansion of administrative, public health and social
services in rural areas and the integration of remote areas into the national
econormy. The return on investment is estimated to be at least 22%.  Owing
to the time lag between the commissioning of new plant and the buildup of
related revenues, APT's financial rate of return on net telecommunications
assets, presently about 20%, is expected to decline considerably until 1978.
Thereafter, with the additional revenue accruing from plant installed under
the project the rate of return should improve again.
ix.       The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$25.o million having a terzm of 20 years vith a five-year grace period.



IVOiY COAST
AMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (APT)
APPRAISAL OF A TELECOMMLNICATIONS PROJECT
1.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Ivory Coast has asked the Bank to help
finance the 1974-1978 telecommunications development program of its
Administration des Postes et Télécommunications (APT), the entity res-
ponsible for postal and domestic telecommunications in the Ivory Coast.
1.02      In 1970, following studies carried out by the French engineer-
ing consultants, Societe Française d'Etudes et de Réalisations d'Equipe-
ments de Télécommunications (SOFRECOM), and the Italian financial con-
sultants, Societe Finanziaria Telefonica (STET), APT established a five-
year, 1971-1975, development program.  A first phase of that program,
financed by supplier credits, French bilateral assistance, and APT's own
resources is now under construction. In 1971 a Bank mission identified
a project within that program suitable for Bank financing however, APT
subsequently revised its requirementa and established a new 197h-1978
program to meet demand until 1980. This program, which is the project
proposed for Bank financing, would be the first telecommunications project
financed by the Bank in the Ivory Coast. As APT is a branch of
the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, the Government would be the
borrower.
1.03      Preappraisal took place in December 1972, and was followed by
an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. J. G. Davis and G. A. V. Buttex
that visited the Ivory Coast in July/August 1973.
2.  THE ECONÇWY AND THE TELECOIHMUNICATIONS SECTOR.
The Economy
2.01      The Ivory Coast, with a land area of 324,000 km2, has a popula-
tion of about 5.4 million. Over the past six years the annual population
growth has been 3.3%; immigrants fram neighboring countries, attracted by
job opportunities, account for part of this high growth rate.  Twenty-three
percent of the population is urban, of whom about half (600,000) live in
Abidjan, the capital and principal town. The 1970 GDP per capita was about
US$310; this was surpassed by only a few countries in Africa. Ivory Coast
economic growth in the first decade of independence has been spectacular;
to 1970 the average annual increase of GDP in real terms has been about
7.5%. Although it is estimated that there has been some slowdown in the
growth of the economy since that time the prospects for a sustained 6%
annual growth remain good.



-2 -
The Telecommunications Sector
a) The Institutions
2.02      At independence in 1960, the autonomous Office des Postes et
Télecommunications de Cote d'Ivoire (OPTCI) was created to take over
domestic telecommunications and postal services from the French adminis-
tration. Responsibility for international telecommunications was retained
by France Cable et Radio (FCR). In 1964 OPTCI became Administration des
Postes et Télécommunications (APT), a branch of the Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications. International telecommunication services were oDerated
by FCR until 1969 when transferred to Société des Téléecommunications Inter-
nationales de Cote d'Ivoire (INTELCI) owned, 52% by the Government and 48,
by FCR. The present arrangement, APT for domestic, and INTELCI for inter-
national services is satisfactory. With the exception of the military,
Ministry of the Interior, civil aviation, and the railway and broadcasting
services, which have their own telecommunication networks, APT provides all
domestic telephone, telegraph and telex services. APT also operates the
usual postal services, a nationwide public checking account service and
the national savings bank. The operation of the highly technical domestic
telecommunication service jointly with the postal service is not entirely
satisfactory and should be reviewed at an appropriate time (see para. 5.02).
The internal organization of APT, so far as it concerns telecommunications,
is unsuited to meet operational demands; telecommunications tariff policy
requires review. Consequently APT needs considerable help in institution
building and policy making; its problems and deficiencies are such, however,
that to be effective this would have to be provided on a continuing long-
term basis.
2.03      Telecommunications policy is formulated by APT and approved by
the Minister of Posts and Telecommunications and the Council of Ministers.
The Ministry is the licensing authority for the sector and also has repre-
sentatimn on the Board of INTEIC I. The institutional structure of APT is
discussed in paras. 5.01 to 5.04.
b)  Existing Telecommunications Facilities
2.0      Local Telephone Service - As of January 1, 1973, the Ivory Coast
had some 45,00o telephone stations connected to about 20,000 direct exchange
Unes of which about 60% were for business, 28% for residential and 12& for
other purposes,including administration. The telephone density of 0.8 per
population is higher than in most African countries and reflects the state
of development in the Ivory Coast particularly that in the Abidjan region
where about 74% of the country's direct lines are located and where the
telephone density is about 5.5 per 100. Annex I gives the comparative sta-
tistics for other countries, and basic data on APT's facilities are set out
in Annexes 3 and 4 and Maps IBRD 10684(R) and 10685(R). Ivory Coast has 22
automatic exchanges (12 in the Greater Abidjan area, 10 in provincial towns)
and 79 small manual exchanges in the provinces. Total effective terminal
capacity of the Abidjan exchanges is about 177,400 lines, and tne total nuumber
of connected direct lines about 15,000 lines.  This is a high rate of exchange



- 3 -
fill and leaves little margin for expansion.  Total capacity of the pro-
vincial exchanges is 7,700 lines (4,500 automatic, 3,200 manual) and
5,100 direct lines are connected. Owing to lack of switching, junction
and local distribution facilities, local telephone service is generally
poor.
2.05      Long Distance Service - APT has a long distance network con-
sisting of about 110,000 channels-km. High-capacity microwave links (53o')
and overhead lines  supplemented with carrier equipmnt (39v), provide
the greater part of the network, the remainder consists of HF links and
long distance cable. AIl the principal regional centers have long distance
service with Abidjan, but due largely to lack of switching equipment ser-
vice is only fair.  Service to rural areas is poor and many areas are with-
out telecommunications facilities.
2.06      Telegraph and Telex Services - APT has no separate telegraph
network and domestic telegraph service is provided through the telex and
telephone facilities. Telex service is provided by a 500-line exchange
located in Abidjan; as of January 1, 1973, APT had 400 telex subscribers
in Abidjan and 36 in the provinces.
2.07      International Services - International telephone, telegraph,
telex and eata transmission services are provided by INTELCI, either through
earth satellite station or by HF radio circuits.
Sector Development Objectives
2.08      Principal sector objectives during the construction period of
the proposed project, 1974-1978, are to:
(i)  expand and improve the facilities in Abidjan and the principal
urban areas in order to provide an adequate level of service
and to Teet demand, particularly that froin commerce and
industry, until 1980;
(ii) improve the facilities in regional areas to provide necessary
support for the Government's regional development efforts;
(iii)  extend and improve services to rural communities, in order
to support agricultural diversification and the integration
of remote areas into the economy;
(iv) improve the quality of transmission and speed of connection
in long distance service; and
(v)  establish and commence to inplement a long-term program for
improving the internal organization and operational policies
of APT's telecommunications services.



- h -
3.  TF{Ž PROJECT
3.01      The project would be carried out in the period 197h-1978, and
would represent a first step towards attaining the sector objectives des-
cribed in Chapter 2. lain project items would be:
Local Telephone Service
(i)  installation of automatic switching equipment for about
29,000 exchange lines in Abidjan and about 10,000 exchange
lines in provincial areas; and removal and redeployment
of 4,700 lines of switching equipment from existing
exchanges;
(ii)  extension and rehabilitatîior of existing local distribution
networks, and installation of new local distribution net-
works, inter-exchange cables and subscriber apparatus to
cover projected development;
Long Distance Service
(iii) nine high-capacity microwave links with associated multi-
plexing equipment, and switching equipment to provide
subscriber trunk dialling;
(iv)  two VHF links between S. Pedro, Soubré and Buyo and between
Tabou and Grabo, and one microwave link between S. Pedro
and Tabou;
(v)  carrier equipnent on existing open-wire routes to provide
an additianal 170 channels, and 1,250 km of new open-wire
routes in rural areas;
Telex Service
(vi) extension of the Abidjan telex exchange by 400 l'nes, two
automatic telex exchanges in S. Pedro and Bouake', each with
a capacity of 100 lines, and 400 teleprinters for the overall
telex network;
Land and Buildings
(vii) six new exchange buildings in the greater Abidjan area and
24 in provincial towns;



-5 -
Miscellaneous
(viii)  power plants, technical equipment, tools, materials,
vehicles and miscellaneous minor capital works;
(ix)  consultant services for the project's detailed engineer-
ing, for institutional, internal organization, telephone
usage, and tariff studies, and expert's services for
coordinating the engineering services; and
(x) training for technical and accounting personnel.
Details of the project are given in Anlex 5.
Cost of the Project
3.02      The project is expected to cost US$53.6 million with a foreign
component of UJ$39.8 million. Costs are detailed in Annex 5 and summarized
below.
Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total       Total
----CFAF million-----  ----USe million----
Local telephone
service          1,223.0  5,o89.4 6,312.4  4.89   20.36 25.25         47
Long distance
service            362.4  1,947.8 2,310.2  1.45    7.79  9.24         17
Telex service         11.0    550.0   561.0  0.04    2.20  2.24          4
Land and buildings  365.o       -     365.o  1.46         - 1.46         3
Miscellaneous:
Power plant &
minor works      657.1    714.5 1j371.6  2.63    2.86  5.49         10
Consultants         24.3    332.0   356.3  0.10    1.33  1.43          3
Training        ._- __      112_5   112.5      -   0.45  0.45          1
2,642.8  8 746.211,359.0 10.57   34.99 45.56
Contingencies-1           _-                     -
Physical           120.7    286.7   407.4  0.48    1.15  1.63          3
Price              706.0    906.8 1,612.8  2.82    3.63  6.45         12
Total project      3.469.5  9,939.713,409.2 13.87   39*77 53.64        100
3.03      Costs for items proposed for Bank financing are based on prices
currently obtained under international competitive bidding for switching
equipment in West Africa,and for other items of equipment outside West
Africa.  Costs for items to be financed from sources other than the Bank
are based on the prices included in firm contracts made by APT, or on
current prices in West Africa. Contingencies have not been added to
items which are to be procured under firm contracts or extensions to
existing contracts; the cost estimates for these items, whi¢h total
US$13.0 million, include escalation provisions. For all other items, a
5% physical contingency has been provided to cover unforeseen design and
/1  See para. 3.03 re contingencies on firm contracts or extensions to
existing contracts.



- 6 -
engineering modifications, and price contingencies of between 9% and 46%,
depending on the purpose and year of expenditure, have been added to cover
unforeseen increases in prices.  During negotiations Governaent oonfirmed
that APT would be relieved of customs duties and import taxes on equipment
imported for the project.  APT vill however pay local taxes aaountzng to
about US$1.6 million on vorks related to the project; this exjpees eWhich
has been included in the financial plan, vill be met from APT s own resources.
?roject Financing Arrangements
3.014     The project would be financed as follows:
Us$    Us$
-million--
(a)  Proposed Bank loan (see para. 3.05)                   -    25.0
(b)  Bilateral assistance and suppliers credits
Equipment and services procured under
firm contracts                                   -     5.7
(c)  APT - internal resources
Counterpart funds for works under (a)              8.5
Counterpart funds for works under (b)              2.9
Equipment to be procured under exten-
sions to agreed contracts                      4.4
Other works                                        7.1   22.9
Total project cost                53.6
3.05      The proposed Bank loan of US$25.0 million with a period of 20 years,
including five years grace, would finance:
US$    US$
Local service                                        -million--
21,000 lines of automatic telephone
exchange equiprment                           6.36
Local networks and subscriber plant              6.11   12.147
Long distance service
Three microwave links                             1.78
Two VHF links                                    0.18
Trunk switching equipment                        0.25
Multiplex and carrier equipment                   1.49
Long distance overhead lines                     0.96    4.66
Telex service
Telex exchange equipment                         0;42
Teleprinters                                      1.08    1.50
Power plant, vehicles, tools, etc.                          0.61
Consultants
Engineering                                      0.70
Studies - Institutional                          0.05
- Internal organization                  0.20
- Usage and Tariffs                      0.05    1.00
Training - technical and accounting                         0.45
20.69.
Contingencies
l'hysical
i'rice
Total



-7 -
Procurement
3.06      Bank-financed items - All goods financed by the Bank would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement.
3.07      Other items - 7,100 lines of automatic switching equipment, six
microwave links, and telex equipment have already been ordered under firm
contracts through bilateral assistance arrangement or suppliers crodits;
9,900 lines of automatic switching equipment to be installed in 1977 and
1978, and financed from APT's internal resources will, for rea.ons of
standardization, be procured from the suppliers of the 7,100 lines on a
negotiated contract basis. Contracts fqr project buildings and civil works
would be awarded under the Governient's standard tendering procedures which
are acceptable.
Implementation
3.08      APT would require assistance for the detailed engineering, pro-
curement and supervision of installations involved under the project.
Consequently, during negotiations Government agreed that APT would appoint
experts, employed either directly or through consulting firms, in accordance
with ternms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to advise on the detailed
engineering and preparation of specifications and bidding documents, to assist
in the evaluation of bids, and to supervise construction; furthermore, it was
agreed that if the Government and the Bank deem it necessary an experienced
engineer wolild be appointed to assist APT's management in the coordination
ane implementation or the project.
3.09      Suppliers would install the main equipment (exchange installa-
tions, microwave links) under the supervison of the experts. The suppliers'
contracts would specifically provide for APTts staff to be trained in
installation, testing and maintenance. Larger civil works and buildings
would be constructed by contractors, smaller works and buildings by APT's
building division. Gable laying would be undertaken by local contractors
and APT force account. Subscriber installations would continue to be under-
taken partly by APT directly and partly by local contractors-until these
operations are entirely taken over by APT's staff (see para. 5.10).
3.10      A construction schedule for the project is at Annex 6.  The
project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.
Disbursement
3.11      The proposed loan would be disbursed against the CIF cost of
imported equipment and the foreign cost of consultant services and training.
An estimated schedule of disbursement is at Annex 7. The use of any unused
loan funds would be subject to agreement with the Bank; in view of APT's
expansion requirements it would appear that a case could be made for using
them in the purchase of additional goods and services similar to those
procured under the proposed loan.



- 8 -
h. JUSTIFICATION
Support of Country's Economic Development
4.01      In order to sustain the current momentum of economic growth
Government is proceeding with a number of important development schemes;
several of these are supported by the Bank. Many schemes are aimed at
the further diversification of agriculture and involve opening up new
areas such as the southwest; others are concerned with developing the
north which in the past has benefitted less than southern areas from
C-overnment's development efforts.  Other schemes are directed at indus-
trialization with emphasis on exports, and the expansion of tourism. A
good telecommunications service is an essential to the success of these
projects.  Unfortunately, in recent years domestic telecommunications
services in the Ivory Coast have failed to keep pace with the demands
of a booming economy and the lack of good telecommunications is becoming
a serious development constraint.  The project, by providing the facil-
ities necessary to meet present and anticipated demand through 1980,
would remove this constraint. The project would improve and extend long
distance services and provide new rural development areas with service;
mainly improving administrative and social services in these areas and
generally helping to assimilate and integrate the remote areas into the
mainstream of the economy.
h.02      About 71&% of the 39,000 local service lines to be provided under
the project would be installed in the Abidjan area and would mainly meet
the needs of coamerce, industry, tourism and administration (see para. h.06).
The new microwave links which would connect Abidjan with the northern,
eastern and western regions would later be extended to form part of the
Pan-African links with Liberia, Guinea and Ghana.  Current Governnent plans
provide for the large hinterland to the new port of San Pedro, situated in
the west of the country, to be extensively developed for palm oil, cocoa,
rubber, fruit, mining and timber. To meet the needs of this area local
telephone service in 13 important regional centers is to be automatized
and expanded, regional long distance services upgraded, and new routes to
6 rural areas built; a small telex exchange is to be installed at the
port of San Pedro.  To meet the development needs of the cotton, and sugar
growing areas and the expanding textile industries in the northern and
central regions, major microwave links from Abidjan are to be brought into
service in 1974, local telephone service in ten regional centers is to be
automatized and expanded, regional long distance routes upgraded, and new
routes to seven rural areas built; a small telex exchange is to be installed
at the important textile center of Bouaké.  To serve the needs of the southern
and eastern regions, where there is extensive cocoa and coffee production
in addition to an expanding textile industry, a microwave link to Abidjan
is to be built, local telephone service in 11 provincial towns is to be
automatized and expanded, the capacity of five important regional long
distance routes expanded, and new routes to three rural areas built. In the
tourism areas of' the northwest and south, local services are to be automa-
tized and expanded, and new routes to four rural areas built.



-9-
Support of Institutional Improvements in the Telecommunications Sector
4.03      The proposed Bank loan of U $125.0 million would finance about
6_- of the foreign cost of the project and would bring about major benefi ial
changes in APT procurement policy, since a substantial portion of imported
plant would be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines; previously APT had purchased its imported equip-
ment either on a negotiated contract basis or after limited competitive bidding.
it is expected that the changes would result in significant decreases in
switching equipment prices compared with the high prices previously paid,
and also have a downward influence on prices for equipment to be procured
under negotiated contracts (see para. 3.07).
4.oh      APT requires long term institutional assistance and policy
guidance. The proposed project supported by the Bank will help to bring
about the institutional improvements that are critical if APT is to meet
the Ivory Coastts telecommunications need.
hlarket Demand
4.05      Demand forecasts are based on APT's block-by-block detailed
subscriber network development plan for the Abidjan region and a SOFRECCHl
ten-year demand study for the provincial urban areas that was completed in
1970. Tlhese provide a satisfactory basis for projecting demand forecasts.
tWhile the study showed that there exists in the provincial urban areas a
potential growth of 14-15% per year, owing to the high tariffs and poor
service, actual growth has only been about 10-11% per year.
4.06      Local Service - Although projected demand in the Abidjan region
varies between exchange areas it is forecast that demand in the region will
increase by an average of about 14% per year until 1980. This compares with
a growth of 13% per year over the last decade. Review of the exchange areas
indicates that about 65-70% of the 29,000 lines proposed for installation
under the project will be for industrial, commercial and tourism purposes,
25-30,' for residential and 5% for administrative and other purposes.  APTts
high tariffs are a constraint to any significant increase in the proportion
of residential subscribers.
4.07      With the conversion of local automatic services from manual to
automatic working, the provision of high quality transmission links to
Abidjan and subscriber trunk dialling, demand in the 31 provincial urban
areas concerned is expected to increase to 12% per year. Local service
would be provided under the project to 21 new rural areas; the installa-
tions would be minimal and provide mainly for administration, social
services, requested lines, and a public telephone. Exchange capacities
in cach area will generally not exceed 10 lines.
h.o8      Long Distance Service - Forecasts of the traffic and circuit
requirements of the new microwave and VHF links and for the carrier
systems on open-wire routes were made by S(FRECCM in 1970 and were based
on trafiic studies. Taking into account the effect of improved quality
of service following installation of the new equipment, it is estimated
that long-distance traffic will increase annually through 1980 by about



- 10 -
15$.  This estimate is in conformity with experience under similar cir-
cunstances irn other developing countries. The expansion program is designed
to meet this traffic growth.  Five of the new microwave links included in
the project (three are nearing completion), are to form part of the Pan-
African network.
Least-Cost Solution and OPtimization of Pro.ject Construction Period
4.09      APT's furdamental network plans, which are satisfactory, were
dr&wn up some years ago to provide for continuous expansion based on long-
term demand. Numbering, transmission, and routing plans have been care-
ful-Ly considered and are appropriate for the country. The choice of the
common control systems, made in 1961, is sound and the principal long
distance routes are being established to provide for easy and economic
expansion.
4.10      The planning of the local network and local exchanges in the
Abidjan region has been based on a study of telephone demand (see para.
h.05) to provide the least combined cost for local network and switching
eouipment. The size and timing of the additions to the switching system
have been related to the demand and to the lead time required before further
additional equipment can be installed under a next phase of development.
The small exchanges for provincial towns have been designed in accordance
with standard plant practices to provide for least cost.
h.11      Automatic service offers economy in operations, speed in connec-
tion and constant day and night service; automatic local switching systems
in the range of exchange sizes required for the principal towns, while re-
quiring an additional 10% investmnent as compared with manual systems, have
lower operating costs which more than compensate for the higher initial
investment, in addition they have greater flexibility. Automatic long dis-
tance switching systems require lower overall investment (including buildings)
than a manual system; in addition, operating costs are lower.  Manual systems
recuire skilled and reliable operating and supervisory staff, which is some-
times scarce, and when available could be better utilized in other fields
of activity. Costs of ticketing manual calls are higher than metered calls
and losses of revenue through unrecorded calls are not infrequent.
4.12      The choice of microwave systems for the  ten routes, compared
with the alternative system (coaxial cable), represents the least-cost
solution after considering such factors as physical features along the
routes, future capacity requirements and maintenance difficulties in the
areas concerned. For similar reasons, the choice of VHF for the new
S. Pedro/Buyo and Tabou/Grabo routes, as compared with open-wire line,
represents the least-cost solution.
h.13      The length of the construction period, size, and cost of the
project have been determined after review of APT's   technical
and financial resources, demaznd, the time required to order, manufacture;
and instaIl the plant, and prices.  The-proUect has been drawn up to
zchieve both a lowering of -unit costs through the benefit of bulk buying;



- il -
and the optimization of the project construction period with equipment use.
As regards the latter, the five-year period selected achieves this balance
and is consistent with normal telecommunication planning practice.
Return on Investment
4.14      The internal rate of return on the project, defined as the dis-
count rate which equalizes the stream of expected revenues.attributable
to the project with the capital and operating costs excluding taxes, is
22p (Annex 8). A sensitivity analysis shows that the rate of return would
be 21% if a one year delay occurs in project completion, and 17% if cons-
truction costs increased and revenues decreased by 15%. Should a variation
of +10% in revenues occur the rate of return would be between 20' and 24%.
4.15      The true economic return on the project is however undoubtedly
higher than the foregoing suggest since (a) the prices charged,even though
high,do not adequately measure the full benefits to subscribers, particu-
larly those obtaining access to service for the first tiTme, (b) there are
external benefits which accrue to parties other than those who pay direct-
ly for use of the facilities, and (c) the costs include the full cost of
extending service to new areas even though the full benefits will be ob-
tained only in the future when additional lines are connected in those areas.
5.  TIE BENEFICIARY (APT)
Organization and Management
5.01      APT was established on February 20, 1964 and is a branch of the
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications.  APT's crief executive is the
Director-General and he is responsible to the Minister. APT has six de-
partments, Postal/Financial and Telecommunications are operational, and
the remainder - Buildings/Transport, Budget/Accounts, Personnel and In-
struction - provide support services; each is headed by a director. An
organization chart is at Annex 2.  The Postal/Financial Department provides
routine postal services and offers quasi-banking services through its
money order (national and international), and checking account operations;
it also operates the National Savings Bank.
5.02      In the case of Ivory Coast the close integration of postal/fi-
nancial and telecommunications services appears not to work well. The
domestic telecommunications service promises to become a large enterprise
which, to obtain the maximum benefits, should as far as possible be operated
on commercial principles; for this, the service needs considerable expertise
in telocormunications management and a greater degree of financial autonomy
than at p;resent. During negotiations, the Government agreed to undertake
a study by qualified and experienced consultants not later than December 31,



- 12 -
1976, in accordance with terms of reference approved by the Bank., and
consult with the Bank on any desirable institutional changes for the
national telecommunications services.  A sum of US$50,o000 has been
included in the proposed loan to cover the estimated foreign costs of
the study.
Staff and Training
5.03      on the top management level, the Director and the two senior
engineers of the Telecommunications Department are Ivorians; a further two
Ivorian engineers are receiving training abroad. While academically qua-
lified, this senior staff lack experience, particularly in management.
The Department would thus need during the projectts construction period
the technical assistance described in para. 3.08.
5.o4      At the operational level APT has 60 supervisory staff; 36 are
Ivorian and 24 French expatriates; the latter also perform advisory func-
tions. This level of supervisory staff is appropriate for the scale of
APT operations and given the proposed expansion of operations and develop-
ment will have to be maintained. Considering the scarcity of qualified
Ivorian staff, it would therefore be prudent during the construction period
of the project that the present level of expatriate assistance be retained.
During negotiations Government agreed that APT would (a) maintain a level
of qualified staff in adequate proportion to its operations,and (b) by
December 31, 1975 prepare and thereafter implement a program for the selec-
tion and training of Ivorian staff to tale over supervisory duties now per-
formed by expatriates.
5.05      The permanent staff of APT's Telecormunications Department numbers
about 1,370 (or 30 per 1,000 telephones) and another 300 are employed on a
daily basis. Even after taking into account that a number of services,
including PBX and extension telephone installation and maintenance, some
cable laying and jointing, are undertalcen by private contractors, the overall
number of staff employed by APT on telecommunications compares favorably with
similar entities in other developing countries. Analysis of staff categories
indicates, however, that to meet the needs of the project APT will have to
recruit additional skilled staff particularly in the technical and accounting
fields (see paras. 5.13 to 5.15).
5.06      APT engineers and senior technicians are trained outside the Ivory
Coast, mostly in France. Junior technicians are trained at the Abidjan
national telecommunications school and the multi-national UNDP-financed
school in Rufisque, Senegal. Generally speaking the facilities available
for training technical staff in West Africa are adequate, although it will
be necessary to send staff overseas for specialized technical courses.
5.07      Provision has been made in the proposed loan to cover the foreign
costs of needed additional overseas training (see Annex 5). Such training
would include investment and network planning and financial management and
planning. Provision has also been made for the foreign cost of training
given to APT staff by the firm engaged to establish APT's new accounting
department (see para. 5.13).



- 13 -
5-08      APT salary levels for certain supervisory staff, especially
accountants and skilled technicians, are not competitive with those of
similar staff in the private sector.  Xoreover, promotion prospects
within sorme APT services are less favorable than in other branches of the
public sector, and these deficiencies have caused APT difficulty in re-
cruiting and retaining staff. During negotiations Government agreed that
within one year of loan signing APT would review the grading and promotion
policies for APT telecommunications staff, following which the Government
would consult with the Bank, and within a reasonable period of time take
such necessary measures regarding the policies required to attract and
retain qualified personnel for APT.
Investment Planning
5.09      APT's telecommunications investment planning requires improve-
ment. During negotiations, the Government agreed that APT would strengthen
the Planning and Studies Office of the Telecommunications Department.
Subscribers Installation and Maintenance Services
5.10      Presently, the installation and maintenance of extension lines
and private branch exchanges (PBXs) is carried out partly by APT and partly
by private contractors; such work is highly remunerative.  Since APT could under-
take all this work, with the exception of medium and large-sized PBXs, with-
out major new investment, the Bank has advised APT to progressively take over
the installation and maintenance of all subscriber extension lines and small
PBXs/1 (see para. 3.09).
Accounting
5.11      APTts general accounting and budgeting is unsatisfactory.  APT
has no qualified accounting staff and its financial accounts are delayed,
incorrect and incomplete; operating accounts for individual services are
not maintained, and the basic essential information for good financial
control is not available.  Methods of budget preparation, presentation and
control are equally unacceptable.
5.12      After Government became aware of the above deficiencies it engaged
a French firm, IMessrs. Guerard and Vallas in early 1973, to prepare the 1971
and 1972 accounts. Government has also engaged, with French bilateral assist-
ance,and in consultation with the Bank, French management consultants, IDET-
CEGOS, to prepare and implement a new accounting system suitable for APTts
multiple operations which will provide separate operating results for each
of AI'T's services. The work of IDET-CEGOS will cover only a part of the
required improvements, however, complete reorganization of AI'T's accounting
operations on a commercial basis is required urgently. To provide for such
a reorganization, during negotiations, Government agreed that APT would:
/1 Up to ten lines.



- 1h -
(î)  reinforce no later than December 31, 1974 its accounting
department to be headed by a qualified professional assisted
by an adequate number of suitably trained staff to take res-
ponsibility for implementing and operating satisfactory
accounting and budgeting systems;
(ii) engage professional accountants to set up and maintain the
accounting systems until the arrangements in (i) are fully
operative, including:
(a)  establishing as from January 1, 1975, accounts
showing separate operating results and financial
positions of the postal/financial and telecommu-
nications services;
(b)  recording, valuing and where necessary apportion-
ing between postal/financial and telecommunications
services all fixed assets existing as of January 1,
1975;
(c)  establishing in APT satisfactory systems for budget
preparation and control by December 31, 1975;
(d)  establishing in APT appropriate systens of inventory
accounting by December 31, 1976; and
(e)  assisting in the establishing of the new department,
including the training of staff.
Telecomnunications Billing and Collection
5.13      The problems of APT's telecommunication billing and collection
are set out in Annex 17. Unsatisfactory telecommunications billing has
been creating serious liquidity problems and is the main cause for the
heavy borrowing by APT of Treasury funds.  Recent information indicates
some improvement in this field, however during negotiations Government
agreed that APT would:
(i) within six months of loan signing employ experts satis-
factory to the Bank to review the computer progran for
APT's billing operations to ensure correct and efficient
billing and accurate revenue accountiing;
(ii)  within six months of loan signing employ an expert, satis-
factory to the Bank, to (a) supervise and improve billing,
collection, and revenue accounting at APT's headquarters,
and (b) prepare for agreement with the Bank a timetable
for effecting the required improvements in APT's revenue
operations; and



- 15 -
(iii) within one year of loan signing take measures, satisfactory
to the Bank, to strengthen and then maintain qualified staff
in charge of APTts billing, collection and revenue operations.
Audit
5.14      Financial control is weak; the internal audit is unsatisfactory
and an external audit of the accounts has never been made. During nego-
tiations Goverrment agreed that APT would (i) establish by December 31,
1975, an independent internal audit unit, satisfactory to the Bank,
whose chief would report directly to APTts Director-General; (ii) engage
independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to conduct annual audits
of APT's accounts; and (iii) submit to the Bank certified financial state-
ments and auditors' report within six months of the end of each fiscal
year.
Tariffs
5.15      APT tariffs are recommended by the Minister of Posts and Tele-
cormmunications and fixed by the Council of Ministers. APT's telecommuni-
cation tariffs (see Annex 9) are generally comparable with those of the
other francophone West African countries, but very high compared with
tariffs elsewhere; for example, the charge  for local telephone calls is
US012 compared with US02-6 in most developing countries.  Tariffs include
a number of unusual features, including anomalies in the call charges and
exceedingly high connection fees for manual subscribers. Since manual
subscribers are located in the provincial towns and rural areas the high
charges are not conducive to development in those areas. With respect to
interstate traffic within the francophone zone APT foll._ows tariff policies
recommended by the Confd'rence Africaine des Postes et Télécommunications
des Etat3 de L'Afrique Occidentale (CAPTEAO).
5.16      APT tariffs need early review but before this is possible Govern-
ment must agree the objectives of any new telecommunications tariff policy,
and APT must have established accurate telecommunication service accounts
and collated information on the pattern of telephone usage, including the
economic status of users, the purposes for iwhich calls are made, and the
importance of communications for regional development. As the 1975 audited
accounts for APT's telecommunication services could be available by June 30,
1976, Goverruent agreed during negotiations that APT would undertake and
complete a study of telephone usage and the economic benefits of the tele-
communication services, not later than December 31, 1976 and a tariff
study not later than June 30, 1977; and that both studies would be in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.  The Governnent
also agreed that no changes would be made in APT's telecommunication
tariffs until the tariff review had been completed and a course of action
discussed and agreed with the Bank.



- 16 -
Pôstal/Financial Department
/1
5.17      APT's Postal/Financial Department operates at a loss- ; one of
the main reasons for this is the heavy costs of operating the public
cheeking account service. In addition, the Departioent has other finan-
cial problems not least of which are an unusually large amount of unpaid
receivables and a shortage of working capital. A comprehensive review,
covering operations, staffing, financial arrangements, unpaid receivables,
the use and deposit of funds, and the cash cover required for public check-
ing account and money order transactions would appear to be long overdue.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that APT would employ qualified
and experienced consultants to complete a review of APT's postal/financial
services by December 31, 1976, and then after consultation with the Bank
implement the measures necessary for improving the operations and finances
of those services.
6. FINANCES
6.01      With an estimated financial rate of return of about 20% APTIs
telecommunication services are very profitable and contrast with its
postal/financial services which are operated at a loss.  In recent years
telecommunication surpluses have more than covered the losses and invest-
ment requirements of the postal/financial services. Nonetheless, APT's
overall financial position is unsatisfactory; the entity has a serious
liquidity problem and has had to take up large overdrafts from Government
to maintain operations and carry out modest development. This sitiùation
bas been caused by delays, o! as much as one yeare in billing telecommu-
nications subscribers, poor collection procedures, non-payment by the
Government of its bills, and generally poor financial and budgetary con-
trols.  APT urgently needs additional long-tenm capital to implement its
programs of administrative and institutional improvement as well as a
major physical development program.
Telecommunications - Past Finances
6.02      In the absence of accurate and separate accounts, the estimated
Income Statements, Balance Sheets, and Sources and Applications of Funds
Statements for APT's Telecommunications Department for the period 1970-1973
/1 Financial aspects of APT's postal/financial operations are dealt with
in Annexes 18 to 21.



- 17
and which appear irn Annexes 10, 11 and 12 were prepared on a pro-eorma
basis from existing financial data, supplemented and amended by îiiforma-
tion received from ?enior staff. Between 1970 and 1973 APT's overall
telecommunications revenue increased by about 13% per year, and aVerL._
gross plant added wâs about 11% annually.  In the same period net income
from operations rose from CFAF 807 million to CFAF 1256 million, the tele-
communications operating ratio fell from 68 to 64, and the estimated rate
of return on telecomunications net fixed assets increased from about 17%
to 20%.
6.03      In contrast to the above, the Department's Balance Sheet reflects
APT's serious liquidity problem.  As of December 31, 1973, unpaid subscriber
accounts alone amounted to about CFAF 7.4 billion (US$30 million), equiva-
lent to about two and a half years of telephone revenue, and of which about
50% was due from the Government. Delayed billings are expected to result
in collection losses amounting to about CFAF 1 billion (US$4 million) in
private subscribers debts. APT's Governrnent overdraft pertaining to tele-
communications as of end-1973, amounted to about CFAF 4.8 billion (US$19
million), although as telecommunications accounts are not kept separately
this figure does not show independently in APT accounts.
6.oh      Below, the financing of APT's telecommunication services during
the four years 1970-1973 is summarized:
OFAF      CFAF
Uses of Funds                                 (millionsT
Capital investment                       4,627
Less:  financed from borrowings,
grants, etc.                 1L28        3,339
Subscriber receivables - increase        3,015
Debt service                               336
Postal/financial losses & investment   1 419
Less:  internally generated funds        6,048       722
TOTAL                  4.061
Financed from:
Increase in short-term Treasury borrowings         3,513
Increase in short-term creditors                     548
TOTAL                  4,o61
In the past four years about 25% of telecommunications development has been
financed by long and medium term borrowings; as telecommunication services
were highly profitable APT should have been able to finance the remaining
75% of capital investment as well as debt service and postal/financial
losses from its own resources and still have shown reasonable surplus.
However, owing to poor billing and collection described above, APT was
forced to resort to Government overdrafts to meet operational and develop-
ment requirements.



- 18 -
6.05      Government is APTts principal debtor due both to billing delays
and failure to pay fully the bills subnitted for settlement.  Therefore,
d-ring negotiations, Governrent agreed that it would settle its telecom-
munication debts as of December 31, 1973 by four equal annual install-
ments terminating in 1977 and settle all bUils for future telecomnunica-
tions services within 90 days of their presentation.
6.06      The APT practice of automatically charging the losses and invest-
ment requirements of the Postal/Financial Department against telecommuni-
cation surpluses militates against operational and development efficiency
and good financial management. It is essential that the two Departments
be financially autonomous and transfers of funds between the two be the
subject of properly prepared action the implications of which are critically
analyzed. During negotiations Government agreed that (i) APT would use
telecommunications funds for other purposes only when those funds were
surplus to telecommunications operational, debt service, and investment
requirements  and (ii) in the event of lisufficient funds being aviilable
for any of APT's operations and inves tuant it Yould take steps,8 satisfactoy-
to the Bank, to cover the deficit.
6.07      The capitalization of APT's Telecommunications Department as of
December 31, 1973, has been estimated conservatively as follows:
CF»A    U5$         %
-:-millions --
Equity                           8,361    33.4        90
Long-term debt
Savings bank loan       12
FAC loan                118
CCCE loan              199
Supplier credits                 881               10
Total capitalization        9,212    37.0      100
Telecommunications - Financing Plan
6.08      APT's capital investiment and working capital requirements for
telecommunications during the FYs 1974-1978 period, along with the sources
from which they would be met, are summarized below. Further details are
given in Annex 12.
/1  Excluding current maturities. Details are in Annex 15.



- 19 -
Financing Flan 1974-1978
CFAF         CFAF   UsI
- millions-----
Requirements
1974-1978 Program                                  13,1409  53.6    88
Future Program/1                                       200   0.8     1
Working Capital                                     1,66    6.7   -il
Total Requirements                   15,2714  61.1   100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation              11,741
Less: Debt Service                    (2,256)
Contribution to Postal/
FinanciJ,l Dept./2           (2,058)       7,427  29.7    49
Grants                                                 197   0.8     1
Subscriber Deposits                                    170   0.7     1
Borrowings:
Supplier Credits                       730                 2.9     5
Caisse Centrale                        500                 2.0     3
IBRD Loan                            6,250        7,480  25.0    41
Total Sources                        15,274  61.1   100
6.09      Analysis shows that APT would require continued financing
assistance from Government until 1976.  During negDtiations, the Govern-
ment agreed to continue to give Treasur7 support to APT to enable it to
meet cash requirements for day-to-day operational and development needs
until the entity has established a cash position satisfactory to the Bankc.
Furthermore, at negotiations the Government agreed that during the project
construction period APT will undertake no capital expenditure for telecom-
munications, in addition to that included in the 1974-1978 program, in any
one year in excess of US$400,000 without a financing plan approved by the
Bank.
6.10      Initially, APT's 1974-1978 program provided for the construction
of a high-rise building to accommodate postal/financial and telecomunica-
tions technical and administrative staff in Abidjan; the estimated cost
of CFAF 1 billion (US$4 million) was to have been met from APT's internal
resources. During negotiations Government asked that the building be
taken out of the program since it had no immediate intention of starting
construction and that completion of it within the project period was uncer-
tain. The Government however agreed that it would consult with the Bank
before deciding on the construction of the building and also present a
financing plan for it if construction is to be undertaken prior to
December 31, 1975.
1 Initial costs of program to start in 1978.
Î-2  Equivalent to 4% dividend on  notional equity of Telecommunications Dept.



- 20 -
Telecommunications - Future Finances
6.11      Forecast Income Statements and Balance Sheets for 1974-1980 for
the Telecommunications Department are given in Annexes 10 and 11 vith rela-
ted notes in Annex 13. As shown below, net income is forecast to grow at
a satisfactory rate throughout the period; thereafter, further imp.rovement
should occur follawing commissioning of new facilities.  Liquidity is
estimated to show significant improvement after 1975 and should reach a
satisfactory level by the end ôf FY 1978.
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
Net income (before interest)                                         -
CFAF millions                1,360  1,143   1,523   1,646   1,790
Operating ratio    %                        65       67      68      69       70
Rate of return      %                       18       17      15       13      12
Debt/equity ratio                        15/85   19/81   25/75   33/67   35/65
Current ratio                            0.8:1   1.2:1   2.0:1   1.9:1   2.0:1
6.12      Major assumptions used in the forecasts are that in the five-year
period through 1978 telephone revenue would increase by about 12% annually;
telex service revenue by 12v;3 and because of improved telephone facilities
telegraph revenue increases would be liuited to 1% and 3%, respectively,
for 1975 and 1976. Salaries are projected to increase at 10-12'M per year
through 1978 and other operating expenses by 12½-15%.  On this basis the
operating ratio is expected to increase froin 64 in 1973 to 70 in 1978, after
which, with higher revenues the ratio should improve to 66 in 1980.
6.13      The rate of return on telecommunications net fixed assets in
operation is expected to fall from about 20% in 1973 to 12% in 1978 and then
rise to an estimated 14% in 1980 and to higher levels thereafter.  The tem-
porary downward trend is due to the time lag between the commissioning of
new plant and the build-up of related revenues. Returns during the project
construction period, which would average 15% on net fixed assets, would be
adequate to generate the cash needed for this period of heavy investment.
After 1978, assuming an annual growth of gross fixed plant investment of



- 21 -
about 10% and yearây surpluses, after meeting telecomunications :requiro-
ments, equivalent to the postal/financial services operational deficit
and investment requirements, a rate of return of not less than 10% would
be needed (see Annex 1h).  During negotiations the Government agreed
that, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, APT would achieve a rate of
return of at least 10% per year after 1978.  On the basis of present
tariffs,projections indicate that the rate o return would exceed 10%
after 1978 and surpluses would be available for transfer to Government
or the reduction of tariffs.  Indicators which will help monitor APT's
performance are given in Annex 16.
6.14      Although throughout the program construction period debt service
coverage is expected to remain satisfactory, Government agreed during nego-
tiations that no new long-term debt for telecommunications would ke incurred
by APT without consulting with the Bank, unless the maximum future debt
service for telecommunications is covered by 1.5 times by net telecomiuni-
cations revenue before charging depreciation. Furthermore, Government
agreed that once APT establishes a satisfactory liquidity position, to
be defined in agreement with the Bank, short-term borrowing will be used
only for financing the normal working capital of telecommunications opera-
tions and will not exceed four monthst telecomnunications cash operating
expenses for the preceding fiscal year or for any 12-month period, which-
ever is the greater.
Fiscal Impact
6.15      Although during the five year period 1974-1978 APT's Telecom-
municatiqns Department would not pay customs duties on equipment imported
directly for the project it would contribute to Government revenues about
CFAF 405 (Us$1.6) million for local taxes related to construction works
of the project; in addition, it would contribute CFAF 2.0 billion (US$8
million) towards Postal/Financial Departxent deficits and investment
requirements.  Purthermore, by 1976 the telecommunications services would
no longer require short-term borrowing from the Treasury. Taking into
account the settlement of overdue Goverment debts, it is estimated that
between 1974 and 1978 there would be a net inflow to the Treasury of about
CFAF 2.7 billion (US$10.8 million) and the telecommunications services
would finance about 49% of a major progrun without recourse to the national
budget.
7. REC0MM2DATICNS
7.01      During negotiations, Government agreed that:
(i) qualified and experienced experts will be employed for the
detailed engineering of the project, and should the Govern-
ment and the Bank find it necessary, an experienced engineer
will be employed to assist in the coordination and implementa-
tion of the project (para. 3.08);
(ii)  a review will be made by qualified and experienced consul-
tants of any institutional changes required for the telecom-
munication services (para. 5.02);



- 22 -
(iii)  the level of qualified staff, in adequate proportion to opera-
tions, will be maintained; a program wiii be prepared and
implemented for local staff to take over the supervisory
duties carried out by expatriate staff; (para. 5.04);
(iv)  a review will be made of APT's grading and promotion poli-
cies for the telecommunications staff (para. 5.08);
(v)  the investment planning service for telecommunications
development will be strengthened (para. 5.09);
(vi)  accounting services will be improved by and from specified
dates (para. 5.12);
(vii) a review of computerized billing operations will be made and
steps taken to strengthen and buprove the revenue accounting
and collection staff operationTiff para.  1i3;
(viii)  an internal audit unit satisfactory to the Bank will be esta-
blished and independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
will be appointed (para. 5.14);
(ix)  a telephone usage study and a satisfactory review of APT's
telecommunications tariffs wili be undertaken; no change in
APT's telecommunicatians tariffs will be made until a tariff
review has been completed and the Bank has been consulted
(para. 5.16);
(x)  a review of operations, staffing and finances of APT's postal/
financial services viii be undertaken by qualified and expe-
rienced consultants (para. 5.17);
(xi)  satisfactory arrangements will be made for the settlement of
Governinent buls for telecommunication services by 1977 (para.
6.05);
(xii)  telecommunications funds wili only be used for other purposes
when those fbmds are surplus to telecoemunications require-
ments; in the event of insufficient funds being available
for any of APT's operations and investment steps wll be taken
to cover the deficit (para. 6.06);
(xiii)  Treasury overdraft facilities vill continue to be made avail-
able to APT's telecommunication service until a satisfactory
cash position has been established and during implementation
of the project no additional capital expenditure above
US$40o,000 will be lncurred without a financing plan agreed
with the Bank (para. 6.09);



- 23 -
(xiv)  a decision on the construction of an administration building
will only be taken after consultation with the Bank and a
financing plan wvuld be presented to the Bank if construction
is to be undertaken before December 31, 1975 (para 6.10);
(xv) unless otherwise agreed, a rate of return of 10% per year
will be achieved after 1978 (para. 6.13); and
(xvi) limitation on long and short-term borrowings for tele<sommu-
nications operations will be observed (para. 6.14).
7.02      On the basis of the above arrangements, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million.
April 9, 1974






IVrOR? COST
AnTISIATION DnI POSTB5 ET TBItMiNrCATIONS (APT)
International Statisticul Data
'rosa National Product  Population                                                  TELEPHONES
Per Capita                                     NATIONAL                                             PRINCIPAL CITIES b}          National        International ServiceJ/
C aINSTT       Per Capita Grovth Rate              Total No. Par 100 Fop. Grost ERate %   sAtoaatic  Staff par1,000    of Total 209.    of Total Tel. LoaaeOistance         Direct Access to:
1970     1965-1970      1970       1970        1970        196551970                     tel.,lV
US          S          000'       000'a        No. *                        S            No.                %                1            g 9iaty         Satellite   Subarine Cable
U.S.A.                4,235        3.4       206,800    115,222       56.38          5.4          99.9              9              45               51               E           Atl. Pac.          X
Seden                2,788         3.2         8,050       4,307      53.74          4.9          99.7            n.a.             34               43               R                -             x
Paitaerlas:d          2,610        2.4         6,350       2,8417     45.38          6.o         100.0              4              37               50               E               _              X
Caak                  2,720        2.8        21,700       9,753      42.28          5.5          98.8            n.a.             41               49               E              Atl.            X
Fruece                2,288        3.7        51,000       8,114      16.05          7.3          80.1             19              25               50               E              Ati.            X
Austrulie             2,169        2.4        12,500       3,599      29.27          6.1          89.7             22              64               67               E            Pac. Ind.          X
GEZ9V (Yed.R.ep.)   2,270          3.7        61,800      13,835      22.39          9.4         100.0            n.a.             29               46               E           Ati. Ind.          X
lUe za_1d             2,o68        1.7         2,950       1,203      42.63          4.6          86.7             18              54               63               F                _              X
V.b.                  1,862        2.0        56,o00      13,947      24.96          7.0          98.6             20              33               43               E           Ati. Id.            X
Itaiy                1,343         4.6        53.600       8,528      15.98          9.0         100.0            n.a.             23               53               E              Ati.            X
YUoal.aVia              553         4.2        20,600        623       3.05         11.0          95.9             19              12               49                G               _              _
Japez                 1,40        10.0      _102,800      23,132      22.50         13.4          91.8            n.a.             36               48               E            Id. Pac.           X
VYez,la                977         1.4        10 650         378       3.70          7.8          97.6             18              35               83               G              Atl.            X
Argentins               836        1.0        244o00       1,668       6.90          2.5          92.7             24              47               86               G               Atl.            -
Chile                  487         1.8         9,800         348       3.60          6.8          87.2             16              35               76               F              Atl              _
Coloebia               319         1.4        21,350         546       2.63          7.4          96.8            n.a.             26               77               G              Atl.             -
Erazil                  258        1.6        93,500       1,787       1.94          7.2          93.3            n...             20               66               F               Atl.            -
Nicoe                   566         3.4        50,950      1,328       2.67         12.9           93.0            n.a.            27               75                G              Atl.            -
Co.ta Ric-             469         2.1         1,750          56       3.26         20.5          95.9             13              19               80               G               Atl.            -
O'Gatla                 331        1.7         5,150           38      o.76         10.6          95.9             20              15               91                P               _              _
ElwSlvaor               292        2.1         3,500          35       1.03          9.7          95.5             33              28               84               G
Nai                      67         0.4        10,800          6       o.06         19.2           83.9           120               5               91                _               _
SJeapore               753         3.8         2,100         136       6.70         11.5         100.0             14             100              100               -                -              X
n4i                     400.        2.7          500          17       3.40          7.9          85.5             33              14               53               G                _              X
H1lffli-                358        4.3        11,050          169      1.58          6.9          89.8             45               3               34                E              Ind.            -
Chim (Tivn)             3G5        6.5        14,250         339       2.37         18.0          82.2             39              26               72                F              Pac.
I-q                     275        2.9         9,100         120       1.25         14.1          81.8             47              54               74                p
Pa4a, & F.G.           221         2.5         2,400          19       0.79         16.1          85.4             34               4               78               P                -              _
Ceyloo                  188        2.3        12,550          61       0.49          7.7          98.7            n.a.              5               57                P
Paist n                 106        3.1       129,550         193       0.17          9.8          78.2            140               7               75                F
IDdi&                   102        1.0       550,100       1,160       0.21          8.8          75.7            129               4               50               F                _              _
Inaaeaia 1972           102         0.8       118,250        241       0.20          6.7           7.0             72               8               53                F              Ind.
Iran                    370        4.9         29,800        307       1.03          8.1          86.1             20              24               82                F              Atl.            -
Zambia    *             236         3.6        4 300          52       1 28         10.9           98.0            50.             13               62                P               -              -
Ghn. 1971              168         0.7          9,000         47       0.53*        10.3           83.9*          127              14              76                F               -              _
Kapa                    134         1.4        10,8w0         72       0.69          7.1           85.1)                            (7              73)
Uganda                  112        1.1          8,550          28      0.29          9.2           79.6)           419!             (5              61)               G              Ind.            -(
Tansania                 82         1.2        13,150          32      0.24          8.8           74.4)                           (3                43)
Nigeria                  70         0.3        65,650         81       0.13          6.2           79.2            n.a.             3               57                F              Atil.
blavi                    52         2.2         4,500          12      0.26          11.4          89.8            n.a.             3                57               P
Upper Volt.              56        0.1          5,200           3      0o.6          6.o           82.5            70               3               82                P
Kali                     50         1.2         5 000           5       0.10          3.0          57.0            117              6            *72                  P               -              -
Senegal                 194         1.4         3,800          28      0.73          2.0           92.0            50              31               93                P              Ati.            -
Thafland                180         6.6        36,200         145       0.54(1972)   12.0          97.0            27               8(Razwok on0y) 74                 F           Atl. Ind.
Ethiopia                 80         2.0        25,200         46       0.18         13.1           89.3            59(1972)         4               81                P               _              -
TrinidAd , Tobago       750        4.8          1,000          56      5.60          8.0           99.8            n.a.            il                63               G              Atl.
Ivory CoEat             310        7.5          5,100         38       0.75         12.0           89.0            30              23                83              F               Ati.
Sources
Popu.lation & G.N.P.         World Bank Atlas (1970)
Telepbonse Statictics         The World'a Telephones by A.T.&T. (1970)
Iog Distance and
Iat.r,ational Service         Division Records
These figures are not strictly comparable. In soae cnses international, local and long distance services are provided by different orrgninationa in f   zss e country.
Telegraph staff may or may not be included and there are vide variations in the  ase of contrant labor for both            anintenadce  nd co,ntrmction work. The ouater of
telephone operators required alao varies vith the proportion cf aansal to autoatic service.
e.g. In tle U.S.A., 45% of the population live in the principal cities and hae 51% of the country's telephones.
1/ E = lccelient. Moat cities  nd centers connected by nicrovave or coaxial systems vith extensive Subscriber Trunk Dialling.
G - Good. Principal cities connected by mlcrowave or coazial sy.tsme  vitb Subscriber Trcnk Dialling.
Fair.  Principal cities con-ected by microwave or coxioJ nytems. bot colla handled ceai-actonatlcalo' or sucily. 1y
P - Poor. Little or no microvave or coaxial.  Cells bet-een inter connectei cities handled manualy.
Countries which have satellite earth ntation or ucbbarir. clb1e ter-inals vithin their borders.
Service provided by a cosrson nrgenicatio*.
Nov_ber 8, 1973






IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (APT)
ORGANIZATION CHART
|Minister of Posts &
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION -                                                         _
_Director Genierail
Deputy Director Genra
nne   Budget   Accounting                ~~Postal & Financial    jTelecommunications                           Buildings & Tre'nsportato  Pi    Sho
D    r  ~     o   n n e     |[   B udget  &   A cco u nt,n g   |   ______3_rd _Idi _B _r; ____   I                               ji9
*   Budget             *      Postal Operation                     Planning & Studies                     Bulding
Aecounting                     Financial Services   |                  Local Networks    |               Transportation
Organization &                         Long Distane
Studies
Telecommunieations|
Opereticn
EXTERNALSERVICES
Regional   st Offices              Regio1 Telecommunicationi
Centers
WNorld Ban k-81 15 (FI)






ANNEX 3
IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (APT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Basic Data
December 31:
1972          1980
Actual       Forec~ast
1.  Local Telephone Service
Number of telephone stations (estimated)                  45,000        99,500
Number of telephone connections                           20,100        55,300
.Annual. growth in subscriber connections   (Abidjan              13%      (1963-1972)
(Provinces            11%      (1969-1972)
Expected growth in subscriber connections (Abidjan                14%    )(1974-1980)
E~~cpected growth ~~~(Provinces                        12%    )     1-90
(Total           101            148
Number of telephone exchanges              (Automatic         22            57
(Manual           79             91
(Total        27,640         65,700
Installed capacity                         (Autoaatic    24,400         61,950
(Manual        3,240         3,750
2.  Long Distance Telephone Service
Number of large-capacity microwave links                       5            1h
Number of VHF/UHF links                                       25            28
Overhead lines                                             6,000 km      7,500 km
3.  Telegraph and Telex
Telex subscribers                                            436           800
Telex exchianges                           (number             1             3
(capacity        50O         1,100
April 5, 1974






ANIOEX 4
Page 1 of 4
IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET T=ECO14MUNICATIONS (APT)
Existing Telecommunications Facilities
1. Local Telephone Service
(i)   The total switching capacity and number of connected telephone
lines in the Ivory Coast as of December 31, 1972, were as follows:
Number of              Connectsd
Excchanges   Capacity    Lines
Automatic service:
Abidjan                           12       19,900      14,942
Provinces                         10        4.500       2x82
Sub-total                   22        24L,h00     17,774
Manual service:
Provinces                         79        3,24o        2,321
Total Ivory Coast           101       2742095
(ii) The 22 automatic exchanges are as follows:
Location                                 Ehcchange   Ccnnected
Caapacity Direct Lines
Abidjan:
Plateau I R6                                6,500        4,079
Plateau II Pentaconta                       2.500*       2,463
Canebière                                   1,500        1,427
M4                                          5>,500       3,403
Koumassi                                         *
KK9                                        11,000          744
Cocody                                     .1,450*       1 ,413
Adjame                                        950*         948
Binge rville                                  100           93
Grand Bassan                                  200          182
Bonoua                                         50           45
Dabou                                                      145
Total Grea.ter Abidjan Area           19,900      14,942
Provinces:
Abengourou                                    300          272
Agboville                                     200          156
Bouaké                                      1 ,600         821
Daloa                                         800          392
Dimbokro                                      200          180
Gagnoa                                        400          344
Korhogo                                       200          144
Man                                           300          249
Sassandra                                     200           91
Yamassoukro                                   300          183
Total Provinces                       ___          2.832
Total Ivory Coast                2h.400      17 774



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
*The following switching equipment is to be added in 1973:
Lines
Plateau II             1,500
Cocody                    350
Adjamd                    300
Koumassi                  500
2,650
(iii) The Abidjan Plateau I exchange is of the old French R6 system,
and because of its low traffic capacity, not more than 4,000 of the
6,500 installed lines will be connected in the future. This equip-
ment, which is of a type no longer manufactured, will probably be sub-
stituted in APT's next development program (after 1978). The urban
exchanges, Abidjan Plateau II and its satellite Canebière, KM4 and its
two satellites EM9 and Koumassi, Adjamé and Cocody use the Pentaconta
common control system. The suburban exchanges Bingerville, Bonoua,
Dabou and Grand Bassam are of rural type and have been installed in
recent years. The Pentaconta exchanges which were installed between
1962 and 1972 are in good order. The satellite exchanges, although
adequate for the earlier stages of APT's development, are unsuitable
for present traffic conditions and are the cause of switching diff'i-
culties in the Abidjan region.  Traffic per line is higher than that
for which the equipment has been designed, exchanges are overloaded,
and consequently service is poor, particularly during the busy hours.
The present facilities are insufficient to meet the requirements of
the expanding capital city particularly because of the poor condition
and insufficient capacity of the urban cable distribution network.
(iv)   The provincial automatic exchanges are all of the common control
system and have been installed within the past ten years. In accordance
with Ivory Coast Telecommunications Plan, the provincial exchanges at
Abengourou, Agboville, Dimbokro, Korhogo, Man and y-amassoukro should be
equipped as transit exchanges. However, at the time of procurement, and
mainly to reduce costs, APT ordered local exchanges with limited functions
for long distance traffic and without transit facilities.  This solution
is now seen to be inadequate and regular exchanges including transit
facilities must be installed to provide long distance dialling and to
permit the development of traffic with adjacent areas. Existing switch-
ing will be redeployed to other exchanges (see Annex 5).
(v)    Manual telephone service is offered in the provinces as follows:
Number of    Exchange       Total     Connected
Exchanges    Capacitv    Capacity       Lines
2          150         300          224
13          100       1,300          932
18           50         900          571
12           25         300          21>
34     under 25 r2
79                    3,2          2,321



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of h
(vi) The evolution of the number of main telephone lines and the
yearly growth duding the past few years has been as follows:
Provinces and
AbidJan Urban Network     Abid.lan Suburbs     Total Ivory Coast
1963     4,831                  )                     )
1964     5,702    18%           )                     )
1965     6,383    12%           ) n.a.) n.a.
1966     7,455    17%           )                     )
1967     8, 581    15%          )                     )
1968     9,713    13%        3,699               13,412
1969    10,657    10%       4,293    16%         14h,950    12%
1970    12,366    16%       4,774    11%         17,240    15%
1971    13,794    12%        5,111     7%        18,905    10%
1972    14,477     5%        5,618    10%        20,095      6%
Yearly growth of connected main lines in the Abidjan area averaged about
13% between 1963 and 1973. However, owing to the saturation of the
local distribution network and to delays in the execution of development
works growth fell to only 5% in 1972. In suburban Abidjan and in the
provinces annual growth of connected lines has averaged about 11%
since 1968.
2. Long Distance Service
(i)   The following large-capacity microwave links are in service:
Abidjan - Agboville
Abidjan - Digo - Gagnoa,
Digo - Dotenzia (Bouafle) - Bouaké'
Dotenzia (Bouaflé) - Daloa
Man - Odienne
(ii) The undermentioned large-capacity microwave links are under
construction and should be brought into service early in 1974:
Digo - San Pedro
Bouake - Kohrogo - Upper Volta Border
Agboville - Abengourou
Agboville - Bouaké
Abidjan - Dabou - Jaqueville
(iii) The transhorizon link Daloa - Man which provides inadequate
transmission quality will be reinstalled on a shorter distance after
completion of the proposed project.
(iv)  Present long distance facilities (see Map IBRD 10684R)consist of:
Microwave links                      - 58,000 channel-km
Carrier equipment on overhead lines - 43,200 channel-km
VHF links                            -  6,,60o channel-km
Long distance cables                 -  2,200 channel-km



ANNEt 4_
Page 4 of
3. Telegraph and Telex Services
Demestic telegraph service is provided through the telex and
telephone facilities and HF links with the remote areas.
A 50O-line automatic telex exchange located in Abidjan provides
telex service to 400 subscribers in Abidjan and 36 in the provinces.
4. International Services
International telephone, telegraph, telex and data transmission
services are provided by INTELCI either through its own recently inaugu-
rated (November 1972) satellite earth station or by HF radio circuits.
koril 5, 1974



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6 pages
IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMMMNICATIONS (APT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
The Project
The principal items of the project to be realized during the
five-year period 1974 through 1978 are given below. A table of costs is
on page 6 of this Annex.  The project construction schedule is in
Annex 6.
A. Local TeleDhone Service
1. The installation of switching equipment for 38,250 automatic ex-
change lines at the following locations:
Supplier Credits or
Bilateral Assistance Extensions To be
Bank      (Orders placed or   to existing  Commis-
Location            Financed       to be placed)       Contracts   sioned
Abidjan
Banco                 -             1,000                -       1975
Plateau II            -             3,000              3,000   197ht-1977
KM9                   -             1,000              1,000   1974-1977
Koumassi               -              50O                500   1974-1977
KM4                    -              -                4,5oo     1976
Adjam3é              3,500            -                  -       1977
Cocody               7,000            -                  -       1976
Deux Plateaux        2,000            -                  -       1977
Riviera              1 700            -                  -       1977
Total Abidjan   1 iI-00                            9,000
Provinces
Abengrourou          1,000            -                  -       1976
Agboyille              600            -                  -
Dimb6kro               700            -
Korhogo              1,000            -                  _
Man                  1,00o            -
Yamassoukro            600-
Béoumi                 100            -                  _     1977-1978
Bouna                 100             -                  -l
Boundiali              100            -                  -
Duékoue'              100             -                  -I
Guiglo                200             -                  -
Issia                 150             -                            '
M'Bahiakro             100            -                  -
N'Douci                100            -                  -
Odidnne               400             -                  -
Oumé                  200             -                  -         "
Seguéla               200             -                  -
Soubré                100             -                  -
Touba                 100             -                 -



ANNfEX 5
Page 2 of pages
Supplier Credits or
Bilateral Assistance  Ectensions To be
Bank    (Orders pla.ced or  to existing  Commis-
Location            Financed     to be placed)      Contracts  9ioned
Provinces (Con't.)
Tiebissou             100           -                       1 1977-1978
Touba                 100  -        -                 -     1977-1978
Gagnoa                -             -                 400  1977-1978
San Pedro                           500               500   1975-1977
To be allocated
see para. 2(b)      -1100 
Total Provinces                                    227,00  1  _90.
TOTAL                       7,100             9°90
Abidjan         28,700
Provinces        9,55o
Total lines  3SP25(
2(a) Redeployment of 3,200 lines of switching equipment presently
located in the Cocody, Adjamé and Canebière exchanges to the following
exchanges in the Abidjan area:
Location
Banco                     1,000                      1978
Konmassi                    500                      1977
Abobo                     1,000 (new location)       1977
.Anyama                     700 (new location)       1977
Total lines            3.200
(b)  Installation of 1,500 lines of switching equipment redeployed
from the Abengourou, Agboville, Dimbokro, Korhogo, Man and Yamassoukro
exchanges and 1,100 new lines to be ordered under bilateral assistance
arrangements (see para. 1) in the undezmentioned 16 provincial exchanges:
Location
Aboisso                     200                      1977
Adiake                       50                      1977
Adzope                      300                      1977
Agnibilékrou                100                      1977
Ayamé                        50                      1977
Azaguié                      50                      1977
Bondoukou                   200                      1977
Bongouanou                  200                      1974
Bouaflz                     200                      1974
Danand                      200                      1977
Digo                        300                      1977
Ferkessédougou              200                      1977
Grand Iahou                  50                      1977
Katiola                     200                      1974
Lakota                      100                      1977
Toumodi                    200                       1977
Total lines 



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6 pages
3. Extension of local distribution and inter-exchange networks in Abidjan,
rehabilitation and extension of local distribution networks in the
provinces and provision of subscribers' apparatus to cover projected
development.
. The number of connected direct exchange lines is expected to develop
as follows:
January 1:  1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
Abidjan    17,000 19,400 22,100 25,200 28,700 32,800 37,400 42,600
Provinces   5,800  6,500  7,200  8,200  9,100 10,200 11,LO0 12,700
Total  22,800 25,900 29,300 33,400 37,800 h3,000 48 800 55,300
B.  Long Distance Service
The long distance routes in course of construction or to be constructed
are shown on the map.
1.  Completion of the construction of the 960-channel capacity microwave
links on the Agboville-Bouake', Bouake-Korhogo, Korhogo-Upper Volta, Agboville-
Abengourou, Abidjan-Dabou-Jacqueville, Digo-Sassandra-San Pedro routes.
2.  Construction of three 960-channel capacity microwave links, each provi-
ded with multiplex equipment for 120 channels on the Abengourou-Boudoukou,
Daloa-Mt. Tonkui-Danané and Abidjan-Aboisso routes.
3.  Construction of two VHF links with associated multiplex equipment for
12 channels each on the routes:  San Pedro-Soubre-Buyo and Tabou-Grabo, and
one nicrowave link between i. redro and Tabou.
4. Installation of carrier equipment on the existing open-wire routes:
Seguéla-Bouaké                12 channels
N'Douci-Abidjan                12
Guiglo-Man                    12
Issia-Daloua                  12
Bouna-Bondoukou               12
Beoumi-Bouaké                  6
Boundiali-Korhogo               3
Korhogo-Odienné                 3
Tiebissou-Bouaké               6
Man-Touba                       6
Toumodi-Yamassoukro            6
Toumodi-Dimbroko               6
Digo-Abidjan                  12
Ferkessedougou-Korhogo          6
Adzop ;-Agboville              12
Azaguie -Agboville             12    "
Katiola-Bouakd                12
Bongouanou-Dimbroko           12
Danané-Zouan                   1 Channel
Ferkessédougou-Nielle           1
Toulepleu-Guiglo               1
Boniéredougou-Katiola          1
Dikodougou-Korhogo             1
Sirasso-Jorhogo                1
Logouale-Man1
Maninian-Odienne               1
Total channels  i170



ANNEX5
Page h of 6 pages
5. Extension of the  national transit exchange in Abidjan and instal-
lation of trunk switching equipment in the new automatic exchanges to
extend subscriber trunk dialling.   APT proposes to substitute the
present s4gnalling system by the R2 system recommended by the Inter-
national Telephone and Telegraph Consultative Committee (CCITT)
6. Construction of the following new open-wire line routes to provide
new service to rural areas:
Akoupe-Afferi                 12 km
Gbone-Man                     31  "
Biankouma-Sipilou            63  "
Bouna-Tehini                  91  "
Bodokro-B4oumi                27
Prikro-OullJ                  43
Ferkessédougou-Kong          12h  '
Blolequin-Guiglo              66  "
Guiglo-Tai                    90  "
Toulepleu-Blolequin          54
Satam Sokura-Dabakala         74  "
Napieoledougou-Dikoudougou   44
Niofouin-Korhogo             111  "
Sirasso-Niofouin             44
Korhogo-M'Bengue'             75  "
Pokaha-Korhoîo                20  "
Odienne-Seguelon             82  n
Tienko-Goulia                42  "
Maninian-Tienko               43  "
Dienra-Mankono                87  "
Ouaninou-Touba                23
Total        1.246  n
C. Telex Service
1. Completion of the 400 line extension to the Abidjan telex exchange.
2. Installation of two 100-uine exchanges in Bouaké and San Pedro.
3. Provision of 400 teleprinters to replace worn out apparatus and
cover the future development.
D. BuilÈMns
Construction of six new automatic exchange buildings in the Greater
Abidjan area,(Adjamee, Anyama, Banco, Cocody, Riviera, Deux Plateaux)and 24
in provincial towns.



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6 pages
E. Miscellaneous
Installation of power plants in 15 new provincial automatic
exchanges; purchase of trucks and miscellaneous technical equipment and
materials for cable laying and construction of open-wire lines; miscel-
laneous minor works.
F. Consultants' Services, Engineering and Other Studies
1.    Consultants' services to advise on the detailed engineering and
the preparation of specifications and bidding documents, to assist in
bid evaluation, and to supervise execution of the works.
2.    A Project Coordinatorts services to advise and assist APT's
senior engineers in the execution of the project.
3.    Consultantst services for accounting organization, studies on
usage and tariffs, review of the Postal/Financial Department, and
institutional review.
G. Training
The foreign exchange costs of training technical and financial
staff are as follows:
Training for:                               US$
Technical staff by courses                175,000
Financial staff
- by courses                            50,000
- by professional accountants          225,000
450,000
April 5, 1974



IVORY COAST
AhMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMIUNICATIONS (APT)
TELECO9ISYNICATION DIVlSlON
The Pro.ett (1974-1978) - C-t EstiEeate
(in ailli.ox if CFA Fr nc-)
1974                              1951976                                                               1977                               1978                               TOTAL
Lo-l      F-orelin    Tota1                              Total       Lun        Fortim       otal       Lo..l     Foteigo      Total       L_..l      Foretie     Tetal       L           Fri             Total
IBRD     Other
A.  Lotal Telpho.. Ser.ie
7 100 line. *toutic exnb-o.e.  1/                 55.8     503.0        558.8       41.5      373.8        415.3       21.7      195.0       216.7                    -           -           -          -            -        119.0      -     1071.8   1190.8
9,900 lie. extoxelo,  equip.ent  Z/                -          -           -         18.2      163.6        181.8        2.8       24.5         27.3       42.7      384.6       427.3        36.3      327.3        363.6       100.0     -      900.0   1000.0
21.000 Il.. ..to.Etic oech-g.e.  3/                -        80.0         80.0        -         80.0         80.0       58.0      580.0       638.0        70.0      650.0       720.0        25.0      200.0        225.0      153.0  1590.0        -     1743.O
Loa1 ,,eto,ok.a  d ebolr   ploot                  21-       84          104.0       94.0      107.5        201.5      260.0      392.0       652.0       320.0      567.8       887.8       157.0      376.3        533J3      851.0  1527.6        -     2378a6
75.8     667.0       742.8       153.7     724.9        mu          3425   1191.5        1534.0      432.7    1602.4        20 3.        28.3      903.6       1121.9      1223.0  3117.6   1971.8   6312t23
B. Lot2 Dista-oe SLrvite
SeVe"  elrra,ve l11k-  1/                         55.7     501.4        557.1       10.0       10.0         20.0        5.0       30.0         35.0        2.0       10.0         12.0         -         -            -          72 7     -       551.4    624 1
Mi-o-ae  10,-hootoOooko--                                                            3.0       12.0         15.0        3.0       12.0         15.0        5.0       58.0        63.0          2.0      38.0         40.0        13.0   120,0       -      133.0
Micorov,îoa v tek-SolinkD Ab  -Bo-8-                                                 8.0       16.0         24.0        8.0       16.0         24.0        5.0       75.0        80.0         2.0       49.3         51.3        23.0   156.3              179.3
Ml-tro.ve lik-àAbdj;.-Ab.oi,o                      -          -           -          S.0       17.0         25.0        8.0       17.0         25.0       10.0       80.0        90.0          4.0      54.8         58.8        30.0   168.8       -       198.8
VHF li                                                                                          45           45         40          .5          8.5        2.0       27.0         29.0         2.0       9.0         11.0         8.0    45.0       -        53.0
t6.u1ttip1u  nid oarri,r eqmtpm et                 -         15.0        15.0         7.0      40.0         47.0        4.0       80.0         84.0       16.0      197.5        213.5        5.0       40.0         45.0        32.0   372.5       -      404.5
Trun} atit.hi.8  qi.p_et I/                        7.5      67.0         74.5        5.4       48.8         54.2        2.8       25.5         28.3        -          -            -          -          -            -          15.7     -       141.3    157.0
T-nk a,atthi.9g equipant  2/                       -         -            -          1.8       16.4         18.2        0.2        2.5          2.7        4.3       38.4        42.7          3.7      32.7         36.4        10.0     -        90.0    100.0
Tr-nk writ.hig eq.1pmnt  3/                        -         -            -          -          6.0          6.0        -          6.0          6.0        3.0       30.5         33.5         3.0      20.0         23.0         6.0    62.5       -        68.5
Lons d          _etocre overheod 0l.e.            20.0      30.0         50.0        -          -            -         44.0       70.0        114.0       44.0       70.0       114.0        44.0       70.0        114.0       IS2.    240.0       -      392.0
83.2     613.4       696.6        43.2      170.7       213.9        70        63.5        325          91.3      864         677.7        65.7      313.8        3                    6        7S2.7   2310.2
C.  Telex Senti-
Abidjae eSohotsgo eoreîsloo  fl                    -       175.0        175.0        -          -            -                     -            -          -          .-                      -          -            -           -       -       175.0    175.0
Tvo telex e,hage.                                             -           -           1.0      10.0         11.0         1.0      10.0         11.0        6.0       60.0         66.0         3.0      25.0         28.0        11.0   105.0       -       116.0
40v telepinhtero                                   _         -            -           -        67.5        4Y2          -         67.5         67.5        - 667.5               67.5         -         67.5        -67.5               270.0
T7~~~   ~ 7s~    ~~  ~77~                 -TU       *77~~         79!   ~~T0           I37~~       TTJ5757                 9%3          9375        11     33U       T77        0
D.  Laid aid kOldios                                 125 0                  125.0       120.0      -           120.0       120.0     _            120.0                                                                             » -   -  3_5.0  -   -       365.0
E.  MitatllneouS
Puer plaxtî                                        _          _           -           -        10.0         10.0        -         10.0         10.0        -         60.0         60.0         -        20.0         20.0         -     100.0       -       100.0
Vehicl s  totl.,  quip-ont                        _         25.0        25.0         -        27.5         27.5            -      -            -                     -                        -         .-                       -       2 S       -        52.5
Minor sork:                                       87.0       93.0       180.0        67.0     103.0        170.0        67.0     103.0        170.0       65.0      143.0        208.0        65.0     120.0        185.0       351.0             562.0    913.0
Local Etfres                                     125.4      II.         ;a±,                                                                  t,,,        le9       ___           __                                                      _
F.  Coesult8ots
(4/                 ~     ~ ~~~~           ~~~- 9.0  9.0  -      36.0         36.0                  37.0        37.0         -          ---                                                         -       -        82.0      82.0
Detail.d .eSie...riee   <r                         2.0       20.0        22.0         3.0      25.0         28.0         4.0      40.0         44.0         4.5      45.0         49.5         4.5      45.0         49.5        18.0   175.0               193.0
Other etodits                                      1.8       18.0        19.8         2.0      18.0         20.0         2.0      22.0         24.0        0.5       17.0         17.5                                            6.3    75.0                81.3
3.8      47.0        50O.8        5.0           O                   6-0       99.0       105.0         3.0       62.0        67.0         .5        45.0         49.5       24.3   250.0       82.0    356j3
G. Triet,oi - TehnIoial *nd Accoueting                           12.5        12.5         _         20.0        20.0         -         27.0        27.0         -         27.0        27.0         _         26.0         26.0        _      112.5      -        112.5
Hi. CODt inRinO iO
FPhyelal                                          14.7       18.9        33.6        18.1      28.2         46.3        33.5      72.9        106.4        31.7     108.7        140.4        22.7       58.0         80.7      120.7   258.6       28.1    407.4
Pri-es                                            35.3       49.6        84.9        78.3      90.3        168.6       191.8     2 331        424.9       241.7     348.1        589.8       158.9      185.7       344.6       706.0   818.7       88.1   1612.8
50.0      68.5        118.5       96.4      118.5        214.9      225        36           31.3       273.4      456.8          .          81.6     243.7        42.3       .826.7  1077    T           2020.2
TOTAL PROJECT                           463.2    1701.4       2164.6      534.2    1331.1        1865.3      928_1    2077.5        3005,6       957,  3 3065.1        4022.4    506.7    1764.6          2351.3      389".0  6250.0 1689,7  13409.2
}t  Ordera placed or to be placed moder Bilat.r.l Aaei.tetac  or S.ppliera Credits.
2/  .e.et.oxa t, fJ,êttng coetractr.
1/ ItEu, tE bh  fi toaxed by the Saek Lia-,.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ke
_t Serit... relettn t to  ontraot. a1redy pla..d
April 4. 1974



IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (APT)
PROCUREMENT AND CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE OF THE MAIN ITEMS OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
T              1974                                1975                              1976                                1977                               1978
ITEMS                          FIM  A          J                                  AS  IND JI MAMIJJASC ND J FMA  VJ JAS ND JMA                                                      M J J A 5 0 NI D
LOCAL NETWOF1KS                             -S~~~1
Design
Bidding
Buildings    Evaluation & Award
Construction                                                                                                    Ui
Design
Il Bidding
Exchanges   Evaluation & Award
Installation & Commissioning                                                                                                      1                       MM
Design 
Outside &    Bidding                                   m     m
Subscriber   Evaluation & Award   onI                                                                                                                                            I
Plants      Installation & Commissioning            I                                                                   _
LONG DISTANCE NETWORK
1/ Design
Microwave & Bidding
VMF Links  Evaluation & Award
Installation & Commissioning
Des ign
Trunk & -Il Bidding
Swi tch ing    Evaluation & Award
Equipment  Installation & Commissioning                                                                             oB
Design
Other        Bidding
Transmission Evaluation & Award
Equipment  Installation & Commissîorning 
Design
Over Head   Bidding
Lines        Evaluation & Awardi
Installation & Commissioning                                                               [          miuuei.I*                                                                I
Svicigequipment and microvvave links financed by the Bank.  Dates of commissioning of telephoneWolBak792R
exchanges are given nr pages 1 and 2 of Annex 5.






ANNEX 7
IVORY COAST
A1MINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMUNICATIONS (APT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Estimated Schedale of Disbursements of Bank Loan
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year          at End of Quarter
and Quarter              US$ thousands
1974/1975
September 30, 1974
December 31, 1974                  500
March 31, 1975                     800
June 30, 1975                    1,300
1975/1976
September 30, 1975               1,800
December 31, 1975                1,800
March 31, 1976                    2,800
June 30, 1976                    3,300
1976/1977
September 30, 1976               4,300
December 31, 1976                5,ooo
March 31, 1977                   6,OO0
June 30, 1977                    8,000
1977/1978
September 30, 1977              11,000
December 31, 1977               12,000,
March 31, 1978                  15,000
June 30, 1978                   16,000
1978/1979
September 30, 1978              19,000
December 31, 1978               21,000
March 31, 1979                  23,000
June 30, 1979                   25,000
Disbursements are expected to end June 30, 1979.
Âpril 5, 197h






ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2 pages
IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATICN DES POSTES ET TELECCMMUNICATIONS (APT)
TELECoeMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Economic Analysis of the Project
1.        A conservative estimate of the rate of return on the project
is 22%. This rate is the discount rate which equalizes the stream of
APT's expected revenues from the project with its capital costs, free
of taxes and duties, and related operating costs.
2.        A sensitivity analysis using the variables mentioned below
gave the following results:
Rate of Return   )
15% increase in construction costs
and 15% decrease in revenues              17
25% increase in operating costs               21
10% increase in revenues                      24
10% decrease in revenues                      20
One-year delay in project completion          21
3.        A suimary of revenues and costs at constant prices (in CFAF
mlillions) that have been allocated to the project is given below.
Capital Costs       Operating Costs       Revenues
1974            2120                    12                 59
1975            180h                    68                210
1976             2891                  138                659
1977            3908                   172               1104
1978             2281                  239               16h7
1979                                   300               2304
1980                -                  370               3069
1981                -                  366               3878
1982                -                  4ol               4725
1983                -                  hol               h830
1984                -40                                  h923
1985                -                  401               497h
1986                -                  4o1               5009
1987-92             -                  401               5027
1993            (420)                  401               5027



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2 pages
4.        The revenue forecaste are based on demand and.capacities.  The
revenues attributable to the project vere derived from an apportionment
of the revenues shown in the income statements (Annex 10) and their
further projections for 1981 th-rough 1993. The operating costs for the
project have likewise been obtained by the apportionment of the operating
expenses (excluding depreciation) given in Annex 10 and the expenses
projected from 1981 through 1993. The capital costs are free of taxes
and duties and are the estimated project coats shown in Axnex 5.  An
adjustment has been made in 1993 for the residual value of the project.
Avril 5. 1974



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3 pages
IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECO<MUNICATIONS (APT)
TELECCWMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Summary of Tariffs
1 * General
(i)  Although APT's tariffs are in line vith those in the French
speaking West African countries, they are very high when com-
pared with tariffs for similar services in other developing
coumtries.  Local calls are charged at about US¢12 in Ivory
Coast as compared with US02-6 in most countries.
(ii)  Billing to subscribers îs on a two months' cycle.  Automatic
subscribers and some manual subscribers are subject to a two-
part tariff comprising a rental for each line, which varies
with the size o! the local calling area, and a charge per
local call. Subscribers in manual exchange areas of up to
100 lines are subject to a bi-monthly rental charge including
all local calls. Long distance calls are charged on a unit
basis of a three-minute call, the charge varying according to
distance by multiples of the base rate for a local call. Addi-
tional surcharges are applied on long distance calls originating
from public call boxes and for person-to-person and collect
ca*ls.
2. Principal Tariffs
(i) Telephone Local
(a)  Autcmatic service                              CFAF
Installation fee                       15,000
Rental
Local network 0-2,000 main lines        6,750 per annum
Local network over 2,000 main lines    9,000 per annum
Local Calls (including those
made from call boxes)                 30 per call



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3 pages
(b)  Mamial Service                        CFAF
Installation fee                    15 ,000
exchange system 0-50 main lines      9,000 p/a incl. local calls
exchange system 51-100 main lines  11,250 p/a inci. local calls
exchange system over 100 main lines 6,750 p/a plus local calis at
the unde mentioned rates
Local cal1s
for a monthly traffic of
0-50 calls                             900 per month
51 -100 canel                        1.,800Il i
101-200 cals                         3,600  "    "
201 -l400 calis                      7,200  "     If
401-600 cals                        13,5°0   "
601-800 cails                       19,"0  "    fi
801-1 ,000 cals                     25,500  n    ht
over 1i,000 calis                   33,000  "    t
(ii)  Televhone - long Distance (Rates for three-minute cals)
(a) From subscribers' lines:
Multiple of
Distance             Bese Rate        CFAF
(CFAF30)
0-50  km                2           60
51-80  km               4           120
81-120 km               6           180
121-180 km             7.5           225
181-270 km              10           300
271-400 km              12           360
over 400 km              15           450
(b)  From public call boxes:
Unit charges are the same as those for subscribers' lines,
but in addition there is a surcharge on each call.
Surcharge:                            CFAF
1) when rate for three-minute
call is CFAF150 or less            15
2) when rate for three-minute
call is over CFAF150               30



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3 pages
(iii) Telephone - International
The following are sample rates for three-minute station-
to-station cails:
Ivory Coast to:                              CFAF
Senegal                        91
Mali                           912
France                       1,821
Kerna                        4,179
USA                          3,276
USSR                         3'5
(iv) Telex
(a) Installation fee                           15,000
(b) Guarantee deposit                         200,000
(c) Basic monthly rental (for stations
connected directly to telex
exchange equipment)                        16,200
(d) Communications
1) same zone (unit of 90 seconds)              30
2) different zone (unit of 30 seconds)         30
(v) Telegraph
(a) Ordinary telegrams per word (any destination) 20
Mini.mum charge (10 words)                     200
October 24, 1973






ANNEX 10
IVORI COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOtMIUNICATIONS (APT)
TELECOMMUNICATIWNS DEPARTMENT
Statement of Inocie - '1970-1980
(in millions of CFA Francs)
E s t i m a t e d                           Fo r e. c a s t                          Forecast
Year ending Decenhber 31:        1970     1971      1972     1973        1974     197i5    19t      1'77    -19715          1979     1950
REVENU IE
Tclephone -  installation fees                             24.5     28.3     30.0     29.0        33.0     42.0    46.0       52.0    58.0           65.o     73.0
_ rentai                                       202.2   216.8    230.0    250.0         271.0   296.0    325.0    357.0   393.0            434.0   480.0
- local and long distance calls               1606.1  1862.2   2050.0  2255.0         2480.0  2778.0  3112,0  3485.0  3937.0             4490.0  5120.D
- international calls                          130.1   16L.6   180.0   300.0           337.0   379.0   426.o    478.0   538.0             606.0    696.o
- other                                         32.6    47.8        2.0      3.0        36.0     25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0              25.0    25.0)
Telegraph - rational                                      144.3   161.7   1l'5.0   190.0         210.0   210.0   215.0    215.0   215.0             210.0    210.0
- international                                124.6   118.9    1'0.0   145.0          150.0    155.0   16c.0   160.0   160.0             160.0    165.0
- other                                         12.3      12.0    10.0    10.0          12.0    10.0    10.0    10.0        10.0           10.0     10.0
Teies     - cental                                         62.6     72.6     50.O     90.0       100.0   110.0   125.0    145.0   165.0             180.0  1J.0
- national calls                                44.0    56.8    63.0    70.0            77.0    84.o    96.0    110.0   125.0             137.0    10C°.
- international calls                          137.3   150.4   165.0    180.0          198.0   218.0   249.0    285.0   327.0             359,0    3y4.U
- cther                                          -         -        2.0      2.0         2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0           2.0      2.0
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE        2520.6   2892.1   3117.0   3524.0       3906.0   4309.0   4791.0   5324.0   5555.0         6678.0   7523. 
EXPENSES
Salaries                                                  974.0   102C.4   1037.0  1165.0       1336.0  1470.0   1654.0   1819.0  2CO0.0           2150.0   2310.0
Other expenses                                            434.2    553.8    6C3.o   700.0        752.0   865.o   993.0  1118.0  1257.0             1413.0   i554.c.
Depreciation                                              305.5    336.6   366.3   403.3         458.5    531.2   620.9    741.5    907.9           1034.1   U119.3
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES       1713.7  1910.8  2056.3   2268.3         2546.5   2866.2   3267.9  3678.5   4164.9          4597.1   4983.3
ENET INCOME (befr-e interest)                               806.9    981.3  1060.7  1255.7         1359.5  1442,8   1523.1   1645.5   1790.1          2080.9   2539.7
Less: interest                                            12.6      24.1    31.4      43.4         67.0    128.0    182.7    268.4    389.6        _529.4    577.9
NET PROFIT                                                  794.3    957.2  1029.3  1212.3         1292.5   1314.8   1340.4   1377.1   1400.5         1551.5   1961.8
Add: non.operating revenue                                135.8   142.5    126.0   127.0         160.0   140.D    140.0    140.0   140.0             140.0    l4o.0
930.1  1099.7  1155.3  1339.3          1452.5  1454.8   1480.4   1517.1   1540.5          1691.5   7101.R
Less: contribition to Postal/Financial Departrent         303.7    353.6    305.4   455.9         372.1    383.6    406.5    436.0    460,2          485.0    509-.
SET SURPLUS                                                 626.4   746.i   84_L 9   883.4         1080.4   1071.2   1073.9   1081.1   1080.3         1206.5   1592.8
Rate of return-                                              17.5%    18.5%    13.5%    19.7%        18.37.   16.6%    14.87.   13.3%    11.67.         11.9%    13.77
Operating ratio/                                             68       66       6s       64          65        67       68       69       70             69       66
Average net telecommunications plant in service            4618.0  5307.0   571Y.0  6390.0         7415.0  8710.0  10269.0  12402.0  15434.0         17469.0  18514.0
Average telephore lines in operation                      16095    18072    19500    21447       24350    27600    31350    35600    L0400          45900    52050
Telephone lines added in year                              2290     1665     1190     2705         3100     3400     4100     4400     5200          5800      6500
Rat:o sf net incoae (before interest) to average net telecocmunications plant in service.
Ratio si total operating expenses to total operating revenue.
April 4, 1974






ANNEX il
IVORY COAST
AE4fNISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUIICATIONS (APT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Balance S&eets - 1970.198
(in millions of C    rancs)
E s t i m a t e d                             F or e c a S t                              Forecast
As of December 31:                      1970      1971      172      1973         1974      1975     l         1977      1              19        1980
ASSETS
Gross fixed assets                                          7234.7   7754.4   8527.3   9396.9        10981.4  12626.7  14967.3  17989.7  22361.0           23601.0  26145.0
Less:  depreciation                                         2019.7   2355,8   2492.1   2640.4         2908.9   3280.1   3776.0   4377.5   5105.4           5919.5   6798.8
Net fixed assets                              5215.0   5398.6   6035.2   6756.5         8072.5   9346.6  11191.3  13612.2  17255.6           17681.5  19346.2
Work in progress                                               -      200.0    668.6    749.9         1?40.0   1200.0   1740.0   2600.0    600.0            1640.0   1856.0
Other assets:
Inventories                                                 32.6     46.3      56.o     66.o         76.o    130.0    190.0    250.0    310.0              410.0    510.0
Government receivables - long-term                           -        -         -     2550.0       1700.0    850.0                          _ _ _            _        -
Total other assets                              32.6     46.3      56.0   2616.0       1776.0    980.0    190.0    250.0    310.0              410.0    510.0
Current assets:
Treasury balanoe                                             -        -         -         -            -        -        94.2    722.4    953.4           1142.9   1074.9
Cash & bank                                               298.3       7.9       -         -
Receivables - Traffic - Gover-xent                       4       ( 2200.0   3400.0   1350.0        1400.0   1455.0   1515.0    735.0    808.0             888.0    976.o
Il - Private                            *6    ( 3040.1   3727.0   3500.0         2390.0   1122.0   1234.0   1352.0   1492.0            1641.0   1805.0
Other                                       307.2    285.8    300.0    300.0         315.0    330.0    348.o    365.0    388.o             400.0    420.0
5569.2   5533.S   7427.0   5150.0        4105.0   2907.0        =-    3T7Z7       6             47i.    4275.
Les.: reserve for bad  debts                                 -         -        -         -        1000.0        50.0     50.0      50.0    55.0                     50.0
Total current assets                          5569.2   5533.8   7427.0   5150.0         3105.0   2857.0   3141.2   3124.4   3591.4            4021.9   4225.0
TOTAL ASSETS                          10816.8  11178.7  14186.8  15272.4        14093.5  14383.6  16262.5  19586.6  21757.0            23753,4  25937.2
LIABILITIES
Capital                                                     1340.7   1340.7   1340.7   1340.7        1340.7   1340.7   1340.7   1340.7   1340.7            1340.7   1340.7
Ssants                                                      1241.1   1241.1   1241.1   1305.1         1429.1   1465.1   1502.1   1502.1   1502.1           1502.1   1502.1
Surplus                                                     3258.8       .8  4831.7   5715.1          5795.5   6866.7   7940.6   9021.7- 10102.0           11308.5  12901.3
Total equity                                  5840.6   6563.6   7413.5   8360.9         8565,3   9672.5  10783.4  11864.5  12944.8           14151.3  15744.1
Long-term debt:
Savings Bank                                                28.1     23.0      17.7     12.1           6.2      -         -         -         -              -        -
FAC                                                        132.3    127.4    122.5    117.6         112.7    107.8    102.9        98.0     93.1            88.2     83.3
Suppliers credits                                           92.4     53.7    212.4    199.2         343.8    381.6    424.6    260.4    139.5              41.0       -
CCCE                                                       378.0    378.0    616.0    552.4         753.8    925.2    826.o    726.8    661.2             495.6    S30.0
IBRD - proposed loa- -                                                   -                           335.4    893.2   2351.5   4990.6   6131.3            5881.3   5612.6
Future borrowings                                            -        -         -         -            _         -       -          -         -           1000.0   2000.0
Total long-term debt                           630.8    582.1    968.6    881.3         1551.9   2307.8   3885.0   6075.8   7025.1            7506.1   8025.9
Current liabilities:
Treasury overdraft                                        3371.2   2874.2   4644.7   4774.0         2643.8    952.9            -         -                   -        -
Sundry creditors                                          828.9    986.4    900.0    900.0          945.0    990.0   1040.0   1090.0   1145.0            1200.0   1260.0
Subscribers deposits                                      109.3    123.7    143.0    162.0          184.0    212.0    248.0    288.o    332.0             377.0    427.0
Current saturities                                          36.o     48.7    117.0    194.2         203.5    248.4    306.1    268.3    310.1              519.0    480.2
Total current liabilities                     4345.4   4033.0   5804.7   6030.2         3976.3   2403.3   1594.1   1646.3   1787.1            2096.0   2167.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES                     10816.8  11178.7  14186.8  15272.4         14093.5  14383.6  16262.5  19586.6  21757.0           23753.4  25937.2
Debt/equity ratio                                            10/90      8/92    12/88    10/90         15/85    19/81    26/74    34/66    35/65             35/65    34/66
Current ratio                                                  1.3:1    1.4:1    1.3:1    0.9:1          0.8:1    1.2:1    2.0:1    1.9:1    2.0:1             1.9:1    1.9:1
Traffic receivables/revenue  5t                                197       181      229       210          141       80        57        39        39             38        37
April 4, 1974



ANNEX 12
IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (AFT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Statement of Sources and Apolications cf Funds - 1970-198D
(in millions of CFA Francs)
E s t i m a t e d                               F ore as t                                  Forecast
Year ending December 31:              1970     1971    1972       1973         1974      1975     1976      1977      1978            1979     1980
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internai cash generatio
Net inc.e before intereot                                 806.9    981.3  1060.7   1255.7         1359.5   1442.8   1523.1   1645.5   1 90.1             2080.9   2539.7
Deproeiation                                              305.5    336.6   366.3    403.3          458.5    531.2    620.9    741.5    907.9             1034.1   1119.3
Total internal cash genecation                 1112.4   1317.9  1427.0   1659.0          1818.0   1974.0   2144.0   2387.0   2698.0            3115.0   3659.0
Sobhcribers deposits                                         16.4      14.4    19.3      19.0          22.0     28.0      36.0     40.0      44.0            45.0      50.0
Other nnn-operarisg revenue                                 135.8    142.5   126.0    127.0           160.0    140.0    140.0    140.0    140.0             140.0    140.0
Gr-ts                                                        35;        -      -         64.0         124.0     36.0      37.0      -         -               -         -
Borrowi.g.:
Suppliers credits                                         132.0       -     235.0    106.9          273.7    211.5    245.0       -         -
CCCE                                                      378.0       -     268.0       -           265.0    235.0       -        -         -               -         -
IBRD - proposed luoe                                        -        _        _         -          335.4    557.8   1638.3   2459.1   1259.4
Future borrovings                                           _                 - _                     -        - _                -                      1000.0   1000.O
Total bocroring.                                510.0       -     503.5    106.9          874.1   1004.3   1883.3   2459.1   1259.4            1000.0   1000.0
TOTAL SOURŒCS OF FENDS                   1809.6   1474.8  2075.8   1975.9          2998.1   3182.3   4240.3   5026.1   4141.4            4300.0   4849.0
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital construction
1970-1973 construction sorks                              1199.6    720.2  1471.5   1205.9             -        -         -        -
1974-1978 program                                            -         -       -         -         2164.6   1865.3   3005.6   4022.4   2351.3                -         -
Future program n                                                       _            -           -           -             -        -       200.0          2500.0   3000.0
Total construction                             1199.6    720.2  1471.5   1205.9          2164.6   1865.3   3005.6   4022.4   2551.3            2500.0   3000.0
Inventories - iecrane (decrease)                             (3.8)    13.7      9.7      IO.0          10.0     54.0      60.0     60.0      60.0           100.0    100.0
Gvecnrcent debts transfer to long-tern                        -         -       _      2550.0        (850.0)  (850.0)  (850.0)      -
Dobt service - emortization
Suvingo baok                                                4.8       4.7     5.1       5.3           5.6      5.9       6.2      -         -               -         -
FAC                                                         4.9       4.9     4.9       4.9           4.9      4.9       4.9      4.9       4.9             4.9       4.9
Suppliera credits                                          13.2      26.4    38.7      76.8         120.1    129.1    173.7    202.0    164.2             120.9      98.5
CCCE                                                        -         -       -        30.0         63.6      63.6      63.6     99.2      99.2            65.6    165.6
IBRD - proposed loan                                        --                                                 -         -        -         -                .7    250.0
22.9     36.0    48.7    117.0          194.2    203.5    248.4    306.1    268.3             310.1    519.0
Debt service - interest
Sa2ings bock                                                1.8       1.7     1.4       1.2           0.9      0.6       0.3      -         -               -         -
Supplier c-edits                                            4.6       7.9    10.4      19.9          29.4     28.8      39.3     39.9      26.3            15.2       7.4
CCCE                                                        6.2      14.5    19.6      22.3          23.0     28.7      34.0     31.4      28.1            24.8      21.7
IBRD - proposed lban                                        -        -        -         -           13.7      69.9    109.1    197.1    335.2             453.2    440.1
Future borrowings                     _                              -        -         -                                                                  36.2    108.7
12.6     24.1    31.4      43.4          67.0    128.0    182.7    268.4    389.6             529.4    577.9
Total debt service                                35,5     60.1    80.1    160.4          261.2    331.5    431.1    574.5    657.9              839.5   1096.9
Contribution to Postal/Financial Departsent deficit         303.7    353.6   305.4    455.9           372.1    383.6    406.5    436.0    460.2             485.0    509.0
Increase (decrease) is working capital
Cash and Treasury                                       (1811.7)   206.6 (1778.4)  (129.3)        2130.2   1690.9   1047.1    628.2    231.0              189.5    (68.9)
Receivables and advance paynents                         2586.3    255.0  1901.1  (2277.0)        (1045.0) (1198.0)   190.0   (645.0)   236.0             241.0    272.0
Slndry creditors, reserves                               (500.0)  (134.4)   86.4        -           (45.0)   905.0    (50.0)   (50.0)   (55.0)            (55.0)   (60.0)
274.6    327.2   209.1  (2406.3)        1040.2   1397.9   1187.1    (66.8)   412.0              375.5    143.1
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF F                  1809. 6   1474    207.8   1975.9          2998.1   3182.3   4240.3   5028. 1 4141.4             4300.0   4849.0
Debt service coverage                                        31.3      21.9    17.8      10.3           7.0      6.0       5.0       4.2      4.1             3.7       3.3
April 5, 1974



ANM!IEX 1 3
Page 1 of 3 pages
IVOMff COAST
ADMIfTISTlRTIONT DES POSTES ET TELECOMIUNICATIONS (APT)
TELEC alUlTICAT IONS DEPARTMEVT
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
1 . General
APT's accounting arrangements are unsatisfactory. The financial
accounts, which are delayed, are incorrect and incomplete.  The accounts
do not show the operating results and financial position for the respective
postal/financial and telecommunication services. The financial statements
in the report have been drawn up on a pro-forma basis from existing finan-
cial data supplemented and amended by information received from seniôr staff.
The following data relates to the main items of the Telecommuni-
cations Department's accounts shown in Annexes 10 and 11.
2. Statements of Ichome - Annex 10
(i) Telephone revenue
(a)  Forecasts of revenue from domestic services in the period
1974-1980 have been prepared after taking into account
(i) the average number of telephone lines estimated to be
put into service, and (ii) the estimated effect on revenue,
in the related regions, of the new long distance facilities
to be brought into service.
(b) International call revenue relates to terminal fees received
from INtTEICI. In general, APT receives 20% of the total
revenue from international calls made over the INTEIX
network.
(ii)  Telegraph revenue is expected to remain relatively stable during
the next four years and small overall increases of 1% and 3%
have been provided for in 1975 and 1976, respectively.
(iii)  Telex revenue has been forecast to increase at the following rates:
1974 - 1975     -     10%
1976 - 1978     -     15%
1979 - 1980     -     10%
(iv)  Salaries have on average been estimated to increase at about
10-12A per year through 1980.



ANNEX 1 3
Page 2 of 3 pages
(v)  Other Expenses are expected to increase  i  - 15% per year
through 1960.
(vi)  Depreciation - a composite rate of 41&  per annum on average
gross fixed assets has been assumed.
(vii)  Interest - charges i:clude interest on contracted loans and
supplier  credits together with the estimted interest charges
on the proposed Bank loan. A provision has also been included
for interest on further borewiçin    1972 and 1980. APT does
not capita ize interest during câstruction.
(viii) Non-operatila revenue relates mainly to license revenues.
(ix)  Contribution to Postal/Pinancial Department - the estimated
profits from telecommiunicatiÏos operations from 1970 through
1980 have been charged with thie estiznated deficits from postal
operations in those years.
3. Balance Sheets - Armex 11
(i)  Work in progress at the end of each year during the construction
period of the project has been related to the construction sehedule.
(ii)  Inventories have been gradually brought to a higier and more
reasonable level to moet the requireuents of expanded operations.
(iii) Government receivables - long-term - relate to the rescheduled
Government receivables (see para. 6.08).
(iv)  Treasury balance relates to the funds deposited by APT with the
National Treasury.
(v)  Receivables - Waeff ic          Mt-relate to teleconmunications
services rendered to the Goeenwrnnt by APT's Telecommunications
Department.  From 1973 to 1976 the figures iacnlude the current
portion of rescheduled long-tern GoverTiment receivables.
(vi)  Receivables - Trai  - Pvatrelate to telecommunications
services rendered to private subscribers. *n estimating the
figures it has been assvmed that APT will upd.ate its subscriber
billing by mid-1974 and that considerable imnprovement wibl be
made in private subscriber collections during 1974.
(vii) Receivables - Other-aiclude paymonts in advance, dowri payments
on contracts, and othee imiscellaneous debts such as those for
sale of materials.
(viii)  Reserve for Bd Debte - a provision of CPAF 1 billion (US$5
million) has been set up in 1971 to cover estimated collection
losses arising from delayed billing. It is expected that the
greater part of the sum wil-l be applied in 1975 to writing-off
bad debts.



ÂNk'EX 13.
Page 3 of 3 pages
(ix)  Subsidies relate mainly to contributions from FAC and the
Ivory Coast Government towards capital equipment purchases.
(x) Long-term debt - details of APT's long-term debt are given
in Annex 15.
(xi)  Treasury overdraft - COing to delayed billing and lack of
financial and budgetary control, APT has in recent years
incurred substantial overdrafts with the National Treasury
for its telecommunication services. It is expected that
with updated billing, an improved collection effort and the
settlement of Government debts, the overdrafts will be
eliminated by 1976.
(xii) Sbundry Creditors include accounts payable and receipts in
advance; the forecast figures provide for an increase of 5%
per year on these items.
(xiii) Subscriber deposits relate to deposits payable by private
subscribers as security for the payment of biU s. The
deposits are refundable on termination of service.
Yovember 8, 1973






ANNEX 14
IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECWMUNICATI0NS (APT)
TELECÇOU? ICATIOTS DEPARTMENT
Financial Rate of Return - 1979-1983
1. *Based on available information and on present tariffs and after
making reasonable assumptions for APT's financial requirements during the
period 1979-1983, it is estimated that a rate of return of 10% on net
telecommunications fixed assets in operation would be required after 1978.
2.        In making these calculations it has been assumed that:
(i)  development over the five-year period 1979-1983 would provide
for an average growth of about 10% per year on gross fixed
plant in operation as of December 31, 1978;
(ii)  further borrowing of CFAP « .7 billion (US$23.0 million) would
be available; this would be equivalent to about"'k4 of total
investment requirements for the period 1979-1983; and
(iii)  the annual surplus, after meeting telecommunications require-
ments, would be equivalent to the Postal/Financial Department s
deficit and investment.
3.        On this basis a 10% rate of return would yield about CFAP 9,1400
billion (US$47 million) during the five-year period 1979-1983. The
estimated financing plan for the period would be as follows:
cFAF          CFAF
Rec~uiements~    roen(1979-983)   ---(millions)---
Requirements
Construction progrm  (1979-1983)         13,1400
t;ew program (19814-1988)                   200
Working capital                             500       14,100
Debt service                                           5,100
Surplus                                                2,500
Total requirements                          21.700
Sources
Future borrowings (US$23 million)                      5,700
Depreciation                                           6,100
Vet income after depreciation (10% rate of return)    9,900
Total sources                               21 * 700
APT would be financing about 60% of its program requirements, which compares
with 49% of the 1974-1978 program.
I4.       Present indications are that the net income would be in excess of
the above-mentioned requireuents after 1978; the rate of return would be
about 12% in 1979 and  14% in 1980. It would therefore remain for the
Government to decide whether to withdraw funds frorn APT or to reduce the
present high tariff level.
April 5s,i974






ANEX 15
Page 1 of 2 pages
IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMMEATIONS (APT
TELECOMMNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
/1
Iong-Term Debt-
1.  Long-term debt as of December 31, 1973.
Repayment
Date             Loans                  CFAF uiiUions         Years
1965        FAC                                 122.5         1969-1998
1966        National Savings Bank                17.7         1957-1976
1967        0CCE (1)                   168.0                  1974-1978
1969              (2)                  270.0                  1973-1982
1970             (3)                   178.0                  1977-1981
616.0
Total loans                 756.2
Supplier Credits
1967        CGOT (1)                    39.6                  1970-1975
1970              (2)                  139.2                  1973-1977
1971              (3)                   29.4                  1973-1978
208.2
1969        Ericsson France (1)                  36.9         1972-1976
1972        CIT                                  17.8         1974-1978
1972        Thompson CSF (1)                     56.4         1974-1978
Total supplier credits      319.3
Total long-term debt   1,075.5
2.  Further debt commitments made as of December 31, 1973
Loans
1972        CCCE (4)                            500.0         1980-1984
Supplier credits
1969        CGCT (4)                    39.3                  1974-1978
1972          "  (5)                    46.o                  1974-1979
1973           "  (6)                  160.0                  1976-1981
1973          "  (7)                   245.0    490.3         1976-1981
/1  Interest:
Loan - NatiQnal Savings Bank - 4% per year
-FAC                     -nil
- CCCE                   - 3½S per year
Supplier credits              - 6.5%-7.2% per year



ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 2 pages
Repayment
Supplier Credits            CPAF millions        Years
1970        TRT (1)                                   63.3       1974-1978
1973        Ericsson France (2)                      51.5        1975-1981
1973        Telettra (1)                    31.8                 1975-1980
1973                 (2)                    30.0     61.8
1973        Thompson CSF (2)                          63.3       1975-1981
Total supplier credits             730.2
Total commitments          1,20.2
October 24, 1973



l             EZ X~~~~'1FX 16
IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (APT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Performance Indicators
1.        A set of target indicators and dates which will help  monitor APTIs
performance has been established. APT will be asked to report on actual as
well as projected/budgeted achievements related to the performance targets.
2.        Target indicators:
1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980
Telephone subscribers added
(numaber)                           3100 3400 4100 4400 5200 5800 6500
Gross telephone revenue per
average subscriber line
(CFAF thousands)                     130  127  125  123  122  122  123
Rate of return (%)                    18.3 16.6 14h8 13.3 11 .6 11.9 13.7
Operating ratio                         65   66   68   69   70   69   66
Traffic receivables/revenue (%)        1h1   80   57   39   39  38   37
3.        Target dates:        para.  1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980
Institutional study completed 5.02               Dec.
Training program prepared    5.0I           Dec.
Salary and promotion policies
reviewed                    5.o8
Investment planning improved  5.09   -during construct(ion
period-
Accounting Department
reinforced                  5.12    Dec.
Separate accounts established 5.12          Dec.
Plant inventories updated      5.12         Dec.
Budget system established      5.12         Dec.
Inventory accounting
established                  5.12              eec.
Telecommunications billing
and collections
a) Computer operations
reviewed              5.13    /1
b   An  expert  employed    5.13    71
c) Incoime accounting and
collection staff im-
provements completed  5.13          /2
Internal audit established    5.1           Dec.
Independent auditors
appointed                    5.14         Dec.
Telephone usage studies
completed                   5.16               Dec.
Tariff structure and level
reviewed                     5.16                    June
Postal/financial services
reviewed                     5.17              Dec.
Goverrnment debts settled      6.05                    Dec.
Treasury overdraft eliminated 6.09               Dec.
/1  Within six months of loan signing.
72  Within 12 months  of loan signing.
April 5, 1974






ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2 pages
IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECXMMUNICATIONS (APT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
Telecommunications Billing and Collection
In 1969, following delays and inaccuracies in APT's manual
billing system, the then Director-General decided to undertake an imme-
diate computerization of telecommunications billing.  The changeover,
which lacked adequate study, planning and preparation, was a failure
and a reversion to manual billing was made; as a result, billing delays
increased. Subsequently, the Minister of Posts and Telecommunications
asked INTELCI, the entity responsible for international communications
in the Ivory Coast (see para. 2.02) to provide a special computer unit
to deal with APT's telecommunications billing. A new building was
constructed and the hardware was installed in April 1972; after the study
and planning stage, INTELCI commenced to bill APT's subscribers in
January 1973. At that time billing was one year in arrears. By dispatch-
ing to the subscribers each month a two-monthly bill for past services
it was hoped to update billing by September 1973. INTELCI and APT have
been unable to meet that date and a revised date of end-March 1974 has
now been extended to July 1974.  Various reasons have been put forward
for the present delay; they inulude poor computer programming and lack
of accuracy in the data supplied by APT to the INTELCI computer unit.
Sound telecommunications billing depends above all on a good subscriber
order system operated by qualified staff havi.ng a good knowledge of ope-
rations and tariffs.  APT's ordgr system is acceptable, but the group of
employees responsible for supplying the information to the computer unit
needs to be considerableâstr-engthened.  The idéI-ôolutiôiYwouild be-for
APT to create a new group, much smaller in number but of better quality
and with higher remuneration; most of the present staff could be assigned
to other duties. This unsatisfactory telecommunications billing is the
most serious problem facing the APT management at the present time and is
the main reasons for the heavy borrowing of Treasury funds. -Fbrthermore,
until billing and collection are normalized APT will continue to suffer
heavy collection losses (see para. 6.03). During negotiations, the Govern-
ment agreed that APT would:
(i) within six months of loan signing qmploy experts
satisfactory to the Bank to review the computer program
for APT's billing operations to ensure correct and efficient
billing and accurate revenue accounting;
(ii)  within six months of loan signing  employ an
expert, satisfactory to the Bank, to (a) supervise and
improve bilhing, collection, and revenue accounting at



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2 pages
APT's headquarters, and (b) prepare for agreement vith
the Bank a timetable for effecting the required improve-
ments in APT's revenue operations; and
(iii)  within one year of loan signing take measures, satis-
factory to the Bank,, to strezgthen and maintain qualified
staff in charge a£ APT's billing, collection, and revenue
accounting operations.
April 5, 1974



ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 2 pages
IVORY C0AST
AIMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (APT)
POSTAL/FINANCIAL DEPARIMENT
Financial Aspects
1.        Following the pattern adopted in France and in other countries
in French-speaking West Africa, APT's Postal/Financial Department carries
on the usual postal services, including the quasi-banlking service of
domestic and international money orders and a public checking account
service; in addition it administers the National Savings Bank.
2.        Separate accounts are not kept for the department.  However, it
is estimated that the postal/financial operations have been, and continue
to be., careied on at a loss. Operational losses since 1969 are estimated
to have been as follows:
Fiscal Year:              1970  1971  1972  1973
CFA francs (millions)          237   278   141   395
Postal/Financial Department's losses, together with its investment require-
ments, have in the past been met from telecommunication surpluses.  It is
estimated that during the 14 years since the country's independence, annual
postal/financial investment has averaged CFAF 60 million.
3.        As regards the financial position of the postal/financial ser-
vices, the estimated balance sheets show an unusually large amount of
unpaid receivables; working capital requirements, in particular the cash
cover for suns due public-cheeking account depositors and foreign entities
for money order transactions require to be examined. A review of the
Postal/Financial Department's services is therefore an immediate require-
ment. The review should be comprehensive and cover not only operations
but also financing arrangements, in particular the use and deposit of funds
and settlement of receivables.  To ensure the maximum efficiency of APT's
postal/financial services, during negotiations the Government agreed that
APT would employ qualified and experienced consultants to complete a review
by December 31, 1976, and then after consultation with the Bank, implement
the mwasures necessary for improving the operations and finances of the
postal/financial services. Given the interrelationship between telecommuni-
cations and postal/financial. services in the Ivory Coast, US$50,000 has been
included in the proposed loan to cover the foreign coste of the review.
4.        Although the Government is entitled to withdraw surplus telecom-
munications funds from APT over and above those required for operations and
development, it should not continue the practice of automatically charging



ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 2 pages
Joses and investment requirements of the Postal/Financial Department
against telecommunication surpluses. For reasons of operational and de-
velopment efficiency and good financial management the postal/financial
and telecomunmication services should be considered as separate. Therefore,
in addition to APT maintaining separate accounts for postal/financial and
telecommunications operations, during negotiations the Government agreed
that before applying any surplus telecommunications funds for other pur-
poses APT will ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet the opera-
tional, debt service and investment requirements of APT's telecomnunication
services* Fhrthermore, the Government also agreed that in the event of in-
sufficient funds being available for APT's operations and investment it will
take such steps, satisfactory to the Bank, as may be necessary to cover the
deficit.
April 5, 1974



ANNEX 19
IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUIECATIONS (APT)
POSTAL/FINANCIAL DEPARTMENT
Statements of Income - 1970-1980
(in millions of CFA Francs)
Year ending Decemsber 31:           1970    E  s        t i m a t e d               4          o r  e c a s t       197            Forecast
REVENUE
Postal services                                          1013.4    1153.2    1288.0    1457.0         1527.0   1650.0  1750.0  1850.0  2035.0        2157.0   2287.0
Pinancial services                                        130.8      134.0     182.0      202.0        192.0    190.0  .92..    190.0   190.0          190.0    190.0
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE           1144.2    1287.2    1470.0    1659.0          7e.0   1840.0  1940.0  2040.0  2225.0         2347.0   2477.0
EXPENSES
Salaries                                                 1055.1    1105.3    1188.0    1262.0         1550.0   1643.0  1741.0  1846.0  2030.0        2152.0   2281.0
Other expenses                                            343.4      496.42I   477.0      520.0        536.o    550.0   575.0   600.0   625.0         650.0    675.0
Depreciation                                               43.4       46.5      50.1       55.1         59.0      63.1    67.0    70.9    74.8          78.2     82.6
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES          1441,9    1648.2    1715.1    1837.1         2147.0   2256.1  2383.0        6.   2729.8      2380.7   3038.6
NET INCOME (before interest)                                (297.7)   (361.0)   (245.1)   (178.1)       (426.o)  (416.1) (443.0) (476.9) (504.8)        (533.7)  (561.6)
Less:  interest                                             1.9        1.6       1.4        1.2          o.9       o.6     0.3
(299.6)   (362.6)   (246.5)   (179.3)       (426.9)  '(416.7) (443.3) (476.9) (504.8)       (533.7)  (561.6)
Add: non-operating revenue                                 62.5       84.7     105.0       71.0        139.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0          100.0    100.0
(237.1)   (277.9)   (141.5)   (108.3)       (287.9)  (316.7) (343.3) (376.9, (404.8)        (433.7)  (461.6)
Less:  losses written-off                                   -          -         -        286.5                    -       -       _       _             -        -
NET SURPUJS (Deficit)                                        23a7.1)   (79)   (                                                 3,) 39.)  (2 )   3 ) (33.) (  2   04.) ) )
J  includes provision for doubtfui debt - CFAF65 million.
April 3, 1974



ANNEX 20
IVORY COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (APT)
POSTAL/FINANCIAL DEPARTMENT
Balance Sheets  _ 1970-1980
(in millions of CFA Francs
E s t i m a t e d                              F o r e c a s t                      Forecast
As of December 31:                           l         1971      1972      193974                 1975    1        1977    1978        1979      1980
Oross fixed assets                                      1443.5    1565.4    1779.4   1895.4         2038.4   2168.4  2298.4  2428.4  2558.4        2688.4   2818.4
Leso:  depreciation                                      316.0    362.2       412.3     467.4        526.4   589.5   656.5   727.4   802.2          880.9    963.5
Net fLxed asoets                           1127.5    1205.2    1367.1    1428.0        1512,0  1578.9  1641.9  1701.0  1756.2         1807.5   1854.9
Other assets                                               1.2       1.2        1,2       1.4          1.6      1.6      1.8     1.8     2.0          2.0      2.0
curoent assets:
Cash                                                   184.7     273.6
B.k -CaM                                              1509.3   15604.1    2583.0   2877.6         3072.0  3006.1  3100.0  3100.0  3100.0         3100.0   3100.0
-  ,leasury                                     2354.i    904.7)
_ Others                                         1123.7     136.7
Accounto receivsbles - Trffic                          298.8     374.1      400,0 4o0.0            400.0    400.0   400. 4o0.   400.0  400.0      400.0    40o.o
- Foreign entities               681.3    670.7î    700,0    700.0           700.0   700.0   700.0  700.0   700.0           700.0   700.0
- (ither (net)                   582.0    14384.1J  1440.0   1140.0         1040.0  1100.0  1100.0  1100.0  1100,0         1100.0  1100.3
Total c-rrent asoets                       6733.9    5358.3   5123.0   5117.6          5212.0  5206.1  5300.0  5300.0  5300.0        5300.0   5300.0
TOTAL ASSETS                  7862.6    6562.7    6491.3    6547.0        6725.6   6786.6  6943.7  7002.8  7058.2        7109.5   7156.9
LIABILITIES
Capital                                                  526.5     526.5      526.5     526.5        526.5    526.5   526.5   526.5   526.5         526.5    526.5
Subsidies                                                 59.9      59.9      59.9       59.9         59.9     59.9   59.9    59.9    59.9           59.9     59.3
Contributions from Telecommunications Department         542.3    618.0    781.9    843.0            927.2    994.1  1057.3  1116.4  1171.8        1223.1   1270.5
Total equity                               1128.7    1204.4   1368.3    1429.4         1513.6   1580.5  1643.7  1702.8  1758.2        1809.5   1856.9
Long-ter.r debt - Savingo Bank                            28.0      23.0       17.6      12.0          6.1                                                     -
C,rrent liabilitieo:
Public checking acco-nts                              4662.5    2965.0   2800.0   2800.0          2900.0   2900.0  3000.0  3000.0  3000..0       3000.0   3000.0
Accounts payable - Foreign entities                   1310.1    1452.2   1'400.0   1400.0         1400.0   1400.0  1400.o  1400.0  1400.0        1400.0  140D.()
- Other                              728.4      913.1     900.0    900.0          900.0    900.0   900.0   900.0   900.0        900.0    900.0
Cuorrert maturitios                                      4.9       5.o        5.4       5.6          5.9      6.1
Total current liabilities                  6705.9    5335.3   5105.4    5105.6         5205.9   5206.1  5300.0  5300.0  5300.0       5300.0   5300.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES             7862.6   L6562. 7       13                   2         7               7002.8  705.2       7109.5   715.9
net after allowance of CFAF65 million for doubtfol debt.
April 3, 1974



ANNEX 21
IVORE' COAST
ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES ET TELECOIMUNICATIONS (APT)
POSTAL/FINANCIAL DEPARTMENT
Statement of Sources and Applications of Fands - 1970-1980
lin millions of CFA Francs)
E s t i m a t e d                                F o r e c a s t                          Forecazt
Year endi.g Decenmber 31:                             1970       191        1972        W3           194       175       W6    1977    1978           1979       1940O
SORCES OF ISOiNDS
Internai cash generation
Net income before interest                                (297.7)   (361.0)   (245.1)   (178.1)          (426.o)  (416.1) (443.0) (476.9) (504.8)         (533.7)  (561.6)
Depreciation                                                43.4       46.5      50.1       55.1          59.0      63.1    67. ( 70.9    74.8              78.7      82.6
Total internal cash generation                      (25. 3)   T31  5)    150)          2            37.0)   33.0)  7  .0)            )   3455.0)  (7.
Other ron-operating revenue                                   62.5       84.7      105.0       71.0         139.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0           100.0    100.0
Contribution from Telecosmunications Department              303.7     353.6       305.4     455.9          372.1    383.6   406.5   436.0   460.2           485.0    509.0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUEDS                   11.        123.8      215.4      403.9         144.1    130.6   130.5   130.0   130.2           130.0    130.0
APPLICATICFS OF FOEUlllS
Capital construction                                         110.0     122.2      214 0      116.0          143.0    130.0    130.0   0 130   130.0          130.0    130.0
Inventories                                                  _                    _             0.2           0.2       -       0.2      -        0.2          -         -
Dect service - Amortization                                    4.6        4.9        5.0        5.4           5.6       5.9     6.1
- Interest                                                  1.6        1.4       1.2            O        0.6      0.3
Total Aebt service                                     6.5 6                                             ,     6 T                                               -
Exceptional loss - written off                                 _          -          -        286.5           -        _        _        -        -            _         -
Increae (decrease) in working capital
Cash, Bank; Treasury balances                             (143.8)  (2296.7)   (292.1)    294.6           194.4    (65.9)   93.9
Public checking accounts                                   885.0    1697.5      165.0         -          (100.0)      -    (100.0)
Feceivables                                              (1055.7)    921.1        56.8    (300.0)        (100.0)    60.0
Corrent liabilities                                        309.9    (326.ô)      65.3
(4-6)      (4= )      (5,o)     (.)           T          59    
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS              111.9      123        215.4      403.9         144.1    130.6   130.5   130.0   130 2           130.0    130.0
April 3, 1974






0:!;;z u.i    ;   `É0: hg'77 -Xfili;tli;......................................... ; 5; :t  ......... '  
- .,                                                                                                                     A                             J:-XX    5t , <      X     :0';:/ t;:    :t:      ;8;   
_~~-                 ~      >  ;j       ,                                 *X\.                                                     J   ;|7G2zD\
\         //    -    ------  /   \             Z       vatNv  t                       .0                            eD~~~~~~~~~~~~~f-.--
*\                   ,,,                        /                                                                        c-7
A       
. \    - t/o\\ -YIt                                                                                       \4(
i ~ ~  ~        ~       ~       ~       ~              H                              .    4 
S    \   ;   \                     D \              '    r  A       /    C \ 2:   r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0 \t~~~~~  S~~~~\s;  X$\ ;'  1Au,h_ aaR~~~~~~~~~~~~( -
_ \ g ; 0 $ t X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ > 7t 7~~~~~
t  \7  .--1 //7. / ,-31~~~~~~  ~L~;   ,- g   te .,-
i   :  :  X  t         ';  '                    -                        W<,  g $, E,W b   , ` 
i \  S [ i<» n m rM l ; E o b  ni                                                       2         r - (0  l:P |
. Il  j3F     sS>Cr    <v                                         /         /Sl EESf                       C7 2 S 
.'~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .i  O: ;;        1,:     X                                              v,'  .S            
.  ,X  S  :  tÉ ~ ;0;' ;i' l;i'é :f7;é :' " \\ ° --~~ .r ; ; : r- t>
: _;_.  . ; ; ; ; = " '1; '4::'' tl,i tÉ:ç\_> < \; ,; \; <,_.> 3 .0 
s': ~ ~       ~       ~      c                                             __                                                        O :> W2'2.«:ti\;i7  `;  3   ,         . > _ g
1É ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     - tLC  cS1  1 '\;É     t  1      !2n\'0;    S   É\      0.  __






Ib5KU WOC3iK
IVORY COAST                     JANUARY 1974
POSTS & TELECOMMUNICATIONS ADMINISTRATION
,  PLAEAUX -DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM  1974-1978
'" X   ~ t_  1600  1      ABIDJAN'S URBAN TELEPHONE NETWORK
()   §    ADJAME t, O          :             EXCHANGES CAP*ACITY AFTER PROJECT COMPLETION
N-e Exehanqes Financed by Bans Loan
Ot  h re, Exchahqes
Bup t-Rp Area
RIVIERA
BANCO                                    a  ueo               
2000                                                                                                 0 Xtz\        f t
-,                                                                                700 -Sr<     
;\99 \ ~~~~~~P -E T                       I          -    A.........................5S A  AA    1...  S  L A  N  D
42     a\\                                  < -                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1500O  SS0-
I S L A N D  < 'g)\<                                                                                             / 
BANCO`                                          ", `- -'  
BA UL AY
1t_ns        sen   br<_;.' .
1 I V OR Y  C O A S T }0\/\/- -~-~-
C)Man         oBouake
_,       °Covia                                                                     i Z  _,_  ,_ <  G u  f   of    Ggvine a
ABIDJAN              ___o___2
.,jj-                                           K ..se
*          S,o Bsscindro M9s  



