E-405
MEXICO MESOAMERICAN BIOLOGICAL CORRIDOR
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT PLAN
1. Background
The Mesoamerican Biological Corridor seeks to deal with, in a natural and socially
participatory manner, one of the greatest challenges facing the defense of biodiversity:
maintaining diverse landscapes among protected natural areas in order to avoid their isolation
in the long term. To achieve this goal, productive projects for the sustainable use of
biodiversity (including training and marketing) will be promoted, together with the
reorientation of public expenditure in ways that are compatible with the conservation of
biodiversity. These strategic efforts will be enriched by: 1) a monitoring and evaluation
system based on local and academic participation, which will provide feedback on the actions
undertaken; and 2) the strengthening of multisectoral coordination mechanisms. As a result
of the project, it is expected that an economically attractive natural resource management
model can be maintained, that is compatible with - and favorable to - conservation.
The achievement of this objective depends, among other factors, on the promotion of
economic and cultural behavior that is in accordance with the particular ecological and socio-
cultural conditions in the Corridors. In summary, a set of "clean" economic activities must
be achieved, which contribute to environmental conservation, are economically attractive for
the population, and are especially respectful of indigenous cultures and peoples.
Indigenous and peasant communities and organizations are an essential ally in the search for
sustainable development, understood in a social, cultural and ecological sense. This is
because they constitute an important depositary of knowledge about nature, as part of their
culture and world view. The project seeks to build alternatives based on this knowledge, for
which important roles have been defined for local participation in the development of the
project proposal (community planning, workshops, formation of state-level councils, training,
sharing of experience), resulting in an implementation proposal based in great measure on the
participation of the population.
A 39% of the total population of the Corridors is indigenous. Within the Corridors there are
areas where the majority of the population is indigenous, as in the case of the Corridors of
Northern Chiapas. in Campeche and in Quintana Roo. To ensure that indigenous peoples can
participate actively in the project, measures have been taken in the project design to improve
access to opportunities available to indigenous peoples in Mexican society. These measures,
which are detailed in this document, are complemented by institutional commitments that go
beyond natural resource conservation and include the areas of education, health and
communication.
2. Legal framework on indigenous rights
The Constitutional basis that establishes the basic rights of indigenous peoples in Mexico and
from which the validity of secondary protective regulations is derived, is the chapter on
individual guarantees, particularly articles 4 and 27. The first paragraph of Article 4
acknowledges that Mexico has a multicultural composition, originally based on its
indigenous peoples; and to protect them it states that, first, the development of their
languages, cultures, uses, customs, resources and specific forms of social organization will be
1


﻿promoted, and second, they will be guaranteed effective access to justice. Similarly, and
acknowledging that most of these indigenous peoples live in rural areas, it states that in
agrarian suits and proceedings directly related to questions of land ownership and tenure,
their legal practices and customs will be taken into account.
In paragraph nine of Article 27 of the Constitution, dealing with the capacity to acquire
ownership of lands and waters in the country's territory, clause VII states that the legal
existence of indigenous settlements is acknowledged; these settlements may be organized
according to two schemes with direct consequences on land tenure: communal and ejidal.
Both the communal and ejidal settlement will have a General Assembly as a type of
organization; this will be the settlement's Supreme Agency. It will also have a Commissariat
which will be the Representation Agency, an organization similar to that of any civil or
mercantile society. Each scheme will be given the ability to own lands but is given different
treatment. The essential difference is that, although in both schemes they can organize to
transmit the use of their lands, only in the ejido system can they transmit the ownership of
their lands.
Based on the aforementioned Article 4 of the Constitution, and with the purpose of
complying with the objectives of promotion established therein, in 1948 the National
Indigenous Institute (INI) was created, as a decentralized public agency of the federal
government, assigned to the Secretariat of Social Development, whose purpose is precisely to
promote the protection, defense and development of indigenous peoples, through programs
aimed at dealing with the basic needs of indigenous communities at economic, legal, cultural
and social levels, as well as to support the organizational processes of indigenous peoples so
that they can be dealt directly with different authorities in the public, social and private
sectors. Currently, INI has established a network of regional offices to deal with specifically
indigenous issues.
Moreover, at international level, among other related treaties, the Mexican Government has
ratified Convention 169 of the International Labor Organization (ILO) regarding the rights of
indigenous peoples, and in June 1992 Mexico signed the Agreement on Biological
Biodiversity which, in various precepts (preamble, and articles 8 and 10) acknowledges, first,
the close dependence of traditionally indigenous ways of living and the use of biological
resources; second, it recognizes and the parties agree to respect, preserve and maintain the
knowledge, innovations and practices of indigenous communities and places that entail
traditional lifestyles that are pertinent to the conservation and sustainable use of biological
diversity, to promote their broader application with the approval and participation of those
who possess this knowledge and these innovations and practices, as well as to promote the
equitable sharing of benefits deriving from the use of this knowledge and these innovations
and practices.
3. Baseline data
During the project preparation phase, information from the Indigenous Profiles project was
used (www.sedesol._-ob.mx) and additional information was collected and generated
regarding land tenure, social structure and the use of resources in the project's focal areas.
Different methodologies and scales were used: the community scale through workshops,
community mapping and the detailed analysis of use patterns; the micro-regional scale
through the interpretation of aerial photographs and interviews with key informants; and the
regional scale through the analysis of satellite images, interviews with key informants and
collection of census data. A large amount of information has been generated which will be
2


﻿integrated in a GIS during project implementation and updated through the application of the
monitoring and evaluation protocol.
The high level of cultural diversity in southern Mexico, and its multicultural composition, are
broadly represented in the project area by Mayas, Tzeltzales, Tzoltziles, Lacandones,
Tojolabales, Choles and Zoques, as well as indigenous people who have immigrated from
other states such as Zapotecos from Oaxaca, Pur6pecha from Michoacdn, and Totonacos
from Veracruz. Finally, Mayan-speaking refugees from Guatemala have settled there. An
approximate estimate of the Corridors' total indigenous population is 432,128 inhabitants
(Table 9).
Table 9. Total and indigenous population in the Corridors
Corridor            Total population   Indigenous        Groups
population
Northern Yucatan    87,538              3,628             Maya
Quintana Roo        72,413             50,000            Maya
Campeche            58,000             40,000            Maya, Chol, Tzeltal
Northern Chiapas    669,241             200,000           Chol, Zoque, Tzeltal,
Lacand6n
Southern Chiapas    420,000            38,500            Maine, Cakchiquel Tzotzil,
Tzeltal
At the level of focal areas, even within the same Corridor, there are marked differences in the
indigenous proportion of the total population (Table 10). Data at community level show the
great cultural diversity within some focal areas (Xpujil-Zoh Laguna) and homogeneity in
others (La Montafia).
Table 10. Total population and indigenous population in focus areas
Focal area       Total      Indigenous  %        Indigenous     Phase
population  population  indigenous  groups
Yucatdn
HunucrnA Area    24,462     1,874      7 %       Maya            1
Progreso Area    43,892     277        1 %       Maya           2
Center-East Area  4,280     387        9%        Maya           2
Eastern Area     14,904     1,090      7 %       Maya            1
Quintana Roo
Carrillo Puerto  16,125     8,000      50 %      Maya            1
Southern    J.M. 5,530      5,200      95%       Maya            1
Morelos
Campeche
Xpujil  -   Zoh 10,000      5,000      50%        Maya,  Tzotzil, 1
Laguna                                            Chol,   Zoque,
Popoluca,
Totonaco, Nahua
La Montafia      3,000      2,900      98 %       Maya           1
Chiapas, Northern
Corridor
3


﻿Focal area       Total       Indigenous  %         Indigenous     Phase
population  population  indigenous  groups
La Cojolita      3,000       3,000      100 %      Lacand6n - Chol I
- Tzeltal
NahA - Metzabok  300         300        100 %      Lacand6n       2
Ixcdn            3,000       1,000      33 %       Maya           2
Chol Zone        68,623      50,030     73 %       Chol           2
Zogue Zone       41,158      13,833     34%        Zogue           1
Chiapas, Southern
Corridor
Cintalapa        20,000      1,000      5 %        Tzotzil, Tzeltal  2
La Frailescana   20,000      1,000      5 %        Tzotzil, Tzeltal  2
Pico del Loro - 96,725       4,373      5 %        Maie
Tacand
4. Socioeconomic profile of focus areas
Quintana Roo
Southern Josd Maria Morelos focal area. Land tenure in the area is ejidal. The ejidos are
generally small and with small populations (an average of 40 families) of Mayan origin, who
immigrated to the zone from Yucatan in recent decades. Agricultural production is based on
corn, backyard production and horticulture. Production is aimed mainly at family
consumption. The ejidos are of recent creation, with a grant of less than 20 hectares per
ejidatario. Due to changes in the agrarian law, many communities have opted to parcel out
ejido lands. Giving priority to food production, areas used for forestry, if they exist, are few
in number. To a significant extent non-logging forest products come from fallow areas.
Residents supplement their subsistence economy with paid labor, temporarily migrating to
the tourist zone of Quintana Roo.
The problem of low prices and market structure (middlemen) has halted the development of
market-oriented productive alternatives, based on traditional use patterns. Added to these
factors are deficient technical assistance and intermittent, infrequent training.
Felipe Carrillo Puerto focal area. Land tenure is predominantly ejidal. These are ejidos that
were formed in the 1940s, using forests, and with large areas of land. In addition to the
production of basic grains on individual parcels, ejidatarios carry out forestry activities, in
some cases under a communal management scheme. Forestry production is the center of the
economy of approximately 50% of residents. The others carry out family farming or work as
paid laborers. The problems of the forestry sector are summarized in the following points:
Dependency on few species: the market does not recognize the value of species other than
mahogany and cedar
Market structure: demand is unpredictable
Integration of production chain: basically supplies uncut lumber
Technical assistance: inadequate and intermittent
The population in some ejidos is mixed, with a significant proportion of non-indigenous
immigrants from various Mexican states; other ejidos are inhabited by traditional Mayans and
others by Mayans who have recently immigrated from Yucatan.
4


﻿Campeche
Xpujil - Zoh Laguna focal area. Data from a sample of 4 ejidos out of the focal area's total
of 29 ejidos (Table 11) shows the great diversity of indigenous groups within the focal area,
many of them recent immigrants, especially from the State of Chiapas. These groups have
found elaborate forms of collaboration. Through their social organizations, the population
has also generated an important management capacity in light of diverse government
authorities. This capacity also bumps against insufficient and frequently inadequate
institutional supply.
Land tenure in the area is ejidal, generally parceled out. Recent ejidos are small in size.
Here the principal activity is subsistence farming. Four ejidos, formed in the 1940s, are large
in size, and are partly used for forestry activities under communal management schemes.
Table 11. Number of inhabitants and indigenous groups
Ej ido                    Number of inhabitants     Indigenous group
Mancolona                 400                       Tzeltal
Nuevo Campanario          254                       Chol
Nuevo Conhuas             398                       Nahua, Chol, Tzotzil, Maya
Yucateco, Zoque, Popoluca,
Totonaco.
Nuevo Becal               345                       Maya Yucateco
Subsistence corn production is combined with the commercial production of chili peppers,
with intensive use of agrochemicals. Other sources of income are livestock, handicrafts, and
paid labor.
La Montaia focal area. In the area's 9 ejidos, 100% of the population speaks Maya. The
parceling of the ejido area has not progressed in the area. The ejidos are collective:
ejidatarios have the right to use the land and cannot sell it.
Communities are characterized by their lack of social differentiation. All families carry out
subsistence farming. Their production is characterized by its high degree of diversification:
basic grains, fruits, vegetables, honey, cows and smaller livestock, forestry activities and
hunting. The high level of participation by women in production, as well as in ejido
assemblies, is noteworthy.
Chiapas
Northern Corridor.
In the Northern Corridor the indigenous population has highly dispersed settlement patterns.
It has the highest levels of illiteracy, 47%, even higher among women where the percentage
reaches 63%. The production structure corresponds to the classic pattern of humid tropical
regions: corn, coffee and cattle predominate. Areas used for forestry production are
5


﻿irrelevant. However, subsistence forestry activities are very important; out of 100% of the
volume extracted, 83% is used for subsistence.
La Cojolita focal area. Three communities are related to this area, assigned by the Choles of
Frontera Corazal as a community reserve. The other related communities Nueva Palestina
(Tzeltal) and Lacanjd (Lacand6n). Land tenure is communal; however, there are problems
such as the overlapping of land titles that need to be resolved, beginning with studies on
updating tenure and the establishment of suitable mechanisms for conflict resolution. The
participation of women in decision making is rare.
Naha-Metzobok focal area. The population in both communities in this area is formed by
Lacandones, with communal land ownership. As in the case of La Montafia, the
communities are characterized by a lack of social differentiation. Agricultural production is
highly diversified and is used for subsistence.
Chol focal area. Land tenure is communal (30%), parceled ejidos (40%) or private (30%).
Productive activities include basic farming, coffee production, cattle raising and honey
production. The area is relatively well communicated and there is strong social
differentiation. 30% of the total population is urban. 50% carry out primary activities. Paid
labor contributes substantially to family income.
Zoque focal area. Land tenure is communal (20%), parceled ejidos (40%) or private (40%).
Productive activities include basic farming and livestock-raising.
Sierra Madre del Sur Corridor
Cintalapa focal area. Productive activities include basic farming and livestock-raising.
Land tenure is principally ejidal or private.
Triunfo - Sepultura focal area. The economy is focused on coffee and livestock production.
Land tenure is principally ejidal or private.
Pico de Loro - Tacan6 focal area. In this area the most important economic activities are
coffee production, the production of basic foodstuffs, and livestock-raising. The tangible
results of organizational processes have been the occupation of an important niche in the
international organic coffee market. Land tenure is principally ejidal or private.
5. Regulation of land tenure
In the focal areas in Quintana Roo and Campeche there are no significant conflicts among
ejidos. In all cases, they have legal documentation to support their land tenure. In the focal
areas in Chiapas, especially in La Cojolita, there are several problems due to the lack of
defined agrarian rights, which have been the cause of conflict in recent times. Due to the
problem's complexity, a gradual, participatory strategy will be adopted to carry out the social
assessment and contribute toward solving priority agrarian problems. In the Lacandona
Community, support will be given not only to the performance of diagnostic studies on the
land tenure situation, but also consultancies, training and studies will be financed to
contribute to solving the problems found. These activities will be implemented using an
eminently technical focus, without siding with any of the litigants and in a manner that is
compatible with competent authorities.
6


﻿Except for this case, land tenure problems do not affcct the proposed actions in the rest of the
focal areas included for the first phase of the project. Neither is there any reason to assume
that the implementation of the project will affect the agrarian rights of the communities.
6. Indigenous participation strategy
The Mesoamerican Biological Corridor Project promotes the sustainable use of natural
resources in several southern states of Mexico. To achieve its goal, the project seeks the
active participation of all social stakeholders, especially in rural population. That is why
during the social assessment and design of the project, participatory workshops were carried
out as well as interviews and surveys to key informants, based on a representative sample of
each focal area. In addition, during project preparation Corridor Councils were formed in the
states of Quintana Roo and Campeche; these Councils count with the participation of
representatives of producers organizations. The Councils will be main points for
implementation of activities during project execution in the four states.
Since the size of the population in Quintana Roo is very big to incorporate in the social
assessment, local workshops with men, women and youth were carried out, and surveys were
conducted with selected samples of different sectors of the population. In Campeche,
emphasis was given to conducting interviews and surveys to key informants; information
obtained from participatory workshops carried out recently by experts was also used. In
Chiapas, workshops were carried out in the focal areas (Zona Zoque, Zona Chol and lxcin in
the Northern Corridor; in Sierra Madre del Sur in the focal areas Pico del Loro - Tacana and
La Frailescana) with the participation of producers organizations and key actors. In all cases,
proposals and local preferences were obtained to adjust the contents of the Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan (IPDP).
Based on the recommendations of experts in the area, a more gradual approach has been
adopted for focal area La Cojolita. In addition to consultation activities already undertaken
during preparation, further participatory planning and studies will be promoted during
implementation. Depending on priorities expressed by local communities, these follow-on
activities may include a) specific studies about land tenure that would facilitate the pacific
resolution of existing conflicts; and b) the development of plans of sustainable use of natural
resources. Due to the different levels of social capital among the indigenous communities and
organizations in the focal areas of the project, a typology has been elaborated. This typology
will be used to adjust the activities of the IPDP depending on the organizational strength.
Table 12 provides a detail of the criteria used and the actions to be carried out according to
the organizational level of the community or social organization.
Table 12. Organizational level of indigenous communities and social organizations
Level     %      Criteria of organizational level         Actions
Low       70%   Isolated assemblies            Workshops with communities and
Pressure over resources       organizations
Low educational level         Topics:
Low management level          Objectives of MMBC
Low self-esteem manifested by  Importance of community or social
7


﻿Level     %      Criteria of organizational level          Actions
ethnicity (not in all cases)   organization
Lack of public services        Importance of natural resources
Improvement of services
Strengthening of traditional knowledge
Basic training (planning, accounting)
High      30%    High organizational level      Training according to type of proposal:
Educational level (technical   Technical
specialists)                   Marketing
Control over natural resources  Information
Experiences in marketing       Sharing experiences and training
Strength of ethnic identity   among organizations
Access to government funds
Access to public services
7. Strategic lines
Definition of strategic lines was based on workshops, consultations, interviews with key
informants, etc. Indigenous communities will have access to all the project benefits, the
same as the rest of farmer population. However, in order to ensure such access and achieve
active participation of indigenous communities in the different components of the project, the
following strategic lines were defined:
Strengthening of productive practices of indigenous populations compatible with
conservation, including production of aggregate value from local raw material. Among
others, the project will support agro-forestry and forestry management activities, including
production of chicle, apiculture, vanilla and organic coffee, etc.
Strengthening, together with the participant institutions of the National Corridor Council
(Ministry of Environment, Natural Resources, and Fisheries; Ministry of Public Education;
Ministry of Communications and Transportation; Ministry of Health; Ministry of Agrarian
Reform; Ministry of Agriculture; Ministry of Social Development and Ministry of Commerce
and Industry), of mechanisms to facilitate access of indigenous groups to the different
programs, with special attention to education and health. In addition, the implementation of
specific efforts toward providing indigenous groups with information about the Corridor
project, operational procedures and application of funds. In cases where agrarian and land
tenure conflicts hinder the sustainable management of natural resources and biodiversity (the
Lacandona, for example), it will be essential to work in coordination with the agrarian
authorities in order to neutrally promote mechanisms and tools for the resolution of agrarian
conflicts (mapping, legal studies, etc.).
Organizational strengthening, advice for the preparation of local funds and accounting, legal
training. Along this line, support will be provided for the consolidation of producer
8


﻿organizations involved in sustainable activities with technical assistance and training on self-
management systems and several technical aspects.
Specific efforts on evaluation and monitoring will ensure indigenous participation. Along
this line, support will be given to active participation of social organizations and civil society
in the processes of monitoring and evaluation and to the ample dissemination of results.
8. Institutional commitments
The Ministries participating in the National Corridor Council have signed the Institutional
Coordination Agreement to assist priority regions. The focal areas where the project will
concentrate its sustainable development efforts are part of the priority regions and can count
with the specific assistance from the institutions. The institutions are committed to ensure
equitable access of the population to government programs, including indigenous population.
The institutions have committed to give special attention to the effective access to the
programs from indigenous populations.
The institution responsible for the indigenous policy in the Government of Mexico, the
National Indigenous Institute (INI), possesses institutional capacity and infrastructure in the
focal areas of the project and has committdd to support the strategic lines of the IPDP.
Among its commitments, the Institute will provide spaces in its radio programming in
indigenous languages and will participate in the areas of training and organizational
strengthening.
9. Institutional capacity to execute the plan
During project preparation, strengths and weaknesses of institutions working in the focal
areas were evaluated (government, NGOs, social organizations). In general there is a need to
strengthen the institutions.
Most part of government programs are carried out within the economic-productive sectors.
The most favored sectors are livestock, agriculture or direct support through the payment of
labor for any beneficial activity for the community. The relationship between communities
and government institutions is sometimes affected by the untimely application of resources.
At the local level the population has many ideas to adjust the programs to local/regional
conditions and is looking forward to a much more active institutional presence and with more
resources.
The Project has foreseen the additional training of staff of the institutions at the state and
federal level, in order to increase the access of indigenous people to the programs, strengthen
the programs that benefit the sustainable use of natural resources and to increase the
participation of indigenous populations (men and women) in the definition and
implementation of their projects. A specific strategy is to favor in focal areas the
coordination among the institutions that signed the Institutional Coordination Agreement.
This will allow to design programs that are consistent and in coordination with the specific
regional conditions.
The Project considers of critical importance to establish effective mechanisms for
communication. A communication strategy for the project has been prepared, and it
specifically considers the translation to indigenous languages of the project information and
9


﻿the utilization of radio with programs in indigenous languages as project dissemination and
discussion means. In general, the capacity of INI is considered to be sufficient, although it
will require strengthening in planning and sustainable use aspects.
10. Monitoring and evaluation
The participation of representatives from indigenous communities and social organizations in
the monitoring and evaluation of project activities and social, economic and ecological
changes is considered an integral part of the IPDP. Special attention will be given to ensure
compliance with the timing of sub-projects' implementation, as well as with responsibilities
and agreed actions. Responsibilities and agreements will be recorded in minutes of meetings
and periodic reports.
In addition, external assessments conducted by specialists will be carried out to record
progress and difficulties during implementation of sub-projects implemented by indigenous
communities and organizations.
The results of monitoring and evaluation activities will be reported and disseminated among
social organizations and civil society, including the translation of key documents to relevant
indigenous languages.
The outcomes of the first phase of project implementation will supply information to update
the IPDP in order to further promote successful activities and improve of those that were not
so successful.
11. Activities and costs
Activities by strategic line will be supported according to the typology designed in the
project, considering the organizational level of indigenous communities and their
organizations. Tables 13 and 14 detail the activities to be carried out during the first four-
year phase of the project and the estimated budget.
Considering the special conditions of the focal area La Cojolita (high level of social conflicts
and land tenure problems), during the first year of project implementation there will be
additional activities carried out in this focal area. The activities will involve participatory
planning to adjust the global strategic lines of the plan and to adapt them to the particular
conditions of the area. The conclusion of these activities will be a condition for the
application of investment resources in La Cojolita.
During the Project's Mid-Term Review, an update of the strategic lines of the IPDP will be
carried out. This update will take into account the experience during the first phase of the
project--considering the need to count with updated data of the social conditions-and based
on later consultations with resident communities of focal areas of phase 2. Delivery of the
revised plan, satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition for the application of resources to
focal areas of phase 2.
10


﻿Table 13. Schedule of activities by strategic line
Strategic Lines             Activities 2001                           Activities 2002                      Activities 2003                       Activities 2004
Strengthening  organizational Sharing experiences                     Preparation of community technical tables  Preparation of community technical tables  Participatory planning
capacity                     Preparation of community technical tables  Management  and  administration  of Planning, management and   financing, Organizational strengthening
Planning, management and administration of projects, accounting               accounting                             Planning and management of projects,
projects, accounting                     Sharing experiences                  Sharing experiences                    accounting
Training in planning                                                                                                 Sharing experiences
Promoting         sustainable Training for sustainable production     Stabilization of production of basics  Stabilization of production of basics  Promoting organic production
production and conservation  Assessment of local use patterns         Training on:   agro-ecology, forestry Training  on:   agroecology,  forestry Diversifying production
Diversifying production                  management, agro-forestry            management, agroforestry               Promoting apiculture
Feasibility studies                      Organic production                   Promoting micro enterprises            Training, support and management
Stabilization of production of basics    Training for technic certifiers of organics  Projects on agroecology, forestry, tourism  Marketing
Reforestation with native species        Production of aggregate value        Dissemination of conservation experiences
Dissemination of conservation experiences  Reforestation with native species  Reforestation with native species
Ensuring and improving access Agree with institutions provisions for that Agree with institutions provisions for that Agree with institutions provisions for that Agree with institutions provisions for
to programs                 matter                                    matter                               matter                                that matter
Translation  of procedures  to indigenous Translation of procedures to indigenous Translation of procedures to indigenous Translation  of  procedures  to
languages                                languages                            languages                              indigenous languages
Ample dissemination through mass media Ample dissemination through mass media Ample dissemination through mass media Ample dissemination through mass
communication                            communication                        communication                          media communication
Specific workshops about programs using Specific workshops about programs using Specific workshops about programs using Specific workshops about programs
translators                              translators                          translators                            using translators
Neutral conflict resolution mechanisms for
agrarian problems
Ensuring   participation  in Workshops about the objective of monitoring Monitoring and evaluation workshops  Monitoring and evaluation workshops  Monitoring and evaluation workshops
monitoring and evaluation   and evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation workshops
11


﻿Table 14. Estimated Budget (US dollars)
Strategic Lines/Activities               2001                 2002                2003                  2004                Total Cost US$
Organizational strengthening             45,000.00            45,000.00           45,000.00             45,000.00           180,000.00
Participatory planning workshops         8,000.00             8,000.00            8,000.00              8,000.00            32,000.00
Training of community promoters          6,000.00             6,000.00            6,000.00              6,000.00            24,000.00
-Workshops for project planning           10,000.00           10,000.00    _      10,000.00             10,000.00           40,000 00
Technical training                       6,000.00             6,000.00            6,000.00              6,000.00            24,000.00
Sharing experiences                       15,000.00           15,000.00           15,000.00             15,000.00           60,000.00
Sustainable production                   71,500.00            71,500.00           71,500.00             71,500.00           286,000.00
Technical advice to productive projects  8,000.00             8,000.00            8,000.00              8,000.00            32,000.00
Advice on administration of productive projects
(men and women-craftsmanship, etc.)      5,000.00             5,000.00            5,000.00              5,000.00            20,000.00
Advice to form micro credit revolving fund  6,000.00          6,000.00            6,000.00              6,000.00            24,000.00
Productive projects                      23,500.00            23,500.00           23,500.00             23,500.00           94,000.00
Assessment and follow-up to productive projects               9,000.00            9,000.00              9,000.00            36,000.00
Restoration                               10,000.00           10,000.00           10,000.00             10,000.00           40,000.00
Reforestation                             10,000.00           10,000.00           10,000.00             10,000.00           40,000.00
Access to programs                       40,000               40,000              40,000                40,000              160,000
Institutional commitments                 10,000              10,000              10,000                10,000              40,000
Translation                               10,000              10,000              10,000                10,000              40,000
Dissemination                            10,000               10,000              10,000                10,000              40,000
Workshops                                10,000               10,000              10,000                10,000              40,000
Monitoring and evaluation                10,000               10,000              10,000                10,000              40,000
Workshops                                10,000               10,000              10,000                10,000              40,000
TOTAL                                 166,500             166,500              166,500              166,500              666,000
12


﻿MEXICO MESOAMERICAN BIOLOGICAL CORRIDOR
PLAN DE DESARROLLO DE PUEBLOS INDIGENAS
1. Antecedentes
El Corredor Biológico Mesoamericano busca enfrentar, de un modo natural y socialmente
participativo, uno de los desafíos mayores que enfrenta la defensa de la biodiversidad: mantener
paisajes diversos entre áreas naturales protegidas para evitar el aislamiento de éstos a largo
plazo. Para lograr este fin, se fomentarán proyectos productivos de uso sustentable de la
biodiversidad (incluyendo capacitación y comercialización) y la reorientación de gasto público
en direcciones compatibles con la conservación de la biodiversidad. Este conjunto estratégico se
verá enriquecido por 1) un sistema de monitoreo y evaluación basado en la participación local y
académica, que retroalimentará las acciones emprendidas; 2) el fortalecimiento de mecanismos
de coordinación multisectorial. Como resultado del proyecto se espera mantener un patrón de
explotación económicamente atractivo de la biodiversidad que sea compatible con - y favorable a
- la conservación.
El logro del objetivo depende, entre otros factores, del fomento de un comportamiento
económico y cultural de acuerdo con la particular condición ecológica y social-cultural en los
corredores. Se trata, en síntesis, de lograr un conjunto de actividades económicas 'limpias' desde
el punto de vista de la conservación del medio ambiente, que al mismo tiempo constituyan
actividades económicamente atractivas para la población y sean respecto a las culturas y pueblos
indígenas especialmente respetuosas.
Las comunidades y organizaciones indígenas y campesinas constituyen un aliado fundamental en
la búsqueda del desarrollo sustentable, entendido en el sentido social, cultural y ecológico. Esto
es así porque constituyen un acervo importante de conocimiento de la naturaleza, como parte de
su cultura y cosmovisión. En el proyecto se pretende construir alternativas a partir de este
acervo, para lo cual se han definido espacios importantes de participación local en el desarrollo
de la propuesta del proyecto (planeación comunitaria, talleres, formación de consejos a nivel
estatal, capacitación, intercambio de experiencias), resultando en una propuesta de
implementación que se basa en importante medida en la participación de la población.
Un 39% de la población total de los corredores es indígena. Al interior de los corredores existen
áreas donde la presencia indígena es mayoritaria, como es el caso en los corredores del Norte de
Chiapas, en Campeche y en Quintana Roo. Para asegurar la participación indígena en el proyecto
en condiciones de equidad, se han tomado previsiones en el diseño del proyecto que responden a
la situación de inequidad de oportunidades que caracteriza la posición de los indígenas en la
sociedad mexicana. Estas previsiones, que se detallan en el presente documento, se
complementan con compromisos institucionales que van más allá de la conservación de los
recursos naturales y que incluyen las áreas de educación, salud y comunicación.
2. Marco legal sobre derecho indígena
El fundamento Constitucional, que consagra los derechos básicos de los pueblos indígenas en
México y a partir del cual se deriva la validez de las normas protectoras secundarias, es el
capítulo de garantías individuales, concretamente en sus artículos 4 y 27. El párrafo primero del
Articulo 4 reconoce que México tiene una composición pluricultural sustentada originalmente en
sus pueblos indígenas y para protegerlos establece que primero, se promoverá el desarrollo de
sus lenguas, culturas, usos, costumbres, recursos y formas específicas de organización social, y
segundo, se les garantizará el efectivo acceso a la justicia. Complementariamente y reconociendo
que la gran mayoría de estos pueblos indígenas se desarrolla en áreas rurales, establece que en
1


﻿los juicios y procedimientos agrarios, directamente relacionados con cuestiones de propiedad y
tenencia de la tierra, serán tomados en cuenta sus prácticas y costumbres jurídicas.
El Artículo 27 Constitucional en su párrafo noveno, relativo a la capacidad para adquirir el
dominio de las tierras y aguas en el territorio nacional, la fracción VII establece que se reconoce
la personalidad jurídica de los núcleos de población indígena, los cuales podrán organizarse
según dos regímenes con consecuencias directas sobre la tenencia de la tierra: el comunal y el
ejidal. Tanto el núcleo comunal como el ejidal, contarán como forma de organización, con una
Asamblea General, la cual será el Organo Supremo del núcleo, y con un Comisariado, el cual
será el Organo de Representación, organización similar a la de cualquier sociedad civil o
mercantil. A cada régimen se le reconoce la capacidad de poseer la propiedad de las tierras, pero
se les da tratamiento distinto. La diferencia fundamental consiste en que si bien en ambos
regímenes se pueden organizar para transmitir el uso de sus tierras, solo es en el régimen ejidal
en el cual pueden transmitir la propiedad de sus tierras.
Ahora bien, con fundamento en el Artículo 4 Constitucional mencionado, y con el propósito de
cumplir con los objetivos de promoción que en él se establecen, en 1948, se creó el Instituto
Indigenista Nacional (INI), organismo público descentralizado del gobierno federal, adscrito a la
Secretaría de Desarrollo Social, que tiene precisamente como finalidad, el promover la
protección, defensa y desarrollo de los pueblos indígenas, a través de programas destinados a la
atención de las necesidades básicas de las comunidades indígenas en los ámbitos económico,
jurídico, cultural y social así como el apoyar los procesos organizativos de los pueblos indígenas
para que sean interlocutores ante las diferentes instancias de los sectores públicos, social y
privado. Actualmente el INI ha constituido una red de oficinas regionales para la atención de
temáticas específicamente indígenas.
Por otro lado, en el plano internacional, entre otros tratados relativos, el Gobierno Mexicano ha
ratificado el Convenio 169 de la Organización Internacional del Trabajo (OIT) relativo a los
derechos de los pueblos indígenas, y en junio de 1992 México firmó el Convenio sobre la
Biodiversidad Biológica, que reconoce en varios preceptos (preámbulo, y artículos 8 y 10)
primero, la estrecha dependencia entre formas de vida tradicional indígena y el aprovechamiento
de recursos biológicos; segundo, se reconoce y las partes se comprometen a respetar, preservar y
mantener los conocimientos, las innovaciones y las prácticas de las comunidades indígenas y
locales que entrañen estilos tradicionales de vida pertinentes para la conservación y la utilización
sostenible de la diversidad biológica, a promover su aplicación más amplia, con la aprobación y
la participación de quienes posean esos conocimientos, innovaciones y prácticas, así como
fomentar que los beneficios derivados de la utilización de esos conocimientos, innovaciones y
prácticas se compartan equitativamente.
3. Datos de línea de base
En la fase de preparación del proyecto se utilizó la información del proyecto Perfiles Indígenas
(wnv.sedesol.íob.nx) y se recopiló/generó información con respecto a la tenencia de la tierra,
la estructura social y el uso de los recursos en las áreas focales del proyecto. Se utilizaron
distintas metodologías y distintas escalas: la escala comunitaria a través de talleres, mapeo
comunitario y el análisis detallado de patrones de uso, la escala micro-regional a través de
interpretación de fotografías aéreas y entrevistas con informantes clave y la escala regional a
través del análisis de imágenes de satélite, entrevistas a informantes claves y recopilación de
datos de censos. Una información cuantiosa ha sido generada, que será integrada en un SIG
durante la implementación del proyecto y actualizada a través de la aplicación del protocolo de
Monitoreo y Evaluación.
2


﻿La alta diversidad cultural del sur de México, su composición pluricultural, está representada
ampliamente en el área del proyecto principalmente por Mayas, Tzeltzales, Tzoltziles,
Lacandones, Tojolabales, Choles y Zoques, además de indígenas que han migrado de otros
estados, entre ellos Zapotecos de Oaxaca, Purépecha de Michoacán, y Totonacos de Veracruz.
Finalmente, en el área se han asentado refugiados de habla Maya provenientes de Guatemala.
Una estimación aproximada del total de población indígena en los corredores es de 432,128
habitantes (Cuadro 1).
Cuadro 1. Población total e indígena en los corredores
Corredor        Población total  Población indígena  Grupos
Norte Yucatán    87,538            3,628           Maya
Quintana Roo     72,413           50,000           Maya
Campeche         58,000           40,000           Maya, Chol, Tzeltal
Norte Chiapas   669,241          200,000           Chol, Zoque, Tzeltal, Lacandón
Sur Chiapas    420,000            38,500           Mame, Cakchiquel Tzotzil,
Tzeltal
Al nivel de las áreas focales, aún dentro de un mismo corredor, se presentan marcadas
diferencias en la proporción indígena de la población total (Cuadro 2). Datos a nivel comunidad
demuestran la gran heterogeneidad cultural al interior de algunas áreas focales (Xpujil-Zoh
Laguna) y una homogeneidad en otras (La Montaña).
Cuadro 2. Población total y población indígena en las áreas focales
(incluyendo fase de ejecución)
Área focal         Población total Población   % indígena Grupos indígenas         Phase
indígena
Yucatán
Área Hunucmá       24,462       1,874           7 %      Maya
Área Progreso      43,892         277           1 %      Maya
Área Centro-Oriente  4,280        387           9 %      Maya                      2
Área Oriente       14,904        1,090          7 %      Maya                      2
Quintana Roo
Carrillo Puerto    16,125       8,000          50 %      Maya                      1
Sur J.M. Morelos   5,530        5,200          95 %      Maya                      1
Campeche
Xpujil - Zoh Laguna  10,000      5,000         50 %      Maya, Tzotzil, Chol, Zoque,  1
Popoluca, Totonaco, Nahua
La Montaña          3,000        2,900         98 %      Maya
Chiapas, Corredor
Norte
La Cojolita         3,000       3,000          100 %     Lacandón - Chol - Tzeltal  1
Nahá - Metzabok      300          300          100 %     Lacandón                  2
3


﻿Área focal        Población total Población   % indígena Grupos indígenas        Phase
indígena
Ixcán              3,000        1,000          33 %     Maya                     2
Zona Chol         68,623       50,030          73 %     Chol
Zona Zoque        41,158       13,833          34%      Zoque                    2
Chiapas, Corredor
Sur
Cintalapa         20,000        1,000          5 %      Tzotzil, Tzeltal         2
La Frailescana   20,000        1,000          5 %      Tzotzil, Tzeltal         2
Pico del Loro -   96,725        4,373          5 %      Mame                     1
Tacaná
4. Perfil socioeconómico de las áreas focales
Quintana Roo
Áreafocal Sur José Maria Morelos. La tenencia en el área es ejidal. Los ejidos son
generalmente pequeños y cuentan con escasa población (en promedio 40 familias) de origen
maya, quienes inmigraron en la zona desde Yucatán en décadas recientes. La producción
agropecuaria está basada en la milpa, producción de traspatio y la horticultura. La producción
está dirigida principalmente al autoconsumo. Los ejidos han sido de reciente creación, con una
dotación de menos de 20 hectáreas por ejidatario. A raíz de los cambios en la ley agraria, muchas
comunidades han optado por la parcelización del territorio ejidal. Dando prioridad a la
producción de alimentos, las áreas dedicadas a la explotación forestal son, si existentes, de
limitada extensión. En importante medida productos forestales no maderables provienen de áreas
en descanso. Los habitantes complementan su economía de autoconsumo con trabajo asalariado,
migrando temporalmente a la zona turística de Quintana Roo.
El problema de bajos precios, estructura de mercado (intermediarismo) ha frenado el desarrollo
de alternativas productivas dirigidas al mercado, a partir de patrones de uso tradicionales. A estos
factores se aúne una deficiente asistencia técnica y una capacitación intermitente a cuentagotas.
Áreafocal Felipe Carrillo Puerto. La tenencia es predominantemente ejidal. Tratándose de
ejidos formados en los 40, con una vocación forestal, cuentan con superficies grandes. Aunado a
la producción de granos básicos en parcelas individuales, los ejidatarios se dedican al la
actividad forestal, en algunos casos bajo un esquema de manejo comunal. La producción forestal
está en el centro de la economía de aproximadamente el 50 % de los habitantes. Los demás se
dedican a la agricultura tradicional, o al trabajo asalariado. La problemática del sector forestal se
resume en los siguientes puntos:
o  Dependencia de pocas especies: el mercado no reconoce el valor de especies distintas a la
caoba y cedro
o  Estructura del mercado: la demanda es impredecible
o  Integración de la cadena productiva: se surte básicamente madera en rollo
o  Asistencia técnica: inadecuada e intermitente
4


﻿La población en algunos ejidos es mixta, con una importante proporción de inmigrantes no-
indígenas de varios estados de la república; otros ejidos son habitados por mayas tradicionales y
otros por mayas de reciente inmigración desde Yucatán.
Campeche
Área Focal Xpujil - Zoh Laguna. Los datos de una muestra de 4 ejidos del total de 29 ejidos del
área focal (Cuadro 3) demuestran la gran diversidad de grupos indígenas al interior del área
focal, muchos de reciente inmigración, notablemente desde el Estado de Chiapas. Estos grupos
han encontrado formas elaboradas de colaboración. A través de sus organizaciones sociales, la
población ha generado además una importante capacidad de gestión frente a diversas instancias
gubernamentales. Esta capacidad se topa con una oferta institucional insuficiente y
frecuentemente inadecuada.
La tenencia en el área es ejidal, generalmente parcelada. Los ejidos de reciente dotación son de
superficie pequeña. Aquí la actividad principal es la agricultura de subsistencia. Cuatro ejidos,
formados en los '40, cuentan con una superficie grande, en parte dedicada a la actividad forestal
bajo esquemas de manejo común.
CUADRO 3. NÚMERO DE HABITANTES Y GRUPOS INDÍGENAS
Ejido                    Número de habitantes      Grupo indígena
Mancolona                400                       Tzeltal
Nuevo Campanario         254                       Chol
Nuevo Conhuas             398                      Nahua, Chol, Tzotzil, Maya
Yucateco, Zoque, Popoluca,
Totonaco.
Nuevo Becal               345                      Maya Yucateco
La producción milpera de autoconsumo se combina con el cultivo comercial de chile con un uso
intensivo de agroquímicos. Otros fuentes de ingreso son la ganadería, trabajo artesanal y trabajo
asalariado.
Área focal La Montaña. En los 9 ejidos que comprende el área, el 100 % de la población es
maya-hablante. La parcelización del área ejidal no ha avanzado en el área. Los ejidos son
colectivos: los ejidatarios tienen el derecho de uso de la tierra y no pueden venderla.
Las comunidades se caracterizan por la poca diferenciación social en su interior. Todas las
familias se dedican a la agricultura de subsistencia. Su producción esta caracterizada por su alto
grado de diversificación: granos básicos, frutas, hortalizas, miel, ganadería vacuna y menor,
actividades forestales y cacería. Llama la atención la alta participación de las mujeres en la
producción, como también en las asambleas ejidales.
Chiapas
Corredor del Norte.
En el Corredor Norte la población indígena presenta patrones de asentamiento altamente
dispersos. Presenta los grados más altos de analfabetismo de un 47%, lo cual se acentúa en las
5


﻿mujeres donde la cifra llega a 63%. La estructura productiva corresponde al patrón clásico de las
regiones de trópico húmedo, predomina el maíz, café y ganado bovino. Las áreas dedicadas a la
producción forestal son poco relevantes. Sin embargo, las actividades forestales para el
autoconsumo son de gran importancia; del 100% del volumen extraído, el 83% se destina al
autoconsumo.
Área Focal La Cojolita. Tres comunidades se relacionan con esta área, asignada por los Choles
de Frontera Corazal como reserva comunitaria. Las otras comunidades relacionadas son Nueva
Palestina (Tzeltal) y Lacanjá (Lacandón). La tenencia de la tierra es comunal; sin embargo,
existen problemas como la superposición de títulos que necesitan resolverse, comenzando por
estudios de actualización de la tenencia y el establecimiento de mecanismos idóneos de
resolución de conflictos. La participación de mujeres en la toma de decisiones es escasa.
Áreafocal Nahá-Metzobok. La población en ambas comunidades en esta área está formada por
Lacandones, con una forma comunal de tenencia de la tierra. Como en el caso de La Montaña,
las comunidades se caracterizan por la poca diferenciación social en su interior. La producción
agrícola tiene un alto grado de diversificación y es destinado al autoconsumo.
Áreafocal Chol. La tenencia de la tierra es comunal (30 %), ejidal parcelada (40 %) o privada
(30 %). Las actividades productivas son la agricultura de básicos, la cafeticultura, la ganadería y
la producción de miel. El área se encuentra relativamente bien comunicada y se observa una
fuerte diferenciación social. De la población total el 30 % es urbana. El 50 % se dedica a las
actividades primarias. El trabajo asalariado contribuye substancialmente a la economía familiar.
Áreafocal Zoque. La tenencia de la tierra es comunal (20 %), ejidal parcelada (40 %) o privada
(40 %). Las actividades productivas son la agricultura de básicos y la ganadería.
Corredor Sierra Madre del Sur
Áreafocal Cintalapa. Las actividades productivas son la agricultura de básicos y la ganadería.
La tenencia de la tierra es principalmente ejidal o privada.
Área focal Triunfo - Sepultura. La economía se centra en la cafeticultura y la ganadería. La
tenencia de la tierra es ejidal o privada.
Áreafocal Pico de Loro - Tacaná. En el área las actividades económicas más importantes son la
cafeticultura, la producción de básicos y la ganadería. Procesos de organización han tenido
como resultado tangible la ocupación de un nicho importante en el mercado internacional de café
orgánico. La tenencia de la tierra es ejidal o privada.
5. Regulación de la tenencia de la tierra
En las áreas focales en Quintana Roo y Campeche no se presentan conflictos importantes entre
los ejidos. Estos cuentan en todos los casos con la documentación legal que ampara su territorio.
En las áreas focales en Chiapas, especialmente en la Cojolita se presentan algunos problemas por
indefinición de derechos agrarios, problemas que han sido causa de situaciones de conflicto y
violencia en los últimos tiempos. Debido a la complejidad del problema, se adoptará una
estrategia participativa gradual para realizar la evaluación social y contribuir a la solución de
aquellos poblemas agrarios que resulten prioritarios. En la Comunidad Lacandona se apoyará no
sólo la realización de estudios de diagnóstico sobre la situación de tenencia de la tierra sino
6


﻿además se financiará consultorías, capacitación y estudios para aportar a la solución de los
problemas encontrados. La ejecución de estas actividades se hará con un enfoque
eminentemente técnico, sin tomar partido con ninguno de los litigantes y de manera que sea
compatible con las autoridades competentes.
Excepto por este caso, en las demás áreas focales consideradas para la primera fase del proyecto,
los problemas de tenencia no afectan las acciones propuestas. Tampoco se anticipa que la
ejecución del proyecto afecte los derechos agrarios de las comunidades.
6. Estrategia de participación indígena
El Proyecto Corredor Biológico Mesoamericano promueve el uso sostenible de los recursos
naturales en varios estados del sur de México. Para lograrlo, busca la participación activa de
todos los actores sociales, especialmente de la población rural. Es por eso que durante la
evaluación social y el diseño del proyecto se realizaron talleres participativos, entrevistas a
informantes claves y encuestas, las últimas a partir de una muestra representativa por área focal.
Adicionalmente se han formado ya durante la preparación del proyecto Consejos del Corredor en
los estados de Quintana Roo y Campeche, en los cuales participan representantes de
organizaciones de productores. Estos Consejos serán eje de acciones durante la implementación
en los cuatro estados.
En virtud que el tamaño de población es bastante grande para incorporarla en la evaluación
social, en Quintana Roo se realizaron talleres locales con hombres, mujeres y jóvenes, y
encuestas a muestras seleccionadas de diferentes sectores de la población. En Campeche se
privilegió el levantamiento de encuestas y entrevistas a informantes claves; también se utilizó la
información de talleres participativos realizados recientemente por expertos. En Chiapas se
realizaron talleres en las áreas focales (Zona Zoque, Zona Chol e Ixcán en el Corredor Norte; en
la Sierra Madre del Sur en las áreas focales Pico del Loro - Tacaná y en La Frailescana) con la
participación de organizaciones de productores e informantes claves. En todos los casos se
obtuvieron propuestas y preferencias locales que permitieron orientar el contenido del Plan de
Desarrollo Indígena.
Para el área focal La Cojolita, por recomendación de expertos conocedores del medio, se ha
optado por un enfoque más gradual. Además de las actividades de consulta llevadas a cabo
durante la preparación del proyecto, se promoverá el planeamiento participativo y varios estudios
durante la etapa de implementación. Dependiendo de las prioridades manifestadas por las
comunidades locales, estas actividades pueden incluir: a) estudios específicos sobre la tenencia
de la tierra, que permitan elaborar un plan de acción tendiente a las resolución pacífica de los
conflictos existentes; y b) la elaboración de planes de uso sustentable de los recursos.
Dado el diferente nivel de capital social existente entre las comunidades y organizaciones
indígenas de las áreas focales del proyecto, se ha elaborado una tipología de las mismas. La
tipología será utilizada para orientar las acciones del Plan de Desarrollo Indígena de acuerdo a la
fortaleza organizativa. A continuación (Cuadro 4) se detallan los criterios utilizados y las
acciones a realizarse según el nivel de organización de la comunidad u organización social:
Cuadro 4. Nivel de organización de las comunidades y organizaciones sociales indígenas
Criterios del nivel           Acciones
Nivel     %      organizativo
Bajo      70%    Asambleas esporádicas        Talleres comunitarios y de
Presión sobre los recursos    organizaciones
7


﻿Bajo nivel educativo         Temas:
Bajo nivel de gestión        Objetivos CBM-M
Baja autoestima marcada por la Importancia de la organización
etnicidad (no en todos los   comunitaria o social
casos)                       Relevancia de los recursos
Carencia de servicios públicos  naturales
Gestión de mejoramiento de los
servicios
Fortalecimiento del conocimiento
tradicional
Capacitación básica (planeación,
contabilidad)
Alto      30%   Alto nivel de organización   Capacitación de acuerdo al tipo de
Nivel educativo (técnicos)   propuestas:
Control sobre sus recursos   Técnica
naturales                    Comercialización
Experiencias en              Información
comercialización             Intercambio de experiencias y
Fortaleza de la identidad étnica  capacitación entre organizaciones
Acceso a los fondos
Gubernamentales
Acceso a servicios públicos
7. Lineas estratégicas
La definición de líneas estratégicas se basó en talleres, consultas, encuestas, entrevistas con
informantes clave, etc. Las comunidades indígenas tendrán acceso a todos los beneficios del
proyecto, al igual que el resto de la población campesina. Sin embargo, para asegurar ese acceso
y lograr la activa participación de las comunidades indígenas en los diferentes componentes del
proyecto, con base en este trabajo se definieron las siguientes líneas estratégicas:
1. Fortalecimiento de prácticas productivas de los pueblos indígenas compatibles con la
conservación, incluyendo producción de valor agregado a partir de materia prima local.
Entre otras, se apoyará actividades de manejo forestal y agroforestal, incluyendo la
producción de chicle, la apicultura, vainilla y café orgánicos, etc.
2. Fortalecer conjuntamente con las instituciones participantes en el Consejo Nacional del
Corredor (Secretaría de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca; Secretaría de
Educación Pública; Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes; Secretaría de Salud;
Secretaría de Reforma Agraria; Secretaría de Agricultura; Secretaría de Desarrollo
Social; y la Secretaría de Comercio y Fomento Industrial) mecanismos para facilitar el
acceso de grupos indígenas a los distintos programas, con atención especial para
educación y salud. Igualmente la ejecución de esfuerzos específicos hacia los grupos
indígenas a fin de proveerles información sobre el proyecto Corredor, los procedimientos
de operación y aplicación de fondos. En los casos en que los conflictos agrarios y de
8


﻿tenencia de la tierra dificulten el manejo sustentable de los recursos naturales y la
biodiversidad (por ejemplo, la Lacandona), será esencial trabajar en coordinación con las
autoridades agrarias a fin de promover neutralmente mecanismos y herramientas para
resolver dichos conflictos agrarios (mapeo, estudios legales, etc.).
3. Fortalecimiento organizativo, asesoría para la formación de fondos locales y contabilidad,
capacitación legal. En esta línea se apoyará la consolidación de organizaciones de
productores involucrados en actividades sustentables con asistencia técnica y
cacacitación sobre sistemas de autogestión y aspectos técnicos varios.
4. Esfuerzos específicos en evaluación y monitoreo que garanticen la participación
indígena. Bajo esta línea se apoyará la participación activa tanto de las organizaciones
sociales y sociedad civil en los procesos de monitoreo y evaluación y la difusión amplia
de los resultados de estas actividades.
8. Compromisos institucionales
Las Secretarías participantes en el Consejo Nacional del Corredor han firmado las Bases de
Colaboración Interinstitucional para la atención a regiones prioritarias. Las áreas focales donde
el proyecto Corredor concentrará sus esfuerzos de desarrollo sustentable forman parte de las
regiones prioritarias y pueden por lo anterior contar con atención específica por parte de las
instituciones. Existe el compromiso de las instituciones de asegurar el acceso equitativo por parte
de la población a los programas gubernamentales, incluyendo la población indígena. Las
instituciones se han comprometido a prestar especial atención al efectivo acceso de los
programas por parte de la población indígena.
La institución a cargo de la política indigenista del Gobierno de México, el Instituto Nacional
Indigenista, cuenta con capacidad institucional e infraestructura en las áreas focales del proyecto
y se ha comprometido a apoyar las líneas estratégicas del plan de desarrollo indígena. Entre sus
compromisos destaca el de facilitar espacios en su programación radiofónica en lenguas
indígenas y de participar en el área de capacitación y fortalecimiento organizativo.
9. Capacidad Institucional para ejecutar el plan
Durante la preparación del proyecto, se evaluaron las fortalezas y debilidades institucionales
(gubernamentales, ONGs, organizaciones sociales) que operan en las áreas focales. Se ha
observado que en lo general las instituciones requieren ser fortalecidas.
La mayor parte de los programas gubernamentales, se realizan dentro de los sectores económico-
productivos. Los sectores más favorecidos son el pecuario, agrícola o los apoyos directos
mediante pago de jornales por alguna actividad benéfica para la comunidad. La relación entre
comunidades y las instituciones de gobierno se encuentra en ocasiones afectada por la
extemporalidad en la aplicación de recursos. Se ha observado que a nivel local la población tiene
muchas ideas para adecuar los programas a las condiciones locales/regionales y muchos deseos
de una presencia institucional más activa y con mayores recursos.
El Proyecto ha previsto la capacitación adicional de personal de las instituciones a nivel estatal y
federal, para aumentar el acceso de indígenas a los programas, fortalecer los programas que
favorecen el uso sustentable de los recursos naturales, e incrementar la participación de la
población indígena (hombres y mujeres) en la definición e implementación de sus proyectos.
Una estrategia específica es la de favorecer en las áreas focales la coordinación entre las
instituciones firmantes de las Bases de Colaboración Interinstitucional. Esto permitiría diseñar
programas congruentes y coordinados a partir de condiciones regionales específicas.
9


﻿El proyecto considera de crucial importancia el establecer efectivos mecanismos de
comunicación. Se ha elaborado una estrategia de comunicación del proyecto, que considera
expresamente la traducción en lenguas indígenas de información sobre el proyecto y la
utilización de radio con programas en lenguas indígenas como medio de difusión y discusión
sobre el proyecto. Se considera que la capacidad instalada del Instituto Nacional Indigenista es
suficiente en lo general, requiriendo ser fortalecido en aspectos de planeación y uso sustentable.
10. Monitoreo y evaluación
Como parte integral del Plan de Desarrollo Indígena, se contempla la participación de
representantes de las comunidades indígenas y organizaciones sociales en el monitoreo y
evaluación de las acciones del proyecto y de cambios sociales, económicos y ecológicos. Se
vigilará el cumplimiento de los tiempos de ejecución de los subproyectos, así como el
cumplimiento de las responsabilidades y acciones acordadas. Responsabilidades y acuerdos
serán plasmados en actas de reuniones y reportes periódicos.
Adicionalmente se realizarán evaluaciones externas por especialistas para registrar los avances y
dificultades que se presentan en la ejecución de los subproyectos implementados por las
comunidades y organizaciones indígenas.
Los resultados de las actividades de monitoreo y evaluación se reportarán y difundirán entre las
organizaciones sociales y sociedad civil, incluyendo la traducción de documentos claves a las
lenguas indígenas pertinentes.
Los resultados de la primera fase de ejecución del proyecto servirán para preparar un nuevo Plan
de Desarrollo Indígena que amplíe el rango de actividades que han resultado exitosas y busque
mejorar aquellas cuya ejecución fue deficiente.
11. Actividades y costos
Las actividades por línea estratégica serán apoyadas de acuerdo a la tipología diseñada en el
proyecto, considerando el nivel de organización de las comunidades indígenas y sus
organizaciones. En los cuadros 5 y 6 se detallan las actividades a realizarse en la primera fase de
4 años del proyecto y el presupuesto estimado.
En reconocimiento de las condiciones especiales del área focal La Cojolita (alta intensidad de
conflictos sociales y de tenencia de la tierra), durante el primer año del proyecto se va a realizar
en esta área focal actividades adicionales de planeación participativa para afinar las líneas
estratégicas globales del plan, y adaptarlas a las condiciones particulares del área. La conclusión
de estas actividades va a ser condición para la aplicación de recursos de inversión en La Cojolita.
Durante la evaluación del medio término del proyecto, se realizará una actualización de las líneas
estratégicas del plan indígena a partir de la experiencia de la primera etapa del proyecto, y -
tomando en cuenta la necesidad de contar con datos actualizados sobre las condiciones sociales-
a partir de ulteriores consultas con las comunidades residentes en las áreas focales de la fase 2.
La entrega del plan revisado, satisfactorio para el Banco, será condición para la aplicación de
recursos a las áreas de la fase 2.
10


﻿Cuadro 5. Programación de acciones por línea estratégica
Líneas                            Actividades                            Actividades                           Actividades                           Actividades
Estratégicas                      2001                                   2002                                  2003                                  2004
Fortalecimiento de capacidades   Intercambio de experiencias             Formación cuadros técnicos comunitarios  Formación cuadros técnicos comunitarios  Planeación participativa
organizativas                     Formación cuadros técnicos comunitarios  Gestión y administración de proyectos,  Formación gestión empresarial y   Fortalecimiento organizativo
.,   contabilidad                         financiamiento, contabilidad
Formulación, gestión y administración de                                                                           Formulación y gestión de proyectos,
proyectos, contabilidad                Intercambio de experiencias           Intercambio de experiencias           contabilidad
Capacitación en planeación                                                                                         Intercambio de experiencias.
Promoción a la producción sustentable  Capacitación para producción sustentable  Estabilización de la producción de básicos  Estabilización de la producción de básicos  Impulso producción orgánica
y conservación
Evaluación de patrones de uso locales.  Capacitación en: agroecología, manejo  Capacitación en: agroecología, manejo  Diversificación de producción
Diversificación de la producción       forestal, agroforestería             forestal, agroforesteria               Fomento a apicultura
Estudios de factibilidad               Producción orgánica                   Fomento de microempresas              Capacitación, apoyo y gestión
Estabilización de la producción de básicos  Capacitación para técnicos certificadores de  Proyectos en agroecología, forestería,  comercialización
Esaiizcó  e apoucind bscs    orgánicos                             turismo                               cmrilzcó
Reforestación con especies nativas     Producción de valor agregado          Difusión de experiencias de conservación
Difusión de experiencias de conservación  Reforestación con especies nativas  Reforestación con especies nativas
Asegurar y mejorar acceso a programas Acordar con instituciones provisiones al  Acordar con instituciones provisiones al  Acordar con instituciones provisiones al  Acordar con instituciones provisiones al
respecto                               respecto                              respecto                              respecto
Traducción a lenguas indígenas de      Traducción a lenguas indígenas de     Traducción a lenguas indígenas de     Traducción a lenguas indígenas de
procedimientos                         procedimientos                        procedimientos                        procedimientos
Difusión amplia a traves de medios de  Difusión amplia a traves de medios de  Difusión amplia a traves de medios de  Difusión amplia a traves de medios de
comunicación masiva                    comunicación masiva                   comunicación masiva                   comunicación masiva
Talleres específicos sobre programas con  Talleres específicos sobre programas con  Talleres específicos sobre programas con  Talleres específicos sobre programas con
interpretes                            interpretes                          interpretes                            interpretes
Mecanismos neutrales para facilitar la
resolución de conflictos agrarios
Asegurar participación en monitoreo y  Talleres sobre el papel del monitoreo y  Talleres de monitoreo y evaluación  Talleres de monitoreo y evaluación  Talleres de monitoreo y evaluación
evaluación                        evaluación
Talleres de monitoreo y evaluación
11


﻿6. Presupuesto estimado (U.S. dólares)
Líneas estratégicas / Actividades
2001      2002       2003      2004       Costo total U.S. Dls.
Fortalecimiento organizativo                                                     45,000    45,000     45,000    45,000     180,000
Talleres planeación participativa                                                8,000     8,000      8,000     8,000      32,000
Formación de promotores comunitarios                                             6,000     6,000      6,000     6,000      24,000
Talleres formulación de proyectos                                                10,000    10,000     10,000     10,000    40,000
Capacitación técnica                                                             6,000     6,000      6,000     6,000      24,000
Intercambios de experiencias                                                     15,000    15,000     15,000    15,000     60,000
Producción sustentable                                                           71,500    71,500     71,500    71,500     286,000
Asesoría técnica a proyectos productivos                                         8,000     8,000      8,000     8,000      32,000
Asesoría en administración de proyectos productivos (hombres y mujeres (traspatio, artesanías, etc)  5,000  5,000  5,000  5,000  20,000
Asesoría para formación fondo revolvente de microcrédito                         6,000     6,000      6,000     6,000      24,000
Proyectos productivos                                                            23,500    23,500     23,500    23,500     94,000
Evaluación y seguimiento a proyectos productivos                                 9,000     9,000      9,000     9,000      36,000
Restauración                                                                     10,000    10,000     10,000     10,000    40,000
Reforestación                                                                    10,000    10,000     10,000    10,000     40,000
Acceso a programas                                                               40,000    40,000     40,000    40,000     160,000
Compromisos institucionales                                                      10,000    10,000     10,000     10,000    40,000
Traducción                                                                       10,000    10,000     10,000     10,000    40,000
Difusión                                                                         10,000    10,000     10,000    10,000     40,000
Talleres                                                                         10,000    10,000     10,000     10,000    40,000
Monitoreo y evaluación                                                           10,000    10,000     10,000     10,000    40,000
Talleres                                                                         10,000    10,000     10,000     10,000    40,000
12


