Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
November 30, 2001 
 
Mr. Roberto Ca
sillas Contreras Medellín 
Director Internacional 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  
Torre IV, piso 8 
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971 
01020 México, D.F. 
México 
 
Mr. Alonso García Tamés 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 
03100  México, D.F. 
México  
 
Re:     GEF Grant no. TF 024371 (Mesoamerican Biological Corridor 
Project) Amendment to the GEF Grant Agreement 
 
Dear Sirs: 
 
We refer to the Global Environmental Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the GEF 
Grant Agreement) among International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (the Bank), Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. 
(the Recipient) and the United Mexican States (UMS), dated November 30, 2000, with respect to 
the above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend said GEF 
Grant Agreement as indicated below. 
 
1. 
Section 1.02 (r) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  ““State Corridor 
Council” means a council established pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of this Agreement (except 
that, until the condition set forth in paragraph 3 (b) of Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement is 
met for a particular council, “State Corridor Council” means said particular council as partially 
constituted by the membership positions referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement);”. 
 
2. 
Section 6.01 (c) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “that all eight UMS, 
Participating State and municipal membership positions in each of the State Corridor Councils 
for Campeche, Quintana Roo and Yucatán have been filled in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank;”. 
 
3. 
The table in paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety 
as set forth in Attachment A hereto. 
Page  2
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Part A of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made: 
 
(a) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 38,750, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve months 
prior to the date of this Agreement but after July 1, 2000; and 
 
(b) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures covered by Categories (1) (b), (2) 
(b), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Part A, unless all sixteen membership 
positions in each of the State Corridor Councils for Campeche, Chiapas, Quintana Roo and 
Yucatán have been filled in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (this condition may be met 
separately for each relevant Participating State, thus allowing withdrawals under said Categories 
to be made for one or more such relevant Participating States and its/their State Corridor 
Council(s) and the Regional Technical Unit referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement, 
even if the condition has not been met for the other relevant Participating State(s)).” 
 
5. 
Part A.2 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety: 
 
“(a) Carrying out of participatory local planning exercises among Focal Area 
stakeholders for the purpose of properly managing the biodiversity in the Focal Areas, 
such exercises to include:  (i) awareness raising among stakeholders of the economic and 
environmental benefits of the Biological Corridors; (ii) assessment of natural resource 
management problems and issues relevant to the Biological Corridors; (iii) definition of 
priorities for natural resource and biodiversity management with respect to the Biological 
Corridors; and (iv) development of natural resource management strategies and village-
level biodiversity/land-use maps by Focal Area Communities and Ejidos. 
 
(b) Carrying out of participatory local processes among Focal Area stakeholders for full 
constitution (each with all its sixteen members) of all State Corridor Councils, such 
processes to include promotion, orientation and stakeholder consultation activities in 
support of said constitution (and to involve use of a limited number of goods by the two 
Regional Technical Units).”. 
 
6. 
Paragraph 2 (c) (vii) of Schedule 4 is hereby amended by replacing the term “Part A.2 (d)” 
with the term “Part A.2 (a) (iv)”. 
Page  3
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating the 
three originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to us.  Upon receipt by 
the Bank of one original of this letter signed by both the Recipient and the UMS, the terms of this 
letter shall enter into effect as of the date of its signature by the Recipient or by the UMS 
(whichever is later), unless the Bank has notified the Recipient and the UMS that the GEF Grant 
Agreement has become effective prior to that later date, in which case the terms of this letter are 
rendered null and void. 
 
Sincerely yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
/s/ Olivier Lafourcade 
Director 
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED:  
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.  
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By: Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín 
 
By: Alonso García Tamés 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
 Authorized Representative 
 
Date: December 7, 2001 
 
 
 
Date: December 7, 2001 
Page  4
ATTACHMENT A 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund  
 
Grant Allocated 
   % of 
 
(Expressed in   
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods for Parts A  
 
and D of the  
 
Project (except as 
 
covered by  
 Category 
(4) 
 below): 
 
(a) expenditures 
 
which are incurred 
 
pursuant to Part 
 
A.2 (b) of the 
 Project)     
 
52,800  86% 
 
(b) 
other    130,520 
 
(2) 
Consultants’  
 services 
and 
 training: 
 
(a)  expenditures 
 
           477,520 
 
100% 
 
which are incurred 
 
pursuant to Part A.2 (b) 
 
of the Project 
 
(b)  other 
 
 
        8,477,297 
 
100% 
 
(3) 
Goods and works  
 
for Part C of  
 
the Project 
 
 
        1,127,520 
 
86% 
 
(4) 
Operating costs  
 
under Part D 
 
of the Project   
 
           916,000 
 
86% 
 
(5) 
Unallocated 
 
 
           318,343 
 
TOTAL 
 
 
      11,500,000
 
