Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17030-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$63 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED GEF GRANT OF US$22 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR AN
ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
February 26, 1998
Energy and Mining Development Sector Unit
China Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of October 1997)
Currency Unit = Yuan
Yuan 1.00     =  US$0.12
US$1.00       =  Yuan 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABD       Asian Development Bank
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CO2       Carbon Dioxide
DO        Development Objective
DSM       Demand-Side Management
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC        European Communities
ECIDC    Energy Conservation Information Dissemination Center
EMC       Energy Management Company
ESCO      Energy Service Company
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GHG       Greenhouse Gas
lAS       International Accounting Standards
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IP        Implementation Progress
NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
PCR       Project Completion Report
PDF       Project Development Funds
PMO       Project Management Office
SETC      State Economic and Trade Commission
SO2       Sulfur Dioxide
SPC       State Planning Commission
TSP       Total Suspended Particulates
UNDP      United Nations Development Prograrn
VAT       Value-Added Tax
Vice President     Jean Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager     Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
|Task Manager       Robert Taylor, Senior Energy Economist, EASEG



CONTENTS
A: Project Development and Global Objectives ................................... ..........................2
1L. Project development objective and key performance indicators ....................................2
B: Strategic Context ............................................................2
I a. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the
project ............................................................2
lb. Consistency with GEF Operational Program  .............................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................. 2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...............                         .................3
C: Project Description Summary .............................................................6
la. Project components .............................................................6
lb. Phase II EMC  Expansion .............................................................7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................                        ....................8
3. Benefits and target population .............................................................8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...................................                      ;        .      8
D: Project Rationale ........................................9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................ ..............9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank, and/or other development
agencies (completed, ongoing and planned) .......................................................  10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .....................................................   10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................... 10
5. Value added of GEF and Bank support in this project ........................................ ......... 10
E: Summary Project Analysis ..........................................................                                              11
1. Economic ..........................................................                                                   11
2. Financial analysis ..........................................................                                         12
3. Technical analysis ..........................................................                                         12
4. Institutional ..........................................................                                              12
5. Social ..........................................................                                                     12
6. Environmental assessment ..........................................................                                   12
7. Participatory approach .......................................................... 13
F: Sustainability and Risks ..........................................................                                              13
1. Sustainability ..........................................................                                            13
2. Critical Risks .......................................................... 13
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ..........................................................                             14
G: Main Loan Conditions ..........................................................                                                  14
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..........................................................                                  14
2. Other .......................................................... 14



H. Readiness for Implementation ..........................................................                                                   15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..........................................................                                                 16
Annex  1:  Project Design  Summary ..........................................................                                               17
Annex 2:   Energy Conservation  in China: Making the Transition to the Market ...........                                         ............. 20
Annex 3:   Project Description and Costs ..........................................................                                         25
Annex 4:   Project Justification, Incremental Costs, and Benefit-Cost Analysis .......................... 35
Annex 5:   Financial Aspects of the Energy Management Companies ......................                                      ................... 45
Annex 6:   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .......................................................... 56
Annex 7:  Project Processing ..........................................................                                                     61
Annex  8:  Documents in the Project File ..........................................................                                         62
Annex 9:   Statement of Loans and Credits ...........................................................                                       63
Annex  10: Country at a Glance .......................................................... 67



China
Energy Conservation
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
China
Date: 02/26/98                           Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Robert Taylor
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang    Sector Manager/Director: Yoshihiko Sumi
Project ID: CN-PE-3606    Sector: Energy    Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable Dev.
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan  Program of Targeted Intervention:  []  Yes   [X]  No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [] Credit      [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ M/SDR M): IBRD Loan $63 million, GEF Grant $22 million
Proposed terms:                        [ ]  Multicurrency    [X] Single currency, specify US dollars
Grace period (years): 5           [ ]  Standard Variable  [   Fixed         [X]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: n.a.
Financing plan (US$ M):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
EC Grant /a                                                2.2                2.3              4.5
GEF Project Grant /b                                       5.3               16.7             22.0
IBRD Loan                                                  6.5               56.5             63.0
SETC Grant                                                 7.0                0.0              7.0
Domestic loans (through SETC)                             27.8                3.1             30.9
EMC internal sources /c                                   23.4                0.0             23.4
Total                                                  72.2               78.6            150.8L
L/ Effective June 1997.
L Total GEF grants for this project are US$22.7 million, including GEF Project Development Grants of US$0.7 million
approved in 1996.
L/ Internal funds for reinvestment in projects by the EMCs, derived from project revenues, are projected to total about
US$620 million over 10 years. This table only includes allocation of internal funds to cover taxes due on
GEF/IBRD/SETC-financed investments.
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): State Economic and Trade Commission
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1999    2000    2001    2002   2003    2004   2005   2006
GEF Grant
Annual                                  7.4     7.1      5.2      1.9    0.3
Cumulative                              7.4    14.5    19.8    21.7   22.0
IBRD Loan
Annual                                  3.8     5.7      7.8    10.1   11.0    11.3      9.5   3.8
Cumulative                              3.8     9.5    17.3    27.4   38.4    49.7    59.2  63.0
Project implementation period: seven years Expected effectiveness date: 09/98    Expected closing date: 06/06



Page 2
A: Project Development and Global Objectives
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1).
The objective of the project is to achieve large, sustained and growing increases in energy efficiency, and
associated reductions in growth of carbon dioxide emissions and other pollutants. The project will
achieve this by (a) introducing, demonstrating and disseminating new project financing concepts and
market-oriented institutions to promote and implement energy efficiency measures in China, and (b)
developing a more efficient national energy conservation information dissemination program. The
project is designed to assist in the transition of China's energy conservation activities from a system
based on planned economy concepts and energy use quotas to a more market-oriented system, which can
be sustained over time and grow with China's economy. The project would support the establishment
and pilot demonstration of Energy Management Companies (EMCs) in China for the first time, followed
by a program to support proliferation of the EMC concept. These commercial companies will be engaged
in self-sustaining energy efficiency investments through energy performance contracting. In addition, the
project also seeks to achieve increases in energy efficiency by strengthening China's national efforts to
provide improved access to specific information concerning successful domestic experiences in energy
efficiency measures and projects, geared in particular to financial decision makers in enterprises. Key
performance indicators will include quantified energy savings and associated carbon dioxide (CO2)
emissions reduction resulting from the project.
B: Strategic Context
la Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1).
CAS document number: 16321-CHA      Date of latest CAS discussion: February 25, 1997
The project supports the twin CAS objectives of alleviating infrastructure constraints and safeguarding
the environment, by increasing the supply of useful energy to industrial and commercial users through
environmentally attractive increases in the efficiency of end-use energy-intensive equipment.
lb. Consistency with GEF Operational Program:
China ratified the IJN Framework Convention of Climate Change on January 5, 1993. The project is
consistent with Operational Program #5 of the GEF Operational Strategy for climate change, where one
of the long-term mitigation measures is to remove the barriers to energy conservation and energy
efficiency.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The need to improve the efficiency of energy use in parallel with development of additional energy
supply has been a cornerstone of China's energy policy for over 15 years. Although substantial success
has been achieved, it is widely recognized both inside and outside of China that far greater improvements
in the efficiency of energy use are critical to the country's economic and environmental future. All recent
macroeconomic forecasting work on China has shown that continued rapid economic growth is not
physically, financially or environmentally sustainable without dramatic further improvements in energy
efficiency. Improving energy efficiency is a main pillar of China's environmental protection strategy,
especially as a means to abate local and regional air pollution and increases in greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions. Enormous potential for cost-effective improvements in energy efficiency remains untapped in
China, especially in the industrial sector, which is expected to continue to dominate energy consumption
in China for decades. The strategic importance of and remaining cost-effective potential for energy



Page 3
efficiency measures is well documented in recent sector work completed by the Bank and a wide range
of other studies completed both in China and abroad.'
China's existing energy conservation system is among the most extensive in the world. During the 1980s,
China successfully developed a comprehensive energy conservation program, including major policy
directives, procedures, regulations, technical assistance programs, and project financing initiatives. The
institutional framework includes a series of specialized energy conservation units at national, provincial
and county/prefecture-level government units, operating under the State Economic and Trade
Commission (SETC) and its provincial and local affiliated commissions. The system was quite effective
under the centrally planned economic system, taking advantage of the well-established systems of
industrial enterprise energy input quotas and government investment funding mechanisms for state-
owned enterprises. With the ongoing conversion of China's economic system to a market economy,
however, the established system for promoting energy conservation must be transformed to operate more
effectively in a new environment. Without timely change, many of the critical gains in capacity building
achieved during the last decade and a half may be lost, especially the major gains achieved in
development of technical expertise in energy conservation project work.
The Government recognizes the need to adapt China's energy conservation system to maximize the play
of market forces, and strongly supports the development of market-based energy efficiency initiatives.
Major reforms in retail energy pricing pursued during the late 1980s and 1990s have brought average
retail energy prices to levels at or above the cost of supply. As a result, of 16 case studies of typical
energy conservation investments in manufacturing enterprises completed for the China GHG study, all
exhibited financial rates of return of over 15 percent, and three quarters exhibited returns of 20 percent or
higher. Many challenges, however, are involved in the conversion to market-based energy efficiency
initiatives. Because many of the administrative measures previously used to promote energy
conservation are now becoming inapplicable, promotion efforts must be built on the interest of
enterprises themselves to undertake energy efficiency measures, as a means to increase enterprise profits
and/or meet environmental regulations. New and different financing approaches and mechanisms are
needed, and promotion activities must better focus on and utilize the direct self-interest of enterprises.
Support for the introduction of market-oriented approaches is especially important at this phase, when
market incentives for energy conservation are increasing, but knowledge among most enterprise
managers of the most effective energy efficiency options is weak, and the institutional system for
promoting energy conservation has little experience with the types of methods and mechanisms which
can best assist enterprises in the new environment.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Energy conservation investments, especially in industry, can be categorized into three types. A first type
includes investment in energy efficient processes and equipment in new plant, as part of new plant
design. A second type includes packages of substantial investments to restructure and modernize
industrial plants, focusing usually on adoption of more efficient production processes. Examples of this
second type include conversion of steelmaking furnaces to modem technology, conversion of cement
plants from wet to dry process, conversion of existing housing blocks to use of piped gas for cooking,
etc. These restructuring projects typically involve large-scale investment, medium-level rates of return,
and major benefits in expanded production or improvement in product quality, as well as substantial
See, for example, China: Energy Conservation Study (Bank Report 10813-CHA, February 4, 1993), and China:
Issues and Options in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control (Summary and four major subreports on energy
efficiency), a GEF-financed joint report of the Chinese Government, UNDP and the World Bank, 1994.



Page 4
energy savings. Case studies have shown that enterprise managers in China are usually keen to undertake
these investments, but face major constraints arranging adequate credit and overcoming a series of
enterprise efficiency problems stemming from incomplete state-owned enterprise reforms. A third type
of investment includes relatively small-scale measures, usually involving replacement or addition of
specific equipment, and focused primarily on energy savings alone. Examples include replacement of
traditional lighting equipment with high-efficiency lamps, adoption of high-efficiency and/or variable-
speed motors and associated fans and pumps, and boiler and steam system modifications to improve
combustion, increase heat recovery and/or reduce steam loss. The total energy savings of each
investment are fairly small, but the scope for implementation is very broad, so that the potential for
aggregate energy savings through these types of projects is very high. Investment costs are relatively
low, and rates of return of well conceived projects are quite high, but constraints exist in mobilizing
implementation. While this project includes some support for the accelerated implementation of some of
the second type of projects, e.g., in the information component, the primary focus of this project is on the
third type of energy conservation investments.
Detailed case studies on energy efficiency projects with wide potential across China showed that many
projects would yield sound life-cycle financial returns today, but remain unimplemented. Rates of return
for the third type of energy conservation investments typically exceed 20 percent, while payback period
range from 1 to 5 years. Many of the barriers identified in case studies in China which constrain the
implementation of these commercially-tested and financially viable projects are similar to those found in
other countries:
*  Inadequate Information. Enterprises and individuals lack information about energy-saving
investments, especially on financial aspects and the implementation experiences of others. China has
developed various mechanisms for distribution of technical information on energy efficient
technologies and renovation measures within the energy conservation community. The system falls
far short of current needs, not only in terms of coverage, but particularly in terms of focus. Little
information is available for the enterprise managers concerning how specific energy conservation
projects can yield direct financial benefits to enterprises, practical implementation measures from
experience, impacts on production (if any), etc.
-  Technology Transfer Barriers. While some state-of-the-art energy efficient technologies have been
introduced in China, many have yet to be widely distributed.
*  Risk. Perceived technical and financial risks to enterprises in adopting innovative energy saving
technologies are very high in China. Fears that a new technology may not work, could interrupt
production, or may take time to perfect, all inhibit enterprise management from adopting new
energy-saving technologies or practices.
*  Real and Perceived Insignificance of many Energy Efficiency Investments. Many worthwhile
energy efficiency investments are relatively small, and while they may yield sound financial returns,
the value of the savings achieved typically is only a small percentage of enterprise operating costs.
Enterprise managers are most interested in expanding production and increasing market share, and,
especially if there is some perceived risk involved, they often show little interest in small projects
yielding relatively small savings in operating costs.
*  High Transactions Costs. Especially when technologies are relatively new and unfamiliar to
enterprises, energy efficiency projects often carry high costs (especially high opportunity costs of
key skilled enterprise personnel) for obtaining and checking information, planning and design,
arranging financing (including internal arrangements), implementation scheduling, monitoring initial
performance and implementing necessary adjustments, etc. Especially where the benefits are
considered small, enterprises are reluctant to incur these costs.



Page 5
*  Difficulties in Arranging Financing. Interested enterprises have insufficient access to project
financing for upfront investment costs for projects to reduce operating costs. Credit for all types of
investment projects is difficult to obtain in China today, but domestic banks are particularly reticent
to lend for energy conservation projects. Financial institutions in China (and elsewhere) are generally
not familiar or adept at analyzing the financial aspects of energy efficiency projects, and hence less
willing to extend credit for these projects.
*  Institutional Constraints. China's present energy conservation system, while extensive, is not
geared to provide the type of support needed by enterprises under the market system, and is currently
not well placed to help enterprises overcome many of the barriers listed above.
GEF Energy Efficiency Strategy for China. The overall GEF program to assist China to reduce GHG
emissions through energy efficiency improvements includes a portfolio of projects that have been
approved or are under preparation included are two UNDP-implemented technical assistance projects
(the approved Energy Conservation in Township and Village Enterprises Project, and the proposed High-
Efficiency Refrigerator Project) and two Bank-implemented investment projects (the approved Efficient
Industrial Boilers Project and this proposed project). As a whole, the program seeks to alleviate the
barriers listed above through a combination of mutually reinforcing measures to: (a) improve access to
relevant information, (b) facilitate the transfer of advance technology, especially for production of high-
efficiency equipment, and (c) develop institutions and financing mechanisms that can more effectively
spur energy conservation investment under the market economy.
The TVE, boilers and refrigerator projects each combine a series of efforts to alleviate barriers for a
specific subsector. The TVE project focuses on the development of interventions specifically geared for
this growing, collectively owned sector, where energy efficiency work has traditionally been
undersupported in China. The boiler and refrigerator projects focus on technology transfer for domestic
production of more efficient, new energy-using equipment, and the information dissemination,
institutional development, and policy strengthening needed for interventions to be sustainable.
This project, combined with a proposed Phase II follow-up effort, will address the identified barriers
through introduction of energy performance contracting and an improved information dissemination
program. Energy performance contracting is an energy conservation project financing and
implementation method which has been successfully employed in North America and Western Europe
since the late 1970s. It involves joint implementation of an energy conservation project by an Energy
Service Company (ESCO)-or, as termed in China, an Energy Management Company (EMC)-together
with a "host enterprise," according to an "energy performance contract." The ESCO/EMC undertakes
project design, arranges financing, and installs and usually maintains the key equipment in the host
enterprise. In exchange for these services and shouldering most of the project risk, the EMC is
compensated from a portion of the money saved by the host enterprise on its energy bills. In China's
case, the concept is being developed, at least initially, in a manner similar to equipment leasing with a
buyout provision: the EMCs purchase and install more energy efficient equipment and are compensated
monthly from the resulting actual savings until the investment cost and a reasonable profit have been
recovered, after which equipment ownership reverts to the host enterprise. The energy performance
contracting concept is most applicable for the third type of energy conservation projects mentioned
above, where projects are small, easily replicated, and energy savings are relatively easy to verify.
The Government is particularly keen to develop energy performance contracting, which it considers to be
a financing and technology dissemination mechanism of great potential for China's evolving market
economy. Compared with traditional financing mechanisms, use of the energy performance contracting
mechanism as designed in this project: (a) helps to overcome host enterprise reticence due to lack of



Page 6
information and perceived risk by placing responsibility for implementation and risk burdens on the
EMC developer, (b) helps to overcome enterprise reticence due to perceptions of small projects as being
financially not significant enough to warrant development by placing the burden for development
primarily on the EMC, (c) reduces transaction costs for small projects through development of a high
volume of technically similar product lines within an EMC, and (d) eases financing constraints in host
enterprises by utilizing savings in operating costs to directly pay for investment. The Government hopes
that increasing use of this mechanism can make the existing energy conservation support system more
relevant for today's needs.
C: Project Description Summary
la Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                 Category           Cost Incl.    % of      Bank        % of
Contingencies    Total   financing    Bank/GEF
(US$M)               (US$M)    financing
1. EMC Demonstration     Physical, institutional building  137/a    90    15 (GEF)
63 (IBRD)    } 57
2. Information Dissemination   Physical, institutional building  10  7     5 (GEF)       50
3. Program Management and   Policy, institutional building,  4       3     2 (GEF)       50
Monitoring             project management
Total                         151Lf      100
/a Figures do not include the GEF Project Development Grants, costs associated with the planned Phase 11 EMC follow-up
effort, or over US$600 million of energy conservation project investment by EMCs financed through reinvestment of funds
over a I 0-year period.
Energy Management Company Demonstration. Under this core component, three demonstration
EMCs will be developed, begin operation, and expand as commercial businesses. The three EMCs will
adapt, operationalize and develop energy performance contracting, as developed by ESCOs in other
countries, for the first time in China. The EMCs will undertake investment projects in other "host"
enterprises. Although additional financing mechanisms may be developed over time, in this
demonstration phase the EMCs will finance the investment, shoulder the technical and financial risk, and
initially own the equipment installed in the host enterprises. The EMCs will be paid by the host
enterprises from a share of the value of the energy savings actually achieved, according to an energy
performance contract. The EMCs will receive most of the money saved by the energy efficiency
investment at the beginning, until it is fully compensated for the investment, operating costs, risks
undertaken and a reasonable profit. Thereafter, the equipment ownership normally would be transferred
to the enterprises, and the enterprises receive all of the further financial benefits of energy savings. As
developed in North America, if the EMC selects good projects and. manages them well, it should earn
profits for steady growth. The host enterprises incur less risk, provide no investment capital, and
eventually own more efficient equipment and enjoy accompanying reduced energy costs.
Geared for provincial-level operations, the EMCs were established as shareholding companies in 1996 in
Beijing Municipality, and Liaoning and Shandong Provinces. The companies have received a large
amount of technical assistance financed with Global Environment Facility (GEF) Project Development
Funds. Operations are being developed gradually, with opportunities to leam from practical experience.



Page 7
Execution of an ECU 4 million (about US$4.5 million) grant from the European Commission began in
June 1997, supporting the implementation of the first series of energy performance contracting projects
and further technical assistance. GEF financing will support further implementation of pilot projects to
adapt the energy performance contracting concept for different technologies, consumer types and
contract variations. IBRD funds will support replication of successful pilot projects, in a series of
"project lines" in each EMC, and EMC growth. The SETC has arranged 300 million yuan (currently
equivalent to about US$36 million) of domestic credit at commercial terms, for counterpart financing of
pilot projects and further EMC growth. Total investments in energy conservation projects to be
undertaken by the three EMCs forecast during 1997-2006 is expected to amount to about US$730
million, as host enterprise payback to the EMCs should be completed within 18-30 months for most
energy performance contracts, and financing from reinvestment will grow to large levels during the
middle and later years of the project.
Information Dissemination Component. This component will support the development of a new
system to provide practical information on energy conservation project results to Chinese enterprise
managers. The system will be operated by the new Energy Conservation Information Dissemination
Center (ECIDC), established on January 9, 1998, which will function under a performance contract with
SETC's Project Management Office (PMO). New information products will be developed with particular
emphasis on financial results actually achieved by enterprises, problems and solutions during
implementation, any impacts on main enterprise production or other key risks, and contact information
on enterprises with relevant experience. Dissemination work will focus on influencing enterprise
decisionmakers, and ECIDC's performance will be evaluated based on how many enterprises actually
use the information provided to implement energy conservation projects. The Center's regular operations
will be funded by the Government, including SETC grant financing of US$5 million during the initial
five years to support the core costs of ECIDC and a core level of product development and
dissemination. GEF grant financing of US$5 million will support training and institutional capacity
building, a portion of product development and dissemination, especially during the early, trial years, and
program evaluation and monitoring.
Program Management and Monitoring Component. This component will be executed over a five-year
period by the Project Management Office (PMO) of SETC. The component will support the activities of
two distinct units in the PMO: the EMC Development Unit and the Project Management Unit. The
purpose of the EMC Development Unit is to promote and assist the creation of new EMCs in China by
any interested domestic or international parties. The success of the program and the unit staff will be
measured by the number of new EMCs created and the successful operation of these EMCs. Activities of
this unit will include provision of information, liaison and provision of technical assistance to foreign
ESCOs interested in possible China operations, to Chinese financial institutions, and to Chinese
businesses interested in developing energy performance contracting. The EMC Development Unit also
will assist the PMO in the preparation of the proposed Phase II effort (below). The second unit, the
Project Management Unit, will provide operational support and technical assistance for the
implementation of the two other project components, provide policy advice to the Government, and
implement a series of training activities for staff and experts nominated by the PMO.
l b. Phase II EMC Expansion.
While the proposed EMC Demonstration Component will demonstrate the EMC concept in three
provinces of China, full success in removing barriers to EMC development in China (and greatest cost-
effectiveness) requires the expansion and dissemination of the concept to other EMCs throughout China,



Page 8
following up on the work of the EMC Development Unit of the PMO. Additional support under a Phase
II will therefore be necessary to develop a variety of different types of EMCs in many parts of China,
including joint ventures with foreign firms. It is therefore expected that additional incremental cost
GEFsupport, the size of which will be determined during implementation of the EMC Demonstration
Component, will be sought for a Phase II EMC Expansion about 18 months after effectiveness of this
first Energy Conservation Project. Preparation and implementation of the Phase II project is scheduled
behind the first project so that its detailed design can build upon the implementation experience of the initial
demonstration EMCs. Financing for the preparation of Phase 11 is included in the Program Management and
Monitoring Component of this Phase I project. Documentation for the Phase II proposal to the GEF Council
will note and include: (a) completion of an evaluation of implementation results of the initial pilot project in
the EMC Demonstration Component, (b) assessment of lessons learned, identification of issues requiring
resolution, and proposed solutions; (c) completion and evaluation of a conference on EMC results with the
domestic financial community, and (d) arrangement of suitable counterpart financing/cofinancing.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports major institutional reforms through the development of a new energy conservation
investment financing and implementation mechanism, and a new type of information dissemination
system. However, these reforms are specific to the energy conservation field.
3. Benefits and target population:.
The project will provide large, cost-effective reductions in energy use, GHG emissions and other
pollutants (e.g., total suspended particulates and sulfur dioxide). Direct benefits include (a) reduction in
energy use from the operation of the three EMCs, totaling an estimated 45 million tons of coal equivalent
(tce), and associated carbon dioxide emissions reduction of 34 million tons carbon, over the life of the
projected investments undertaken during the next 10 years; and (b) estimated energy savings of 24
million tce, and associated carbon dioxide emissions reduction of about 18 million tons carbon, over the
life of investments fostered through 10 years of operation of the new information program. Yet, if this
project and Phase II efforts are successful, even larger and more important benefits can be achieved
through dissemination of the new energy conservation investment financing mechanisms and institution
building on a wider scale in China, based on this demonstration of the energy performance contracting
concept (see also Annex 4).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The SETC will be responsible for coordination of project implementation, assisted by other agencies and
research units. The SETC, and the affiliated Economic and Trade Commissions at provincial, prefecture
and county levels, are responsible for implementation of the country's energy conservation policies and
organization of the government's efforts to renovate existing enterprises. They manage and allocate state
funds provided in the national economic plans for this purpose. The SETC has established a Project
Management Office (PMO) to oversee project preparation and implementation, chaired and partially
staffed by the Department of Resource Savings and Comprehensive Utilization, with additional expert
staff from the Energy Research Institute of the State Planning Commission, the Beijing Energy
Efficiency Center, and other units. The PMO also is assisted by a variety of domestic and intemational
consultants. The PMO will coordinate the implementation of the EMC Demonstration Component;
implement the Information Dissemination Component, through ECIDC operating under its direct
supervision; and directly implement the Project Management and Monitoring Component. The three
provincial-level EMCs will be the project beneficiaries for the EMC Demonstration Component,
financed by the EC and GEF and all of the IBRD loan. Government coordination in the provinces is



Page 9
managed by the provincial Economic and Trade Commissions at a high level. IBRD loan funds will be
provided under subsidiary loan agreements between the Ministry of Finance and provincial Finance
Bureaus, and between provincial Finance Bureaus and each EMC, with provincial government
repayment guarantees. GEF funds for the EMC Demonstration Component will be provided under
subsidiary grant agreements, similar to the subsidiary agreements under the EC grant.
Step-by-step monitoring and evaluation are critical in this project, and will be conducted by the EMCs
and PMO with support under the project. Biannual project implementation reports from each EMC must
include specified monitoring data and evaluations for each of their demonstration projects, as a basis for
mid-course correction, for definition of key implementation issues requiring government attention (with
support under the project management and monitoring component), and for definition of the specific
activities for the Phase II EMC Expansion. Following the experience of a similar UK program, ECIDC
also must monitor and verify the effect of its information dissemination work, in terms of energy savings
by affected enterprises, as will be specified in the performance contract between ECIDC and the SETC.
The Bank has reviewed the financial management capabilities of the three EMCs. The EMCs, as new
companies established in 1996, are learning the energy performance contracting business and improving
project management capacity quickly with the benefit of a large amount of technical assistance and
training both during project preparation and implementation (see Annexes 3 and 5). Special emphasis has
been placed on the development of financial management and reporting capacity to operate and control
companies of this nature; provision of training to financial personnel; development and implementation
of more sophisticated financial planning and control functions; production of monthly cost and variance
reports by element and process, cash budgets and proforma financial projections; and definition of
financial policy and appropriate procedures. The EC Grant includes a substantial financial management
and reporting technical assistance package for this purpose, to be implemented in 1998. Further follow-
up assistance will be organized by SETC under the Project Management and Monitoring Component as
and when necessary.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project team and Government counterparts also considered the development of a line-of-credit
operation to support industrial energy conservation investments. Although such an operation might have
been simpler to develop for the Government counterparts, they strongly preferred the energy
performance contracting concept. Given the issues involved in financial intermediary operations for
industrial renovation generally, and the mediocre experience of past Bank projects in other countries
involving lines of credit for energy conservation specifically, the Bank team also opted for the new
approach.
The concept of promoting electricity conservation by electric power utilities through consumer rebates or
subsidies, as practiced in North American demand-side management (DSM) programs, was rejected due
to a desire to avoid consumer subsidies and the fact that China's current power price regulation system is
not conducive to recovery of such costs through the power tariff.



Page 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank, and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                       Project                  Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank
Industrial Energy Conservation   Hungary: Industrial Energy Diversification and  n/a        n/a
Conservation (PCR, 1993)
Hungary: Second Industrial Energy and         n/a               n/a
Conservation (PCR, 1994)
Bangladesh: Industrial Energy Efficiency Project  n/a           n/a
(PCR, 1992)
Indonesia: Industrial Energy Conservation     n/a               n/a
Project (PCR, 1994)
Technology Transfer         China: Efficient Industrial Boilers (GEF)      S                S
Power Development           Yangzhou Thermal Power                         S                S
Ertan II Hydroelectric                         S                S
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank:     China: Energy Conservation I
Industrial Energy Conservation
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Energy projects in the current China portfolio (January 1998) all have highly satisfactory or satisfactory
ratings. The energy conservation projects listed above (and several other additional earlier Bank projects)
all involved lines of credit for industrial energy conservation. The implementation record for these types
of projects has been mixed-while some success has been achieved (the first two projects in Hungary,
and the ADB China project), many have had difficulty disbursing and some (Bangladesh) were canceled
without disbursement. Problems have included changes in government or other institutional problems
and high processing costs to potential subborrowers, but the constraints listed in Section B3 also
dampened interest in borrowing. The proposed project adopts a new approach to overcome these
constraints.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Borrower commitment and ownership is high. At least 20 million yuan in equity financing already has
been invested to establish each EMC, and the SETC has allocated US$43 million equivalent in loan and
grant financing for the project. The SETC and provincial Economic and Trade Commissions have
contributed over US$700,000 equivalent for project preparation. Project preparation has been well
organized, and counterparts have completed a variety of complex tasks on time and efficiently. The
SETC and EMCs have used international technical assistance effectively, and implementation of the EC
grant is proceeding satisfactorily. Provincial Government support is strong and at a high level, especially
in Shandong and Liaoning.
5. Value added of GEF and Bank support in this project:
The different roles of the EC, GEF and IBRD financing, allowing first introduction and demonstration of
the new energy performance contracting concept, followed by broader development and dissemination,



Page 11
are critical for the project as a whole. Bank leadership in introducing the new energy performance
contracting concept has been and will continue to be very important.
GEF support is essential for the implementation of the first phases of the project, focusing on the
introduction, adaptation and demonstration of new concepts. For the EMC Demonstration Component,
the lack of actual, on-the-ground experience with the energy performance contracting concept, requiring
adaptation to Chinese legal, taxation, financial and institutional systems, is the major barrier that has
arrested development of this concept in China so far. No commercial entity has proved willing or able to
incur these upfront development costs. While the Government has expressed a strong commitment to the
project, evident in its financial support, the Government also has been clear that it cannot sanction
borrowing of IBRD or commercial bank funds for initial development and demonstration of the energy
performance contracting concept, which is commercially unproven in China. GEF Project Development
Fund (PDF) support has played a role in the necessary upfront technical assistance. The EC Grant has
been critical, to allow some initial experience to be gained in implementation of a small number of pilot
projects prior to GEF and IBRD project approval. GEF support, blended with Government counterpart
financing, is critical for demonstration of the energy performance contracting concept in the three EMCs,
development and adaptation of the new information dissemination methods and practices, and the
institution building necessary to sustain these activities. Follow-up GEF support, through the proposed
Phase II EMC Expansion, will also be necessary to overcome barriers to further EMC development
throughout China.
The IBRD loan also is an essential part of the package, as it provides much of the loan capital for the
EMCs to develop and grow as commercial businesses. The loan will be onlent to the EMCs on
commercial terms, and successful EMC growth under market conditions will provide the best
demonstration of the concept's viability to domestic commercial banks.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR=  % []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other (Specify)
Project justification and economic analysis are discussed in detail in Annex 4. The economic analysis for
the demonstration phase of the EMCs, financed in part with EC and GEF grants, and the information
component, were based on the global environmental incremental cost methodology of GEF. The
incremental cost of the EMC component has been calculated as the difference between what would have
been spent on industrial energy conservation in the three pilot provinces (the "baseline"), and the amount
needed to overcome the barriers to the establishment of a market-based ESCO program in these
provinces (the "GEF alternative"). The cost to GEF for direct carbon reduction under the EMC and
information program components is about 40-60 US cents per ton of carbon, which compares very
favorably to GEF investments in other countries. The EC and GEF pilot-phase investments are essential
for commercial replicability of the EMC component, to be supported by IBRD and domestic commercial
loans. No ESCOs have been developed in China, and commercial entities have been so far unwilling to
undertake the risk to introduce and demonstrate the concept. Once the concept is developed and adapted
to Chinese conditions, economic returns are projected to be high, which will promote replicability. The
economic rate of return of the investments to be supported under the IBRD loan are estimated to be about
47 percent, shared between the EMCs and the host enterprises. Financial rates of return to the EMCs for



Page 12
the same investments are in the range of 20 to 25 percent. The present value of the total net economic
benefits of the EMC Demonstration Component is estimated at about US$325 million.
2. Financial analysis:
A discussion of financial issues and detailed analysis are presented in Annex 5. The Bank and PMO
conducted a financial appraisal of the three EMCs, based on their I 0-year business plans. The EMCs are
in many ways a unique type of business, combining aspects of an industrial enterprise with aspects of a
bank or leasing company. In addition to needs to continually refine their business strategies to minimize
risk and maximize profits, the EMCs must carefully control indebtedness, maintain a conservative debt-
to-equity ratio, and keep strict control of accounts receivable. The Bank has obtained assurances in these
areas. For all energy performance contract projects supported with EC, GEF or IBRD financing, host
enterprises will be required to meet specified financial criteria (see Annex 3). In addition, further
intensive technical assistance is being provided to the EMCs in corporate financial management for
ESCOs under the EC Grant, and further follow-up will be undertaken under the Program Management
and Monitoring Component. The project as a whole has a large positive fiscal impact, stemming from tax
receipts (VAT, import duties, sales tax and EMC income tax) from the EMC businesses.
3. Technical analysis:
Technical aspects of initial EMC energy performance contract projects are being reviewed by
international consultants engaged by the Bank and PMO. EC-financed projects are being individually
reviewed. GEF and IBRD-financed projects also will be individually reviewed until the Bank waives this
prior review requirement for specified project lines in specified EMCs. Further details are presented in
Annex 3.
4. Institutional:
Institutional development is a core objective of this project, and the three demonstration EMCs and
Energy Conservation Information Dissemination Center will be new institutions. Institutional
arrangements and issues are described in Annex 3.
5. Social:
The project entails no resettlement or land acquisition, and no social development issues.
6. Environmental assessment: (Category B)
This project will result in substantial environmental improvements through increased energy efficiency.
Negative environmental impacts are not expected. The EMCs will be involved in hundreds of small
subprojects, which will be identified during project implementation. Few, if any, will involve any
negative environmental or safety issues. These projects generally involve replacement of standard types
of equipment (motors, fans, pumps, lamps) or addition of energy-saving devices. The Environmental
Protection Bureaus of Beijing Municipality, Liaoning Province and Shandong Province have each
evaluated the prospective project lines of the relevant EMCs, and formally endorsed and approved the
business plans of the three EMCs for implementation. In addition, assurances were obtained from the
EMCs at negotiations that they will identify any subprojects with potential negative environmental or
safety impacts and, in such cases, provide the Bank with a plan for subproject implementation that will
mitigate those impacts and confirmation of necessary government approvals.



Page 13
7. Participatory approach:
The primary beneficiaries of the project-Chinese enterprises-have been closely involved in project
development and initial implementation through the EC Grant, and will be critical partners throughout
implementation. It is the nature of the business of EMCs to develop joint implementation arrangements
for energy conservation projects with host enterprises. As core aspects of their business, the EMCs
supported under the project have completed, and must continue, assessments of enterprise needs and
demands, joint identification of investment opportunities, and negotiation of mutually beneficial
implementation arrangements.
Other key stakeholders include the variety of Chinese groups of which the country's energy conservation
network is comprised, including agencies and public companies associated with the SETC and State
Planning Commission at central, provincial and local levels; units associated with the China Energy
Conservation Association; regional and local power companies; academic and research organizations;
and local energy conservation technical service units. Representatives of these groups have been active
as members or advisors to SETC's PMO and/or the provincial-level PMOs for this project, and the
advice of these groups has been sought by the project leaders at central and provincial levels through a
number of workshops and work conferences. The introduction of the EMC concept has attracted great
interest in China's energy conservation community, and the combination of information dissemination
and seeking of advice between the PMOs and the wider network begun during project preparation will
continue with support under the Program Management and Monitoring Component.
This project has generated interest in the international energy efficiency community as well. In addition
to staff from the GEF and EC, the Bank and/or Chinese project teams have consulted with
representatives of other multilateral institutions (e.g., UNDP, ADB and EBRD), a number of bilateral
donor agencies, international research institutes and academic organizations, NGOs active in energy
efficiency work, and a range of international ESCOs. These consultations have yielded useful advice for
the project team, incorporated in the project design, and also helped spark interest in applying some of
the concepts of this project in other countries.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability is enhanced by strong project ownership by the beneficiaries, and a focus on
adaptation and revision of the new concepts by the counterparts to match Chinese circumstances.
Domestic commercial bank financing for EMCs is important for sustainability after project
implementation. Accordingly, the Provincial Governments have involved several domestic banks in
project preparation activities, and conferences and workshops to introduce the initial results of the three
demonstrations EMCs and energy performance contracting concepts to the domestic financial and
banking community, once some experience has been gained, are included in the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
This project involves high initial costs to develop and adapt the energy performance contracting concept
to Chinese conditions, through a series of technical assistance, pilot demonstration, monitoring and
evaluation and correction activities, begun during project preparation and accelerated during the first
years of project implementation. Without separate, concessional EC and GEF financing of these costs,
the proposed Bank loan would clearly be too risky and not financially prudent. Government agencies,
taxation and legal authorities, the Chinese financial community, and potential client or host enterprises



Page 14
are unfamiliar with the concept. Some issues can (and are) being overcome through technical assistance
in project preparation and implementation. However, initial, on-the-ground experience in energy
performance contracting is required, including adaptation for different types of technologies, customer
groups and contractual arrangements, as each involves significantly different issues. While there is little
debate in China or abroad that the energy performnance contracting concept has great potential in China,
no party has been willing to shoulder the high initial development costs. Once the initial barrier is
overcome, the project is designed to capitalize and build upon the experience gained through (a) IBRD
credit on commercial terms for replication of proven project packages in the three EMCs, and hence
EMC growth, and (b) the Phase II EMC Expansion effort, to support the development of a variety of
other types of EMCs, including joint-venture and private sector firms.
Overall risks associated with the EC/GEF/SETC-financed EMC demonstration projects are rated
medium. Risks of individual performance contract project failure include risks of technical failure,
inability to enforce contracts, and lack of financial performance. These risks are being minimized by
emphasis in project selection on (a) simple, proven technology, (b) projects where energy savings
monitoring and verification are relatively simple, (c) projects with rapid payback periods, and (d)
selection of host enterprises which are particularly keen and competent. The existing active involvement
of the SETC and especially provincial Economic and Trade Commiissions also is critical during this trial
period to coordinate adaptation to the existing legal, taxation and institutional management framework,
and to assist in minimizing risks of contract defaults.
Overall risks associated with the IBRD loan are rated moderate, as use of loan funds will be targeted
towards technology/contract/consumer group packages which are proven to hold the greatest promise for
growth.
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
This project has a low controversial issues rating for all categories (social, ecological, pollution,
governance).
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
No critical policy or institutional reforms have been sought. Execution of onlending and subgrant
agreements for the EMC Demonstration Component satisfactory to the Bank are conditions of GEF
Grant and IBRD loan effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
Assurances were obtained at negotiations in the GEF Grant, IBRD Loan and Project Agreements that the
Grant Recipient, Loan Borrower and Project Beneficiaries will prepare mid-term project review reports,
based on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, by August 31, 2000 and August 31, 2002, review
them with the Bank by September 30, 2000 and September 30, 2002, and take necessary measures based
on the report recommendations and the Bank's views.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations in the GEF Grant and IBRD Loan Agreement that the
Recipient will, through SETC:



Page 15
* enter into a performance contract satisfactory to the Bank with the Energy Conservation Information
Dissemination Center by June 30, 1998, or a later date agreed with the Bank;
* maintain the PMO, comprised of a project management unit and an EMC development unit, both
with functions and resources acceptable to the Bank and competent staff in adequate numbers, to
coordinate project implementation; and
* ensure that ECIDC shall be maintained with qualified and experienced management and competent
staff in adequate numbers, and that ECIDC shall implement a time-bound project implementation
and staffing plan and long-term financial plan, both satisfactory to the Bank.
Financial assurances obtained at negotiations in the EMC Project Agreements include assurances that
each EMC will:
* not incur any further indebtedness unless its net revenues exceed, and are projected to continue
exceeding, its debt service obligations by at least 1.6 times;
* adopt and maintain a conservative capital structure and dividend policy throughout the duration of
the loan such that total long term debt will not exceed 60 percent of total capitalization (net equity +
total debt);
* undertaken all projects on acceptable commercial terms and ensure that the average collection period
of all accounts receivable does not exceed 60 days; and
* provide the Bank, by end-March of each year, with a rolling five-year financial plan containing the
investment program, business plan and projected financial statements; and taking into account the
Bank's comments implement the plan thereafter.
Special subproject implementation assurances obtained at negotiations in the EMC Project Agreements
include assurances that each EMC will:
* identify six or more types of subprojects (product lines) and implement one or more pilot projects
within each;
* enter into energy performance contracts for these projects, which protect specified interests of the
Bank, Borrower and EMCs, and which shall be on commercial terms and for subprojects that meet
criteria acceptable to the Bank (as described further in Annex 3, Section A);
* obtain Bank approval for all individual energy performance contracts to be financed with GEF or
IBRD funds prior to execution, until and unless the PMO and Bank formally waive this prior review
requirement for the relevant project line of the relevant EMC; and
* identify any subprojects with potential negative environmental or safety impacts and, in such cases,
provide the Bank with a plan for subproject implementation that will mitigate these impacts and
confirmation of necessary government approvals.
Execution of a performance contract between SETC and ECIDC satisfactory to the Bank will be a
condition of disbursement of Part B (the information dissemination component) of the GEF grant.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.



Page 16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]         .. R  fE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Robert P. Taylor
.;- ..- --_
[signature]
Sector Manager/Director: Yoshihiko Sumi
rsignlattu
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang



Page 17                                           ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators /a Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and Risks
(a) CAS Objective                                                                 (CAS and GEF Objectives to
Alleviate infrastructure con-   See below              See below                  Bank Mission)
straints; safeguard the environ-                                                  Increases in energy efficiency
ment                                                                              provide increases in energy
(b) GEF Operational                                                               services without negative
Program Goal: OP#5                                                                environmental impact.
Project Development and                                                           (Development and Global
Global Objectives                                                                 Objectives to CAS Objective)
Achieve large, sustained and   Quantified energy savings per Biannual project summaries   Energy efficiency gains are
growing increases in energy   year, and associated CO2  prepared by the PMO integrat- sustained and grow from (a)
efficiency, and associated  emissions reduction resulting  ing and summarizing data  proliferation of energy per-
carbon dioxide emission reduc- from the project.       described below.           formance contracting concept,
tions with (a) new project                                                        and (b) sustained operation of
financing concepts and market-                                                    instituting developed under the
oriented institutions; and (b)                                                    project (three EMCs, national
improved access to information                                                    information center).
on successful, financially
attractive energy efficiency
experiences.
(Outputs to Development and
Project Outputs                                                                   Global Objectives)
* Development, demonstration * Quantified energy savings   * Project implementation and  EC/GEF/SETC financing of
and growth of energy       and CO2 reduction from      energy savings data in   initial development costs is
performance contracting in    projects of three EMCs.  project reports from three   required. Without this finan-
three demonstration EMCs.                              EMCs.                     cing, IBRD loan risks are
unacceptably high (see PCD
text for details).
* Proliferation of energy  * Listing of firms engaged in  * Results of monitoring survey
performance contracting to a   energy performance continu-  of SETC on energy perform-
variety of companies in    ity in China and estimated  ance contracting in China at
China.                     energy savings and CO2      large.
reductions from their
activities.
* Increased adoption of key    * Energy savings and CO2  * performance reports of infor-
energy efficiency measures    reductions from energy effi-   mation center, required in
due to improved access to  ciency measures of enter-   performance contract with
high quality, financially  prises verified to be a result   SETC, following methodol-
relevant information.      of specific information     ogy used in the United
discussed by the energy    Kingdom.
efficiency information center
supported by the project.
Project Components
* EMC Demonstration        Standard project            Project progress and       See above.
* Information Dissemination  implementation indicators.    supervision reports.
* Technical Assistance
L/ See section below.



Page 18                                  ANNEX I
Key Performance Indicators and Monitoring Methods
The key indicators of success in achieving project development objects are the energy savings achieved
per year and associated reductions in the growth of carbon dioxide emissions. Performance indicators for
the core EMC Demonstration Component, which accounts for 92 percent of the project investment by
GEF and IBRD, are provided below. These performance indicators include only a portion of the direct
energy savings expected from the investments of the three demonstration EMCs. (Total direct energy
savings from the three EMCs are estimated at 45 million tons of coal equivalent, and associated total
carbon dioxide emissions reduction is estimated at 34 million tons carbon.) The indicators include only
savings achieved during the project implementation period, whereas large additional savings are
expected after the project is completed from continued savings from investments undertaken during the
project implementation period. Furthermore, the performance indicators are somewhat more
conservative than the energy savings estimates corresponding with the business plans of the three EMCs,
incorporating greater risk of implementation difficulties than the company targets. Energy savings
figures include savings resulting from EC-supported pilot projects.
Performance Indicators for
Energy Savings and Reduction of Carbon Dioxide Emissions from
Direct Investments of the EMCs
Calendar Years                          Total
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   Period
Energy savings    0.04   0.2    0.5    0.8    1.3    1.7    2.1    2.8    3.6    13.0
(million tce)
Carbon reduction    0.03   0.1    0.3    0.5    0.9    1.2    1.5    1.9    2.5      9.2
(million t)
Total actual energy savings and associated carbon dioxide emissions reductions achieved from all
subprojects will be reported by each EMC in their annual project reports (as well as more frequent
project updates, as and when required). Actual energy savings for each of the energy performance
contracts of the EMCs are relatively easy to monitor during the implementation of the energy
performance contracts, as measurement or confirmation of stipulated energy savings are key aspects of
these contracts. To assess energy savings from projects after contract periods are over, the EMCs will
complete sample surveys of sufficient size and using internationally accepted scientific sampling and
statistical methods to ensure the reliability of results.
Final annual energy savings and associated carbon dioxide reduction indicators for the information
dissemination component will be included in the performance contract between SETC and ECIDC, to be
completed by June 30, 1998, following completion of ECUDC's detailed project implementation plan.
Energy savings eventually resulting from this component may total 24 million tce, and associated carbon
dioxide emissions reductions may total 18 million tons carbon, but as in the case of the EMC
Demonstration Component, only a portion will be achieved during the project implementation period.
Estimation of energy savings actually achieved in this case is complicated and difficult, but the necessary
survey work is also required for ECIDC to continually monitor and adjust its marketing methods.
Monitoring will need to involve at least three components: (a) compilation of data on the number of
types of energy conservation investments promoted and the typical energy savings which may be
achieved, largely from the number of successful case studies and technical guides prepared each year;



Page 19                                   ANNEX I
(b) data on the number of enterprise managers contacted directly and indirectly, and the number of
enterprise managers that have actually reviewed the specific information provided; and (c) the number of
enterprise contacts that have resulted in implementation of the energy conservation measures being
promoted. It also may be useful to survey the recorded sales of the energy efficiency technology being
marketed by ECIDC as another source of information.
Even though specific performance indicators are not necessary, measures of the success being achieved
by the EMC Development Unit also should be monitored and reported at least biannually, and should
include : (a) data on the detailed activities of the unit, including requests for assistance received and
acted upon, contacts made, marketing activities conducted, etc., and (b) data on the number of enterprises
utilizing energy performance contracting in China, the scale of the investment portfolio of these
enterprises, and estimates of the energy savings being achieved by these firms.
For each of the three EMCs, additional financial project implementation performance indicators
includes: (a) maintenance of accounts receivable of 60 days or less in each year of project
implementation, and (b) achievement of a return on assets of at least 6 percent in 1999, and 9 percent in
2002 and 2006.



Page 20                                  ANNEX 2
ANNEX 2: ENERGY CONSERVATION IN CHINA: MAKING THE
TRANSITION TO THE MARKET
ENERGY CONSUMPTION-INTENSITY
In 1990, China's economy was among the most energy-intensive in the world, registering an energy use
per unit of GDP level some 3-10 times that of major developed countries. One of the reasons for China's
high energy intensity is that industry comprises about 44 percent of China's GDP (1993), a share much
higher than that of other low-income countries and even higher than Japan. This drives up energy
intensity because industry is far more energy-intensive than the other major sectors. Chinese industry has
also been dominated by the production of basic, intermediate industrial goods, and generally low levels
of product quality or specialization, while out-of-date, energy ineiFficient technology remains pervasive
throughout Chinese industry.
China's commercial energy intensity per unit GDP fell by over 30 percent between 1980 and 1990-a
remarkable achieve by internationai standards. The elasticity of growth in commercial energy use
relative to GDP growth was just 0.5 percent. Among the largest energy-intensive industries, the most
impressive gains were made in the steel industry, where unit energy consumption fell by over 20 percent
between 1980 and 1990. One of the factors behind the drop in industrial energy intensity since 1980 has
been the increasing share of relatively less energy-intensive subsectors, such as machinery and
electronics industries, and declining roles of the energy-intensive metallurgy and chemical fertilizer
industries. Even more important has been a shift in the mix of products produced within industrial
subsectors (e.g., within the chemical industry itself), and this trend is expected to continue. In the textile
and garment industry, for example, a substantial growth in value-added is not expected to come from
huge increases in square yards of cloth or numbers of shirts produced, but more from increases in
product value, in terms of quality and fashion. Declines in energy use per unit of output value due to this
trend will be especially important in the chemical, machinery, building materials and light industry
sectors, which together accounted for over 60 percent of industrial final energy use in 1990.
Although structural effects may have the greatest impact on the energy intensity of China's economy,
technical efficiency levels-energy consumption per physical unit of output-can be more directly
influenced by national and local policies. Unlike many other GHG reduction options, emissions
reductions from technical energy efficiency improvements can be realized almost inmnediately. Because
Chinese industry will undergo dramatic transformation as a result of economic growth, the
opportunities for energy efficiency gains are greatest between now and the year 2010.
ENERGY CONSERVATION POTENTIAL
There is tremendous scope in China for further improvement in the technical efficiency of energy use (e.g.,
the efficiency of energy use per physical unit of output). By far the largest potential for technical
efficiency improvement in China is in the industrial sector, where potential energy savings between now
and 2020 are more than 500 million tons of coal equivalent (Mtce) per year, or more than half of China's
current annual energy consumption. Among the industrial energy conservation projects which have been
identified as having great potential in China include: waste heat, gas, and resource recovery;



Page 21                                 ANNEX 2
cogeneration; adoption of more electric-motor drive systems; furnace and kiln renovation; improvements
in industrial boiler efficiency; improved energy management systems; and insulation and thermal/steam
system renovation. A second area of energy conservation potential is in commercial and residential
buildings, for lighting, water heating, and space heating and cooling. At least 100 Mtce can be saved over
the next 20 years through energy conservation investments in buildings, where a large amount of new
construction will take place.
CHINA'S ENERGY CONSERVATION PROGRAM
China's energy conservation system is among the most extensive in the world. During the 1980s, China
successfully developed a comprehensive energy conservation program, including major policy directives,
procedures, regulations, technical assistance programs, and project financing initiatives. Compared to
programs in other developing countries, China's program is especially strong in its comprehensive
coverage of enterprises, monitoring of consumption practices, promotion of awareness of energy
efficiency goals among enterprise managers, and domestic technical information dissemination. Built
largely around the planned economy, the system developed during the 1980s emphasizes administrative
measures to prod enterprises to improve energy efficiency. A drawback with planned economy measures
is that they are not automatic or built into the economic system. Administration is usual difficult and
complicated. The pressure applied to enterprises is greatly uneven, and for reasons that are arbitrary from
an economic point-of-view. In addition, the planned economy system encourages mediocrity, rather than
promotion of optimal efficiency levels, as performance evaluation tends to be referenced against
domestic averages.
The institutional framework for energy conservation in China includes a number of specialized energy
conservation units at national, provincial and county/municipal levels, operating under the State
Economic and Trade Commission (SETC), and provincial and local Economic Committees. National
plans and capital construction projects to improve energy efficiency are undertaken by the State Planning
Commission (SPC) and its affiliates at provincial and local levels. The China Energy Conservation
Investment Corporation handles much of the capital construction project investment, with the general
guidance of SPC. The system was quite effective under the centrally planned economic system, taking
advantage of the well-established framework of industrial enterprise energy input quotas and government
investment funding mechanisms for investment in state-owned enterprises. Central and provincial
electricity administrations coordinate conservation work at the local level through the Offices of
Electricity Allocation, Conservation, and Safety. A number of provinces have established energy
conservation service centers to provide enterprises with technical advice and training. Most of these
centers have concentrated on measurement and monitoring of energy use, especially to check compliance
with energy consumption quotas and standards.
With the ongoing conversion of China's economic system to a market economy, the system for
promoting energy conservation must be transformed to operate more effectively in a market economy.
Many of the administrative measures which have been relied on in the past cannot be expected to work
effectively or efficiently in a more market-oriented future. Nonetheless, much of the energy conservation
promotion system built up through the 1980s can serve China well in the future; the institutional
network, and its increasing capacity to execute serious energy conservation initiatives on a
comprehensive scale, provide a critical advantage. A broad set of reforms are underway in China
providing state-owned enterprises with autonomy and full accountability for profits and losses, with new
fiscal and tax provisions enforcing budget constraints and accelerating corporatization. Efforts to
promote energy efficiency must now be built primarily on the self-interest of enterprises, as a means to



Page 22                                   ANNEX 2
increase enterprise profits and/or to meet environmental regullations. New and different financing
approaches and mechanisms are also needed.
BARRIERS TO ENERGY CONSERVATION IN CHINA'S TRANSITIONAL ECONOMY
There are a wide variety of constraints impeding implementation of attractive energy conservation
projects in China. Some constraints to energy conservation projects are because of the current transition
from a planned to a market economy, while others are common in (leveloped market economies as well:
*  Weak Cost-consciousness. "Classic" energy conservation projects involve upfront investments- to
reduce future energy operating costs. Enterprise enthusiasm for such investments require strong
desire by enterprise management to control operating costs as a means to increase enterprise profits.
While the profit motive and market competition are rapidly increasing cost-consciousness in Chinese
enterprises, it takes time for management methods and attitudes to change.
*  Demand for Short Payback Periods. People with experience in the promotion of "classic" energy
conservation projects know that these investments are alrnost always assessed by enterprise
managers or potential investors in terms of their payback period, rather than their life-cycle rate of
return. Conservation investments with payback periods of more than five years are rarely undertaken
by enterprises or investors, unless there are other pressures.
-  Risk and Uncertainty. Use of payback period calculations are usually associated with risk and
uncertainty. Whereas investments in output expansion involve physical, easily perceived benefits,
the benefits from energy-saving investments are future cost savings calculated by analysts. In China,
a bias against cutting operating costs has been exacerbated by a management culture attuned to
maximizing physical output and achieving-or surpassing-output quotas. Another category of risk
is market and technical risk stemming from the current rapid change in China's economy. The
increasing role of competition and the market is driving a major economic restructuring, and
associated volatility in the profitability of different sectors and product lines. In China today,
flexibility to respond to rapid market changes is critical. Long payback periods mean funds are tied
up. Not only may future opportunities for high-return profits be foregone, but market changes may
render renovated production lines, although more energy-efficient, less profitable or unprofitable as a
whole.
*  Lack of Adequate Information. Often, viable energy conservation investments may not be
undertaken because enterprise managers have limited knowledge of these opportunities. Particularly
lacking is practical information on actual enterprise experiences with different technical measures,
and the details of the actual cost savings and increased profits.
*  Low Financial Significance and Transaction Costs. Even if rates of return are high, and payback
periods are considered acceptable, many energy conservation projects may not be considered priority
investments by enterprises because net benefits are not large relative to the size of the enterprise. The
time and effort of staff to gather information, design projects, undertake the relevant analysis, and
implement the projects may not be worthwhile. In other words, there may be a number of additional,
hidden costs involved in project preparation and implementation, especially for highly valued staff,
which reduces the project's attractiveness.
*  Lack of Financing. For some energy conservation projects, enterprises lack adequate funds for
investment. A more common financing problem is that domestic banks do not wish to lend for
energy conservation projects as they do not directly result in increased production.



Page 23                                  ANNEX 2
WHAT IS ENERGY PERFORMANCE CONTRACTING?
Energy performance contracting is a means to pay the entire cost of an energy conservation project out of
reduced energy expenditures. The energy savings that result from the energy efficiency investment are
used to finance the project. Such a mechanism allows customers to use future energy savings to upgrade
plant and equipment and to cut operating costs now. Energy performance contracts, signed between
enterprises undertaking energy efficiency investments (the "host" enterprise, or the "customer") and
specialized profit-seeking energy management companies, can help promote energy efficiency projects.
Under other, traditional arrangements, all of the risk and all of the benefits of energy efficiency projects
lie with the enterprise undertaking the investment. Consequently, many promising energy efficiency
investments have yet to be implemented.
There are several steps in the identification and implementation of energy performance contracts by
energy management companies (EMCs):
* Identification and Selection. A company (usually the EMC) does an assessment of the customers'
opportunities for cost-effective energy efficiency measures. The current energy use of the customer
may be measured, along with the anticipated savings from various energy efficiency improvements.
Typically the EMC or their contractor design the efficiency improvements.
* Financing and Payments. The EMC uses their capital (or that of a third party, such as a commercial
bank or equipment supplier) to finance the capital investment. The customer and the EMC negotiate
a deal to allocate cost and savings from energy conservation investments over a period of time. The
EMC and the customer share the energy savings on a agreed split. The usual energy performance
contract provides the EMC with most of the savings during the early years of the contract to repay
the capital investment, while the customer's share of the savings rises in later years. Payment is
made by the customer to the EMC based upon an agreed schedule. In some countries, the EMC may
take over payment of the energy bills for the term of the agreement in return for a fixed payment
from the enterprise. The enterprises' payments for energy use and a portion of the conservation
investment should be equal to or less than previous energy bills; the energy savings are thus used to
finance the capital investment.
* EMC structure. EMCs can take many forms. Some have evolved from engineering companies into
energy management firms providing energy efficiency services. Others have evolved from energy
management equipment manufacturers seeking greater markets for their products. In the past 10
years in the United States, EMCs associated with electric power companies have flourished. Power
companies have formed subsidiary units to provide energy efficiency services to their customers
initially and then to others. Other power companies have hired independent EMCs to provide energy
efficiency services to their customers. A recent trend has been power companies acquiring EMCs to
provide services to their customers and those of other power companies. Producers of high energy
efficiency equipment also have a clear commercial incentive to establish EMCs.
HOW CAN ENERGY PERFORMANCE CONTRACTING HELP OVERCOME BARRIERS TO
ENERGY CONSERVATION IN CHINA?
The objective of "energy performance contracting" in China is to accelerate energy conservation and
efficiency investments by removing two major barriers: (1) inadequate financial incentives, and (2) a
lack of capital for project financing.
While high transactions costs and "insignificance" are major barriers to many energy efficiency
investments in China, they reflect enormous market potential for energy performance contracting. Much



Page 24                                     ANNEX 2
of the potential for energy savings in China is through implementation of large numbers of individually
small projects. High transaction costs to individual enterprises are also a barrier to undertaking energy
efficiency investments. Energy efficiency projects often carry high costs (particularly high opportunity
costs of key skilled enterprise personnel) for obtaining and checking information, planning and design,
arranging financing, implementation scheduling, monitoring initial performance and implementing
necessary adjustments. EMCs can reduce the high transactions costs to individual enterprises by
undertaking the relatively small energy conservation investmenjts and providing a low-risk guarantee to
host enterprises.
Energy performance contracting can help overcome financing problems and allow host enterprises to
undertake energy conservation investments with little or no investment of their own. And, because these
are not loans to the host enterprise, and payments to the EMCs are typically paid from reductions in
operating costs, no debt for the investment is carried on the books of the host enterprise.



Page 25                                 ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COSTS
A. EMC DEMONSTRATION COMPONENT
Concept and Activities
Under the Energy Management Company (EMC) Demonstration Component, energy performance
contracting will be introduced and developed in China through the establishment, development,
operation and expansion of three EMCs, in Liaoning Province, Shandong Province, and Beijing
Municipality.) Including technical assistance during project preparation, the component involves four
phases: (a) training and technical assistance on energy performance contracting concepts, establishment
of the EMCs, and initial project preparation (GEF PDF-financed, 1996-97); (b) intensive training and
technical assistance on EMC operations and implementation of the first pilot projects by the EMCs (EC-
financed, 1997-98); (c) implementation of a wide variety of demonstration projects (GEF/counterpart
fund-financed, 1998-2000); and (d) EMC growth, through replication of successful demonstration
projects (IBRD/counterpart fund-financed, 1998-2003).
Initial project preparation activities. Following introduction by international advisors of basic energy
performance contracting concepts and a competitive process undertaken by SETC to select provinces to
participate in the project, Liaoning, Shandong and Beijing EMCs were first established in April 1996.
Subsequent major activities included (a) an assessment of international experiences in energy
performance contracting by the PMO and three EMCs; (b) preparation of first-draft EMC business plans,
including project development and scheduling, and corporate finance, with substantial international
expert assistance; and (c) initial training in project design, verification of energy savings and
development of contract models appropriate for Chinese conditions, through preparation of initial energy
performance contracting pilot projects with international advisors.
EC Grant. Approved by the European Commission in December 1996 and made effective in June 1997,
an EC grant of ECU 4 million (about US$4.5 million) is providing funding support to begin initial EMC
operations prior to GEF grant and IBRD loan approval and effectiveness. An average of US$ 1.1 million
is being provided to each EMC to support some 8-12 energy performance contracting pilot projects each,
and to sum up experiences. The pilot projects are being approved in three phases during 1997 and early
1998, with staggered implementation through 1997 and 1998. As the first energy performance
contracting projects in China, each project is being reviewed by the PMO and Bank team together with
the EMCs, and revised if necessary, prior to approval. By January 1998, the first phase of projects were
under implementation with initial favorable results. Technical assistance and training during the last half
of 1997 and early 1998 supported by the grant include: (a) development of customized training materials,
curriculum and course delivery of a major two-part course for EMC project managers on the technical
and commercial aspects of energy performance contracting; (b) technical assistance on EMC financial
management and development of relevant procedures and MIS; (c) education of government policy
officials and provincial government staff on energy performance contracting; (d) engagement of short-
term international and domestic advisors for the PMO and EMCs on selected topics; and (e) evaluation
of project progress by late 1998 by an independent, third party.
l Energy performance contracting is described in Annex 2.



Page 26                                 ANNEX 3
GEF Pilot Projects. Each EMC has identified 6-10 potential "project lines" for their energy
performance contracting businesses in the coming years. Under the EC Grant, a few pilot projects within
several of the project lines will be implemented by each. Subsequent GEF financing averaging about
US$5 million for each EMC would support implementation of pilot projects among all of the project
lines. Moreover, several pilot projects will be developed within each project line, with substantial
adjustments in the energy performance contracting mechanism to meet the requirements of different
types of enterprises and to adapt different variations in savings verification or contractual arrangements.
EC and GEF pilot project implementation will be undertaken over a four-year period, enabling the EMCs
to develop project lines gradually, as company capabilities and expertise allow, and with sufficient
flexibility to try new concepts, savings verification arrangements and contractual terms, based on the
experiences previously gained.
Project Replication and EMC Growth. The proposed IBRD, domestic counterpart loans, reinvested
profits, and, increasingly, domestic commercial loans arranged by the EMCs will provide the capital for
replication of successful pilot projects on a large scale and EMC ,growth. EMC business success will
require translation of the successful experiences, expertise and market credibility gained from the pilot
projects in a given project line into the development of a "mass production" project line, using tested
project designs, savings verification and contractual arrangements for large numbers of projects, with
declining transaction costs and risks to the EMC. Implementation of "replication" projects using loan
capital within successful project lines developed in 1997 and 1998 will overlap with implementation of
pilot projects in other, newer project lines during the initial years of project implementation.
EMC Investments and Financing. Annex 5 provides an assessment of the investment plan, financing
plan and financial position and projects of the three EMCs.
EMC Institutional and Legal Structure
The three EMCs are for-profit limited liability shareholding companies, established and registered in
1996 according to China's Company Law. Following a prevailing model in modern China, the company
shareholders are public entities or publicly owned corporations, but the EMC are autonomous from the
government, with independent accounting, independent management, and sole responsibility for their
profits and losses. Company management reports to a Board of Directors, representing the company
shareholders. The official names and shareholders of the EMCs are:
C  Liaoning Province Energy Conservation Technology Development Company, Ltd. Registered
capital at inception totaled 20 million yuan, with shareholders including Liaoning Provincial Electric
Power Development Company (50 percent), Fushun Aluminum Factory (25 percent), Liaoning
Xinda Industry Development Company (10 percent), Liaoning Province Energy Conservation Center
(5 percent), Liaoning Province Magnesium Resource Protection Office (5 percent), Shenyang Yukai
Science and Technology Development Co. (5 percent).
*  Shandong Energy Conservation Engineering Company, Ltd. Registered capital at inception
totaled 34.4 million yuan, with shareholders including Shandong Energy Conservation Technology
and Service Company (wholly owned by the Shandong Provincial Economic and Trade Commission)
(58 percent), Shandong Energy Savings and Technical Service Center (24 percent), Shandong
Shengli Stock Corporation (15 percent), and Sanlian Group Corporation (3 percent). The EMC Board
of Directors also would like to accept new shareholders, perhaps expanding the registered capital to a
total of more 60 million yuan by the end of 1999, with the new shareholders, provisionally including
Shengli Oil Administration Bureau, Shandong Provincial Electric Power Company and Shandong
Yanzhou Coal Administration, each providing about 10 million yuan. With the addition of these



Page 27                                 ANNEX 3
shareholders, the largest shareholder's share (Shandong Energy Conservation Technology and
Service Co.) will fall to under 50 percent.
Beijing Yuanshen Energy Saving Technology Company, Ltd. Registered capital at inception
totaled 20 million yuan, with shareholders including Beijing Energy Investment Company (affiliated
with the North China Power Group, 75 percent), Beijing Energy Savings Monitoring Center (15
percent), and Beijing Energy Savings Technical Service Center (10 percent). The energy efficient
lighting projects of the EMC are being implemented in association with Beijing Sanyuan Green
Lighting Technology Development Co., in which Beijing Yuanshen Energy Saving Technology
Company holds a controlling share of 60 percent of that company's registered capital of 500,000
yuan.
Electric power utilities are the dominant shareholders in the Liaoning and Beijing EMCs, and a power
company is expected to become a minority shareholder in the Shandong EMC in 1998. Provincial Energy
Conservation Centers, established in the 1980s and supervised by the State and Provincial Economic and
Trade Commissions, are small shareholders in each EMC, and a significant number of the technical staff
in the EMCs has transferred from these Centers.
While there are some variations in internal organization, a strong financial management department and
one or several strong operational departments are common features in each EMC. As of Fall 1997, core
staff in each EMC included about 8-10 professionals, plus a number of contracted advisors and senior
technicians. Each EMC has established recruitment plans, criteria and procedures for steady increases in
staff as the number of projects undertaken by the companies increase. Training of new EMC project
managers is a high priority, and hence substantial investments are being made under the EC Grant to
develop an in-depth, practical training course which can be delivered biannually for project managers.
Development and installation of a financial management, reporting and billing system to meet the special
needs of the EMCs also is a high priority, and will be supported with EC and GEF financing.
EMC Project Lines
Each EMC has planned its business to include a series of project lines, as illustrated in Table 1. These
business plans will change as experience is gained and market opportunities develop or contract-the
business plans presented should be revised in a flexible manner at least annually as project
implementation proceeds.
After the initial startup and phased growth, each EMC is expected to eventually develop and implement
80-100 new projects per year. The average project investment cost during the initial years is about 1.6
million yuan (about US$200,000), rising to about 2.6 million yuan (about US$3 10,000) in the later years.
Each of the three EMCs has developed their project lines in accordance with the conditions in their
provinces and their particular staff expertise, but as the three have exchanged ideas, there has been
considerable cross-fertilization. Compared to ESCOs in Canada and the USA, the Chinese EMCs are
adapting energy performance contracting with a greater focus on industrial applications, and have
developed a number of project concepts which have big market potential in China today but would not
have a significant market in the West. Each of the project lines is being reviewed as the EMCs prepare
the relevant initial demonstration projects for PMO and Bank review and approval. As a result, project
lines with demonstration projects financed by the EC or proposed for funding during the first year of
GEF fund disbursement had been more thoroughly reviewed by the time of project appraisal, while other
project concepts will be more fully reviewed during project implementation. All three of the EMCs are
developing early project lines for installation of energy efficient lighting in commercial and public
buildings, installation of more energy efficient electric motor systems, and renovation of small and



Page 28                                            ANNEX 3
TABLE 1: PLANNED PROJECT LINES OF THE THREE EMCs, OCTOBER 1997
Number of Projects                    Investment (Million Yuan)
1997-99   2000-06    Total                1997-99   2000-06     Total
Liaoning EMC
Electric furnace renovations              33        113       146                   88        387        475
Efficient electric motor drives           15        131       146                   42        457        499
Boiler renovations                        29        140       169                   24        144        168
Efficient electric lighting               20         87       107                     9        55         64
Steam & air hammer replacement             5         72        77                    12       227        239
Waste heat recovery                        1         54        55                     3       246        249
Other                                      0         38        38                     0       424        424
Total                                  103       635        738                  178      1,940     2,118
Shandong EMC
Commercial building lighting & pumps       15        13        28                    16        17         33
Autoclave insulation                       11        68        79                    25       205        230
Steam & air hammer replacement             12         6         18                    9         4         13
Efficient electric motor drives           24        144        168                   55       421        476
Boiler renovations                        25         62        87                    11        31         42
Electric arc furnace renovations           4          9         13                    9        23         32
Waste heat recovery                        4         82        86                     7       187        194
Waste heat power generation                4         70        74                    16       345        361
Glass furnace insulation                   4         69        73                    18       420        438
Improved cement grinding                   4         41        45                    11       151        162
Total                                  107       564        671                  177      1,804      1,981
Beijing EMC
Efficient lighting in chicken farms        7        142        149                    5       133        138
Efficient commercial lighting              17       280       297                     9       165        174
Boiler renovations                         9        189        198                    4       103        107
Steam & air hammer replacement            10         49        59                     8        50         58
Condensed water recovery                  25        347       372                    38       681        719
Power transformer renovation               4         83        87                     9       255        264
Efficient electric motor drives            6         90        96                     6       121        127
District heating renovation                5         52        57                   37        496        533
Others                                     9         97       106                   24        341        365
Total                                   92     1,329      1,421                  140      2,345     2,485
medium-size coal-fired boilers (primarily installation of one of a number of coal sorting devices
developed in China for installation in fuel feed systems). Current individual company business plan
characteristics are:
*   Liaoning EMC. Based on the special expertise and industrial relationships of company staff, this
EMC is developing a strong initial business in electric arc furnace renovation work. Electric motor
projects also is an area of major emphasis at this stage, complimented by a range of smaller boiler
renovation and electric lighting projects.
*   Shandong EMC. Electric motor projects are an area of particular emphasis in Shandong. The
company also has developed a line of projects to install improved insulation on industrial autoclaves.
In addition to early implementation of smaller lighting projects, Shandong EMC also would like to



Page 29                                   ANNEX 3
initiate a somewhat wider range of project lines during the first few years than the other EMCs,
especially in waste heat recovery and installation of improved insulation for glass furnaces.
Beijing EMC. Beijing EMC has placed greater emphasis on lighting projects than the others,
developing projects in chicken farms, hotels, shopping centers and the subway. In addition to some
initial development of boiler projects and investments to replace air and steam hammers with more
efficient electrically powered industrial hammers, the EMC is also developing innovative project
lines for recovery of condensed water (and its latent heat) in industry and for renovation of medium-
size district heating blocks.
The capabilities of the three EMCs to assess the market for business opportunities and adjust plans based
on actual conditions, where necessary, has greatly increased over 1997, especially with the beginning of
project implementation with EC support. Host enterprises for EMC projects include a variety of types of
enterprises, and not only state-owned enterprises.
Project and Host Enterprise Selection Criteria. To be eligible for EC, GEF or IBRD financing,
projects must (a) be energy conservation investments (e.g., more than 50 percent of total project benefits
accruing to the EMC must be derived from savings in host enterprise energy costs); (b) yield an
estimated net financial rate of return to the EMC of at least 15 percent per year; (c) employ the energy
performance contracting mechanism; and (d) be undertaken in stable and financially sound host
enterprises, as described further below. In addition, for projects to be eligible for EC or GEF financing,
each project must have distinct demonstration value: each project should demonstrate application of the
energy performance contracting mechanism in a new product line or technological application, in a
different type of host enterprise, or with a different type of savings verification or contracting
arrangement.
Especially during the early years, EMCs should continue to select technical applications with minimal
technical risk, relatively simple installation and implementation requirements, relatively simple energy
savings verification requirements, high local replication potential, and quick financial payback periods.
Although host enterprise financial requirements are different for energy performance contracting than for
appraisal of loans, as payments to EMCs are treated as operating costs and not loan repayments, EMCs
must still ensure that the enterprises hosting energy performance contracting projects are stable and
financially sound. During at least the last year, host enterprises must have (a) shown a net profit, (b)
maintained a debt to total assets ratio of less than 70 percent, and (c) show a credit rating of AAA or AA,
or equivalent. In addition, EMCs should ensure that host enterprises have (a) sufficient liquidity to make
payments on time, (b) demonstrated stable production and market conditions, (c) sound company
management, (d) clear and stable company ownership, and (e) sufficient company size (assets).
The above criteria were agreed by the Bank, SETC and the three EMCs at project appraisal and
negotiations, and denote the commercial terms and subproject criteria acceptable to the Bank referred to
in the Project Agreement.
Project Approval Requirements
PMO and Bank approval of all energy performance contracting projects of the EMCs will be required
prior to implementation unless and until this approval right is formally waved for specific project lines.
Project feasibility reports and draft contracts will be submitted to the Bank through the PMO. The PMO
and the Bank will place special emphasis on review of the technical and economic aspects of new project
lines when projects in a new project line are first proposed. Once a sufficient number of pilot projects



Page 30                                 ANNEX 3
have been implemented to demonstrate the technical and commercial viability of a specific project line in
a specific EMC, the Bank and PMO may formally wave prior approval requirements for IBRD-supported
projects for that project line for the duration of the project, although a revocation right will be retained.
Table 2: EMC Demonstration Component Cost and Financing
Current US$ million
EC grant La                                  4.5
GEF project grant                           -15.0
Domestic loans, through SETC                30.9/b
IBRD loan                                   63.0
EMC internal sources                        23.4
Total                                    136.8
/a Effective June 1997.
/b 300 million yuan, valued at US$36 million at the 1997 exchange
rate, and US$30.9 million in current terms.
B. INFORMATION DISSEMINATION COMPONENT
Concept and Outputs
This component will support the development of a new system to develop and provide practical
information on energy conservation project results to Chinese enterprise managers. The system will be
operated by the new Energy Conservation Information Dissemination Center (ECIDC), functioning
under a performance contract with SETC, established on January 9, 1998. ECIDC will oversee the
development of new information products, patterned after highly successful models in developed market
economies, and the dissemination of these materials primarily through channels already existing in
China. The new products, and function and operating framework of the Center, are to some extent
patterned after the Energy Efficiency Demonstration Scheme (EED'S) and the Best Practice Program of
the Government of the United Kingdom, but with major adaptations to Chinese conditions. This
component includes US$10 million of support for the initial five years of the program. SETC grant
financing of US$5 million will support the core costs of ECIDC, and a core level of product development
and dissemination. GEF grant financing of US$5 million will support training and institutional capacity
building, a portion of product development and dissemination, especially during the early, trial years, and
program evaluation and monitoring.
The new information products are being designed to better meet the needs of enterprise managers
operating in the market economy. While there currently is a wide range of publications and newsletters
in China on energy conservation measures, the information focuses virtually exclusively on technical
aspects, and is geared primarily to an audience of enterprise, research institute or industrial bureau
engineers responsible for energy conservation work. Production and dissemination of these technical
materials is typically not very systematic, and is both geographically and institutionally highly
fragmented. In contrast, the new information products will be geared towards a wider audience and
especially industrial enterprise managerial and senior engineering staff responsible for investment
decisions. All materials will be based on verifiable information from actual projects undertaken in



Page 31                                   ANNEX 3
Chinese enterprises. Particularly strong emphasis will be given to financial results actually achieved by
enterprises (and the factors underlying these results), problems and solutions during implementation, any
impacts on main enterprise production or other key risks, and contact information on enterprises with
relevant experience. All materials will be presented in a standard, easily recognized, professional format,
with the authoritative endorsement of ECIDC backed by SETC, and disseminated nationwide in a
systematic fashion. The two key new products include:
* Case Studies. A case study will provide independent, authoritative information on specific energy
efficiency measures with high replication potential, implemented by specific industrial enterprises.
The implementation of a measure at a host enterprise will be observed by an independent monitoring
contractor appointed by ECIDC. Measurements and surveys will be taken before, during and after
the measure is implemented. The case study documents will typically be about 4 pages, including
pictures, drawings and graphs, and focusing on costs, financial results, impacts on meeting energy
use or environmental regulations (if relevant), before-and-after analysis, implementation and
operational experience, "tips" for others, and contact information. About 100 case studies will be
completed under the project, beginning with about 10 during the first year and increasing to about 25
per year during the fourth and fifth year.
- Technical Guides. The technical guides will provide enterprise senior technical and energy
managers with authoritative information on a range of energy savings options within a given
technical category (e.g., electricity savings in electric pump applications, or energy management
systems in the cement industry). The guides will complement the case studies, which feature one
measure each. They will be prepared by recognized experts on contract with ECIDC. Each guide will
typically include (a) process description and energy saving opportunities; (b) technical description
and advantages and disadvantages of key energy saving options; (c) possible nonenergy benefits; (d)
considerations in equipment selection; (e) implementation and operational experience in various
enterprises, and how to avoid common pitfalls; (f) costs, financial benefits and financial risks, base
on case histories; (g) decision trees detailing circumstances in which different technologies or
techniques should be used; and (h) sources and contacts for further information. It is planned to
complete about 17 technical guides under the project.
Dissemination will be a key activity of ECIDC. Based on the proposed performance contract, ECIDC
will ultimately be judged not on how many case studies or technical guides it produces, nor the quality of
these materials, but on how many industrial enterprises actually use the information to implement
projects. Thus ECIDC must disseminate material of sufficient impact and content, and in an appropriate
manner, to result in increased investment in energy conservation measures by enterprise decisionmakers.
In addition to distribution of the case studies and technical guides, ECIDC plans to (a) produce short
newsletters; (b) conduct workshops, site visits and seminars; (c) publish articles in a variety of relevant
journals describing its case studies and guides; (d) operate a database of information program outputs
and, possibly, equipment suppliers; and (e) operate an Inquiries Bureau. As vehicles and partners in
conducting direct mailings, workshops, site visits, and seminars, ECIDC will work closely with local
Economic and Trade Commission offices and affiliated institutions, energy conservation units in the
industrial line ministries, local Industrial Bureaus, the China Energy Conservation Association and its
local representatives, and other institutional networks. Useful fora include a full range from regular
government work conferences to local trade exhibitions.



Page 32                                          ANNEX 3
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
ECIDC will operate under the supervision of the Resource Savings and Comprehensive Utilization
Department of the SETC, based on a performance contract. At negotiations, it was agreed that the
performance contract will include at least (a) a description of services to be provided, deliverables and work
program targets; (b) approval procedures for annual plans; (c) key performance indicators, including energy
savings targets, agreed methodology for monitoring these indicators, and any other evaluation criteria;
(d) financing arrangements and financial management requirements; (e) subcontracting provisions;
(f) supervision and management role of SETC's PMO; and (g) reporting requirements. The performance
contract will specify required levels of proven annual energy savings stimulated by ECIDC's activities
(ramped up with time). ECIDC will therefore need to closely rnonitor and survey the results of its
activities, according to agreed procedures. Based on UK experience, this will provide the Government
(and GEF) with a useful measure of the cost-effectiveness of use of public funds. It also is incumbent
upon ECIDC to carefully target technologies, its audience, material formats, and dissemination work to
achieve the maximum results in verifiable energy savings at least cost. Strategy development, market
research and self-evaluation of activities to allow mid-course corrections are all important areas for
ECIDC's work.
ECIDC is a not-for-profit public service entity, an independent legal person with independent
accounting, and is intended as a permanent entity. Although ECIDC may generate a small level of
revenue, many activities must be free to users (e.g., distribution of case studies), or provided bellow full
cost (e.g., technical guides), in order to meet the objectives of the program, as is the norm in other
countries. Revenues might be generated through small fees for certain products or advisory services, but
areas where revenue generation is allowed must be explicitly and precisely listed in the performance
contract, to avoid conflicts with broader program interests. ECIDC will require some continued
Government funding after the five years of project implementation. The core staff of ECIDC will be
engaged as long-term employees, working full time and only for ECIDC. Three initial core staff were
engaged as of January 1998.
Table 3: Information Dissemination Component: Cost and Financing (Five Years) L/
(US$ million)
GEF         SETC         Total
A. Center Core Costs                                                       0        2,400         2,400
B. Capacity building, training and technical assistance, including overseas  1,500    100          1,600
training, long-term and short-term program consultant and trainers, technical
assistance for strategy, and market research and evaluation
C. Products and product dissemination
Case studies                                                        1,700        1,100         2,800
Technical guides                                                      450         200            650
Dissemination (seminars, work conferences, site visits, third-party
events, newsletter, training of local energy conservation staff)  1,150        1,100         2,250
Subtotal                                          3,300        2,400          5,700
D. Evaluation                                                            200          100           300
Total                                  5,000        5,000         10,000
La GEF-financed aspects include US$3.7 million in consultant services, and US$1.3 million for printing and
measuring/monitoring equipment costs.



Page 33                                 ANNEX 3
Building upon the existing project implementation plan prepared by the PMO, ECIDC will submit prior
to April 1, 1998 its final project implementation and staffing plan, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, together with a financial plan satisfactory to the Bank for ECIDC's operation for at least a 10-
year period. At project negotiations, the Bank obtained assurances that the SETC will enter into a
performance contract satisfactory to the Bank with ECIDC no later than June 30, 1998, or such later date
agreed with the Bank.
C. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING COMPONENT
Activities
This component includes (a) activities to support the proliferation of energy performance contracting
among a wide variety of possible enterprises in China, to be implemented by the EMC Development Unit
of the PMO; and (b) training and technical assistance for energy efficiency program management and
support and evaluation of the project's other components to be implemented by the Project Management
Unit of the PMO. The component will be supported with US$2.0 million of GEF financing for
incremental costs and US$2.0 million equivalent of SETC grant financing for core costs, especially
staffing costs.
The EMC Development Unit will promote and assist the creation of new EMCs in China by any
interested domestic or international parties. The success of the program and the unit staff will be
measured by the number of new EMCs created and the successful operation of these EMCs. The Unit's
operations will be supported with US$1.1 million of GEF funding. The Unit should undertake the
following tasks:
X  Provide specific information on EMC development in China for dissemination to potential EMC
organizers, Chinese financial institutions, government officials and foreign ESCOs.
*  Provide assistance, including the help of foreign experts, to any EMC organizer beginning an EMC
company, including assistance on basic concepts, product lines, model contracts, financial models,
and lessons learned.
*  Arrange conferences and workshops for potential EMC organizers, Chinese financial institutions and
government officials.
  Invite foreign ESCOs to review EMC development in China.
*  Provide assistance to foreign ESCOs in understanding what must be done to establish joint-venture
EMC businesses in China, including basic "how to establish" documents, one-on-one discussions,
and assistance discussions with appropriate officials.
*  Provide assistance to Chinese banks in understanding how they can finance EMC activities and
potential benefits.
*  Provide willing EMC organizers, willing investors and willing foreign joint-venture lists for potential
matchmaking.
*  Assist Chinese businesses wishing to develop energy performance contracting by providing materials
on the basic concepts, model contracts, essential elements of business plan outlines and model
generic plans, generic product line technical assessment, benefits analysis, savings verification
options and commercial terms of contract, and legal aspects.
* Assist the PMO in the design of the GEF Phase II EMC Expansion and other potential international
donor agency projects by providing details on the lessons learned from the three EMC
demonstration, the experience gained in working with EMC organizers to create new EMCs, what
barrier are critical, and how to overcome them.



Page 34                                      ANNEX 3
Capacity building and monitoring/evaluation activities of the Program Management Unit supported by
GEF financing are planned to include US$500,000 for training and US$400,000 for consultants services:
*  Training courses in energy economics for staff working on energy efficiency and nominated by the
SETC;
*  Training and further assessment of intemational experience in ESCO management and operations;
*  Engagement of consultants to help the PMO provide technical assistance to the EMCs on a wide
variety of issues, conduct project monitoring and evaluatio:n activities, and undertake technical
evaluation of proposed new EMC project lines;
*  Completion of independent project reviews.
TABLE 4: PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING COMPONENT: COST AND FINANCING
(US$ million)
GEF              SETC            Total
A. EMC Development Unit                  1.1             1.0             2.1
B. Program Management Unit
Training                               0.5                             0.5
Expert Consultants' Services           0.4             0.2             0.6
Core Costs                                             0.8             0.8
Subtotal                    0.9             1.0             1.9
Total                      2.0             2.0             4.0
D. TOTAL PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Table 5 provides a summary of the costs presented in Tables 2-4, in standard World Bank investment
project format.
TABLE 5: SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Project Component                Local   EForeign   Total
EMC Demonstration                27.7      61.7      89.4
Information Dissemination         4.7       3.1       7.8
Program Management and Monitoring  2.8      0.4       3.2
Total Base Cost                35.2     65.2      100.4
Duties and Taxes                 24.0       0.0      24.0
Physical Contingencies            1.7       3.1       4.8
Price Contingencies               11.3     10.3      21.6
Total Project Cost             72.2     78.6      150.8



Page 35                                ANNEX 4
ANNEX 4: PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, INCREMENTAL COSTS,
AND BENEFIT-COST ANALYSIS
A. OVERVIEW
Energy conservation in China over the coming decades is critical for the country's development and for
the global environment. A major conservation effort is necessary to limit the otherwise huge increase in
primary energy supply required to sustain the growth of China's economy and to mitigate the serious
environmental consequences of expanded energy consumption. This project will support the introduction
of a market-based approach to financing energy conservation investments-energy performance
contracting-which has the potential to overcome some of the major impediments to energy
conservation in China (see Annex 2). Secondly, the project will support the introduction of a new
nationwide energy information program, providing consumers with information on financially attractive
energy conservation investments. Economic and financial analyses demonstrate that the potential
benefits of the project-both for China and the global environment-are enormous. However, to achieve
these benefits, it is necessary to introduce, demonstrate, and disseminate an entirely new concept to
China, which requires the establishment of new institutional rules and practices.
Energy performance contracting (the ESCO concept) provides a unique solution to China's current
energy conservation investment program, which has become less effective as the economy has become
more market-oriented. Studies have shown that there are a wealth of profitable energy efficiency
investments in China, particularly within the industrial sector. However, a number of barriers have
limited the extent to which such investments have been undertaken by enterprises themselves. By
limiting the technical and financial risk to host enterprises, and providing a financial incentive to both the
host enterprise and the pilot energy management companies (EMCs) that have been established under the
project, the ESCO concept has the potential of dramatically increasing investment in energy
conservation. However, because the ESCO concept is new to China, there is considerable risk. EC and
GEF grant resources are necessary to reduce these risks during a demonstration phase.
A different type of energy information system is also required for China's transitional economy. At
present, information on energy conservation at both the central and local level is primarily technical in
nature, is disseminated irregularly, and does not focus on the financial returns of conservation
investments to enterprises and other prospective users of such information. While an extensive
information delivery system remains in place in China (see Annex 2), the informnation currently provided
does not entice enterprises to invest in energy conservation on their own. The new program will provide
energy consumers with information on "best practice" energy conservation investments with high
financial returns in a number of industries and for various technologies.
B. BENEFITS
The project will result in significant additional energy savings in China and associated reductions in
greenhouse gas emissions through the demonstration and dissemination of energy performance
contracting via the EMCs and the establishment of a new market-oriented energy information program.
The project will also produce other environmental benefits associated with energy conservation, such as



Page 36                                 ANNEX 4
the avoided health consequences of local air pollution and the avoided regional impacts to agriculture
and ecosystems from acid rain.
Energy Conservation. Direct project benefits include energy savings from: (a) energy conservation
investments by the three pilot EMCs; and (b) enterprises undertaking energy conservation investments
by themselves as a result of the improved energy information program. Total energy savings associated
with the initial three EMC's operations (Table 1) have been calculated based on the energy savings from
EMC investments identified so far, and the number of such invesitments approved during appraisal (see
Annex 3, Table 1). Energy savings for the three pilot EMCs include investments undertaken during the
first 10 years of operation. The energy savings associated with the new energy information program have
been estimated based on the experiences of a similar program in the United Kingdom during the 1980s
and early 1990s.
TABLE 1: PROJECT BENEFITS
Energy Savings               CO2 Reduction
(million tons coal equivalent)  (million tons carbon)
Three Pilot EMCs /a                        45                           34
Energy Information Program                 24                            18
Total                               69                            52
/a Estimates are based on the EMC business plan targets.
Global Environmental Benefits. The proposed project would contribute to significant reductions in
carbon dioxide emissions over the medium term. Energy conservation investments planned by the three
EMCs in their business plans are estimated to result in the reduction of around 34 million tons of carbon
(MtC). Carbon dioxide emissions reductions are estimated to total 18 MtC for the new energy
information program. The estimated direct benefits from EMC investments during 1998-2006 would
accrue during 1998-2016, with about 60 percent of the benefits achieved during 2007-2016 from the
continuing energy savings of the increasingly large investments of the EMCs during the final years of
project implementation. Under a more conservative scenario, whereby only about 70 percent of the
energy savings and carbon reduction expected in the EMCs business plans are actually achieved, carbon
reduction directly resulting from EMC investments during 1998-2006 would total about 24 MtC, of
which 9.2 would be achieved during 1998-2006, and the balance of some 14.8 MtC from the 1998-2006
investments would accrue during 2007-2016 (performance indicators in Annex I are based on this more
conservative assumption). The cost to GEF for carbon reduction directly related to the three pilot EMCs
and information program is estimated to be 40-60 US cents per ton of carbon, depending upon the
scenario. This cost compares very favorably to GEF investments in other countries, valued at several
dollars per ton of carbon, and damage estimates used by GEF and many developed countries of US$20
dollars per ton of carbon.
Additional benefits from this project are expected to result from further dissemination of the EMC
concept in China. With additional follow-up, as proposed in the Phase II EMC Expansion, additional
carbon dioxide emissions might amount to three or more times the estimates here, further improving cost
effectiveness.



Page 37                                    ANNEX 4
Additional Domestic Benefits. Energy efficiency projects have been shown to result in substantial
reductions in the emissions of both particulates and sulfur, principally through the reduction in energy
consumption, but also through the introduction of more sophisticated technologies that are less pollution-
intensive and that often embody pollution control technologies. Based on case studies of energy
efficiency carried out as part of the China GHG Study,' the project could reduce particulate emissions by
2.5 million tons and sulfur emissions by 3.3 million tons over the life of the project. Such reductions in
local air pollutants, especially fine particulates, would result in large health benefits for residents, by
reducing ambient concentrations, and thereby reducing human exposure and the incidence of respiratory
illnesses. Reductions in sulfur emissions and concentrations would lessen the impact of acid deposition
in certain parts of China, and thereby reduce the impacts on crops, ecosystems, and materials.2
C. BARRIERS TO INTRODUCING ENERGY PERFORMANCE CONTRACTING IN CHINA
If the barriers to energy performance contracting can be successfully demonstrated in China as a result of
this project, the potential benefits as outline above, are enormous. The principal constraint is not
technical or financial risk, but the lack of information and experienced institutions that are required for
the energy performance contracting market to function.
Information. Energy performance contracting is a new concept in China. Potential host enterprises with
potential energy conservation investments are unfamiliar with energy performance contracting. Given
China's history of central planning, enterprise managers in China are even more concerned with physical
output, and are therefore risk averse in allowing an outside "service company" into their enterprise to
replace equipment or alter production methods. International ESCOs, while potentially interested in
undertaking energy performance contracting in China, are unaware of the rich potential of energy
efficiency investments-much of the potential is in the industrial rather than residential/commercial
sector. While governments, both central and local, are interested in replacing the current energy
conservation program with a self-financing and market-oriented solution, they too are unfamiliar with
the concept, particularly how it would be adapted to Chinese conditions. Domestic banks, which must
shoulder the financing of EMC operations, are not familiar with energy performance contracting, and
have not been particularly keen on financing energy conservation investments in general.
Experience. Although ESCOs have been successfully operating in many developed countries for over 15
years, no companies have yet used energy performance contracting in China. Both domestic and
international companies lack the experience in designing and structuring energy performance contracts in
China, which can only be worked out by signing such contracts and carrying them out. Even more so
than other businesses, contracts will directly determine the profit of the ESCO, and the financial benefit
to the host enterprise. Once energy performance contracts are demonstrated and perfected, it is expected
that both domestic and international ESCOs will become established in China and flourish. Host
enterprises are likely to be wary of energy performance contracts until they have been proven in similar
enterprises and endorsed by local or national government energy conservation agencies.
Johnson and others (eds). 1996. "Issues and Options in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control," World Bank
Discussion Paper No. 330, Washington, DC.
2 Estimates of the human health and other impacts of fine particulates and sulfur has been evaluated in a recent
report by the World Bank (1997), "Clear Water, Blue Skies: China's Environment in the New Century," China
2020 Series, Washington, DC.



Page 38                                 ANNEX 4
The Missing Market. In essence, none of the components necessary for establishing a market for energy
performance contracting in China yet exists. (a) Without information about ESCOs and seeing practical
results on the ground, there is no effective demand for energy performance contracts by host enterprises.
(b) No Chinese ESCOs have been established and no international ESCOs have yet been willing to enter
the market. (C) Except for initial pilot efforts associated with this project, no energy performance
contracts have been drafted, signed, and their conditions fulfilled. Energy performance contracting in
China will require introduction and adaptation to China's unique economic, regulatory, and legal
situation. In fact, until the proper institutional mechanisms are established-including ESCO companies,
but also regulatory experience governing and protecting Chinese ESCOs and host enterprises-there can
be no market for energy performance contracting in China.
D. EMC DEMONSTRATION VS. DEVELOPMENT
Given the barriers to energy performance contracting mentioned above, it is essential that the concept be
both introduced and demonstrated in China prior to widespread commercial development. Because
energy performance contracting companies do not currently exist in China, there is a significant amount
of learning through on-the-ground business operations that must be acquired by the newly established
EMCs. Demonstration of the ESCO concept would take place during the pilot phase. For purposes of this
project, the "pilot phase" for the EMCs is defined as the trial implementation of individual "product
lines"-including technologies, users, and contract types. Not all of the individual project investments
undertaken by the EMCs during the pilot phase would be suitable for follow-up commercial EMC
investment, either because of marginal economics in light of large transactions costs, or difficulties in
contracting or energy savings verification. The initial demonstration of different product lines would be
supported by EC, GEF, and SETC grant resources. Once a product line has been proven, follow-up
commercial development could proceed using IBRD and domestic bank loans. Outside reviewers of the
project, familiar with the development of ESCOs in the United States and Canada, have stressed that
adequate time (three to five years) must be allowed to introduce and demonstrate the ESCO concept and
for the initial pilot companies to become established. The pilot phase of the project began in 1997 using
grant resources from the EC. Additional product lines would be demonstrated in 1998 using GEF and
SETC grant resources. Commercial development using IBRD and domestic loan funds could begin
immediately following successful demonstration of individual product lines. In the United States and
Canada, energy performance contracting was aided by various types of federal and state support for more
than 10 years, before the concept was finally commercialized. In the process, many ESCO companies
were established and many went out of business. A small subset of possible energy conservation
investments would be carried out under the pilot phase for diffierent consumers, technologies, and
contract types. Aside from helping the EMCs to identify high-return product lines and workable contract
types, the pilot phase would be used to demonstrate the shared savings concept to potential clients,
financial institutions, government agencies, and international private sector.
E. INCREMENTAL COSTS
Following the GEF methodology for financing of global environmental projects, the incremental costs
have been defined as the difference in the cost of the project with global benefits, compared to costs of
the baseline. In essence, the additional costs are those of introducing and demonstrating the EMC
concept in China and the new aspects of the energy information program. Only by incurring these
incremental costs can the additional energy and CO2 reduction benefits outlined in Section B above be
achieved.
Baseline



Page 39                                 ANNEX 4
In the absence of the GEF alternative, China's energy conservation program would likely remain in its
present form for the near term. However, it would likely continue to decline in size and effectiveness as
the market economy develops. Information on energy conservation is provided at both the central and
local level, however, such information is disseminated irregularly, is primarily technical in nature, and
does not focus on the financial returns to enterprises. Investments in energy conservation would remain
primarily a government function, and would continue to entail providing subsidized loans to enterprises
for qualifying energy conservation investments. China's energy conservation investment system is
largely a carryover from central planning, and would continue to be reduced in effectiveness through
declining central government funds and more limited influence by the government over industrial
operations. Under the baseline, there would be little or no private sector investment in energy
conservation in China.
Costs. Baseline expenditures on energy conservation by SETC during the Ninth Five-Year Plan (1996-
2000) in the three provinces relevant for the EMC Demonstration Component (Beijing, Shandong, and
Liaoning) is about US$36 million. The current Ninth Five-Year Plan allocation and spending by SETC
on energy information is in the range of US$5 million, while estimates for current overall program
management are US$2 million over five years. The cost of energy conservation activities under the
Baseline Scenario is estimated to total US$43 million.
GEF Alternative
The GEF alternative will introduce a market-based approach to financing energy conservation
investments-contract energy savings-and thus overcome some of the major impediments to energy
conservation investments in China today. Secondly, the project will introduce a nationwide energy
conservation system designed to provide energy consumers with information on "best practice" in a
number of industries and for various technologies. In particular, the new information system will
emphasize the financial returns to energy conservation investments to make such investments attractive
to enterprise management and to financiers.
EMC Component. The incremental costs of establishing EMCs are the costs associated with introducing
the ESCO concept to China and demonstrating to potential host enterprises and domestic banks that
energy performance contracting is financially attractive. The costs of establishing and demonstrating the
three EMCs over a five-year period is estimated at US$56 million. During the pilot program, SETC will
provide concessional loan capital of approximately US$36 million for financing replication projects and
working capital requirements, while EC and GEF funds would be limited to new applications.3 Only
where the ESCO concept is being demonstrated in a new application (i.e., technology, consumer,
contract type) would it qualify for incremental cost financing. Once applications of the ESCO concept
have proven successful during the pilot program, funding would be available for commercial
development from the World Bank (US$63 million), and from EMC internal sources (US$23 million).
Because the domestic benefits of the EMCs, once established, are expected to be large, grant resources
(EC/GEF/SETC) will cover only the startup costs and initial pilot demonstrations. These costs will
include: (a) EMC institutional capacity building (e.g., financial, legal, and technical services; measuring
and monitoring equipment); (b) upfront contract energy program development costs in identifying,
testing, and refining the technical product lines of the three EMCs (e.g., energy-efficient lighting,
3 SETC loan capital of 300 million yuan is valued at US$36 million at the 1997 exchange rate, but is estimated to
be equivalent to US$31 million in current terms at the projected dates of expenditure.



Page 40                                   ANNEX 4
electrical motor systems, heating and cooling, and heat recovery equipment); (c) working out and pilot
testing of viable contract terms between enterprises and the EMCs, suitable for Chinese conditions;
(d) establishing and agreeing with enterprises and pilot testing viable verification, monitoring, and
measuring protocols for the EMCs; (e) intensive monitoring of all aspects of the project, and completion
of a full evaluation of the pilot phase; (f) completion of revised EMC business plans, to be supported
with loan financing from the IBRD and domestic banks, and a nmarketing and dissemination plan for
developing EMCs on a broad scale in China; and (g) establishing monitoring and evaluation criteria for
the project.
Information. The GEF alternative includes institutional reform and strengthening of the program to
encourage the dissemination and adoption of cost-effective energy saving measures (including staff
training, workshops, case study program development, and materials preparation and production). While
China currently lacks a national-level information program for promoting energy conservation, the
Chinese government has committed itself to a national energy information program and has agreed to
provide core support for at least five years for the establishment and operation of a new National Energy
Efficiency Information Center (Center). Establishment of a new national energy information program,
focusing on the dissemination of financially-attractive "best practice" investments to enterprise
decisionmakers, is estimated to cost around US$10 million. Incremental expenses of the information
program include: (a) expertise required for the design of the "best practice" components of the new
national energy information program; (b) training of PMO and Center staff, and contract consultants in
the establishment and operation of a "best practices" program; (c) production of a number of technical
guides and case studies in the first five years of the program; and (d) monitoring and evaluation of the
information program to assess its effectiveness.
Total Incremental Costs
The cost of Phase I activities aimed at removing barriers to energy conservation under the GEF
Alternative is estimated at US$70 million. The incremental cost of Phase I global benefits is estimated to
be US$27 million. As the EC has approved US$5 million equivalent in financial support for barrier
removing activities during 1997-98, GEF funding of US$22 mill[ion is proposed to support Phase I
project implementation.



Page 41                                            ANNEX4
TABLE 2: INCREMENTAL COST MATRIX
Baseline                    Alternative                  Increment
Domestic Benefits        * A given level of energy ser-   * The same level of energy  * Barriers removed
vices are provided to enter-    services is provided in each  * 69 Mtce of energy saved
prises in each province     province                     * More information
* Current level of energy infor- * Information, risk, and financing   disseminated
mation (primarily technical)    barriers are removed in 3  * More institutional strength-
provided to enterprises     provinces                      ening and closer progran
* Current level of institutional  * Additional 69 Mtce of energy  management/supervision
support and program manage-  saved
ment provided for energy   * Additional energy information
conservation                (primarily financial) dissemi-
nated to enterprises
* Greater institutional strengthen-
ing and program management  |
Global Environmental    GHG emissions associated with GHG emissions associated with   52 Mt of carbon reduced
Benefits                the provision of above level of  the provision of above level of
energy services, energy infor-  energy services, less those asso-
mation, and institutional support ciated with additional energy
savings
Costs by Component
(US$ million)
EMC                                   36                           56                             20
Infornation Dissemination              5                           10                              5
Program Management and
Monitoring                          2                            4                              2
Total Costs                           43                           70                             27
EU/EC Contribution                     0                            5                              5
GEF Incremental Costs  I                                                                          22
F. BENEFIT-COST ANALYSIS FOR LOAN
If energy performance contracting can be successfully introduced and demonstrated in China
during the pilot phase, the potential economic benefits of the project are enormous. Benefit-cost analysis
has been done for the EMC component, with the caveat that not all future investments that will be
financed under the project have been identified and fully analyzed. Of the subprojects evaluated so far,
the economic internal rates of return (EIRR) of EMC investments range from 30-90 percent, with the
overall EIRR of the project estimated as 47 percent. These benefits would be shared between the host
enterprise and the EMC. Financial internal rates of return (FIRR) to the EMCs for the same investments
are in the range of 20-25 percent.
Present Value of Flows
US$ million
Economic Analysis                      Financial Analysis
Benefits                                   1,118
Costs                                       793
Net Benefits                                325
IRR (%)                                     47                                     20/a
La FIRR to EMC only.



Page 42                                        ANNEX 4
Based on the economic cost-benefit tables that were prepared for the three EMCs and for the project as a
whole, analyses were performed to assess the economic sensitivity of the project to various changes in
parameters:
(a)    Subproject failure. This is defined as any situation which reduces the benefits of the
project (without reducing EMC investment costs), such as lower than expected energy
savings or lower unit energy costs. For moderate reductions in overall project benefits
(10-20 percent), the EIRR of the overall project remains above 35 percent. Only if
overall subproject benefits fall by more than 50 percent, would the EIRR fall below a
discount rate of 12 percent.
(b)     Technical failure of entire product line. If entire product lines fail to generate any
benefits, the drop in the EIRR ranges from 3 percent to 17 percent, depending on the
EIRR of the individual product line and the share of investment in it by the EMCs. Two
major product lines (e.g., arc furnace renovation and adjustable speed drives) would have
to fail for the EIRR to fall below 12 percent. This analysis has also made the
unreasonable assumption that there is no learning by the EMC-e.g., all planned
investments continue to be made in the failed technical product lines. Relaxing this
assumption would allow investment funds to flow to successful product lines.
(c)    Shortened lifetime of equipment. Small to medium reductions in the lifetime of energy
conservation equipment have minor changes in the EIRR of the overall project. Only if
the lifetime of energy conservation equipment drops by 70 percent, would the EIRR fall
below 12 percent.
(d)    Poor Implementation. Poor implementation of projects by either the EMC or the host
enterprise could result in higher labor and materials costs, less energy savings, and more
frequent maintenance. For the analysis, poor implementation is assumed to result in
higher operation and maintenance costs of the energy conservation equipment. Because
the energy savings benefits are large for most projects, higher operating costs do not
have a large impact on the EIRR of most product lines. For a typical investment (arc
furnace renovation), operation and maintenance costs must increase by over 400 percent
for the EIRR to fall below the discount rate of 12 percent.
EIRR (%)
Baseline                                                                              47
Subproject Failure
energy savings 10 percent lower than expected                                     42
energy prices fall by 20 percent                                                  36
Technical Failure-entire product lines generate no energy savings
Boilers                                                                           43
Adjustable speed drives                                                           30
Arc furnace renovation                                                            30
Arc furnace and boiler renovations                                                26
Adjustable speed drives and arc furnace                                            9
Shorter Lifetime of Energy Conservation Equipment
Life of all product lines declines by 10 percent                                  46
Life of all product lines declines by 60 percent                                  25
Life of all product lines declines by 70 percent                                   I
Poor Implementation
Baseline EIRR for Arc Furnace Renovation                                          49
Operation costs for Arc Furnace increase by 10 percent                            48
Operating costs for Arc Furnace increase by 440 percent                           12



Page 43                                 ANNEX 4
As a final note on the cost-benefit analysis, it is somewhat misleading to focus primarily on the rates of
return of EMC investments, which appear quite high. Rate of return analysis is important where capital
scarcity is the primary constraint, however, information collected for this project as well as previous
analyses of energy conservation projects in China show that other factors are the primary constraints to
investment (see Annex 2).
G. PROJECT RISKS
EMCs. While the World Bank and the Chinese government share the belief that EMCs have great
potential in China, energy performance contracting is a new and untried concept in China. Project risks
for the EMC can be separated into the demonstration and development phases. Project risks are high
during the demonstration phase and low to medium during commercial development.
The economic (and financial) analysis is sensitive to a number of factors, which are summarized in Table
3. As mentioned elsewhere, the technical risk of the projects is low. All technologies are proven and have
economic and financial advantages over current alternatives in China. Nonetheless, technical failure
would affect both the financial and economic returns. Poor implementation, such as maintenance
problems, is a more important concern for EMC investments. Failure to realize the energy savings of the
project from poor implementation will result in reduced payments to the EMC and financial losses to the
host enterprise, affecting both financial and economic returns. Contracting problems, or bad debts, will
adversely affect the cash flow of the EMC, but, interestingly, will not affect the financial benefits of
individual projects to the host enterprise or the economic benefits to the country, since the energy
savings could still be realized. Likewise, problems with receiving payments on time (accounts
receivable) would affect the financial benefits to the EMC but not the economic benefits. Of course, over
the longer term, bad debts or accounts receivable problems could force the EMC out of business, which
would reduce energy conservation investments and adversely affect the economic benefits of the project.
Given the way contracts are being structured, low capacity utilization of the energy conservation
equipment would not adversely affect the financial returns to the EMC, but would affect the financial
benefits to the host enterprise and the economic benefits to the country. (Contracts are being structured to
avoid the situation where the EMC is not paid for energy savings because the host enterprise is operating
the equipment below historical levels due to nontechnical reasons.) Also, a shorter lifetime of the energy
conservation equipment will adversely affect the economic returns of the project, and financial returns to
the host enterprise. However, this will not affect the financial benefits to the EMC, since it will be paid
off early in the lifetime of the equipment.
TABLE 4.3: EMC RISKS AND FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC IMPACTS
Problems/Risks            EMC Financial Impact            Economic Impact
Technical failure                         YES                          YES
Implementation difficulties               YES                          YES
Contracting problems/bad debt             YES                           NO
Accounts receivable difficulties          YES                           NO
Low capacity utilization                  NO                           YES
Shorter equipment lifetime                NO                           YES
The success of EMCs is critically related to the quality and enforceability of the contract between the
EMC and the host enterprise. Thus, not only is it essential for the EMC to learn how to identify potential
customers, and select good projects, but there is a need for commercial contracts to be designed and



Page 44                                 ANNEX 4
executed. The active involvement of the SETC and the provincial Economic and Trade Commissions
during project preparation and pilot demonstration is critical to coordinate adaptation to China's existing
legal, taxation, and institutional management framework, and to assist in minimizing the risk of contract
default. Extensive technical assistance during project preparation and grant resources for pilot
demonstration will help to reduce risks. All of the technologies being disseminated by the EMCs are
commercially proven both in China and abroad. Extensive review of all EMC investments will also be
undertaken by the Bank during the pilot phase. As described elsewhere, the financial risks are being
mitigated through project design and Bank financial covenants.
Dissemination Risk. To be successful, the project must demonstrate the EMC concept in China, such
that additional EMCs are established and thrive. The EMCs are being demonstrated in only three
provinces, meaning that potential developers of the concept in other provinces must learn about the
benefits and potential risks of establishing such companies in their own provinces. The risk that the EMC
concept will not be disseminated is being reduced through extensive technical assistance during initial
implementation (including conferences and workshops), and by plans for a follow-up Phase 1I EMC
Expansion. In the end, the best means of disseminating the EMC concept is by showing enterprises,
financiers, and government the win-win nature of market-based energy conservation.
Information Program. For the information component, there are the risks of creating a new institution
(the national information center). These risks are being mitigated by combining the new Center with
China's existing energy information network and institutions. In addition, the Center will be given a
contract with the Government for achieving energy savings, which will provide an important incentive
for operational efficiency.



Page 45                                  ANNEX 5
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF THE ENERGY
MANAGEMENT COMPANIES
A. FINANCIAL PROFILE OF ENERGY MANAGEMENT COMPANIES IN CHINA
Energy Management Companies are a unique kind of project developer. Unlike comparable companies
elsewhere, they are in many ways an integral combination of an industrial enterprise and a bank/leasing
company and require the managerial skills and business strategies inherent in both. Their financial
success depends upon their ability to attract capital and bear all performance and credit/customer default
risk in developing, financing, installing and, to a greater or lesser degree, operating energy efficiency
projects. Their profits comprise both a markup on the installed project cost and an appropriate return on
the outstanding balance of the funds used to finance the projects, less, of course, the costs of borrowings.
In purely financial terms, these companies create and finance capital assets which are installed in, and
then effectively leased to a variety of host enterprises for varying periods. These assets generate an
uncertain revenue stream from actual measurable energy savings which is shared between the host
enterprise and the EMC in an agreed proportion and for a predetermined period of time. At the end of
this term all payments cease, title to the assets are transferred to the host enterprises, and any
unrecovered losses are borne by the EMC. Experience in the United States and elsewhere has shown that
the success of these companies is critically dependent upon their ability to (a) develop and efficiently
replicate a limited number of small, sound and low risk project types with a relatively short payback, (b)
maintain a prudent capital structure, (c) adopt conservative accounting practices, particularly in respect
to when revenues are recognized, (d) assess the financial position and creditworthiness of their
customers, (e) limit overheads and control costs, and (f) manage corporate growth within available
resources.
In order to succeed, the EMCs will need to possess or quickly acquire the diverse skills and discipline
required to:
*  limit overheads, labor and other fixed costs, given the relatively high financial leverage that is
necessary to support reasonable growth;
*  replicate a large number of small relatively uncorrelated projects in order to reduce the technical and
credit risk' and minimize the effects of a downturn in energy prices by limiting the term of each
project, at least initially;
*  keep to the core business and develop an intimate product knowledge of a limited number of product
types in order to reduce unit costs, facilitate equipment procurement and enhance its comparative
advantage. Diversification into other areas will distract management, stretch resources and, if
anything, increase business risk;
*  resist the temptation to overextend the EMC by exceeding their natural sustainable growth rate by
undertaking too many highly profitable projects with long paybacks;
Depending on the degree to which the projects are uncorrelated, the aggregate risk of a large portfolio of
projects/financial leases is less than the weighted average risk of each project or lease.



Page 46                                     ANNEX 5
*  enhance its financial standing and creditworthiness to attract the funds needed to sustain the
business. This will to a large extent depend on the extent of its equity base, its financial structure and
accounting policies (particularly revenue recognition), the quality of its lease portfolio, and the
standing of its customer base. Initially this is limited and, in the absence of venture capitalists, the
EMCs will require assistance from the State and multilateral lenders; and
*  systematically assess the financial standing and creditworthiness of its potential customers to reduce
the provision for bad debts, develop market related model contracts and the means to strictly enforce
the provisions of these contracts.
B. FINANCIAL STATUS PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Financial Model and Assumptions. A detailed financial model for each EMC was constructed to
provide a proforma income statement, cashflow and balance sheet in nominal terms for a period of 10
years, with 1997 as the base year. These projections are consistent with International Accounting
Standards (IAS) and the requirements of the Chinese authorities. The summary projections for each of
the EMCs are presented in Tables 3-5 at the end of this Annex. They are based on:
*  a series of standard project lines including large numbers of similar types of energy performance
contract projects. These have been derived from the demonstration projects which exhibit the
desirable attributes of manageable size, replication, potential market size and low technical risk. The
characteristics of each of these projects are in the project file and include capital cost, mark-up,
recurrent costs, project term, and proportion of savings;
*  a project implementation plan forecasting the number of projects in each project line, which will be
replicated annually by each EMC within their resources, financial constraints and loan covenants;
*  the capitalized cost of each project type comprising equipment cost, engineering and project
management, marketing fee and cost of the technical audit;
*  revenue receipts calculated on the basis of a predetermined share of estimated energy saving in
nominal terms for a predetermined term;
*  an average contract type used for all projects (although there will be variants). The typical share of
estimated energy savings accruing to the EMC, required profit margin (including recovery of
overheads, start up costs and provision for bad debts) and estirmated capital cost are used to derive
the contract termn2 for each project type;
*  ownership of project assets transferred to the host enterprise only at the end of the contract term. The
capitalized project cost is amortized over the term of the contract on an annuity basis. The
recognition of revenue is therefor accelerated somewhat and contributes toward the equity base,
which supports the borrowings required to generate and sustain a reasonable level of growth; and
* estimates of local and foreign inflation. Currency risks and resulting losses are borne by the EMCs
and are charged to profits as they occur.
Other quantitative assumptions are outlined in Table 1.
2 Level payments derived from energy savings for a fixed term have been assumed. The term is determined on the
basis of an annuity of the form
Cap Cost= % x S x (1-f 1/(I+ty)
r
where: (a) Cap Cost is the installed cost of the project including recovery of overheads, (b) % is the agreed
proportion of savings received by the EMC, (c) r is the rate of return required by management and includes cost
of capital, risk premium and profit margin, and (d) t is the resulting term of the contract.



Page 47                                     ANNEX 5
TABLE 1: MODEL ASSUMPTIONS
Liaoning  Beijing  Shandong
Accounts Receivable (days)              60.0     60.0      60.0
Provision for bad Debts () - Initial   15.0     12.0      15.0
- Longer-term    5.0      3.0       4.0
Domestic Inflation (% a year)            5.5      5.5       5.5
Real Exchange Rate (1997)                8.30     8.30      8.30
Tax - Turnover (%)                       5.5      5.5       5.5
- Corporate (/O)                   33.0     33.0      33.0
Interest Rates (/O) - Special Loan     11.7     12.0      12.0
- Overdraft             20.0     20.0      20.0
- Commercial            11.7     12.0      12.0
Reserves - Public Welfare Fund (/O)     5.0     10.0       5.0
- Capital Public Reserve (%/6)  10.0     15.0      10.0
Corporate Structure and Financing. The EMCs were formed in 1996 under national regulations as
shareholding companies, having limited liability and between four and six corporate shareholders
initially, with an initial total share capital of 82 million yuan-comprising fixed assets, patents and cash.
This will be augmented in 1997 and 1998 by zero percent nonredeemable preference capital from the
Ministry of Finance of about 150 million yuan, which will be financed from European Union and GEF
grants of ECU 3.2 million and US$15 million respectively.
Financial Projections. These are new companies with limited experience and without a track record or
domestic equivalents. The base case financial projections are therefor indicative and will undergo
substantial change as the EMCs evolve. Nevertheless, the projections are realistic, provided the EMCs:
*   survive the high risks of the earlier years without suffering a reduction in equity;
*   are able to quickly identify and replicate successful and profitable projects with reasonable market
potential;
*   further develop the management skills and experience to package and deliver a large number of
small projects consistently without excessive overheads; and
*   maintain financial discipline, strictly control working capital, correctly assess credit risk and plow
back a substantial portion of earnings into growing the business.
The base case projections show that the EMCs will be able to establish a rising profit trend, extend their
limited equity base, meet all debt service commitments and earn an adequate return on total funds
invested.
Net profit after tax is expected to increase rapidly initially as the companies prove their product lines,
develop and exploit their regional market potential and reduce losses from project failures and customer
defaults. This will reach levels of around 400 to 500 million yuan a year in nominal terms before
moderating in the face of market saturation and competitive pressure on profit margins as indicated in
Figure 1. The financial performance is underpinned by a strategy of confining the EMC activities to a
large number of small but profitable short payback projects which will minimize risks inherent in the
business by: (a) project and customer diversification, (b) securing profit margins and (c) containing the
adverse effects of unexpected inflation on what are essentially fixed price performance contracts.



Page 48                                    ANNEX 5
FIGURE 1: NET PROFIT AFTER TAX         The initial capital of the EMCs is limited. The equity
60.0                                     base of each EMC is projected to increase by an
50.0 -  - - - Liaoning           -       average of 25 percent a year from the modest level of
40.0        S -handong       ,_,__ -     28 million yuan in 1997 to 218 million yuan over the
zo c30.0              ,-                 10-year period as shown in Figure 2. This presupposes
=-20.0              - -                   a conservative dividend policy with the payout ratio
_~10.o E       ,       'rising only gradually to 20 percent as the companies
mature, tight control of overheads  and  social
o.o ., z-s O        8  g  og  g  E obligations, effective working capital management
-10.0  ''*   @  >  N  >  N  N  N  2   and the development of, and access to, commercial
-20.0                                    credit in the longer term. On the basis of this the
EMCs will be able to support borrowings of 210
million yuan and maintain a portfolio of energy saving projects of around 400 million yuan (US$35
million in nominal terms).
FIGURE 2: EQUITY BASE
Supported by the nature of the projects, strict financial    250
control and technical efficiency, the EMCs are          _.200   -    Liaoning
projected to turnover their assets, (primarily the       t |    - - - Shandong
capitalized aggregate value of the projects) about 1.1  1  50    ;,
times each year. This, together with a relatively stable   -
profit margin of around 8 percent of sales will enable e  100
the EMCs to achieve a return on total funds employed      50 [
of between 8 and 9 percent a year as illustrated in
Figure 3 and become financially self sufficient. These                                  
o>   OD CD   a   CN0
projected returns compare favorably with the ESCO                      0   0  a   
industry elsewhere in the world.
C. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, CONTROL AND
FIGURE 3: RETURN ON ASSETS EMPLOYED                     TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
14
12                                    Financial Management and Control. The low risk
10       /        -    =c   . _       strategy of pursuing a large number of small replicable
8-     r    ." ,.8     ....... _    projects, and the absence of a well developed financial
o 2.. 6 -    s >w~ ----- Liaoning         services sector, substantially increase the importance
E                       -.--Beijing
E   4  l               _ - - Shandong  of proper inhouse financial management, especially for
.....2il                           assessment of credit/default risk, credit extension and
o -0------ ----                 -    control of accounts receivable. Commercial credit in
-2  C) (D    N      N      N   N  the form of project leasing, factoring and asset based
lending is limited. EMC cashflow management is the
key to the growth, viability and financial independence of the EMCs. The EMCs will, with the aid of
technical assistance, need to establish a well staffed and competent accounting function skilled in:
*  assessing the creditworthiness of host enterprise comprising analysis of historic pretax interest
coverage, funds from operations and free cashflow to total debt, ROI, operating margins and
leverage etc.;
*  accurately recording a large number of transactions and managing an extensive and diverse portfolio
of debtors;
*  cost recovery and contract pricing;
*  controlling costs, budgeting and projecting future cash requirements; and
*  fulfilling statutory requirements in running a quasi-private shareholding company.



Page 49                                        ANNEX 5
Technical Assistance. The ongoing EC grant includes technical assistance to assist the EMCs to (a)
establish the basic financial systems which are essential to operate and control companies of this nature;
(b) provide basic training and guidance to the financial personnel; (c) develop the financial planning
function; and (d) define financial policy and appropriate procedures. Further supported under the project
management components of the GEF grant, where necessary, the technical assistance will include:
*   improvement of the financial models and refinement of the forecasts to reflect available resources,
corporate capacity, financial constraints and sustainable growth;
*  assessment of the EMCs corporate structure, business environment, project inventory and resources
and determination of: (a) appropriate financial structure, (b) critical success factors (debtors control
and collection, contract pricing, cost control, corporate growth, etc.), (c) generic accounting structure
(code of accounts and general ledger, payroll, a/c receivable, trade creditors etc.), and management
information needed to address these factors; (d) cash management and security; and (e) integrated
budgetary and cost control mechanisms;
*   preparation, design, supply, installation and commissioning of appropriate financial systems
software, computer hardware and training;
*   review and amendment of the terms and conditions of the EMCs standard business contracts to
reflect the EMCs financial policies; and
*   advice on the introduction  of international accounting  standards and auditing requirements
acceptable to SETC and the Bank.
D. PERFORMANCE TARGETS
To minimize risk; ensure that conservative financial policies are established and implemented; and
safeguard financial viability and solvency, the EMCs will take all the measures necessary to remain
within the performance targets set out in Table 2.
TABLE 2: FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Year ended December                       1997       1998        1999       2000        2001       2002
Beijing EMC
Number of Projects(#)                        5         22          65        133         140        171
Average Value of Projects (Y million)      0.7         1.4        1.6         1.5        1.6         1.6
Accounts Receivable (days)                  60         60          60         60          60         60
Return on Assets (%)                       0.0         0.0        6.0         6.6        7.1         9.6
Liaoning EMC
Number of Projects(#)                       13         33          57         82          93         93
Average Value of Projects (Y million)      1.9         1.6        1.8         2.0        2.3         2.5
Accounts Receivable (days)                  60         60          60         60          60         60
Return on Assets (%)                       1.2         1.6        6.1         6.5       10.2        10.0
Shandong EMC
Number of Projects (#)                      11         38          58         70          80         89
Average Value of Projects (Y million)      1.0         1.5        1.9        2.1         2.4         2.6
Accounts Receivable (days)                  60         60          60         60          60         60
Return on Assets (%)                       0.0        0.0         9.4        12.6        9.8         9.8



Page 50                                   ANNEX 5
E. FINANCIAL RISK ANALYSIS
Sensitivity studies have identified that customer credit/default risk, collection period, the share of energy
savings and project cost overruns will have the most significant impact on the viability of the EMCs.
Probability distributions associated with each of these factors have been estimated. Table 6 provides a
summary of the probability distribution associated with each of these factors and the motivation for its
selection. Monte Carlo simulation techniques were used to assess the aggregate financial impact of these
risks on each of the companies. The distributions and detailed results of the study for Liaoning are
contained in the project file. These results, which are fairly representative of the three companies, are
summarized in Figure 4. They represent the main indicators of financial health and show,
notwithstanding a wide range of possible outcomes, that within 90 percent confidence limits that the
company will be able to (a) maintain a profitable trend, (b) maintain a reasonably prudent financial
structure; and (c) earn an adequate return on its investments.
FIGURE 4: DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS, DEBT:EQUITY RATIO AND RETURN ON ASSETS
(a) Net Pdflts               (b) Debt to Total Capitalization  (c) Rturm on Assets
7000                           80%                          14%
GMoo[                        0 70%                 mean     12%
Io;                   mew _    5 f6%[=                Z 
10%~~~~~~~~~~0
-1000D8        8               .,o,tt O                    -2%' XM                 N
To alleviate this wide range of outcomes, management attention supported by specific technical
assistance will be directed towards improving systematic credit assessment, establishing suitable
personnel and credit control procedures to manage accounts receivables, and installing rigid policies in
respect of the model contracts and commercial terms.
F. REPORTING AND ANNUAL AUDIT
The EMCs will: (a) establish and maintain proper financial practices and accounts from the
commencement of project implementation and (b) complete the design, installation and operation of an
appropriate computerized accounting system to record all transactions in accordance with Intemational
Accounting Standards (IAS) and provide interim and annual financial statements reflecting the financial
performance and position of both the EMCs and the project. The EMCs will also provide to the Bank a
summary of the quarterly cost and operations report for the project detailing actual costs compared with
budget for the quarter and year to date, together with an analysis of significant variances from plan. An
example of the report format has been prepared for use by the EMCs and is available in the project file.
This will be further refined during implementation of the financial/MIS technical assistance component,
which is to be financed under the EC grant. The EMCs will also provide to the Bank, at the end of the
first quarter of each year, a rolling five-year financial plan containing the investment program,
production plan and projected financial statements.
They will appoint, prior to the commencement of the financial year, a suitably qualified auditor
acceptable to the Bank, who will provide an opinion and report on the statements, the adequacy of



Page 51                                  ANNEX 6
internal controls, and compliance with financial covenants within six months of the EMCs financial year
end.
G. FINANCIAL COVENANTS
At project negotiations, the three EMCs assured the Bank that they will:
*  not incur any further indebtedness unless its net revenues exceed, and are projected to continue
exceeding, its debt service obligations by at least 1.6 times;
*  adopt and maintain a conservative capital structure and dividend policy throughout the duration of
the loan such that total long term debt will not exceed 60 percent of total capitalization (net equity +
total debt);
*  undertaken all projects on acceptable commercial terms and ensure that the average collection period
of all accounts receivable does not exceed 60 days;
*  at the end of each financial year prepare the project accounts and annual financial statements in a
manner consistent with IAS and the requirements of the Chinese authorities and together with an
independent audit report, submit these to the Bank within 6 months of the financial year end; and
*  provide the Bank, by end March of each year, with a rolling five-year financial plan containing the
investment program, business plan and projected financial statements; and taking into account the
Bank's comments implement the plan thereafter.



Page 52                                          ANNEX 5
TABLE 3: LIAONING EMC: FINANCIAL SUMMARY, 1997-2006
(10,000 yuan, in nominal terms)
Year ended December                1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006
Income Statement
Operating income aftertumovertax  1,152  4,304  9,600  16,549 24,529 31,091  36,537 42,407 48,441  53,321
Project cost (incl depreciation)   771  3,125   7,066  12,199  18,227 23,260 27,411  31,832  36,506 40,338
Net operating income               382   1,179  2,534  4,350  6,302  7,831   9,126  10,575  11,935  12,983
Overhead, Interest and Tax         349   1,109  2,002   3,379  4,048   5,011   5,849  6,808   7,765   8,521
Net Income                          33      70    532    971  2,254  2,821   3,277  3,767   4,170   4,462
Funds Flow
Internal Sources                   739  2,848   6,666  11,474  17,570 22,299 26,252  30,250  33,470  38,066
Borrowings                            -  2,599   3,121   4,579   5,086  3,378   3,547   3,589   3,606   2,416
Equity Investments                2,664    672   1,716   1,540    679      -       -      -  1,000       -
Total Sources                     3,403  6,119  11,504 17,593 23,335 25,677 29,798 33,839 38,076 40,482
Capital Expenditures              3,102   5,530  10,519  16,385 21,437 24,063  28,263  32,554 35,757 38,180
Working Capital Inc./(dec.)        242    642    960   1,319   1,247   1,181    983   1,059   1.101    897
Loan Repayments                       -      -       -      -    500    500    500    300   1,151   1,248
Short Term Investments              59   (53)      25  (111)    151   (68)       52   (74)      65    157
Total Applications                3,403  6,119  11,504  17,593 23,335 25,677 29,798 33,839 38,076 40,482
Balance Sheet
Current Assets                     315    935  2,022  3,422  4,967   6,205  7,341   8,450   9,696  10,825
Less Current Liabilities             14     46    148    840    986   1,110   1,011   1,987  2,162   5,145
Net Current Assets                 301    889   1,874  2,582  3,981   5,095   6,330  6,464   7,534   5,680
NetFixedAssets                    2,395  5,144  9,455  15,170 20,694 24,473  28,796  33,526  37,335  40,180
Total Assets                      2,696  6,033  11,330  17,752 24,676 29,568 35,126 39,989 44,869 45,860
Debt                                  -  2,599  5,720  9,799  14,385  17,263 20,509 22,947 25,305  23,564
Equity                            2,696  3,434  5,610  7,953  10,290  12,305  14,617  17,043  19,565  22,295
Total Equity and Liabilities      2,696  6,033  11,330  17,752 24,676 29,568 35,126 39,989 44,869 45,860
Financial Indicators
Growth in Sales                   0.0% 273.5%  123.1%  72.4%  48.2%   26.8%   17.5%  16.1%  14.2%   10.1%
Return on Equity                  1.2%   2.3%   11.8%   14.3%  24.7%  25.0%  24.3%  23.8%   22.8%   21.3%
Return on Assets                  1.2%   1.6%   6.1%   6.5%   10.2%   10.0%   9.8%    9.6%    9.4%    9.1%
Net Profit Margin                 2.7%    1.6%   5.2%    5.5%   8.7%   8.6%    8.5%    8.4%    8.1%    7.9%
Current ratio                      22.0   20.5   13.7    4.1    5.0    5.6    7.3    4.3    4.5    2.1
Debtto Total Capitalization       0.5%  43.5%   51.1%  57.2%   59.9%  59.9%  59.6%   59.4%   58.4%   56.3%
Debt Service ratio                    -    2.2    2.8    2.8    2.3    2.5    2.6    2.9    2.1    2.0
Accounts Receivable (days)          60      60     60      60     60      60     60      60     60      60
Asset Turnover                     0.45   0.75    0.89   0.94    1.01    1.07    1.07    1.07    1.09    1.11
Sustainable Growth Rate           0.0%   2.5%   14.7%   16.5%  24.1%  23.3%  22.6%  20.6%   18.4%   17.1%



Page 53                                        ANNEX 5
TABLE 4: BEIJING EMC: FINANCIAL SUMMARY, 1997-2006
(10,000 yuan, in nominal terms)
Year ending December              1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006
Income Statement
Operating Income                  309  2,422  9,644 22,645 31,966 38,668 46,023 53,783 62,998 74,111
Project Cost (incl. depreciation)  558  2,293  8,169  18,903 26,899 32,222 38,324 44,769 52,344 61,667
Net Operating Income             (249)    129  1,475  3,742  5,067  6,446  7,698  9,014  10,654  12,445
Overhead, Interest and Tax         37    321    831  2,415  3,355  3,635  4,324  5,068  6,027  7,173
Net Income                       (286)  (192)   644  1,327  1,712  2,811  3,374  3,946  4,627  5,272
Funds Flow
Internal Sources                  (47)  1,352  6,521  15,176 21,348 26,752 31,866 37,081  43,371  50,941
Borrowings                           -  1,203  4,134  6,233  2,459  2,801  2,766  3,151   4,507  5,301
Equity Investment                2,307  1,014  1,779  1,836    521              -       -      -       -
Total Sources                    2,261  3,568 12,434 23,245 24,328 29,553 34,631  40,232 47,878 56,241
Capital Expenditures             1,622  3,747  11,208 20,749 22,473 28,237 32,710 38,037 44,465 52,168
Working Capital Inc./(dec.)        94    375  1,285  2,309  1,653  1,146  1,296  1,370  1,632  1,976
Loan Repayments                      -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -    906  1,000
Short Term Investments            545  (554)   (59)    81        65   (55)   (50)    35   (51)       42
Dividends Paid                       -      -      -    106    137    225    675    789    925   1,054
Total Applications               2,261  3,568 12,434 23,245 24,328 29,553 34,631 40,232 47,878 56,241
Balance Sheet
Current Assets                    641    490  1,846  4,293  6,098  7,235  8,564 10,009  11,713  13,799
less: Current Liabilities          2      30    180    381    514    696    848  1,864  2,165  2,440
Net Current Assets                 639    460  1,666  3,913  5,584  6,539  7,716  8,145  9,548  11,359
Net Fixed Assets                 1,382  3,586  8,894 15,699 18,124 21,962 25,537 29,483 34,118 39,469
Total Assets                     2,021  4,046 10,560 19,611 23,707 28,501 33,254 37,628 43,666 50,828
Debt                                 -  1,233  5,517 11,950 14,543  17,525 20,443 23,704 27,512 31,959
Equity                           2,021  2,843  5,223  8,042  9,679 11,671  13,658 15,788  18,319 21,309
Total Equity and Liabilities     2,021  4,076 10,740 19,992 24,222 29,197 34,102 39,491 45,831 53,268
Financial Indicators:
Growth in sales                       684.3% 298.2%  134.8%  41.2%  21.0%  19.0%  16.9%  17.1%  17.6%
Return on equity (%)                    0.0%  12.3%  16.5%  17.7%  24.1%  24.7%  25.0%  25.3%  24.7%
Net profit margin (%/6)                  0.0%   6.7%   5.9%   5.4%   7.3%   7.3%   7.3%   7.3%   7.1%
Current ratio                    296.3   16.2   10.2   11.3   11.9   10.4   10.1    5.4    5.4    5.7
Debt/capitalization                0%    30%    51%    60%    60%    60%    60%    60%    60%    60%
Debt Service Ratio                   -    4.5    3.5    3.0    3.6    3.6    3.5    2.3    2.2    2.8
Accounts receivable(days)          60      60     60     60     60      60     60     60      60     60
Asset turnover                    0.15   0.59   0.90   1.13   1.32   1.32   1.35   1.36   1.37   1.39
Sustainable growth rate (%pa)    0.0%   0.0%  22.6%  22.1%  18.5%  25.3%  21.7%  20.2%  20.5%  20.1%
Return on total assets (%)       0.0%   0.0%   6.0%   6.6%   7.1%   9.6%   9.9%  10.0%  10.1%   9.9%
Profit retention rate            100%   100%   100%    87%    87%    87%    75%    70%    70%    70%



Page 54                                          ANNEX 5
TABLE 5: SHANDONG EMC: FINANCIAL SUMMARY, 1997-2006
(10,000 yuan, in nominal terms)
1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006
Income Statement
Operating income                   594  4,536  11,338  17,027 23,396 29,540 36,120 40,744 45,285  49,560
Project cost (inci depreciation)   763  4,434  8,409  12,543  17,264 21,890 26,645 29,818 33,147 36,089
Net operating income              (169)    102  2,929  4,484  6,132   7,650  9,475  10,925  12,138  13,471
Overhead, Interest and Tax         361   1,135  2,169  2,716  4,123   5,072   6,288   7,391   8,246   9,143
Net Income                        (530) (1,033)    759   1,768  2,009  2,578  3,187  3,534   3,892   4,329
Funds Flow
Internal Sources                   314  3,205   8,478  13,118  17,312 21,569 26,012  28,951  32,292 35,332
Borrowings                            -  2,041   2,902  3,357  3,871   4,423   5,437   1,969  3,043   3,117
Equity Investments                4,104    687   1,774   1,602    709      -       -      -       -       -
Total Sources                     4,418  5,933  13,154  18,078 21,892 25,992 31,449 30,920 35,335 38,449
Capital Expenditures              2,428  6,205  12,759  16,985 20,09:2 24,628 30,099 28,494 33,065  36,067
Working Capital lnc./(dec.)         113    724   1,248   1,011   1,127   1,117   1,197    820    821    769
Loan Repayments                       -      -       -      -       -    500    200   1,677   1,656   1,628
Short Term Investments            1,877  (996)  (853)      82    672  (253)   (47)   (70)  (207)   (15)
Total Applications                4,418  5,933  13,154 18,078 21,892 25,992 31,449 30,920 35,335 38,449
Balance Sheet
Current Assets                    2,001   1,768  2,227  3,416   5,329  6,295   7,556  8,341   9,016   9,832
Less Current Liabilities             12     51    114    211    824    626  2,214  2,229   2,261   1,995
NetCurrentAssets                  1,989   1,718  2,113   3,205  4,505   5,669   5,342  6,113   6,754   7,836
Net Fixed Assets                  1,585  3,552  8,526  13,929  18,1711 23,058 29,354 30,878 33,927 37,292
Total Assets                      3,574  5,269  10,638  17,134 22,676 28,727 34,696 36,991  40,682 45,128
Debt                                  -  2,041   4,942   8,300  11,671  15,894  19,654  19,968 21,383  23,200
Equity                            3,574  3,229  5,696  8,835  11,006  12,833  15,042  17,023  19,299 21,928
Total Equity and Liabilities      3,574   5,269  10,638  17,134 22,676 28,727 34,696 36,991  40,682 45,128
Financial Ratios
Growth in sales                   0.0% 663.8%  150.0%  50.2%  37.4%  26.3%  22.3%   12.8%   11.1%   9.4%
Return on Equity                  0.0%   0.0%   17.0%  24.3%  20.3%  21.6%  22.9%  22.0%  21.4%   21.0%
Return on Assets                  0.0%   0.0%   9.4%   12.6%   9.8%    9.8%   9.6%   9.3%    9.5%    9.6%
Net Profit Margin                 0.0%   0.0%   6.3%   9.8%   8.1%   8.2%    8.3%   8.2%    8.1%    8.3%
Current Ratio                     167.2   34.9   19.5   16.2    6.5   10.1    3.4    3.7    4.0    4.9
Debt to Total Capitalization      0.3%  39.3%  47.0%  49.1%   53.2%  56.3%  59.2%  56.6%   55.1%   53.5%
Debt to Service Ratio                -       -    5.9    5.9    4.4    2.6    3.3    1.6    1.7    1.7
Accounts Receivable(days)           60      60     60      60     60      60     60      60     60      60
Assets Turnover                    0.18   0.90    1.12    1.04   1.05    1.06    1.04    1.10    1.12    1.11
SustainableGrowthRate                        - 23.5%  31.0%  20.5%/o 21.1%  22.4%   18.8%   18.3%   17.9%



Page 55                                                 ANNEX S
TABLE 6: SELECTION OF PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTIONS
Input Variable                         Distribution                                    Motivation
1. Provision for Bad Debts.                   _ _                           Initially the potential for credit default is likely to be
A                    2         higher as the EMCs develop their customer base in
the absence of reliable credit assessment, track record
or proper financial records. Accordingly a log normal
distribution of bad debts was used with a std
deviation of 4 percent about a mean ranging from 15
percent in 1997 to 3 percent in 2006.
2. Product Line Capital cost.         f                                     Notwithstanding that the technologies involved in
I       these projects are well developed, the real base-case
|       capital cost assumption could vary anywhere between
+10 percent and -10 percent. A uniform distribution
of  10 percent about the base case estimates has been
L                          .         used for each project type.
WA   mE    0s       1
3. Inflation Rate.                                                          A normal distribution varying within a narrow range
of the long-term base-case estimate of 5.5 percent pa.
This impacts not only costs but also projected
nominal exchange rate projections and therefor
foreign exchange exposure which is bome by the
EMCs.
401   481    54%    F i    7.0%
4. Number of Projects.                                                      Despite intense managemenat efforts to assess market
potential and tool-up accordingly, there exists the
possibility that the projected number of individual
projects take longer to implement and peak at
different levels to those projected. The assumed
number of projects undertaken annually has
0           -T-        accordingly  been varied by a factor normally
distributed (std dev. 10 percent) and rounded to a
discrete number of individual projects.
S. Energy Savings.                                                          Energy savings are critical to the success of the
enterprise and are affect by many factors including
energy prices, technical miscalculation, delays and
savings verification. For conservative reasons it is
assumed that there is a greater likelihood that the
savings will fall short of present expectations as
indicated by the adjacent distribution.
6. Unit costs.                                                              Unit operating cost in real temis is expected to vary
by  10 percent of that originally assumed.
.s~~~~ .
7. Accounts receivable.                                                     Given the present state of the financial sector and
state-owed enterprises in China, the collection period
60 days could prove to be fairly ambitious. The
chances of an in increase in the accounts receivable is
more likely and the base-case assumption has been
factored accordingly,



Page 56                                           ANNEX 6
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
A. PROCUREMENT
Summaries of the procurement methods to be used for the project as a whole are presented in Tables A
and B. Table Al, providing details of consultant selection arrangements, is in the project file. Further
details of the procurement plans discussed and agreed during project appraisal and negotiations for each
of the project's three components are provided below and in the project file. All procurement of goods
will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits," dated January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, and September 1997. Model
Bidding Documents, as agreed between MOF and the Bank, will be used for all international and national
competitive bidding. Where no model document exists, the Borrower must use the relevant Bank
Standard Document.
TABLE A: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Procurement Method      Consulting                (including
Expenditure Category           ICB      NCB    OtherLa    Services     NBF        contingencies)
1. Goods
EMC Demonstration Component           10.2      11.1    80.1                   30.9lb      132.3/b
(7.8)    (8.5)  (61.7)                              (78.0)
Information Dissemination Component
Printing                                   1.3                                          1.3
(1.0)                                       (1.0)
Equipment                                           0.5                                 0.5
(0.3)                               (0.3)
2. Services
Information Dissemination Component                                3.7         4.5           8.2
(3.7)                     (3.7)
Project Management & Monitoring                                    2.0          2.0          4.0
(2.0)                     (2.0)
Total                    10.2     12.4    80.6       5.7         37.4         146.3
(7.8)    (9.5)  (62.0)     (5.7)                     (85.0)
La Includes international and national shopping.
lk Includes SETC loan financing only. Total new project investment by the EMCs over the 10-year project period, including
projects financed with reinvested project revenues, is estimated at US$730 million, of which GEF and the Bank are financing
contracts valued at US$101.4 million.
Notes:  (I) NBF = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies
under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
(2) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.



Page 57                                    ANNEX 6
TABLE B: THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
Expenditure       Contract Value   Procurement       Contracts Subject to Prior Review/
Category          (Threshold)       Method      Estimated Total Value Subject to Prior Review
(US$'000)                               (US$ million)
Goods
EMC Demo Component               --           ICB                      10.2
1,OOO/a        NCB                      11.1
2,000La /b    Shopping                  40.0
Information Dissemination
Printing                      1,300/a        NCB                        1.3
Equipment                      250        Shopping                      0.0
Services
Information Dissemination &      -          QCBS                       2.2
Project Management             100             CQ                       0.0
50      Individuals                    0.0
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 64.8
la Prior review above US$250,000.00
lb US$50,000 threshold for national shopping.
EMC Demonstration Component
Procurement is entirely for goods, using both GEF and IBRD financing, and conducted by the three
EMCs with the assistance of a Chinese international tendering company. The three companies have
begun procurement for a total of about US$3.7 million in goods financed through the EC Grant,
according to Bank international shopping guidelines. The EMCs will buy the equipment for the
completion of a range of energy performance contracts. The average energy performance contract size is
US$200,000 during the early years, rising to an average of US$3 10,000 later in the project. Subprojects
financed by GEF and IBRD are expected to total some 400 in number. Moreover, to operate their
commercial leasing-type of business efficiently to meet the needs of their customers, the EMCs must
execute their subprojects quickly following signature of energy performance contracts with their
customers. Given the large number of small and varied contracts in this component, and the position of
the EMCs as a type of commercially oriented financial intermediary, packaging of much of the goods
procurement into packages suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) is not feasible.
For GEF and IBRD-supported projects as a whole, at least US$10.2 million in contracts is planned to be
procured through ICB, accounting for about 10 percent of the total value of contracts financed by the
GEF and IBRD. Qualified domestic manufacturers will be eligible for a margin of preference of 15
percent of the CIF price or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower, in the evaluation of bids. Up to
US$11.1 million (US$3.7 million per EMC) will be procured through National Competitive Bidding
(NCB), with procedures acceptable to the Bank. NCB is appropriate for a number of technologies that
have been developed in China for retrofitting onto Chinese equipment (especially retrofitting of coal-
fired boilers and various heat recovery schemes). Up to US$80.1 million (US$26.7 million per EMC)
will be procured according to international and national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank.
International shopping procurement requires three quotations from two different countries and national
shopping requires three quotations from qualified suppliers. Requests for quotations should indicate the
description and quantity of the goods, as well as the desired delivery time and place.



Page 58                                          ANNEX 6
Procurement plans for the first year of the project have been prepared by each EMC and are available in
the project file. For contracts not subject to prior review, 20 percent will be subject to postreview during
the first year. The coverage ratio can be reduced to as low as 5 percent in subsequent years, based on
experience gained.
TABLE 2: TYPICAL PROCUREMENT PROCESSING SCHEDULES
(in calendar days)
Selection of Consultants                                                                                QCBS
Advertisement procedure                                                                                    60
Development of short list and LOI package                                                                  21
Bank review and clearance                                                                                  I 0
Request for proposals                                                                                      10
Submission of proposals                                                                                    45
Evaluation and award recommendation                                                                        35
Clearance of competent authorities                                                                          10
Bank no objection                                                                                           15
Issue letter for negotiations                                                                               5
Negotiation and formalization of contract and draft contract to bank                                       21
Draft contract - Bank no objection                                                                          10
Contract signature                                                                                          5
Mobilization                                                                                               30
Total                                                                                                217
International/Local Shopping
Select requirement & list of suppliers                                                                     10
Solicit quotations                                                                                         15
Evaluate quotation                                                                                          10
Clearance of award by competent authorities                                                                 5
Total                                                                                                 35
Goods - Procurement                                                                             ICB      NCB
Preparation of bidding documents (once technical specifications have been completed)             10        10
Clearance of bidding documents for Bank review by competent authority of borrower                20         5
WB review process & Bank no objection (including transmittal)                                    20        20
Subtotal                                                                                    50        35
Advertisement procedure and release of bidding documents to bidder                                5         5
Receipt and public opening of bids                                                            45/60        30
Bid evaluation                                                                                   30        20
Evaluation cleared by competent authority of borrower and transmittal to the bank                20         5
Bank review process and clearance (including transmittal)                                        20        20
Notification of award                                                                             5         5
Contract signature                                                                               10         5
Subtotal                                                                               135-150        90
Total                                                                                  185-200       125
Information Dissemination Component
Capacity Building, Training and Technical Assistance for Project Design, Strategy, Market
Research and Market Assessment. Procurement for these aspects will be conducted according to
QCBS procedures. One package or set of packages will be the primary vehicle for transfer of
international knowledge and experience in the operation of commercially focused energy conservation
information programs, and the development and dissemination of Case Studies and Technical Guides.
The package will support a long-term "twinning"-type arrangement between the new ECIDC and



Page 59                                 ANNEX 6
international advisors and trainers with a wide range of practical experience. Although advisory inputs-
will be most concentrated during the initial years of the project, the relationship is expected to extend for
the duration of the five-year component. The package(s) will cover preparation and delivery of training
courses in China for ECIDC and local staff, arrangements and costs for overseas training, completion of
a series of special studies, as well as hands-on operational advice and assistance from one long-term
consultant and 6-8 short-term senior advisor assignments. All procurement of consultants will be
according to the Bank's "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" of January 1997, revised in September 1997. All consulting assignments over US$200,000
must be advertised in Development Business.
Another QCBS package or set of packages will provide support to ECIDC for design, implementation,
continuous evaluation based on surveys, and periodic strategic correction of ECIDC's information
marketing strategy and operational program. Consulting expertise combining international information
marketing expertise and local expertise on how to maximize the impact of information in enterprise
decisionmaking in China will be important.
* Products and Product Dissemination. Key products of five years of program operation include
about 100 case studies and about 17 technical guides. Although ECIDC is responsible for topic
selection, determination of scope and quality control, these products will be prepared by independent
contractors to ECIDC, printed by independent firms, and disseminated by ECIDC using a variety of
channels, with contractor service assistance. During the first five years, GEF will finance about 58
percent of the cost of product production and dissemination, and the SETC will finance the balance.
Printing services will be procured according to NCB procedures, consulting services will be procured
according to QCBS and CQ procedures, and equipment will be procured according to shopping
procedures.
Evaluation and Monitoring. This will involve domestic contracting for a wide range of small-scale
consulting services, averaging about US$40,000 per year and totaling US$200,000 in very small
packages over the course of the project.
Program Management and Evaluation
Financed with GEF and government funds, this component will involve a range of very small contracts
under US$100,000 each conducted over a five year period, totaling an average of US$400,000 per year
and US$2.0 million over a five-year period.
B. DISBURSEMENT
Table C presents the allocation of grant and loan proceeds. For expenditures pertaining to goods
contracts valued at less than US$250,000, consultancy contracts valued at less than US$100,000 for
firms and US$50,000 for individuals and all training, reimbursement will be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures. To facilitate disbursements, one Special Account for GEF funds will be
established at the Ministry of Finance, and three Special Accounts for IBRD funds will be established at
the three relevant provincial finance bureaus (Shandong, Liaoning and Beijing). The authorized
allocation for the Special Account for GEF funds will total US$3.0 million, and the authorized
allocations for each of the Special Accounts for IBRD funds will each total US$1.5 million. Applications
for replenishment will be submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the
initial deposit, whichever comes sooner.



Page 60                                           ANNEX 6
TABLE C: ALLOCATION OF GRANT AND LOAN PROCEEDS
Expenditure Category            Amount in                     Financing Percentage
US$ million
GEF Grant
(1) Goods for pilot subprojects under Part A of
the Project (EMC component)
Shandong EMC                          3.75   100% of foreign expenditures, 100% (ex-factory) cost and
Beijing EMC                           3.75   75% of local expenditures for other items procured locally
Liaoning EMC                          3.75
Unallocated                           3.75
Subtotal                      15.00
(2) Goods   under   Part  B   (information       1.30   100% of foreign expenditures, 100% (ex-factory) cost and
component)                                          75% of local expenditures for other items procured locally
(3) Consultants' services                               100%
Under Part B (information component)        3.70
Under Part C (program mgmt. component)      1.50
(4) Training (Part C-program management         0.50   100%
component)
Total GEF Grant                   22.00
IBRD Loan
Goods
Shandong EMC                           21.00   100% of foreign expenditures, 100% (ex-factory) cost and
Beijing EMC                            21.00   75% of local expenditures for other items procured locally
Liaoning EMC                           21.00
Total IBRD Loan                    63.00



Page 61                                 ANNEX 7
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PROCESSING
Planned           Actual
(At final PCD stage)
A. Project Preparation and Schedule:GEF Critical Steps
Time taken to prepare the project: 22 months
First Bank mission (identification)                         n.a.            12/01/95
GEF IEPS/Technical review                                 03/08/96          03/08/96
GEF Approval of $350,000 PDF B                            05/14/96          05/14/96
GEF Approval of $350,000 PDF C                            12/16/96          12/16/96
GEF Council approval                                      04/30/97          05/01/97
Appraisal mission departure                               10/20/97          10/20/97
Negotiations                                              01/12/98          01/12/98
GEF CEO Endorsement                                       02/28/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                             09/15/98
Prepared by: State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC)
Preparation assistance: GEF Project Development Advances (US$700,000)
B. Project Preparation and Schedule:Bank Critical Steps
Time taken to prepare the project: 8 months
First Bank mission (identification)                       12/15/96          12/15/96
Appraisal mission departure                               10/20/97          10/20/97
Negotiations                                              01/12/98          01/12/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                             09/15/98
Prepared by: State Economic and Trade Commission (SETC)
Preparation assistance: None
C. Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
R. Taylor                                Task Manager
C. Husband                              Financial Analysis
T. Johnson                                 Economics
S. Rivera                            Information Component
T. Chang                               Operations Assistant
C. Garstang                                   Legal
Note: Project budgeting data are in the project file.



Page 62                                    ANNEX $
ANNEX 8: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Including:
* Beijing EMC Business Plan (October 1997)
* Liaoning EMC Business Plan (October 1997)
* Shandong EMC Business Plans (October and November 1997)
* A Chinese Proposal to the GEF for a National Energy Efficiency Information Programme
(October 15, 1997)
* Technical Assistance Program Proposal (November 1997)
* EMC Development Unit, activity outline (October 1997)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
- Financial Risk Analysis: The Case of Liaoning EMC
C. Other
* Draft Cost Report Format (tables)
- Project Procurement Arrangements and Cost Details (January 1998)
*Including electronic files



Page 63                                        ANNEX 9
ANNEX 9: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1998)
Amount in US$ million
Loan/ Fiscal                                                        (less cancellations)     Closing
Credit Year Borrower                  Purpose                  Bank        IDA     Undisb.    Date
Credits
70 Credits closed                                                         4,790.66
22420  1991            HENAN AGRIC. DEVT.                                  110.00       3.23  6/30/98
22100  1991            KEY STUDIES DEVELOPM                                131.20       0.83  6/30/98
22960  1992            SHANGH4AI METRO TRANS                                60.00       3.76  6/30/98
23050  1992            DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                                     37.00       0.42 12/31/98
23070  1992            GUANGDONG AG. DEVT.                                 162.00      11.71 12/31/98
23360  1992            RURALWATSUPP&SAN                                    110.00       1.80 12/31/98
23120  1992            BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                                  80.00       3.70  1/31/99
23170  1992            INFECTIOUS DISEASES                                 129.60      54.86  6/30/99
23390  1992            EDUC DEV IN POOR PRO                                130.00       4.07 12/31/98
23870  1992            TIANJIN URB DEV & EN                                100.00      32.43 12/31/98
24110  1993            SICHUAN ADP                                         147.00      22.67 12/31/99
25180  1993            GRAIN DISTRIBUTION PROJ                             165.00      59.76  6/30/00
24750  1993            ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                                110.00      47.43  6/30/99
24230  1993            FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                                 60.00      35.57  9/30/99
24470  1993            REF. INST'L.& PREINVEST(CRISP)                       50.00      21.64  6/30/98
24570  1993            CHANGCHUN WAT SUPP &                                 92.45      27.04 12/31/98
24620  1993            AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVICES                             115.00      10.46 12/31/00
24630  1993            TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL                           100.00       4.93  6/30/98
24710  1993            EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES                         100.00      48.39 12/31/98
25220  1993            ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                                 50.00      15.22 12/31/98
25630  1994            RED SOILS II DEVELOP                                150.00      49.04  6/30/01
25390  1994            RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                                 110.00      44.89 12/31/99
25710  1994            SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                                  205.00      59.78 12/31/01
26050  1994            XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                             110.00      44.33 12/31/01
26160  1994            LOESS PLATEAU                                       150.00      48.19 12/31/02
26230  1994            FOREST RESOURCE DEV                                 200.00     102.31 12/31/01
26540  1995            ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                                  10.00       6.03  6/30/99
27090  1995            FISCAL & TAX REF. &                                  25.00      17.79 12/31/99
27100  1995            YANGTZE BASIN WATER                                 110.00       9.48 12/31/01
27560  1995            IODINE DEF. DISORDER                                 20.00      11.40 12/31/98
26420  1995            ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                                 75.00       6.22  6/30/01
27440  1995            SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                                200.00     105.95 12/31/01
26550  1995            MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                                 90.00      33.54  6/30/01
26510  1995            BASICEDUCINPOOR&                                    100.00      21.56 12/31/00
28000  1996            LABOR MARKET DEV.                                    20.00      15.65 12/31/99
28310  1996            BASIC ED. POOR III                                  100.00      43.29 12/31/01
27990  1996            HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                                 25.00      15.38  6/30/02



Page 64                                        ANNEX 9
Amount in US$ million
Loan/ Fiscal                                                        (less cancellations)     Closing
Credit Year Borrower                  Purpose                  Bank        IDA      Undisb.    Date
27940  1996            DISEASE PREVENTION                                  100.00      81.01 12/31/01
28920  1996            YUNNANENVIRONMENT                                    25.00      16.59 12/31/02
28340  1996            SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                                100.00      49.36 12/31/02
28700  1996            GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                                  90.00      70.73 12/31/06
28860  1996            SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                                 20.00      10.08  6/30/02
29540  1997            BASICED.IV                                           85.00      79.12 12/31/02
N0270  1997            NATL RUR WATER III                                    70.00     69.48  6/30/03
N0280  1997             QINBAMTS.POVTYRED                                   150.00     141.67  1/31/04
28980  1997            VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                                 20.00      16.67 12/31/02
Total Number of Credits = 46                                              4,399.25   1,579.46
Loans
148 Loans(s) closed                                             7,527.63               73.37
2968S  1988            RAILWAY IV                                171.30                 2.04  6/30/98
3337T  1991            IRRIG. AGRIC. INTENS                       45.06                 2.37  3/31/98
3415A  1992            BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                        32.90                29.32  1/31/99
3412S  1992            DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                           28.89                 2.83 12/31/98
3406A  1992            RAILWAYS V                                 33.73                29.05 12/31/98
3471A  1992            ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                        70.13               26.59  6/30/98
3462A  1992            ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE                       26.78                 14.02  6/30/99
3515A  1993             SHUIKOU II                                 43.86                18.40  6/30/98
3552S  1993            SHANGHAI PORT REST.                       124.26                 5.11  6/30/99
35820  1993            SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.              250.00                29.16  6/30/01
3606A  1993            TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                        196.60              102.89 12/31/01
3530S  1993            GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT                 240.00                21.43  6/30/99
35810  1993            RAILWAY VI                                420.00               136.54  6/30/99
35310  1993            HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                     120.00                16.15  6/30/98
3560A  1993            TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CONTROL                   88.65               64.71  6/30/98
3572A  1993            TIANJIN IND. II                            82.68                56.09  6/30/00
3624A  1993            GRAIN DISTRIBUTION PROJ                   325.00               325.00  6/30/00
3681A  1994            FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                         80.33               65.32  6/30/00
3716A  1994             SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERV.                175.45              161.52  6/30/01
37270  1994            XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                   460.00                30.91 12/31/00
3687A  1994            TELECOMMUNICATIONS                         132.76              101.49  6/30/99
37480  1994            HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL H'WAYS               380.00               115.10  6/30/00
3711S  1994            SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                      160.00                83.93  6/30/00
3652S  1994            SHANGHAI MTP II                           150.00                10.39 12/31/98
3718A  1994            YANGZHOU THERMAL POWER                    248.16                94.85 12/31/00
37880  1995            SHENYANG IND. REFORM                      175.00               129.12  6/30/01
3846B  1995            ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                       215.67               187.82 12/31/02
3847A  1995            TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                       194.99              181.87  6/30/01
38736  1995            FISCAL & TAX REF. &                        25.00                25.00 12/31/99
3874A  1995            YANGTZE BASIN WATER                        97.26                 73.1 12/31/01
39066  1995            SOUTHWESTPOV. REDUC                        47.50                35.89 12/31/01
3914A  1995            IODINE DEF. DISORDER                        7.00                 7.00 12/31/98
38976  1995            RAILWAYS VII                              400.00               392.00 12/31/02
37810  1995            LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                      110.00                79.53  6/30/01



Page 65                                        ANNEX 9
Amount in US$ million
Loan/ Fiscal                                                        (less cancellations)     Closing
Credit Year Borrower                  Purpose                  Bank        IDA     Undisb.    Date
3846A  1995            ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                        154.15              125.34 12/31/02
37870  1995            XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                        150.00                95.75 12/31/00
B1050  1995                                                       42.86                42.86  10/1/98
39106  1995            INLAND WATERWAYS                          210.00               155.82  6/30/01
3848A  1995             SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                     270.00               209.73 12/31/01
3773A  1995             ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                     262.51               240.11  6/30/01
3933A  1996            ERTAN HYDRO II                             177.68               51.64 12/31/01
39290  1996            SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                      252.25               155.78  6/30/01
40280  1996            GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                        60.00                60.00 12/31/06
3933B  1996            ERTAN HYDRO II                             88.84                 9.80 12/31/01
3967A  1996            LABOR MARKET DEV.                           10.00               10.00 12/31/99
39860  1996            2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                      210.00               183.98 12/31101
39870  1996            SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                      250.00               219.29  6/30/02
40010  1996            ANIMAL FEED                               150.00               150.00 12/31/02
40440  1996            SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                       80.00                80.00  6/30/02
B1060  1996                                                       33.33                33.33   4/1/10
40450  1996            CHONGQING IND POL CT                      170.00               170.00 12/31/02
40550  1996            YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                        125.00               125.00 12/31/02
39660  1996            HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                      125.00               125.00  6/30/02
40270  1996            2ND HENAN PROV HWY                        210.00               198.00 12/31/02
B1061  1996                                                        16.67               12.92   4/1/10
40990  1997            XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II                      300.00               268.81 12/31/02
41240  1997            HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                      400.00               400.00  6/30/03
4063A  1997            VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                        10.00               10.00 12/31/02
41870  1997            QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                       30.00                30.00  1/31/04
41610  1997            HEILONGJIANG ADP                          120.00               117.00  6/30/03
42001  1997            XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                      200.00               191.84 12/31/03
41720  1997            TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                      400.00               400.00  7/31/04
41790  1997            WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                      400.00               372.17  6/30/03
41970  1997            SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                       400.00               400.00  1/31/06
42000  1997            XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                      230.00               230.00 12/31/03
42370  1998            SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                       95.00                95.00 12/31/03
Total Number of Loans = 66                                     #0###                 7,625.73
Total                                          18,519.88  9,189.91
of which repaid                                          2,023.03    75.32
Total held by Bank & IDA                                16,496.84  9,114.59
Amount sold            0
of which repaid        0
Total Undisbursed                                                             9,279.33



Page 66                                          ANNEX 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC's COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
(As of December 31, 1997, in US$ million)
IFC Committed                        IFC Disbursed
FY Approval       Company          Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1987192/94   China Bicycles           8.50     3.39     0.00     0.00     8.50      3.39     0.00     0.00
1993        Shenzhen PCCP             3.76      .99     0.00     0.00     3.76       .99     0.00     0.00
1993        Yantai Cement            16.64     1.95     0.00     8.89    16.64      1.95     0.00     8.89
1994        China Walden JV           0.00     6.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      3.53     0.00     0.00
1994        China Walden Mgt          0.00      .01     0.00     0.00     0.00       .01     0.00     0.00
1994        Dalian Glass             20.50     2.40     0.00    40.50    20.50      2.40     0.00    40.50
1994        Dynamic Fund              0.00    12.35     0.00     0.00     0.00      9.46     0.00     0.00
1994        Plant. Timber            10.00     1.00     0.00    20.00    10.00      1.00     0.00    20.00
1995        DupontSuzhou             24.92     4.15     0.00    52.00    19.34      4.15     0.00    30.66
1995        Newbridge Inv.            0.00    10.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      6.60     0.00     0.00
1995        Suzhou PVC               22.00     2.48     0.00    22.20     0.00      2.48     0.00     0.00
1996        BeijingHormel             5.00      .50     0.00     5.50     4.64       .50     0.00     5.11
1996        Fairyoung Ports           0.00     4.98     0.00     0.00     0.00      4.98     0.00     0.00
1996        Jingyang                 40.00     0.00     0.00   100.00    34.29      0.00     0.00    85.71
1996        NanjingKumho             16.00     3.81     0.00    45.50    13.63      3.81     0.00    38.75
1996        Tianjin Kumho            11.17     0.00     0.00    33.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1996        Weihai Weidongri          4.13     0.00     0.00     0.00     4.13      0.00     0.00     0.00
1997        Rabobank PTPC             2.40     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997        Orient Finance           10.00     0.00     0.00    20.00     3.33      0.00     0.00     6.67
Total Portfolio             195.02    54.01     0.00   347.59   138.76    45.25      0.00   236.29
Approvals Pending Commitment
1996        CALTEX Ocean             31.33     0.00     0.00    66.00
1998        Chengxin-IBCA             0.00      .36     0.00     0.00
1997        Chinefarge               12.80     0.00     0.00    20.00
1997        DerKwei Overseas          0.00     5.00     0.00     0.00
1997        DerKwei Shanghai         13.00     0.00     0.00    38.00
1997        DerKwei Shenzhen         12.00     0.00     0.00    33.00
1998        Eureca                    0.00     3.00     0.00     0.00
1997        Liaocheng Jiamin         18.00     0.00     0.00    18.00
1996        Nanjing Huining           4.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997        Ningbo                    0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00
1997        Nissan/Dongfeng          20.20     0.00     0.00    27.00
1997        PTP Holdings              0.00     1.50     0.00     0.00
1997        PTP Hubei                13.00     0.00     0.00    25.00
1998        PTP Hubei BLINC           0.00     0.00     0.00     1.50
1997        PTP Leshan                4.20     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998        ScanaLeshan               6.10     1.35     0.00     0.00
1996        Shandong Sand            17.00     0.00     0.00    25.00
1998        Shanghai Coline          13.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997        SMC                      14.00     0.00     0.00    14.00
1997        Suzhou PVC Add.           7.90     0.00     0.00     6.40
1996        Tianjin                   9.10     0.00     0.00     9.10
1996        Xiamen Xian              10.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment   205.63    13.21      0.00   283.00



Page 67                                                       ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               East    Low.
China      Asia  income        Development dlamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                       1,215.4     1,726    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                               750       890       500                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                               906.1      1,542    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                          1.1        1.3      1.7      GNP                               Gross
Laborforce (%)                                          1.1        1.3      1.7      per                             primarY
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1969)                              capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)                9
Urban population (% of total population)                 31        31       29    |
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         70        68       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 33        40       69                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               16
Access to safe water (% of population)                   90        49        53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     19        17        34                China
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   118       117       105
Male                                                  119       120       112                Low-income group
Female                                                117       116       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1995     1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions USS)                           160.3    378,1      755.9    916.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 30.3     37.8       40.5     42.4             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP              5.2      9.9       21.0     18.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    30.6     33.7       42.0     43.9
Gross national savings/GDP                    30.6     34.0       40.5     43.1
Current account balance/GDP                   -0.2     -3.9        0.2      0.4
Interest payments/GDP                            ..     0.2        0.7      0.6     Savings   l--                 Investment
Total debtUGDP                                  ,.      5.5       16.9     15.8
Total debt servicelexports                      ..      8.4        9.9      9.8
Present value of debUGDP                         ..      ..         ..    14.3
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..         ..    72.3                  Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                            ;          China
GDP                                   8.3      9.9     10.5        9.7      8.5
GNP per capita                        7.5      8.4      7.9        8.8      76                Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        17.2     13.4      9.6        7.4      8,6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995      1996 G8 owth rates of output and Investment
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   32.0     28.4       20.6     20.0     25 -
Industry                                      42.8     43.1       48.4     48.9     20
Manufacturing                               31.6      35.4      37.6     38,9      15
Services                                      25.2     28.5       31,1     31.1     lo
Private consumption                           61.9     53.1       45.7     44.9             91   92   93   94   95   9F
General government consumption                 7.6     13.2       12.2     11.2                     GDI   -     DP
Imports of goods and services                  5.0     14.0       19.4     17.0               -
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Import
Agriculture                                    5.4      4.3        5.0      5.1      40
Industry                                      10.4     13.5       14.1     12.3
Manufacturing                               13.0      12.7      13.3     12.3      20.
Services                                       9.8      8.9        7.9      7.9
Private consumption                            8.2      8.6        6.3      3.3      o -   -'-,--. ,-
General government consumption                 9.0     10.2         ..    11.4    ,         01   92   93   94   95   90
Grossdomesticinvestment                        9.8     10.1       19.1     16.6   , -20
Imports of goods and services                 22.1     11.1        5.0      8.6                    Exports  I     tnports
Gross national product                         9.0      9.8        9.0      9.9
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 68                                                               ANNEX 10
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1T  19B5       1995      1996       --       -  -     -
Domestic prices                                                                           Inflation(%
(% change)                                                                               30.
Consumer prices                                     ..      9.2       17.1       8,3 
Implicit GDP deflator                            -0.9      10.1       13.1       6.1     20
Goverrnment finance                                                                      l
(% of GDP)                                                                                0
Current revenue                                     ..     25.5       11.2      11.4              91    92    93    94    55    56
Current budget balance                             ..       6.7        0.5       0.6               -      GDPdef. --O--CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                            ..      -0.5       -1.7      -1.5
TRADE
1975     1985        1995     1995                                     __
(millions US$)                                                                            Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                .. 27,350    148,770  151,073          200.0
Food                                             ..     3,803      9,954    10,232
Fuel                                             ..     7,132      5,335     5,929     1rooxax
Manufactures                                     .. 13,522    127,283  129,141                                             (
Total imports (cif)                                .. 42,252    132,078   138,828         100 000
Food                                             ..     1,881      9,128     7,8866I
Fuel and energy                                  ..       172      5,127     6,877      5000
Capital goods  (18=0)18,694                                       57,481   83,901             ;fI                i 
Export prc.ndx.98=0                                         92         133      132              90  91  92  93  94  99  96
Import price index (1987=100)                      ..       78        132       131                       Exprt      [ Imports
Terms of trade (1987=l00)                          ..      118         101      100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985        1998     1995                                ______
(millions US$)                                                                          ICurrent account balance so GDP ratio(%
Exports of goods and services                   7,828   28,163    147,240  153,740        4
Imports ofgoods and services                    8,097   41,149    135,284  141 340
Resource balance                                -289   -12,986      11,956    12,400 
Net income                                          0      932    -11,774   -10,370[                      --
Net current transfers                               0      171       1.400     1,580
Current account balance,                                                                      90   51   92   93   94   95   90
before official c-apital transfers             -289   -11,883      1,582     38610      2
Financing items (net)                              ..     9,443    20,887   28,030
Changes in net reserves                            ..    2,440    -22,489   -31,640      -4
Memo:                                                                                     _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)                .. 16,853        80,312  1 11,690
Conversion rate (Iocal/US$)                       1.9       2.9        8.4       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985        1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               .. 16,896    118,090  128,817
IBRD                                             .       498      7,209     7.616               GA                 6
IDA                                              ..      431      7,038     7,579             25407        7616759)
Total debt service                                 ..     2,478     15,066    15,756                             /      20
IBRD                                             .        26        810       840/
IDA                                              ..        4         63        73                E..213
Comnposition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  ..      117        328       248
Official creditors                               ..    1,117      7,902    4,359
Private creditors                                ..    2,867      5.013     6,454
Foreign direct investment                        ..    1,659     35,6349   40,180
Portfolio equity                                 ..        0      2,807     3,466    .F
63977
World Bank program
Commitmnents                                     .     1,092      2,850     1.900       A - IBRD                     E6- Bilateral
Disbursements                                    ..      565      2,269     2,097    .3 I- IDA    D0- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                             ..        0        364       364       C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                         .      565       1,905    1,734     -
Interest payments                                ..       29        509       549
Net transters                                    ..      536       1.396    1,185
Development Economics                                                                                                        1/29198
Note: The dollar estimates for China's GNP per capita, GNP and GOP are preliminary figures based on an on-going World Bank study of
China's GOP, They were calculated to facilitate inter-country comparisons. Official statistics are used as the basis for all other economic
analysis containedi in this document.



