Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 028323 CHA
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement related to Loan Number 4304 CHA
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Energy Conservation Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated June 26, 1998
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 028323 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1998, between the PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of 
the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91\1e5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 942 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund; 
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank 
has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above; 
(D)
the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide additional financing 
towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between 
the Recipient and the Bank, the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to sixty three million Dollars ($63,000,000) (the 
Loan); 
(E)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Beijing Yuanshen Energy 
Page  2
Saving Technology Company, Ltd. (Beijing EMC), Liaoning Province Energy Conservation 
Technology Development Company, Ltd. (Liaoning EMC) and Shandong Energy Conservation 
Engineering Company, Ltd. (Shandong EMC) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part 
of such assistance, the Recipient will make available to Beijing EMC, Liaoning EMC and 
Shandong EMC a portion of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the 
Bank, Beijing EMC, Liaoning EMC and Shandong EMC;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: 
“the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol 
“SDR” mean special drawing 
rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its 
Articles of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the 
last use of such term in 
`
Section 5.01 thereof, means the 
Bank acting as an implementing agency of the 
GEF, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting 
in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this 
Agreement;
Page  3
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: “Except 
as the Bank 
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on 
account of expenditures in 
the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the 
Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of 
the 
Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations.”;
(viii) a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
of the 
General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen 
in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed 
the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.”; and
(ix)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with 
the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at 
any 
time, the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices 
were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) 
the Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to 
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Beijing EMC" means Beijing Yuanshen Energy Saving Technology Company, 
Ltd., a corporation established and existing under the laws of the Recipient in 
accordance with: (i) Business Licence No. 11506931, dated April 5, 1996, issued by the 
Beijing Industry and Commerce Administration Bureau; and (ii) the Beijing EMC Charter. 
(b)
"Beijing EMC Charter" means the charter of Beijing EMC, dated February 6, 
1996, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
(c)
“Beijing EMC Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be 
Page  4
entered into between the Recipient and Beijing EMC pursuant to Section 3.02(a)(i) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the Beijing EMC Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
(d)
“Category” means a category set out in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(e)
"Energy Management Companies” means, Beijing EMC, Liaoning EMC and 
Shandong EMC, collectively, and “Energy Management Company” means any one of them. 
(f)
“Energy Performance Contract” means, in respect of each Subproject, the 
agreement referred to in Paragraph B.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, to 
be entered into between the Energy Management Company which proposes to carry out said 
Subproject and a Host Consumer, as said agreement may be amended from time to time. 
(g)
“Host Consumer” means an entity which has entered or proposes to enter 
into an Energy Performance Contract with an Energy Management Company.
(h)
"Liaoning EMC" means Liaoning Province Energy Conservation Technology 
Development Company, Ltd., a corporation established and existing under the laws of 
the Recipient in accordance with: (i) Business Licence No. 24266542-1, dated May 3, 
1996, issued by the Liaoning Industry and Commerce Administration Bureau; and (ii)  
the Liaoning EMC Charter. 
(i)
"Liaoning EMC Charter" means the charter of Liaoning EMC, dated March 26, 
1996, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
(j)
“Liaoning EMC Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Recipient and Beijing EMC pursuant to Section 3.02(a)(ii) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the Beijing EMC Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
(k)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Recipient and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as applied to 
such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(l)
“National Energy Conservation Information Dissemination Center” and 
“NECIDC” mean the public service unit approved and established by SETC and operating 
under the NECIDC Charter. 
(m)
“NECIDC Charter” means the charter of NECIDC dated January 9, 1998,  
registered with the competent authorities of the Recipient, as amended to the date of 
this Agreement. 
(n)
“Pilot Subproject” means a Subproject undertaken by an Energy Management 
Company on a pilot basis in accordance with Paragraph B.1(a) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement. 
(o)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith among the 
Bank and the Energy Management Companies, as such agreement may be amended from time 
to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement. 
(p)
“Project Line” means Subprojects of a similar type undertaken by an 
Energy Management Company in accordance with Paragraph B.1(a) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement. 
(q)
“SETC” means the Borrower’s State Economic and Trade Commission and any 
successor or successors thereto.
(r)
"Shandong EMC" means Shandong Energy Conservation Engineering Company, 
Ltd., a corporation established and existing under the laws of the Recipient in 
accordance with: (i) Business Licence No. 16309542-x, dated June 24, 1996, issued by 
the Shandong Industry and Commerce Administration Bureau; and (ii)  the Shandong 
Charter. 
Page  5
(s)
"Shandong EMC Charter" means the charter of Shandong EMC, dated November 
11, 1996, as amended to the date of this Agreement. 
(t)
“Shandong EMC Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Recipient and Shandong EMC pursuant to Section 3.02(a)(iii) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Shandong EMC Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
(u)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
(v)
“Subproject” means a specific investment project to be carried out by an 
Energy Management Company under Part A of the Project, pursuant to an Energy 
Performance Contract between such Energy Management Company and a Host Consumer.
(w)
“Subsidiary Grant Agreements” means the Beijing EMC Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement, the Liaoning EMC Subsidiary Grant Agreement and the Shandong EMC Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement, collectively, and “Subsidiary Grant Agreement” means any one of them. 
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million three hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,300,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end: 
(i)
shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project through SETC with due 
diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial 
practices and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and 
shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for said Parts of the 
Project; and 
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under 
this Agreement, shall cause the Energy 
Management Companies to carry out Part 
A of the Project, and 
shall cause each of the Energy Management Companies to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all of its 
Page  6
obligations therein set forth, all with due diligence and efficiency and 
in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, 
environmental, and technical practices, 
and shall take or cause to be taken 
all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources 
necessary or appropriate to enable the Energy Management Companies 
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall, 
through SETC, carry out Parts B and C of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall 
make available, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank: 
(i)
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to Category 
(1)(a) to 
Beijing EMC under a subsidiary grant agreement to be 
entered into between the 
Recipient and Beijing EMC (the Beijing 
EMC Subsidiary Grant Agreement); 
(ii)
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to Category 
(1)(b) to 
Liaoning EMC under a subsidiary grant agreement to be 
entered into between the 
Recipient and Liaoning EMC (the Liaoning 
EMC Subsidiary Grant Agreement); and 
(iii)
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to Category 
(1)(c) to 
Shandong EMC under a subsidiary grant agreement to be 
entered into between the 
Recipient and Shandong EMC (the Shandong 
EMC Subsidiary Grant Agreement).
(b)
The terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Grant Agreements shall include 
no deduction or application of any charge, commission or fee of any kind.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: 
(a)
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for Parts B 
and C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(b)
procurement of the goods required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.04. (a) The Recipient and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by the Energy Management Companies pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient, through SETC, shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for 
the 
continued achievement of the objectives of Parts B and C of the Project; 
and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient 
on said plan.
Page  7
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Any of the Energy Management Companies shall have failed to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any of the Energy Management Companies will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
(c)
Any of the Beijing EMC Charter, the Liaoning EMC Charter and the Shandong 
Page  8
EMC Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of any of the 
Energy Management Companies or its ability to carry out the Project or the ability of 
any of them to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Energy Management 
Companies or for the suspension of the operations of any of them.
(e)
The right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, have 
been fulfilled; and 
(b)
the Subsidiary Grant Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
parties thereto. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe Beijing 
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Page  9
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment 
Facility 
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino 
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific  
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods for Pilot 
 
Subprojects under Part A
100% of foreign
of the Project for:
expenditures
100% of local
(a)  Beijing EMC
2,780,000
expenditures (ex
-factory cost)
(b)  Liaoning EMC
2,780,000
and 75%
of local
(c)  Shandong EMC
2,780,000
expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(d) Unallocated
2,780,000
(2)
Goods under Part B
  960,000
100% of
 
of the Project
foreign
expenditures
100% of local
expenditures
Page  10
(ex-factory
cost) and 75% for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Consultants’
100%
services
(a)
under Part B
of the Project
2,740,000
(b)
under Part C
of the Project
1,110,000
(4)  Training
  370,000
100%
 ________
TOTAL
      16,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient, provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
People’s Republic of China for goods or services supplied from said region shall be 
deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
(b)
expenditures under Category (2) or Category (3)(a) unless and until the 
Bank shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that the performance contract 
referred to in Part B.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement has been entered into between 
the Recipient and NECIDC in accordance with the provisions of said Part B.2.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under 
contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; (b) consulting services under 
contracts awarded to consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) 
consulting services under contracts awarded to individual consultants costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training; all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient to:  (a) improve the 
efficiency of energy use in the People’s Republic of China; and (b) facilitate 
reductions in carbon dioxide emissions and other pollutants through energy efficiency 
investments within the territory of the Recipient.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Page  11
Part A:
Energy Management Company Demonstration 
Demonstration of the energy management company concept through identification 
and implementation of specific investment projects consisting of either energy 
conservation technology or techniques, or both, employing Energy Performance Contracts 
with Host Consumers.
Part B:
Information Dissemination 
Establishment and operation of a sustainable national energy conservation 
information dissemination center and the dissemination of information through said 
center on energy conservation techniques to enterprise or institution managers 
through, inter alia, the development of new information products including case 
studies and technical guides.
Part C:
Program Management and Monitoring
Strengthening the capacity of the Recipient for project management and 
monitoring through: (1) the provision of consultants’ services in connection with 
project management, monitoring and evaluation, dissemination of the energy management 
company demonstration experience and preparation of a proposal for a second phase 
project to promote the energy management company concept; (2) training of nominated 
energy experts in energy economics, energy performance contracting and energy 
conservation techniques; and (3) provision of energy conservation seminars and 
workshops for selected Project management staff. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
International Shopping Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  12
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,550,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  13
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Other Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(a)
prior to selection of the consultants, the terms of reference for said 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its no-objection; and
(b)
thereafter, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(c), 
(2) and (3); 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A(1), B and C of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time 
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000  
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,200,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
Page  14
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as 
shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under the 
respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Page  15
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
A.
Project Management and Monitoring 
1.
The Recipient shall maintain its project management office in SETC, comprised of 
a project management unit and an EMC development unit, both with functions and 
resources acceptable to the Bank and competent staff in adequate numbers, to 
coordinate and supervise the implementation of the Project.  
2.
The Recipient shall, through SETC, carry out the training under Part C(2) of the 
Project in accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank. 
3.
The Recipient shall, through SETC, carry out the seminars and workshops under 
Part C(3) of the Project in accordance with a program acceptable to the Bank.
4.
The Recipient shall, through SETC, carry out the preparation under Part C(1) of 
the Project of a proposal for a second phase project with significant impact within 
the territory of the Recipient to promote the energy management company concept, in 
accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank.  The Recipient may request the GEF 
to consider providing funding for such second phase project.
5.
The Recipient shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about August 31, 2000 and August 31, 2002 a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2000 and September 30, 2002, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the respective reports referred to in 
paragraph (b) above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Bank views on 
the matter.
B.
Information Dissemination.
1.
The Recipient shall, through SETC, ensure that:
(a)
NECIDC shall be maintained with qualified and experienced manage-ment and 
with competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(b) 
NECIDC shall implement a time-bound project implementation and staffing 
plan and long-term financial plan, both satisfactory to the Bank. 
2.
No later than June 30, 1998, the Recipient shall, through SETC, enter into a 
performance contract with NECIDC, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
for the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project.
