Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4304 CHA
Project Agreement
(Energy Conservation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting on its own behalf and as Implementing Agency of the
 Global Environment Facility
and
BEIJING YUANSHEN ENERGY SAVING TECHNOLOGY COMPANY, LTD.
LIAONING PROVINCE ENERGY CONSERVATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LTD.
and
SHANDONG ENERGY CONSERVATION ENGINEERING COMPANY, LTD.
Dated June 26, 1998  
LOAN NUMBER 4304 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting on its own behalf and as implementing agency of the 
Global Environment Fund (GEF) and BEIJING YUANSHEN ENERGY SAVING TECHNOLOGY COMPANY, 
LTD. (Beijing EMC), LIAONING PROVINCE ENERGY CONSERVATION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT 
COMPANY, LTD. (Liaoning EMC) and SHANDONG ENERGY CONSERVATION ENGINEERING COMPANY, 
LTD. (Shandong EMC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the 
Borrower an amount equal to sixty three million Dollars, on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Beijing EMC, Liaoning EMC 
and Shandong EMC (collectively, the Energy Management Companies) agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Beijing Municipality, Liaoning Province and Shandong Province and between Beijing 
Municipality, Liaoning Province and Shandong Province and each of the Energy 
Management Companies, respectively, a portion of the proceeds of the Loan provided for 
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to the Energy Management Companies on 
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(C)
by the GEF Grant Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and 
the Bank, acting as an implementing agency of the GEF Trust Fund, GEF has agreed to 
provide a grant to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to sixteen 
Page  2
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,300,000) (the GEF 
Grant);
(D)
by subsidiary grant agreements to be entered into between the Borrower 
and each of the Energy Management Companies, a portion of the proceeds of the Grant 
provided for under the GEF Grant Agreement will be made available to the Energy 
Management Companies on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Grant 
Agreements; and
WHEREAS the Energy Management Companies in consideration of the Bank's entering 
into the Loan Agreement and the GEF Grant Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Energy Management Companies declares its 
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Energy Management Companies shall otherwise agree, the 
Energy Management Companies shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Section 2.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods required for Part A 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Grant shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Energy Management Companies shall carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project 
Agreement and Part A of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Energy Management Companies shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this 
purpose between the Bank and the Energy Management Companies, a 
plan for the future operation of Part A of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Energy 
Management Companies on said plan.
Section 2.04. Each of the Energy Management Companies shall duly perform all its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Grant Agreement to 
which it is a party. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no Energy Management 
Company shall take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, 
amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement to which it is a party, or any provision thereof.
Page  3
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Energy Management Companies shall, at the request 
of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Subsidiary Grant Agreement to which it is a party, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the GEF Grant.
(b)
Each Energy Management Company shall promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan and the GEF Grant, or the 
performance by it of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement or Subsidiary Grant Agreement to which it is a party.
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of the 
Energy Management Companies 
Section 3.01. Each Energy Management Company shall carry on its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental and technical practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. Each Energy Management Company shall at all times operate and 
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, 
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance 
with sound engineering, financial, environmental and technical practices.
Section 3.03. Each Energy Management Company shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice. 
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, none of the Energy 
Management Companies shall, except in the ordinary course of its business, sell, 
lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets if, in 
the opinion of the Bank, such sale, lease, transfer, assignment or other disposition 
would materially and adversely affect (a) the ability of such Energy Management 
Company to perform any of its obligations arising under this Agreement or to achieve 
the objectives of the Project, or (b) the financial condition or operation of such 
Energy Management Company.
Section 3.05. Each Energy Management Company shall: (a) maintain its existence 
and right to carry on its operations and shall promptly take all measures necessary to 
acquire, maintain, renew or otherwise exercise any and all rights (including, without 
limitation, land rights), powers, privileges and franchises required for the proper 
conduct of its operations and the prompt carrying out of its obligations under this 
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Subsidiary Grant Agreement to 
which it is a party; and (b) not amend, suspend or repeal any provision of its 
respective Charter or make any change in its structure, organization, powers or 
responsibilities which may materially and adversely affect its ability to perform any 
of its obligations under this Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Each Energy Management Company shall maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
Each Energy Management Company shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
Page  4
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of said 
financial statements, 
reflecting the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, none of the Energy 
Management Companies shall incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues 
and expenditures shows that the estimated net revenues of such Energy Management 
Company, for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred, shall be at 
least 1.6 times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all its debt 
including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness maturing by its terms more 
than one 
year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income, and 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges 
and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(v)
The term “debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payment if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, 
debt. 
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by the 
respective 
Energy Management Company, not earlier than 
twelve months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both the Bank and the Energy 
Management 
Company preparing such forecast accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Bank has notified such Energy Management Company of its 
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification 
which has, or may reasonably be expected in 
the future to have, a material 
adverse effect on the 
Page  5
financial condition or future operating results of such 
Energy 
Management Company.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable 
in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, none of the Energy 
Management Companies shall incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the 
ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 60 to 40.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
(ii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable 
in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04.  Each Energy Management Company shall take all measures necessary 
to ensure that the average collection period for its accounts receivable from Host 
Consumers under Energy Performance Contracts does not exceed sixty (60) days.
Section 4.05. Each Energy Management Company shall:
(a)
no later than March 31 in each year, commencing March 31, 1999, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank for its review and comment its proposed five-year investment 
program and financing plan together with its business plan and projected financial 
statements; and
(b)
thereafter, implement said program and plans taking into account the 
Bank’s comments thereon. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the 
Energy Management Companies thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following 
two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Loan Agreement terminates before the date specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify the Energy Management 
Companies of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
Page  6
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Beijing EMC:
Beijing Yuanshen Energy Saving Technology Company, Ltd
No. 23, Dinghuibeili
Haidian District
Beijing, China
Facsimile:
010-8813-105
For Liaoning EMC:
Liaoning Province Energy Conservation Technology
    Development Company, Ltd.
No. 64 Xian Street
Heping District
Shenyang, Liaoning
China
Facsimile:
024-350-0768
For Shandong EMC:
Shandong Energy Conservation Engineering Company, Ltd. 
16 Jiefang Road
Jinan, Shandong
China
Facsimile:
0531-854-0864
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of: (a) Beijing 
EMC, may be taken or executed by the Chairman of its Board of Directors, or by such 
Page  7
other person or persons as such Chairman shall designate in writing; (b) Liaoning EMC, 
may be taken or executed by the Chairman of its Board of Directors, or by such other 
person or persons as such Chairman shall designate in writing; and (c) Shandong EMC, 
may be taken or executed by the Chairman of its Board of Directors, or by such other 
person or persons as such Chairman shall designate in writing; and each of the Energy 
Management Companies shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
BEIJING YUANSHEN ENERGY SAVING TECHNOLOGY
  COMPANY, LTD.
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative
LIAONING PROVINCE ENERGY CONSERVATION
  TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LTD.
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative
SHANDONG ENERGY CONSERVATION
  ENGINEERING COMPANY, LTD.
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Page  8
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Paragraph C.2 below, goods estimated to cost less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,700,000 
equivalent for each Energy Management Company, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International and National Shopping
Goods, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $26,700,000 equivalent for each 
Energy Management Company, may be procured under contracts awarded (a) on the basis of 
international shopping procedures,  if estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 
equivalent per contract; and (b) on the basis of national shopping procedures, if 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, in each case in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
A.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Each Energy Management Company shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
Page  9
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Borrower and the Bank, on or about August 31, 2000 and August 31, 2002, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to subparagraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
Part a of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
(c)
review with the Borrower and the Bank, by September 30, 2000 and 
September 30, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the respective 
reports referred to in subparagraph (b) above and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of Part A of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said reports and the Bank views on the matter.
B.
Subproject Implementation 
1.
(a)
Each Energy Management Company shall identify six (6) or more types of 
Subprojects (Project Lines) which it will offer to prospective Host Consumers and 
shall implement one or more Subprojects on a pilot basis (a Pilot Subproject) within 
each of its identified Project Lines.
(b)
An Energy Management Company which proposes to implement a Subproject  
shall enter into an Energy Performance Contract with the Host Consumer for such 
Subproject, pursuant to which the Energy Management Company shall obtain rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and the Energy Management 
Company, including the right to: 
(i)
require the Host Consumer to carry out the Subproject with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, managerial and 
environmental standards, 
and to maintain adequate records and to carry out any 
implementation and mitigation plans for such Subproject required under 
paragraph B.1 (e) (iii) of this Schedule; 
(ii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if 
the Bank 
shall so request, goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan or the 
GEF Grant, and the operation 
thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(iii)
require that: (A) the Host Consumer shall take out and maintain 
with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such 
risks and in such amounts, 
as shall be consistent with sound 
business practice; and (B) without any 
limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to 
the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan or the GEF Grant to the place of use or 
installation, any 
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the 
Host Consumer to replace 
or repair such goods; 
(iv)
obtain all such information as the Bank, the Borrower or the 
Energy Management 
Company shall reasonably request relating to 
the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Host Consumer and to 
the benefits 
to be derived from the Subproject; and 
(v)
suspend or terminate the right of the Host Consumer to the use of 
the goods 
financed with the proceeds of the Loan or GEF Grant 
upon failure by such Host 
Consumer to perform its obligations 
under its Energy Performance Contract with 
the Energy 
Management Company.
(c)
Each Energy Performance Contract shall be on commercial terms and for 
Subprojects which meet criteria acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  10
(d)
(i)
Subject to paragraph (d)(ii) below, no expenditures for goods 
required for a 
Subproject, including Pilot Subprojects, shall 
be eligible for financing out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Grant 
or the Loan unless the Energy Performance 
Contract with 
respect to such Subproject entered or to be entered into between 
the respective Energy Management Company and Host Consumer shall have been 
approved by the Bank.
(ii)
The Bank’s specific approval of a Subproject and the Energy 
Performance 
Contract with respect thereto shall not be 
required under paragraph (d)(i) 
above if, and to the 
extent that, such Subproject and such Energy Performance 
Contract are in a Project Line which has been specifically approved by the 
Bank for implementation by such Energy Management Company, and 
such approval 
has not been revoked.
(iii)
When presenting a Project Line for such approval by the Bank, the 
respective 
Energy Management Company shall furnish to the Bank 
an application, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
together with such information as the 
Bank shall reasonably 
request, and after the Bank shall have approved such 
Project Line, subsequent Subprojects in that Project Line shall be presented 
to the Bank for information after approval by the Energy Management 
Company concerned.
(e)
When presenting an Energy Performance Contract with respect to a 
Subproject to the Bank for approval, or for information pursuant to paragraph (d)(iii) 
above, the respective Energy Management Company shall furnish to the Bank an 
application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, together with:  (i) a 
substantiated estimate of total benefits attributable to Host Consumer energy cost 
savings; (ii) an estimate of the anticipated financial rate of return to the Energy 
Management Company with respect to the Subproject; and (iii) where the Subproject has 
potential negative environmental or safety impacts, a plan for Subproject 
implementation which will mitigate those impacts, and confirmation of necessary 
governmental approvals; and (iv) such other information as the Bank may reasonably 
request.
