RETURN       TO                                         RESTRICTED
REPORTS        DESK       w'iVt Report-Nc. TO-640a
WITHIN              tiL; JUL_
ONE WEEK                     -.
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
FISHERIES PROJECT
ECUADOR
July 18, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
U.S.$1             -      18.00 Sucres
(per IMF schedule of
par values)
1 Sucre                   U.S.$o.06
1 million Sucres   -      U.S.$55,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
British/U.S. System
1 nautical mile    - 1.15 statute miles   - 1.85 kilcmeters
1 short ton        - 2,000 pounds         - 907 kilograms
1 U.S. gallon      = 3.79 liters



ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                               i
I    INTRODUCTION                                                     1
II   BACKGROUND                                                       1
General                                                     1
Current Position of the Fishing Industry                    2
Fisheries Administration                                    2
Research and Training                                        3
Tuna Resources off Ecuador                                  4
The International Tuna Market                               4
U.S.A. Market for Tuna                                      5
The Ecuadorian Tuna Fishing Industry                        6
III  THE PROJECT                                                      7
Project Description                                         7
Purse Seine Fishing Vessels                                 7
Training Program                                            8
Harbor Studies                                              9
Project Costs                                               9
Proposed Financing                                         10
Procurement                                                12
Time Schedule and Disbursement Estimates                   13
IV   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                     13
Loans to Sub-borrowers                                     13
Training Program                                           14
V    OPERATING ARRANGEMENTS AND FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS                14
VI   JUSTIFICATION                                                   16
VII  CONCLUSIONS AND-RECOMMENDATIONS                                 17
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission
in November/December 1967, to Ecuador, composed of Messrs. M.J. Walden and
F. Vibert (of the Bank), Mr. R.E. Green (Consultant to the Bank), and
Mr. F. Bourgois (of F.A.O.).



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Ecuador's Fisheries and Export Statistics.
2.   Tuna Fishing off Ecuador.
3.   Processing and Marketing of Ecuadorian Tuna.
4.   Comision de Valores - Corporacion Financiera Nacional.
5.   Training Program.
6.   Outline Specifications of Tuna Purse Seiner.
7.   Time Schedule and Disbursement Estimates.
8.   Sub-borrowers - Estimated Income Statement of one Purse Seiner.
9.   Sub-borrowers - Estimated Cash Flow of one Purse Seiner.
MAP
Western Ecuador, Fishing Ports and Grounds



ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Ecuador has asked the Bank for a loan to finance
a project to expand the fishing industry. The project would comprise the
construction of twelve tuna purse seiners, a training program for key crew
members of project vessels and harbor studies to provide basic data for
possible future expansion of fisheries beyond the proposed project.
ii.       The borrower would be the Government of Ecuador who would lend the
proceeds of the loan relating to construction of purse seiners to a public
development finance corporation, the Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN)
at interest of 6-1/4 percent. CFN would on-lend these to approved private
fishing companies and individuals at interest of 10 percent. The loans to
these sub-borrowers would be for 14 years, including two years of grace.
CFN would repay the Government as repayments were receiveable from sub-
borrowers.
iii.      The training program is a most important part of the project be-
cause of the present lack of trained key crew members for project vessels.
It would be the responsibility of the National Fisheries Institute which
would also assist CFN in certain technical matters.
iv.       The purse seiners would operate in the Pacific, off the Ecuadorian
coast. Researches indicate that the predominant species there, skipjack
tuna, occurs in sufficient quantities to warrant more intensive exploitation.
Demand and prices for tuna have risen and are expected to continue rising.
v.        Ecuador is the world's third largest producer of skipjack tuna,
although very far below Japan, the largest. The method used by its present
fleet is, however, inefficient and incapable of further substantial in-
creases in production. The project purse seiners would introduce a more
up-to-date and efficient method of fishing and would more than double
present production.
vi.       Ecuador is at present overly dependent upon agricultural products,
notably bananas, for its foreign exchange earnings. The project would as-
sist in diversifying foreign exchange earnings, which is in line with Govern-
ment objectives, and would increase these by more than US$3 million annually.
vii.      Assuming a 15-year operating life for the purse seiners, the pro-
ject would yield a rate of return to the economy of about 21 percent.
viii.     The project cost would be US$6.6 million of which US$5.9 million
would be in foreign exchange. Subject to the inclusion of the training pro-
gram, the project is financially and economically sound and suitable for a
Bank loan of US$5.3 million for a term of 20 years including 6 years of
grace.






ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ecuador has requested a Bank loan of US$5.3
million to expand its tuna fishing fleet and to carry out harbor feasibility
studies. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$6.6 million of
which US$5.9 million would be in foreign exchange.
1.02      The project is in accordance with the Government's aims to expand
export sectors. The estimated catch of the proposed additions to the fleet
would be approximately 24,000 short tons per year of which a substantial
part, if not all, would be exported in frozen or canned form. The harbor
feasibility studies are necessary for the further expansion of fishing
production, although present facilities are adequate for the vessels to be
constructed under the project.
1.03      The borrower would be the Government of Ecuador.  The loan proceeds
relating to the purchase of vessels would be channelled to private fishing
companies through a public development finance corporation, the Corporacion
Financiera Nacional (CFN). In addition to selecting sub-borrowers, CFN would
invite bids and award tenders for vessel construction and equipment.
1.04      The National Fisheries Institute (NFI) would assist CFN as tech-
nical adviser and would operate a training scheme for key personnel which
is included in the project.
1.05      The project was identified and prepared under the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative program. This report is based on the findings of a Bank ap-
praisal mission in November/December 1967, to Ecuador, composed of Messrs.
M.J. Walden and F. Vibert (of the Bank), Mr. R.E. Green (Consultant to the
Bank), and Mr. F. Bourgois (of FAO).
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Ecuador is one of the smallest and poorest countries of South
America, and its population of about 5.4 million has an approximate average
per capita income of US$193. The economy is based on agriculture, and over
80 percent of exports are agricultural products, mainly bananas (Annex 1,
Table 6). The Government wishes to diversify exports, and the fisheries
sector offers opportunities for this.
2.02      Ecuador borders the Pacific across the equator, and off-shore
waters have greater fish resources than is usual in tropical seas. This is
because the area is influenced by the Peru current, which flows up the west



- 2 -
coast of South America, and by the flow from the Guayas River. Both the
current and river flow are rich in nutrients, resulting in abundant fish
stocks.
2.03      Ecuador does not fully exploit these resources.   A traditional
fishery of canoes, balsa rafts and sailing boats catches a variety of
species, but only over the last 15 years has a modern commercial fishery
of any size developed. This fleet, which is privately owned, comprises
about 300 motorised vessels ranging in size from 18 to 100 feet (Annex 1,
Table 1) and mainly catches tuna and crustaceans.
Current Position of the Fishing Industry
2.o4      Ecuadorian fish production has increased rapidly since the early
1950's, largely because of the growth of United States demand for shrimp,
lobster and tuna, species which are plentiful in Ecuadorian waters. Fish
landings rose from 17,000 short tons in 1955 to 53,000 tons in 1966. Landed
value in 1966 was US$7.8 million, and exports of an estimated US$6.3 million
were made, accounting for 3.4 percent of the country's foreign exchange
earnings (Annex 1, Tables 2 and 6).
2.05      The growth in production has been of export species and production
for domestic consumption has developed slowly. Two main reasons account for
this; first, marketing problems which result from scattered settlement and
the lack of inland cold storage facilities; and second, inadequate harbor
facilities. Because of this, prices on the domestic market are high and the
effective demand low. Domestic consumption will not expand significantly
until prices are lowered. This will require more and better harbors, con-
nected by good roads to markets, to replace the many beach landing sites
used at present (Annex 1, Table 5).
2.o6      Harbor facilities for the largely export tuna and shrimp catch are
adequate for present and projected levels of production. Facilities for
the shrimp fleet are mainly located on the Guayas river and those for tuna
vessels at Manta (see Map). Shrimp docking facilities are associated with
processing plants and usually have been constructed by the processors. In
Manta, tuna processing plants are privately owned while the port authority
controls both the fishing harbor where smaller vessels berth and the com-
mercial port which the larger fishing vessels use.
2.07      It is estimated by the authorities that at the end of 1965,
US$11.1 million was invested in the fishing industry; US$6.5 million in
vessels and gear and the balance in processing plants (Annex 1, Table 3).
Of 17,000 persons employed in the fishing industry in 1965, 1,700 were
employed in the large scale industrial fleet and a further 1,700 in the
related processing industry (Annex 1, Table 4).
Fisheries Administration
2.o8      The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is responsible for fishery
policies, and its Fisheries Division for the enforcement of fisheries
legislation, the grant of fishing permits and export authorizations, and



- 3 -
collection of fisheries statistics. Its main offices are in Guayaquil and
it has fisheries inspection units at all main landing sites. The personnel
of the division have changed with every change in Minister of Industries
and Commerce; this has caused instability and poor efficiency. Addition-
ally, since the division's main office is not in the capital, consulta-
tions between the Minister and the Director of the division are impeded
and decisions are taken by the Minister on fisheries matters without the
division's advice. The work of the division is largely regulatory apart
from a loans program administered for traditional fishing.
2.09      Fisheries planning is the responsibility of the National Plan-
ning Board. This is composed of representatives of appropriate ministries
and other bodies concerned with economic growth. The Board's president
has ministerial rank and is attached to the Office of the President of the
Republic. The Board has a permanent staff headed by a technical director.
Its functions are the planning of economic development, the coordination of
government activities for this purpose, and the evaluation of projects sub-
mitted by Government agencies, or by private enterprise when the latter
wish to benefit from the laws regulating industrial development. In fish-
eries development, the Board's staff receives advice from, and works in
close cooperation with NFI (para 2.12).
2.10      Two other ministries are concerned with fisheries regulations.
The Ministry of Health and Welfare supervises the quality of fish products
and the conditions of their sale on the domestic market; and the Ministry
of Defense, through its Merchant Navy Division, grants construction per-
mits and seaworthiness certificates, and participates with the Fisheries
Division in enforcing fisheries legislation. The navy's vessels are in
charge of this enforcement at sea.
2.11      Ecuador, together with Chile and Peru, is a member of the South-
east Pacific Commission, established in 1952. The members each claim a
territorial sea extending 200 nautical miles (230 statute miles) from their
coasts. Many other nations do not recognize these claims. Ecuador requires
substantial licence fees from vessels of other nationalities fishing within
the limit, and vessels failing to obtain licenses are subject to seizure
and payment of fines. United States tuna vessels are the most affected and
consequently, discussions have been initiated and are still under way be-
tween the United States and the members of the Southeast Pacific Commission
with a view to resolving this problem.
Research and Training
2.12      NFI is an autonomous institution under the Ministry of Industries
and Commerce, and responsible for fisheries research and training. It was
founded in 1961 and has a staff of 14 professionals, and about 35 other
employees, excluding the crews of its vessels. Its headquarters and main
laboratory are in Guayaquil and a small field laboratory and net workshop
is at Salinas. NFI operates a 70 foot research vessel with a permanent
crew of 11 and two smaller craft.



-'4-
2.13      NFI research includes oceanography, marine biology, experimental
and exploratory fishing, fish processing, and fisheries economics and sta-
tistics. It has carried out an overall survey of fisheries production and
exnorts, a study of the shrimp population in the waters off Ecuador, ex-
ploration of the trawling grounds on the continental shelf, experimental
fishing for lobster in the Galapagos islands and the continental coast of
Ecuador, and a statistical study of shrimp and tuna production.
2.14      Ecuador is a member of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission
(TATTC). NFI has cooperated with IATTC in research and this has been of
benefit both to the national tuna industry and to the other members of
IATTC. The purpose of IATTC is to conduct scientific investigations of
tuna and tuna-bait fishes in the eastern tropical Pacific with the objective
of recommending to member governments necessary steps for conservation and
optimum utilization. Ecuador has recently given notice to discontinue its
membership of IATTC, and although it is unlikely that this will have an
adverse effect on Ecuador's catches of tuna, it may be anticipated that in
the future there will only be informal cooperation between NFI and IATTC.
2.15      NFI provides the only facilities for fisheries training, and its
activities have included courses in fisheries statistics, fish identifica-
tion and fisheries regulations for government fisheries inspectors; the
demonstrations to coa3tal fishermen of the installation and operation of
small diesel engines distributed under the government's credit program;
and demonstration of the production of fish meal and fish extracts from
small fish by using simple methods and equipment.
Tuna Resources off Ecuador
2.16      Two distinct species of tuna, skipjack and yellowfin, occur in
abundance in the waters off Ecuador. Both are widely distributed in the
eastern tropical Pacific where they are exploited mainly by American, but
also by Japanese, Ecuadorian, Mexican, Peruvian and Chilean vessels. IATTC
studies, made throughout the tropical Pacific, show that skipjack, the main
species caught in waters off Ecuador, occur in sufficient stocks to warrant
more intensive exploitation. Catches of yellowfin, however, have been
greater than the level that will ensure a maximum sustainable yield. As a
result, a catch limitation has been agreed internationally for yellowfin
since 1966, and Ecuador has taken the necessary internal steps to enforce
this. The agreement is not expected to limit an expansion of Ecuador's tuna
industry which is largely based on skipjack.
The International Tuna Market
2.17      The demand for all species of tuna has increased considerably
and steadily over the last 12 years, although minor fluctuations in trade
volume and value have arisen from cyclical and seasonal variations in sup-
ply. Both the strong growth in demand and these fluctuations are expected
to continue.



-5-
2.18      Japan is the world's largest producer and, despite its own very
large consumption, is also the main exporter. Almost universally, coun-
tries purchasing tuna prefer to import it whole and can it in their own
factories. Thus, while markets are usually open to frozen fish, import
duties or quotas are applied to the canned product.
2.19      The United States and Italy, importing in 1966 225,000 and
47,000 short tons respectively of fresh and frozen tuna are the major
importers, and the canning industries of these countries are protected
with duties and quotas. The only significant importer of canned tuna is
West Germany where Japan is the predominant supplier.
U.S.A. Market for Tuna
2.20      The U.S. is the second largest producer of tuna, but since con-
sumption greatly exceeds its production it is the largest importer. Since
1954, the U.S. situation has been characterised by a levelling of annual
tuna production at around 170,000 short tons and a considerable growth in
imports of frozen tuna. Tuna imports are subject to several conditions:
(a) tuna canned in oil 1/ is subject to an ad valorem duty of 38
percent which is so high as to practically eliminate imports;
(b) imports of tuna canned in brine are restricted to 20 percent
of the amount canned in the U.S. during the previous year and
subject to an ad valorem duty of 14.5 percent;
(c) imports of tuna canned in brine above quota are liable to double
import duty but the quota is rarely reached;
(d) imports of raw frozen tuna are without restriction of tonnage
and free of import duties.
Puerto Rico, where there are large processing plants, is governed by the
same regulations and trade between Puerto Rico and the U.S. is free.
2.21      Annex 3, Table 3 shows United States production and imports from
1955 through 1966, and Annex 3, Table 4 prices paid to United States fish-
ermen from 1956 through 1966. The latter table shows that in most years
there are wide fluctuations in prices, although no statistics are available
on the actual quantities which moved at these prices. Price estimates take
no account of an informal system of bonus payment which operates. The
considerable imports of tuna to the United States from Japan, Spain and
Ecuador, representing respectively 70, 15 and 7 percent of total imports,
1/   Usually the liquid in which tuna is canned is edible oil or brine.
That in oil is in relatively small cans designed for sale to the
ultimate retail consumer without further processing. Tuna in brine
is in considerably larger cans and is designed for sale to institu-
tional consumers.



-6-
are governed by private agreements between companies, and the details of
these are not published. However, available evidence appears to indicate
that many of these imports may command higher prices than those paid to
American fishermen.
The Ecuadorian Tuna Fishing Industry
2.22      After shrimp, tuna is Ecuador's most important fishery.    The tuna
fleet consist of about 60 vessels, ranging widely in individual size from
18 to 110 gross tons. Most vessels have been financed by the tuna process-
ing companies. Loans are made to vessel owners on very favorable terms,
but involve agreements under which the vessel's catch is sold to the finan-
cing company. National tuna production was 13,200 short tons in 1966 (Annex
1 Table 2), of which about 12,000 short tons were skipjack; Ecuador is the
third largest world producer of skipjack, after Japan and the United States.
2.23      Few tuna vessel owners, who are individuals or partnerships, own
more than two vessels (Annex 2 Table 1). Most owners have substantial loans
outstanding for boat purchases and many for working capital in addition.
Consequently, few owners could handle a larger operation even were substan-
tial loan capital available, because their freely disposable financial re-
sources would be inadequate for any reasonable level of equity participation.
On the other hand many owners, especially those who captain, or have cap-
tained, tuna vessels have valuable technical experience to contribute to an
enlarged operation, although the close relationship between processors and
owners has prevented the development, among owners, of commercial entre-
preneurship.
2.24      Two methods can be used for catching tuna when it occurs in iden-
tifiable schools, as is the case in the waters off the Ecuador coast. 1/
First, the operation of bait boats (also known as the live bait or pole and
line method).  This is the main method used by the Ecuador fleet.    The oper-
ation involves fishing in-shore for small fish for tuna bait.   This bait is
kept alive in tanks aboard the tuna boat which then hunts for tuna schools.
When these are located, the live bait is released and the tuna feeding on it
are fished with unbaited hooks on lines attached to poles. The principle is
that the tuna are so excited by the concentration of live bait that they
will take the unbaited hooks. The second method is purse seining. This
involves no bait and when a school is located, the purse seiner encircles
the whole school with a large net. When the circle is completed, the net
is drawn in, bringing the fish to the side of the purse seiner for loading.
Less than 10 purse seiners operate under the Ecuadorian flag (Annex 2 para 6)
but while these have only recently been introduced, they are without refrig-
eration and too small for efficiency.
2.25      The range of the bait boat fleet is limited by the need to first
catch bait, which is in limited supply, and by the lack of refrigeration
1/   Longlining, as in the case of the two Chinese projects financed by the
Bank, is unsuitable for Ecuadorian conditions. It is used in deep-sea
areas where tuna are present in reasonable quantities but not in indenti-
fiable schools.



- 7 -
for the tuna catch. These limitations mean that vessels of the fleet not
only compete for bait, but also for tuna close to the coast. Because of
these limitations, it would seem unlikely that the bait boat fleet is capa-
ble of further expansion on an economic basis. An expansion of the tuna
fishery demands longer range fishing, and thus purse seiners equipped with
refrigeration.
2.26      In Manta, tuna freezing, cold storage and canning capacity is
being increased considerably through private investments. The increase is
such that processing capacity is rising more quickly than the catching
capacity of the fishing fleet, thus making desirable an increase in the
number of vessels and an extension of their range of operation.
2.27      Ecuadorian law excludes direct transshipment of catch from a fish-
ing boat to a freezing vessel or freighter for transport abroad; this is to
ensure that any value added to catch in the form of freezing or other pro-
cessing accrues to Ecuador. Dispensations have been allowed, but usually
where processors have operated freezing vessels as a first step towards
establishing a shore facility. The general effect has been that tuna fish-
ermen have been obliged to sell to processors located in Ecuador, and, to
date, has probably not had much practical significance since most fishermen
are tied by loan and supply agreements, and their product, fresh and frozen
tuna is too small for direct transshipment. However, the restriction could
hamper operations of boats not subject to loan and supply agreements and
delivering large quantities of frozen tuna, since these boats must land
their catch in Ecuador where processors could hold prices below interna-
tional levels.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The project is the construction, equipment and operation of 12
tuna purse seiners, and the training of crews to operate these. The objec-
tive is to increase Ecuador's foreign exchange earnings by an expansion in
the production and export of tuna. The project includes a study of addi-
tional harbor facilities required for further increases in fish production,
for both the export and domestic markets.
3.02      The proceeds of the Bank loan relating to the construction of
purse seiners would be lent by the Government to CFN who would on-lend to
qualified individuals and companies. Details of the arrangements for this
are given in paras 3.14 through 3.20.
Purse Seine Fishing Vessels
3.03      The proposed 12 tuna purse seiners would each be of approximately
90 feet overall length and 150 short tons carrying capacity and would re-
quire a crew of 13. They would be of modern standardized design equipped
with up-to-date gear and deck machineries. The main engine would have a



maximum power of 500 bhp. Deck machineries would include a power block, a
purse-seine davit, boom topping winch and other equipment adequate to oper-
ate a purse-seine net of 2,500 feet in length and 300 feet in depth. An
auxiliary boat, a skiff with a diesel engine of 75 bhp, and a small motor
boat, would be carried.  The vessels would have a brine immersion freezing0
system for freezing and storing the catch on board at a temperature of -17 C
(Annex 6). Their fish catching characteristics would be those of purse
seiners of other countries fishing the eastern Pacific, but their hold capac-
ities would be smaller because their operating bases would be closer to the
fishing grounds. In the same way, their navigational equipment would be
simpler than that of larger long range boats.
Training Program
3.o4      As purse seining is a relatively new introduction to Ecuador,
training must be provided for the key crew members of project vessels. The
method selected as most appropriate is as follows; more complete details
together with an outline of rejected alternatives are given in Annex 5.
NFI, assisted by a consultant, would provide a one year training course
for the three senior members of each crew - the captain, chief engineer
and net bosun. To enable early implementation of the training program,
NFI would purchase a second-hand purse seiner of the approximate speci-
fications of the project vessels. Three Spanish speaking experts would be
obtained for a period of one year in the capacities of instructors as cap-
tain, engineer and net bosun. These probably would be foreign since few,
if any, Ecuadorians have the needed experience. For the purpose of the
project, the training program would run for a period of four years with
each trainee receiving one year's instruction on shore and on board the
training vessel. During the first year of training, the foreign experts
would train crews for the first three purse seiners to be constructed
under the project and would also train their local counterparts who would
replace them as instructors. The trainees and counterparts would be re-
cruited on the basis of their general sea and fishing competence. The
construction of a purse seiner would take at least one year and the train-
ing of crews would take place concurrently with the construction of their
vessels (para 3.21). Problems are not foreseen in obtaining either the
foreign experts or a used purse seiner of the required characteristics.
3.05      Some owners would wish, and be able, to directly obtain experi-
enced foreign key crew members and such owners would not be obliged to use
the training program. It is expected that because of the relative scarcity
and high. cost of these on the international market, only a few of the sub-
borrowers are likely to obtain such crews. Therefore, the training program
has been designed so as to meet the need for training Ecuadorian crews in
accordance with the construction schedule of project vessels (para 3.21).
If the training program did not entirely meet the requirements, the awards
of construction contracts would be phased so as to be compatible with the
number of trained crews available. A slow down in construction would cause
the project to be protracted beyond the phasing now projected, but the only
major economic consequence would be the delay in expanding the tuna indus-
try, as Bank approval of sub-borrowers (para 4.02) and construction contract
awards (para 3.20) would be given subject to evidence that satisfactory
crewing were possible.



-9-
Harbor Studies
3.06      The studies would be of two areas; first, the Santa Elena penin-
sula and bay, and second, Manta. Landings by vessels based in the Santa
Elena area total about 4,000 tons annually, and all are made at beach
sites. The fleet exploits some of the best fishing grounds for bottom and
pelagic fish, and supplies canneries in Santa Rosa and Guayaquil, inland
fish markets and the lobster export market. Increased production is ham-
pered by the lack of berthing, loading and ice supply facilities. The
studies would be directed to locating, designing and costing a fishing har-
bor to serve the area. Manta is the base of the tuna fleet, but any major
expansion beyond the project vessels will require extensions to berthing
and servicing facilities. Improved facilities are required also for the
canoe fishing fleet. The proposed studies would examine possible methods
and costs of providing these expanded facilities. The National Planning
Board would be responsible for this work and would employ consultants to
carry out the studies. Selection of consultants and their terms of refer-
ence would be approved by the Bank.
Project Costs
3.07      Total project costs are estimated at US$6.6 million equivalent,
including working capital. The following table suimmarises project costs.
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(us$ '000)
Foreign Exchange    Local Currency  Total
Purse Seiners
Construction (including net,
skiff and motor-boat)            4,200                          4,200
Designs and Supervision              120                -           120
Purse seiners' Working Capital        -                192          192
Sub total      4,320               192        4,512
Training Program                     397               480          877 a/
Harbor Studies                       185                98          283
Interest During Construction          54-                           954
TOTAL     5.856               770        6,626 a/
Percentage of Total                 88.4              11.6        100.0
a/   The estimated catch of the training vessel might reduce these
amounts by US$320,000 over four years.



- 10 -
3.08      Purse seiner construction cost estimates are based on a recent
contract for a similar vessel built by an established North American ship-
building yard. A shipbuilder with yards in South America, but with no pre-
vious experience in this type of vessel, currently offers similar specifica-
tions at a price 20 percent lower, and a French naval architect has given an
estimate between the two. Therefore no specific contingency has been added
to costs. Construction of vessels would be phased over five years, (para
3.21). The average unit cost is not expected to vary substantially, since
the larger size of the contract for vessels to be built late in the period
would bring economies which would offset the general rising trend in ship-
building cost.
3.09      Vessel construction costs account for 63 percent of total project
costs and the high foreign exchange component, 88 percent of project costs,
reflects the fact that the vessels would be built abroad. Imported fishing
vessels of less than 150 short tons refrigerated fish hold capacity are
subject to import duty. The proposed project vessels would be approximately
this size but according to the detailed designs produced by the naval architect
retained by CFN, they could be slightly smaller. The Government intends to
allow the vessels to fall within the duty free category even if this is the
case; this is accepted by the Bank and official confirmation to this effect
was obtained during negotiations. The imported vessels would be subject to an
ad valorem monetary stabilization charge which applies to all imports, and in
the case of the project vessels, is 10 percent. Project cost and financing
estimates exclude this charge throughout this report except for the paragraph
and annexes relating to the financial position of sub-borrowers and their in-
dividual purse-seiners (para. 5.08 and Annexes 8 and 9).
3.10      Working capital, required over the life of the project, amounts
to US$16,000 per vessel. This is equivalent to the cost of operation of a
vessel for two months, approximately four fishing trips, to provide a mar-
gin for the recovery of sales proceeds.
3.11      Training costs include the cost of foreign experts for the first
year of the scheme, local experts for the remainder of the period, and a
consultant throughout the four years. Approximately one quarter of the
cost of the training program is accounted for by the purchase of a second-
hand vessel. Arising from the operation of the training program, a fish
catch, worth US$80,000 per annum or US$320,000 over the course of the pro-
gram, might be expected. These earnings would be used to offset the cost
of the program.
Proposed Financing
3.12      The following table shows proposed sources of project finance.



FINANCING PLAN
(us$ o000)
Foreign
Govern-      Sub-              Exchange
Bank    ment     borrowers   Total   Percentage
Purse Seiners
(including net,
skiff and motorboat)    3,570      -         630      4,200     100.0
Designs and
Supervision               120      -          -         120     100.0
Purse Seiners'
Working Capital            -       -         192        192       -
Training Program            397    336 a/      144        877 a/    45.3
Harbor Studies              185     98          _         283      65.4
Interest During
Construction              954      -          -         954     100.0
TOTAL      5,226    434 a/      966      6,626 a/
Percent     78.9    6.5        14.6      100.0
a/   The estimated catch of the training vessel might reduce these amounts
by US$320,000 over four years.
3.13      Of total project costs, about 88 percent would be in foreign
exchange and the Bank would finance about 79 percent. The Bank would not
finance any local currency expenditures.
3.14      The Government of Ecuador would be the borrower and the proceeds
of the loan relating to the purse seiners and design and supervision would
be on-lent to selected sub-borrowers through a lending agency - the Corpo-
racion Financiera Nacional (CFN). Proceeds of the loan relating to the
training program and the harbor studies would be administered on behalf of
the Government, by NFI and the National Planning Board respectively.
3.15      Eighty-five percent of purse seiner construction costs would be
financed by the Bank and the remaining 15 percent by sub-borrowers. Sub-
borrowers would also pay the wages of their crews during training and provide
working capital and the total of these items is considered to be a reasonable
contribution towards financing their sub-projects. Design and supervision
costs, entirely in foreign currency, would be financed by the Bank.
3.16      All working capital would be provided by the sub-borrowers in
local currency as would be the wages of crews in training. The Bank would
finance all training costs incuurred in foreign exchange - the cost of the
consultants, the cost of foreign experts during one year and the purchase
of the training vessel. The Government would finance all training costs
incurred in local currency - the cost of local experts and the running
costs of the training vessel over the four years of the program. Proceeds
from the sale of fish caught during training operations would offset local



- 12 -
costs and reduce the Government contribution. However, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would initially make budget
allocations available for gross costs, and the proceeds of catches would only
be used to reduce the Government's contributions in the years succeeding such
catches.
3.17      The Bank would finance foreign exchange costs of the harbor studies
and the Government would finance local currency costs (65 percent and 35 per-
cent respectively).
3.18      Sub-borrowers would repay to CFN all costs incurred in construc-
tion and interest during construction. Each sub-borrower would be allowed
a grace period of two years covering the construction of his vessel and
its initial operations. Thereafter, repayment would be made to CFN over
12 years; 14 years in total. CFN would repay to Government the capital
element of sub-borrowers' repayments as these were receivable, together
with its interest liability. The Government would bear the foreign ex-
change risk on all repayments due to the Bank.
3.19      There are only limited sources of long term loans in Ecuador
and, therefore, no freely established interest rate exists for such finance.
Long term funds have been provided mainly through foreign aid programs, and
interest rates to final borrowers have not been related directly to the
interest charged by the original lenders. Where long term loans have been
made the annual interest rate has usually been at, or slightly below,
10 percent which is the legal limit in Ecuador and is the rate at which all
CFN loans have been made. The proceeds of the Bank loan relating to vessel
construction would be on-lent by the Government to CFN at 6-1/4 percent and
by CFN to sub-borrowers at 10 percent. Over the period of the sub-loans,
this would yield a gross profit to CFN of approximately US$1 million, out of
which it would pay its costs of administration relating to the project includ-
ing any bad debts arising therefrom. It is expected that CFN would make a
profit after deduction of these and that consequently, for the purposes of
the project, the rate of interest to be charged to sub-borrowers could be
lower by between 1 and 2 percent. However, under the terms proposed, the
sub-borrowers' financial projections are satisfactory (para 5.08) while such
a reduction would create difficulties with CFN's other borrowers. Further,
any profits to CFN, like all other profits to CFN, would contribute to re-
serves available for further development lending (Annex 4, para 12).
Procurement
3.20      CFN would engage a naval architect acceptable to the Bank to draw
up detailed specifications for the project vessels. The specifications and
other bid documents would be subject to the approval of the Bank. Bids would
be invited under international competition and the invitation to bid would
specify pre-qualification criteria, including experience in the construction
of vessels similar to those proposed in the project. Tenders would be ana-
lyzed by the Board of Directors of CFN and proposed awards submitted to the
Bank for approval. Construction contracts would be signed between the sub-
borrowers and the successful tenderer, with CFN guaranteeing the performance



- 13 -
of the sub-borrowers' obligations. At the same time, loan agreements would
be signed between CFN and the sub-borrowers. CFN would arrange for the
supervision of construction.
Time Schedule and Disbursement Estimates
3.21      Annex 7 contains details of project costs and disbursement
analysed by type and by year.
In the first year of the project, preliminary design work
would commence on project vessels, the training purse seiner
would be purchased and the training consultant and training
experts engaged.
In the second year of the project, designs would be completed,
sub-borrowers selected, and construction started of the first
three project vessels. The training program and harbor studies
would begin.
In the third year, the first three project vessels would
commence operation but no contracts would be let for further
construction. The handling characteristics and operational
results of the vessels would be evaluated to determine any
needed design modifications.
In the fourth year, construction of a further five vessels
would begin following selection of sub-borrowers, and the
harbor studies would end.
In the fifth year, a further four vessels would be constructed
and the training program for project crews would end.
In the sixth year, the last four vessels would become opera-
tional.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Loans to Sub-borrowers
4.ol      CFN is now an autonomous institution established in its present
form by decree in 1964 and its Board is composed of representatives of both
the public and private sectors. It originated in 1948 as a branch of the
central bank and until 1964 it assisted Government initially, and later
private industry, in obtaining funds through bond issue. Since 1964, CFN
has also acted as a public development finance corporation and for this
purpose has obtained funds from the central bank and foreign lending insti-
tutions. It is too early to accurately assess its operating results in this
new activity but indications are that it is performing successfully. Manage-
ment and staff now have considerable experience and CFN is suitable for the



functions required by the project. The accounts of CFN are audited annually
by the Colombian office of Price, Waterhouse and Co. and these arrangements
are satisfactory for the purposes of the project. The Bank would receive
the audited accounts in the form in which they are produced at present,
together with a statement of accounts relating to the project, certified by
the auditors. Further details of CFN are contained in Annex 4.
4.02      CFN would invite applications from potential sub-borrowers and,
assisted by NFI on technical aspects, would appraise their financial sound-
ness and commercial competence. Those applicants approved by the CFN Board
of Directors would be submitted to the Bank for approval as would proposed
draft contracts with sub-borrowers. In addition, the Bank would be furnished
with details of rejected applications and the technical opinion of NFI.
4.03      The decree which governs CFN's lending policies demands a high
degree of security coverage for loans for assets such as purse seiners. It
is unlikely that present tuna bait boat operators will be able to provide
this level of security and there may be considerable difficulty in finding
individuals who can meet both the technical and financial requirements.
Therefore, partnership arrangements will probably be necessary between indi-
viduals, such as bait boat owners, possessing technical knowledge and others
with the financial resources to furnish the required security.
Training Program
4.o4      NFI, with the assistance of a consultant who would be employed
with the approval of the Bank, would organize the training program and would
be responsible for all aspects of it.
4.05      NFI would draw up general specifications for a used vessel to be
obtained as a training boat. This would be done with the assistance of
the naval architect engaged by CFN. The boat's specification would be
approved by the Bank and bids for the supply of the vessel invited interna-
tionally. The Bank would approve the purchase contract.
4.o6      NFI would engage, with the concurrence of the Bank, three foreign
experts in the capacities of captain, engineer and net bosun for approxi-
mately one year. It would also engage local counterparts for the experts,
in consultation with the Bank, initially as trainees and subsequently as
instructors.
V. OPERATING ARRANGEMENTS AND FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
5.01      Purse seiners financed under the project would fish principally
in the waters off Ecuador. The operational schedule is shown in Annex 8.
After the first two years of operation, the annual catch is estimated at
some 2,000 short tons; an average of 11 short tons per fishing day. Harbor
facilities in Ecuador, although not ideal, are adequate for the operation
of the project vessels, and it is expected that most would operate out of
Manta.



- 15 -
5.02      Sales of project catch would be made to processing plants located
or being constructed in Ecuador. Processing and freezing capacity in
operation or under construction would be more than adequate for catches
anticipated from the project vessels. However, to ensure that purse seiner
operators enjoyed a price in line with international prices, assurances
would be sought from the Government during negotiations, that no obstacle,
either legal or fiscal, would bar vessel operators from transshipping their
frozen catch directly abroad.
5.03      Estimates of financial results for a project purse seiner and
the assumptions on which they are based are shown in Annex 8.
5.04      Income statements assume that of the yearly tuna catch of 2,000
short tons per vessel, 90 percent would be skipjack and 10 percent the more
valuable yellowfin tuna. This estimate is based on data of IATTC for total
catch, and average catch per standard fishing day for vessels fishing off
Ecuador (Annex 2).
5.05      It is assumed that catch prices would be US$93 per ton of skipjack
and US$114 per ton of yellowfin (Annex 8). The assumption that prices would
not fall below these levels rests partly on technical and partly on market
considerations. First, the existing market price reflects a situation of
limited capacity in processing whereas a situation of excess capacity is
developing (Annex 3). Secondly, current prices in Ecuador reflect the very
favorable terms which the owners of almost all boats enjoy on their loans
from processors. Under the project proposed, the purse seine fleet would
be independent of processors's finance. Market factors therefore, would
change in favor of independently financed boat operators and this would
be accentuated by the end of the near monopoly position which has existed
until recently in the processing industry. Finally, the quantity of fish
caught by the project purse seiners would be sufficiently large and in
frozen form to make transshipment for direct export feasible. This pos-
ibility should ensure that prices paid by processors in Ecuador would not
be substantially below world prices.
5.o6      Operating expenses have been based on costs of operating similar
vessels in the eastern Pacific with appropriate modifications to Ecuadorian
prices and conditions. It is customary on Ecuadorian bait boats, as on
other countries' tuna vessels, to remunerate the crew by a share of catch
proceeds. The share basis assumed for Ecuadorian purse seiners is less
per ton than that now paid to bait boat crews, but because of the higher
catch capacity of the purse seiners their crews should earn substantially
more.
5.07      The vessels would be insured for their full value and the insur-
ance would cover damage and loss to normal standards, with the exception of
damage sustained by the net during normal operations. In the case of the
complete loss of a vessel, the actual circumstances, especially the finan-
cial situation of the sub-borrower, would determine whether the correspond-
ing sub-loan should be repaid immediately or the proceeds of the insurance
used for the replacement of the vessel. In order that either circumstance
would not present exchange difficulties, the insurance policy claims would
be payable in a readily convertible currency.



- 16 -
5.08      Annex 8 gives the estimated income statement while Annex 9 sets
forth the cash flow estimates for one purse-seiner. The financial return
on the total investment in a purse-seiner would be about 17 percent while the
return on equity invested by the sub-borrower would be about 28 percent. Be-
cause of the substantial net cash inflow which is projected to reach US$25,000
after the second year of operations, consideration has been given to accele-
rating the repayment of sub-loans either by shortening the period of all sub-
loan repayments or by requiring the early repayment of sub-borrowers whose
results were favorable enough to allow this 1/. In view of the possible
fluctuations from the average from year to year in earnings from an enterprise
such as fishing, it would not be desirable to increase the fixed annual repay-
ment commitment beyond that proposed. An early repayment provision under
specified circumstances would not have this disadvantage but would create
very considerable difficulties of administration and enforcement. Because of
these difficulties and the fact that this project would be introducing a new
method of tuna fishing to Ecuador (which was not the case in either of the
Chinese loans) an early repayment provision would not be desirable.
VI. JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The construction and operation of 12 purse seiners would more
than double Ecuador's tuna landings. Since domestic demand is incapable
of rapid expansion, virtually all of the increased catch would be exported
and generate substantial foreign exchange earnings. Export earnings which
would be derived from the project would be dependent on the proportions of
the catch exported in canned form and in frozen form. The most conservative
estimate is that the total catch would be exported in frozen form. On this
basis, using the individual vessel catch and price assumptions given in
paragraphs 5.04 and 5.05, and assuming all ex-country costs would accrue
to countries other than Ecuador, annual export earnings would amount to
about US$3 million.
6.02      Assuming a 15 year operating life for the purse seiners, the
project would yield a rate of return to the economy of about 21 percent.
6.03      If a substantial proportion of the production were to be canned
the additional added value would contribute to export earnings and there
would be further benefits to the economy from a fuller utilization of pro-
cessing facilities.
1/ An early repayment requirement was incorporated into the Second Deep
Sea Fisheries Project, Republic of China, IBRD Report No. TO-568b,
although no similar provision was incorporated in the earlier fisheries
loan to the same country, IBRD Report No. TO-372a.



- 17 -
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The provision of trained key crew members would be the most
critical requirement for the success of the project. For this reason, a
training program (paras 3.04-3.05 and 4.o4-4.o6) would be essential.  With-
out it, the project would proceed only as experienced (foreign) key crew
members were obtained by applicants at reasonable cost; the delays in-
herent in this cannot be accurately estimated but would be considerable.
7.02      The project as planned, subject to the inclusion of the train-
ing program, is financially and economically sound and suitable for a Bank
loan of US$5.3 million for a term of 20 years including 6 years of grace.
7.03      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government with
regard to the following matters:
(a) annual budget allocations would be made to cover the gross
costs, less the proceeds from prior year's fish sales, of the
training program administered by the National Fisheries Institute
(para 3.16);
(b)  a naval architect acceptable to the Bank would be engaged by CFN
(para 3.20);
(c)  the training consultant would be approved by the Bank (para 4.04);
(d) where necessary, to ensure reasonable prices for project catch,
direct trans-shipment to freighters, without legal or fiscal
obtacles, would be authorised (para 5.02).
July 18, 1968






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
ECUADORIS FISHERIES AND EXPORT STATISTICS
Table 1               Ecuadorian Motorized Fishing Fleet
Table 2               Landings of Fish and SheUfish in Ecuador
Table 3               Capital Invested in Fisheries
Table 4               Employment in Fisheries
Table 5               Fish Landing Sites in Ebuador
Table 6               Principal 7Aports from &uador
July 18, 1968






ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
ECUADORIAN FISHING FLEET
MOTORIZED VESSELS CLASSIFIED B LEENGTH AND AREA OF OPERATION
Playas
Peninsula of     and        Gulf of
Overall Length    Esmeraldas    Manta    Santa Elena     Posoija   Guayaquil    Total
Up to 20 feet         -           3            -            -           -         3
21 to 30 feet         1          21           24            1           2         49
31 to 40Ofeet         1           8            8           12           5         34
41 to 50 feet         3          21            5           25          24         78
51 to 60 feet        17          19            1           25          17         79
61 to 70 feet        10          1             -            9           8         38
71 to 80 feet         1           2                         -           2          5
81 to 90 feet         -           -                         -           1          1
91 to 100 feet        -          _                                      1          1
TOTAL                33          85           38           72          60        288
Source: National Fisheries Institute of Ecuador.
July 18, 1968



ECUADOR                          ANNEX 1
FISHERIES PROJECT                     Table 2
Landing of Fish and Shellfish in Ecuador, 1961-66
Q: Quantities in thousand short tons (landed weight)
V: Value in thousand US$ (landed value)
1961    1962    1963    1964     1965    1966
Tuna                            Q:     12.8    12.6    14.8    10.8    16.3    13.2
V:     726     852      995     722   1,067     960
Groupers, snappers,             Q:      *       *       0.4     0.4     1.0     1.0
croakers, etc.                V:      *       *        41      39     108     105
Thread herrings,                 Q:     *       *       4.3     7.3     7.8     8.9
anchovies, etc.               V:      *       *        47      81      99     108
Crustaceans                     Q:      6.3     6.9     8.o     7.2     8.0     7.6
V:   1,965   2,407   2,690-   2,727   3,577   3,989
of which:
Shrimps                Q:     5.1      5.2     5.7     5.5     6.3     5.8
V:   1,812   2,182    2,397   2,454   3,304   3,726
Lobsters               Q:      0.1     0.2     0.4     0.3     0.3     0.2
V:      41      68      102     141     128     110
Other                  Q:     1.1      1.5     1.9     1.3     1.4     1.6
V:     112     157      191     132     145     153
Molluscs                         Q:     1.3     3.1     3.5     3.5      3.6     3.9
V:      82     194      221     241     269     311
Unsorted and unidentified        Q:    22.1    24.3    24.4    21.9    22.2    18.5
fishes                        V:    2,429   2,668   2,680   2,630   2,707   2,287
TOTAL                           Q:    42.5     46.9    55.4    51.1    58.9    53.1
V:   5,202   6,121   6,674    6,440   7,827   7,760
w =-=       :=~      z = =2=  ~=:=  in= =
* Data not available.
Source: National Fisheries Institute.
July 18, 1968



ANNEX 1
Table 3
ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
CAPITAL INVESTED IN FISHERIES (1965)
PRODUCTION
Industrial Fisheries                    No. of Vessels          Investment
('000 US$)
Tuna Fleet                                    60                  1,095
Shrimp Trawling Fleet                        166                  3,542
Lobster Fleet                                  4                    187
SAll Purse Seiners                             2                     34
Tuna Fishing Gear                                                    U1
Inshore Fisheries
Lobster Boats (Motorized)                     38                     61
Motorless Shrimp Canoes                       47                       4
Miscellaneous Vessels                      5,539                     769
Fishing Gear                                                        847
TOTAL:                                                                 6,550
PROCESSING                                   No. of Plants
Tuna processing plants 1/                      3                  1,380
Shrimp freezing plants                         5                  2,755
Lobster freezing plants                        3                    205
Thread herring canning plants                  3                    110
Fish refrigeration and freezing plants 2/      4                    146
TOTAL:                                                                  4,596
TOTAL INVESTMENT IN PROCESSIING AND PRODUCTION                        11,146
1/ Includes tuna cold storage vessels.
v/ Excluding tuna processing plants.
Source: National Fisheries Institute
July 18, 1968



ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
EMPLOYMENT IN FISHERIES (1965)
FISHING OPERATIONS                               HANILING AND PROCESSING
_________________________ _____                   ___________________EMPLOYMENT
IN
FISH        Industrial        Inshore                              WORKERS                                      FISHING AND
fisheries        fisheries                                                   Technical and          PROCESSING
SPECIES                                                                                   Clerical Staff
Fishermen              Full time            Occasional
Male      Female      Male     Female       Male     Female     Male      Female    Male    Female  Total
Tuna          787        ...        ---         83                    138      296        42         14     1,050    310     %360
Shrimps       762                               97       178            5      505        67         17       931     700    1,631
Lobsters      106        325        _4                    __            1      __           6         1       442       1     443
Thread
Herrings        8        ...        ---         25        44          ___      177        12          5        45     226     271
Other fisb    ---     13,092                    20       __l ___                          14          2    13,126       2   13128
Molluscs                            859         _          __       _--                                        --     859     859
TOTAL      1,663      133417       859         229       222          144      978                   39    15,59b   2,098   67692
15,939                                         1,753                                         17,692
July 18, 1968



ANNEX 1
Table 5
ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
Fish Landing Sites in Ecuador by Type
Condition                                                Number
Beach on open sea                                           71
On estuary bank                                            28 1/
In estuary with very shallow depth                         18
On deep water channel                                      12
On open anchorage                                            9
In sheltered anchorage                                       7
In river with difficult access to sea                        3
On both open sea beach and estuary                          2
In both river and estuary                                   1
On river bank with landing quays (Guayaquil)                1
Within commercial harbor (Manta)                             1
153
v/ Out of which only 7 have easy access to sea for small boats.
July 18, 1968



ECUADOR
FISHIRIE-1 PROJECT
Principal Exports from Ecuador
(fob values in US$'000)
1967
1961       1962       1963      1964       1965       1966       1967      Percentage
Bananas               80,900    88,500     85,200    98,000     95,900     105,300   108,000        52.4
Coffee                14,802    20,953     18,255    21,165     38,236      32,144    39,833        19.3
Cacao                15,388     15,913     19,795    16,194     19,132      17,206    24,852        12.1
Sugar                  2,529     5,963      5,614     7,115      7,304       6,508     7,548         3.7
Fisheries products     4,724     5,399      6,318     6,300      6,300       6,300     6,950         3.4
Other products 2!    11,057     11,872     15,218    12,626    13,428       19,442    18,817         9.1
TOTAL:              129,400    148,600    150,400   161,400    180,300     186,900   206,000       100.0
~,/ Includes: Rice, timber, castor beans,, phanuaceutical products, molasses, pyrethr=m, etc.
Sources Ministry of Finance 1961-64
Central Bank Estimates 1965-67
July 18, 1968



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
TUNA FISHING OFF ECUADOR
Catches of Present Fleet
1.        Because the vessels which operate from Manta return to land their
catch every day, their range is limited to a radius of about 40 miles.
2.        In spite of this restricted range, tuna landings by the Manta
fishing fleet have risen from 12,800 short tons in 1961 to 16,300 short
tons in 1966. Ecuador is the third world producer of skipjack tuna (after
Japan: 147,800 tons and the United States: 49,900 tons, in 1965). How-
ever, Ecuadorian catches are only 13 to 16 percent of total world skipjack
landed production.
Existing Limitations in Fishing Range
3.        With only a few exceptions, the tuna fishing fleet in Manta use
the pole and line fishing method which requires the catching and keeping
of live bait. They do not have insulated holds and do not carry ice. The
fish used for live bait is mainly anchovy, which, in the Manta area, schools
in shallow water close to the shore. The necessity to catch fresh live bait
every day before starting actual tuna fishing operations compels the boats
to remain clost to the coast. Once the tuna is caught, it has to be landed
before it spoils. For these two reasons, actual fishing operations can be
carried on only during a few hours every day and the operating range of the
vessels is limited to about 40 miles.
Fishing Seasons
4.        There are marked fluctuations in the quantity of tuna found
within the very restricted range of operations of the Manta fleet. Catches
are usually low in January and negligible in February-March. The fishing
season begins generally in May (sometimes in April) and catches increase
rapidly to a maximum occurring generally in June-July, but sometimes
earlier (Chart 1). Catches generally drop in August but, in most of the
years, rise again during the "little fishing season" occurring generally
in October-November.
5.        The amount of catch by pole and line vessels depends not only on
the abundance of tuna but also on the occurrence of bait schools. As favor-
able oceanographic conditions for skipjack and for the fish used as bait
may not coincide, the pole and line vessels lose many days of operation by
lack of bait when tuna is present in the fishing area. Because of the
above limitations, pole and line fishing vessels from Manta operate only
140 days per year on the average.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Composition of Tuna Fleet
6.        The composition of the tuna fleet in 1966 was as follows:
Number of Pole     Number of
Overall Length                  and Line Vessels  Purse Seiners  Total
Up to 40 feet (12 m)                         8                1          9
41 to 50 feet (12 to 15 m)                  20                1         21
51 to 60 feet (15 to 18 m)                  13                5         18
61 to 70 feet (18 to 21 m)                  10                _         10
71 to 80 feet (21 to 24 m)                   2                           2
TOTAL                             53                7         60
7.        During the peak season, when tuna is abundant within the operating
range of the fleet, catch depends more on the daily carrying capacity of the
vessels than on their catching efficiency. Thus, average catches by the
larger vessels are proportionally higher, hence a recent tendency to build
larger vessels.
8.        The average catch per year by a medium size vessel (40-44 feet) is
approximately 320 tons while catch for a 55-60 foot vessel is about 480 tons,
but in 1966 these averages were only 133 and 305 tons.
Possibility of Extending Fishing Range and Seasons
9.        Tuna are caught in profitable operations by foreign purse seiners
off the coast of Ecuador, outside the area exploited by the Manta fleet and
during months of the year when most of this fleet remains inactive. Opera-
tions of these foreign vessels extend along the coast off Manta as well as
in the Gulf of Guayaquil.
Need for Purse Seine Vessels
10.       The experience of foreign operators shows that tuna can be caught
successfully over a wider area than is presently exploited by the vessels
based at Manta and during the months when these vessels remain inactive.
The present range of operations of tuna fishing vessels from Manta can be
extended only if two conditions are simultaneously fulfilled. First, use of
a fishing method not requiring live bait; second, use of vessels equipped to
preserve the fish on board.
Size of Vessel
11.       As skipjack tuna, and some yellowfin, are present nearly all the
year off the coast of Ecuador, the range of the vessels need not extend more
than 200 miles. For this reason, the size of the vessels need not exceed
90 feet overall length.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
lnatn for Catch Estirates for Project Fleet
,2.      In its bulletin Vol. 8, No. 6 (Alverson, 1963,), the Inter-
Arerican Tronica). Tuna Cormission !:ives data on the distribution of fishing
effort 1/ and tuna catches in the tropical area of the Easterr. Pacific.
13.       Total tuna. catch, fishing effort, end. catch per unit of effort
.re riven by souare areas of five degrees latitude and. longitude for easch
nruarter of the years 1959 through 1962. The distribution of catches per
ocean areas of one degree souares are also given.
1P|.      A new publication showing data for the years 1963 to 1966 is in
rrerParation and these data. were made available to the aprraisal mission.
15.       The area. falling, between the eouator and latitude 5 degrees
south and between meridians 80OW and 83oW% roughly cover fishing grounds
west of the Ecuador coast (Map).
tr.licability of IATTC Data to Projected Purse Seining, Off Ecuador
16.       The data have been adjiisted. to a standard. purse seine vessel of
between Ol-200 short tons frozen tuna carrying capacity and a register
len,gth 2/ of between 70-115 feet. The project vessels would feall within
these len,gths.  Purse seiners this small, particularly U.S. vessels, do
not often fish off Ecuador because of the distance from their bases.
IATT2C obtained efficiency factors standardizing fishing effort by compari-
sons between various sized vessels fishing at the saeie time and. in the
sa.me place.
17.       The area covered by IATTC catch statistics covers the fishing
grounds off Ecuador south of the equator and includes the area in which
the Manta. bait boat fleet operates, as well as the Gulf of Guayaquil and
its a.' rnroaches. It extends to the west to a distance greater than would
be the nornal range of onerations of the proiect purse seiners.  The area
a]so covers a segment of about one and a. half degrees longitude off the
*northern coast of Peru.
1/   Fishing effort is the number of standard fishing days, i.e., the
number of days spent in fishing or searching for fish (excluding
navigation to and from the fishing grounds) by a "standard vessel"
(paragraph 16).  Catch per unit of effort is the asverage catch per
standard fishing day.
2/   Register length:  the register length of a vessel is the length
measured. on the top of the tonnage deck, from the fore spart of the
outer nlanking or plating- at the bow to the after part of the stern-
rost of screw steamers, and to the a.fter nart of the rudderpost of
other vessels.  Register length is thus shorter than overal] length
(in this case by about 10 feet).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
18.       IAT'TIC catch statistics show that poor or no catches have been
rerorted outside the limits of the ground.s shown on the map attached to
this rerort. Catch per standard fishing day for the whole area covered by
the IPiT!:C statistics is thus slightly lower than if calculations had been
i-v%de onlv for the part of this area within the limits in which the project
purse seiners woul.d. operate.
19.       'or these reasons, figures for catch ner unit of effort in the
nxrea t.re used to estimate the catch of the nroposed purse seiners which
would orerate within the limits and between the eouator and 40S.
Catch Estimates for Project Fleet
20.       The combined catch figures for skipjack snd yellowfin tuns., and
stpndr.cr fishing day figures recorded by IATTC, for each quarter of the
years 1962 to 1966 have been added, quarter by quarter, with the following
results:
Fishing Effort      Catch per Unit of
Combined Catch    during each Ouarter    Effort (short tons
Period        during each C,uarter   (standard. fishing      per standard
of Yea.r    -      (short tons)           da                 fishing day)
Jen.-.March          444,328 .1           3,597.6               12.3
Anr.-Juie           67,003.3              4,260.6               15.7
Jul.-Sept.           66,588.6             6,387.4               10.4
Oct.-Dec.           39,229.9              6,339.2                6.2
21.       The project nurse seiners would choose the less productive neriod
of the year for overhauling, refitting, etc., and it can be assumed. that
they woulo onerate only during the three most productive quarters, making a
total season of nine months. As tuns. are found close to the coast, the
vessel would spend nractically 811 its operating time searching for fish
and fi.shing. Ajlowing time for turn-rounds end minor repairs, it can be
safely assumed that the vessel would fish 180 days per season. If these
fishing days are evenly distributed during the first three quarters of the
year, the catch can be estimated as follows:
First quarter       60 davs x 12.3   = 738 short tons
Second quarter      60 days x 15.7   = 942 short tons
Third quarter    :   60 days x 10.4  = 624 short tons
Total              180 days          2,304 short tons
22.       If, for a more conservative estimate, it is assumed that the
vessel would fish for only 156 days equally distributed in the three first
quarters of the year, the estimated catch would be 2,000 short tons.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
23.       Better catch estimates could be obtained by analyzing the IATTC
records established for each month and each square degree area of the fish-
ing grounds off Ecuador. This would give a more accurate determination of
the optimum fishing season, as catches are likely to be better in the
latter part of the first quarter and in the earlier part of the third
quarter than averages for these complete quarters indicate.
24.       This analysis would require a considerable time, but would be
very useful for the Ecuadorian tuna fishing industry. It is suggested
that NFI should request this basic data from IATTC and proceed with this
analysis.
Distribution of Catches by Species
25.       The bulk of catches off Ecuador is skipjack tuna, but in the
period of five years 1962-1966, yellowfin tuna accounted for 42 percent of
catches in first quarters, 29 percent in second quarters and 17 percent
in the third.
26.       It is not anticipated that the catch of purse seine vessels
based in Ecuador would contain such a high proportion of yellowfin as the
vessels which are the source of these figures operate far from base and
consequently find it more profitable to concentrate on the more valuable
yellowfin. Such concentration would not be necessary in the case of the
project purse seiners based in Ecuador and not operating for long as
freighters of their own catch. For this reason, income calculations
(Annex 8) assume a catch including only 10 percent yellowfin.
27.       The 1966 IATTC annual report states that fluctuations in size
of skipjack populations from year to year in the eastern Pacific are not
related to the intensity of fishing, "... Therefore, it is believed that
the skipjack stocks can support catches greater than the current harvest."
28.       IATTC population studies on yellowfin show that the stock has
been exploited above the level of maximum sustainable catch. Since 1966
the yellowfin fishery had been regulated; the catch being limited by an
annual quota with the purpose of restoring the stock to its optimum size.
Since this regulation is being enforced, the catch per unit of effort is
not likely to diminish during the quarters of the year when project purse
seiners would be operating.
July 18, 1968






ECUADOR                      ANNEX 2
Table 1
FISHERIES PROJECT
OWNERSHIP OF ECUADORIAN TUNA FL ET
Number          Number of Boats Owned
of Owners            by each Owner                 Total
22                       1                        22
5                       2                        10
2                       3                         6
1                       4                         4
1                       5                         5
1                       6                         6
1                       7                         7
33                                                60
July 18, 1968






ANNEX Z
CHART I
ECUADOR: MEAN MONTHLY LANDINGS
OF TUNA, 1962-66
(SHORT TONS)
2,500                                                   ,2,500
2,000                                  -                2,000
1,500                                                    1,~500
1,000                                                    1,000
500                                                    500
0 A
JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC
IBRD -3729






ANNJEX 3
Page 1
ECUADOR
FISHIERIIES PROJFCT
PROC'ESSING AITD. MAFRITING OF ECtJADORIAI' TUT.A
'.        Tuna processing plants in Manta produce frozen tuna, tuna canned
ir brine and tune. canned in oil.
2.        Prozen tuna and tuna canned in brine are exported. to the U.S.A.
(includineC Puerto Rico). Tuna canned in oil is not exnorted to the U.S.A.
because of the heavy customs duties. It is partly sold on the Fcuadorian
market where demand. is gradually increasing, and nartly exnorted to Colombia.
Plant Operation
'Q.       The freezing installation receives fresh fish directly from the
fishinF vessels. when the fish is kept in cold storage until it is canned
or shipped for export.  The freezing enuinment operates only during the
peak fishinp season and its rate of utlization varies with the daily fluc-
tuations of the fishing fleet catch.
It.       The canning installation also receives fresh fish directly from
the vessels but, whenever the catch is not sufficient to use full plant
caracity, it cans fish which has been previously frozen and stored. Thus,
operation of the canning installe.tion is not affected by daily catch
fluctuations.
Plant Capacity
5.        The naximum daily capacity of a plant is the sum of the daily
capacities of its freezing and canning units. Since tuna catches fluctuate
sharnly during the fishing season, occasions occur when the plant cannot
process all the fish available and thus the fleet has to limit its opera-
tions. On other occasions a relatively small proportion of plant capacity
is used.
6.        The first processing plant was constructed. in Manta in 1952 with
the object of freezing tuna for export. In the beginning it operated with
its own bait boat fleet with foreign registered vessels and foreign captains.
The plant gradually replaced its own vessels by financing a locallv owned
fleet. By 1957 a cannery had been added to the plant and the fishing'fleet
was wholly operated by local owners linked to the plant by loan and fish
supnly agreements. Plant capacity was low in comparison with the catching
capacity of the fleet which had to limit its catch during the peak season.
7.        In order to stimulate development of the tuna fishery, the Govern-
rent irn 1963, temporarily authorised U.S. vessels to freeze and store tuna in
the harbor of YM,anta and this led to an increase in production.  Since then,



ANNEX 3
Page 2
production has further increased and in 1967, three shore plants were in
operation in addition to freezing vessels (Table 2). Further construction
ashore is planned and in progress and by 1969 will give total daily capaci-
ties of 145 tons canning and 590 tons freezing, and 6,800 tons of cold stor-
age. These capacities exceed requirements of the present bait boat fleet
and make an increase possible.
8.        The mission estimates that these capacities would be more than
adequate to handle the catch of the bait boat fleet and the project vessels.
It is anticipated that the catch of the project vessels would not peak as
sharply as that of the bait boat fleet and therefore would assist in filling
non-utilized capacity, particularly during off-peak periods of the year.
International Tuna Prices and Market
9.        Variations in prices in tuna in the U.S.A are shown in Table 4.
For the future, the 1966 annual report of IATTC states that in the foresee-
able future, growth in demand is likely to continue to outstrip supply and
as a result, prices are likely to edge upwards.
Prices and Market for Project Catch
10.       The catch of the 12 project purse seiners is estimated to reach
a total of 24,000 short tons yearly. The catch, frozen on board, would be
sold to the processing plants in Manta.
11.       The processors purchase unfrozen tuna directly from boat owners
at prices established by yearly contracts. The prices have gradually risen
to US$78 per short ton for skipjack and US$100 per short ton for yellowfin
in 1967. These are very low in comparison to prices paid to U.S. fishermen
in the U.S.A (Table 4). However, to some extent, they reflect the very
favorable terms which the owners of almost all boats enjoy on their loans
from processors. In addition, until recently, competition between plants
has been limited.
12.       It is believed that with the increased capacity there will be
greater competition for the fish between processors, particularly for the
catches of boats financed independently and this will lead to improved
prices. In addition, fish caught by project purse seiners in the off-peak
periods for bait boats would command a higher price as it would enable
processors to maintain a high level of activity.
13.       The returns estimated for the project do not take account of
these improved marketing circumstances. Except for an addition of US$15
per ton for the value added by the freezing process on board project
vessels, the prices used are those paid in Ecuador for unfrozen tuna in
1967.
July 18, 1968



ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
Evolution of Tuna Processing Capacity in Manta
Years                                             1962        1963           51967                 1969 
Number of shore plants                               1           1           1            3           4
Number of cold storage vessels                       0           2           2           2            0
Cold Storage Capacity:       Shore plants        2,425       2,645       2,645       4,630       6,835
Vessels              -            670         670       1     380
Total              2,1425       3,315       3,315       06
Daily Freezing Capacity:   Siore plants             70         200         275         370          590
Vessels                          100          100          65         -
Total                 70          300         375                     590
Daily Canning Capacity - shore plants '             50          50          50           90         145
Total Maxiamu Daily Capacity 1'                    120         350         425         525          735
g   Capacities in short tons.
2/ Capacity in 1969 is calculated on the basis of new plant construction and assuming that these new
plants will replace the vessels which are being used as freezing plants and cold storage in 1967.
July 18, 1968
-Ii



ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
Tuna Processing Capacity Available in Manta
At Beginning of 1967 Season
(Short tons)
Daily Capacity           Cold Storage
Enterprise                                               Canning     Freezing         Facilities
Industrial Nacional E4pacadora de Alimentes
(INEPACA) - shore plant                                  90         275              2,980
Del Monte del Ecuador, C.A. - freezing vessels                          65              1,380
Productos del Mar, S.A. (PROMASA) - shore plant                         55              1,100
Frigorificos Manta C.A. (FRIGOHANTA) - shore plant                     140                550
Total:                                                      90        4|35              6,010
July 18, 1968



ANNEXA
ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
UNITED STATES TUNA MARKET
UNITED STATES' PRODUCTICN AND IMPORTS OF TUNA
Imports
U.S. Catch           Fresh and                 Canned
Year    Round Weight          Frozen
Round Weight       In Oil      In Brine
- short tons -
1955     145,936                82,OU             409         17,372
1956     177,601                76,470            293         18,814
1957     161,642                9h,576            534         21,659
1958     172,442               131,586            379         22,723
1959     154,000               156,077            415         27,652
1960     159,556               152,464            298         25,580
1961     178,427               134,582            216         29,1u6
1962     170,374               182,264            179         28,180
1963     179,322               160,455            112         28,635
1964     177,1Ul               189,621            100         27,223
1965     186,736               189,318            106         25,356
1966     166,082               224,916             80         30,700
Source:   Fisheries of the United States 1966, U.S. Bureau of
Commercial Fisheries, C.F.S. 4400, p.43
July 18, 1968



ECUADOR
-                          ~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 
FISHERIES PROJECT                        Table 4
UNITED STATES TUNA MARKET
TUNA PRICES PER TON PAID TO FISHERMEN
IN THE U.S.A. 1/
Year                     Yellowfin Tuna                 Skipjack Tuna
1956                          270                            230
1957                      270-230-270                    230-190-230
1958                      275-283-263                    235-252_223
1959.                     270-240-253                    230-200-217
1960                          250                            210
1961                         240-290                       210-260
1962                        300-290                        260-250
1963                        290-240                      250-200-210
1964                         245-270                         200
1965                        245-336                        200-286
1966                      315-480-350                    260-392-290
Source: Pacific Fisherman, January 25, 1967
j/   These figures do not indicate the quantities which were sold
at the various prices.  They do not indicate seasonal fluctuations,
premium prices or bonuses.  In addition, prices paid for fresh and
frozen imports are not governed by the above.
July 18, 1968



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
COMISION DE VALORES - CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
Origin and Aims
1.        The Comision de Valores, Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN),
originated in 1948 as a body to trade in, and establish an open market for,
Government bonds. In 1953 this body, which operated as a branch of the
Central Bank, was replaced by the Comision de Valores as an autonomous
agency. Its functions were extended to cover operations in private securi-
ties, in particular the purchase of mortgage deeds issued by banks for
agricultural and industrial development purposes. In August 1964, the
decree establishing CFN, as it now operates, was passed. The principal
purpose of the new decree was to allow CFN to enter the field of long-term
lending to private industry.
2.        The present functions of CFN are primarily to provide long-term
finance to private industry. Concurrent with building up this activity,
loans to the Government and forms of indirect industrial financing chan-
neled through the private banks have been reduced. CFN also retains its
aim to build up the capital market mainly through its operations in govern-
ment securities, but also through private sector securities operations.
Organization and Management
3.        CFN is headed by a Board of Directors of five:   a nominee of the
President of the Republic, a joint nominee of the Minister of Finance and
the Minister of Commerce and Industry, and two representatives of the
private sector nominated by the Chambers of Commerce of the Coast and the
Sierra. The fifth member is the General Manager of the Central Bank.
Board membership of CFN therefore reflects a balance of private and public
interests. All loans involving amounts over US$55,000 go to the Board of
Directors for approval. The Board also decides all matters of principle,
such as whether to make loans in a new field. In addition it appoints its
Chairman and the General Manager of CFN, whose tenure is renewable annually.
4.        Beneath the Board of Directors, there is an Executive Committee
of three members composed of the President of the Board, one other member
of the Board, and the General Manager. All loans of US$11,000 up to
US$55,000 are approved by the Executive Committee. Loans of amounts under
US$11,000 may be approved directly by the General Manager of CFN.
5.        CFN staff numbers about 70, and is grouped in three main divi-
sions under assistant managers reporting to the General Manager (Chart 1).



ANNEX 4
Page 2
6.        The sections under the Technical Assistant Manager appraise loan
applications and supervise disbursement and repayment. The Evaluation
section has a staff of 17 and includes engineers, economists and market
analysts. A loan application is appraised independently by an economist,
engineer and market analyst, and a draft report goes to the Technical
Assistant Manager. After discussion with him, a final version is presented
to the Board in cases of both negative and positive findings from appraisal.
In cases where loan applications fail during appraisal, the appraisal halts
at the point in question, e.g., unsatisfactory commercial references. The
conclusions of an appraisal report are rarely altered at the Executive
Committee or Board level. The usual period between a loan application and
the issuing of the appraisal report is 60-90 days.
7.        Loans usually stipulate conditions which have to be met prior to
agreement, prior to disbursement and during the period of the loan. A
control section of six exists to ensure loan conditions are met. A records
section keeps check on interest due, and records payments and payments due.
8.        The Administrative Assistant Manager is responsible for the
accounts section in the Quito head office and the branches at Guayaquil
and Cuenca, as well as the administrative section - a total of about 25
staff.
9.        A third division under an Assistant Manager deals with the securi-
ties work of CFN and includes the treasury section and external relations.
Accounts and Audit
10.       Table 1 shows recent balance sheets of CFN. The assets reflect
the build-up in long-term loans to industry and the decline in lending to
government. In lending to the government CFN was in part acting as an inter-
mediary on behalf of the Central Bank which was excluded by its charter from
lending direct to the government. The Central Bank lent to CFN which on-lent,
to the government. Accordingly, the balance sheets show that loans payable
to the Central Bank have declined.
11.       CFN security holdings are mainly in government bonds, which are
usually resold to-third parties. A portion of these are redeemable at par
on presentation and CFN is required to keep a cash reserve of 10 percent of
these securities.  Recently, CFN has taken small direct shareholdings in two
private concerns and in addition, has underwritten a capital issue by a
textile company.
12.       Paid-in share capital virtually represents the authorized limit
of 500 million sucres. It has been subscribed by the Government. The small
decline in 1967 reflects a recent settlement with the Government of certain
liabilities. CFN is not contemplating an increase in share capital but aims
to supplement its sources of funds by building up its reserves out of profits.
This policy is aided by the fact that CFN is under no obligation to pay divi-
dends on its share capital and has no proposals to do so. CFN would not wish



ANNEX 4
Page 3
to resort to the Government for further finance since it believes its auton-
omy would be impaired thereby. In the future, CFN is aiming to increase its
holdings of private securities to the point where it can make public offers
of loan portfolio participation certificates. Such certificates, some with
a fixed term and rate of interest, and others with a variable return, would
it is felt, be attractive to investors.
13.       A loan from the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID)
of $5 million was made available in mid-1962 and has now been fully allo-
cated. The loan was for 40 years, with a ten year grace period, at the
rate of three quarters of one percent and was tied to purchases in the U.S.A.
The AID loan was followed by a loan for a similar amount from the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB). Of this amount, $2.5 million is provided
by the Special Operations Fund, at a rate of 4 percent per annum and is
tied to purchases in the U.S.A. The other $2.5 million comes from regular
IDB sources at a rate of 6-. percent, and is open to purchases outside the
U.S.A. Loans for over $19,000 involve approval by the IDB. Twelve years
is allowed for repayment of the IDB loan, following a three and a half year
grace period. In addition, a $2 million loan has been obtained from a
private consortium of Swiss banks, tied to purchases in Switzerland and
at a rate of 6-3/4 percent. A loan for an equal amount from the French
Government has also been obtained. Half of this is for a period of 8 years
at a rate of 5-3/4 percent and half for 10 years at 6- percent. The loan
is tied to purchases in France.
14.       For short-term finance, CFN borrows from the Central Bank and can
obtain funds at rates lower than would be obtained by borrowing from private
banks. Funds for the Central Bank may be borrowed for six months up to
four years. For under one year, a rate of interest of 3 percent is borne
while 6 percent is paid over one year.
15.       CFN is subject to supervision by the Superintendencia de Bancos
which approves formally the annual budget and accounting procedures. The
external auditors are Price, Waterhouse and Company Inc. The most recent
audit was to June 1967 and there were no qualifications. In addition
CFN has its own internal auditing system.
Lending Procedures
16.       The decree establishing CFN governs most of its actions.   CFN
is obliged to follow the requirements of the general banking law in cases
where it is not covered by its own decree. The general banking law requires
CFN to keep a certain minimum reserve ratio. The provisions of this decree
enable CFN to fix the price of the assets to be regarded as security against
a loan; and stipulate the security requirements to be met by borrowers. In
the case of land, fixed assets and fishing vessels offered as security
the maximum value of any loan granted by CFN may not exceed 70 percent of
their value.



ANNrEX 14
1L'7.     Atnnial finarcial statements are required of borrowers and. about
PP' -erceIt of borrowers submit seri-annual trial balances.  CME usually
reservc-. the right to an independent audit of the accounts of a borrower.
;FU. usu-,lly bears the foreig,n exchanre risk.
]J.       CT` has lent over a wide nun'ber of industries, but notablv the
hotel inrlustinr, food manufacturing, chemicals and textiles.  Six loans
h-ve beben .aPrrovec to the fishing industry, including fish processing.
Uf the two loans for fishing 24 million sucres have been allocated to one
borrowter (1'able 2).
1'-+.    TPepay,,rent periods and, any grace periods necessary are calculated
to ensu.ire that loan repayment is payable from the funds -enerated by the
oro,,eet.  Seventy- nercent of loans have been for repayrient periods of
c to r.10 years but four loans have been made for a. period of 12 years. No
loans have been Franted for a. longer period but could be made if considered
a-propriate.  Grace periods of one or two years are normal, and have been
etended excertionally to 3 and 4 years. The rate of interest is 10 percent
in n..l.l cases (Table 3).
cornc lusi ons
20.       The -mission noted. that not a.ll decisions of CFN in the field
of fisheries a.nea.red to reflect sound Judgment.  However, in general,
the organization and staff of CF14 appear well adapted to the role reouired
of them for the nro,iect. A more Fenera.l noint of concern about CFN is
the extent to which its work in the field. of securities may impinge on
its lending activities.   In theory the two functions are separate.   However,
in practice there are two principal ways in which the functions are over-
lpnping. First, when government securities are resold. to third parties,
thf furds thus obtained may be channeled. to industrial lending activities.
Second. the earnings of CFN reflect principally security oneretions.    At
the moment these are nloulglhed back into reserves or earmarked for indus-
trial lendin-.  Therefore, the dealings of CFM in securities sunplies fi-
ranice for the other activity of Fiving loans to long-term industry.
F;ince current financial results are mainly earnings from security opera-
tions it is impossible to assess the success of loan operations in terms
of profitability.
21.       Security operations could affect the asvailability of fund.s for
industrial loans. A confidence crisis perhaps owing to balance of payments
difficulties or to political problems could. result in large scale disinvest-
ment by third .,arties in government securities.  C.FT would be obliged to
redeem- a large portion of this at par value upon presentation.   Insofar as
.jr,is obtaiied fro.r resale to third narties had been channeled into industry
t'.-s coulc. tresont CFV -rith financing problems.  CMI does not regard this
-.s  sprious rHs '.The Certral Bank would act as lender of last resort in
51 rb'stirn- fid  .for the rerleTmrtior of nar value bonds.  Moreover, perhaps
:-r r or the se'.ri..ies sorld to thi.rd rarties are soldl to institutional
.Lrvestors - tre socia.l securit-! services, insurance cornanies and. rubli.c
n-e;  s  T.n The art. institutioral investors have tended to retain
stahc' hei-'-n-s e'-r. t inerioc.s of crisis.
July 18, 1968



ANNEX 4
Page 5
22.       There are two other development institutions in Ecuador granting
long term loans, COFIEC and the National Development Bank. It was not felt
that either would be an appropriate channel for this project.
July 18, 1968






ECUADOR
FISH3RIES PROJECT
Camision de Valores, Corporacian Financiera Nacional
Cumulative Loans Approved up to August 31, 1967
No. of     Value mill.
Industry                                                                           Loans         Sucres        %
Fish                                                                                  2           26.1        8.9
Natural gas                                                                           1            0.4        0.1
Extraction of non-metallic minerals                                                   2           16.3        5.6
Food manufacturing exc. beverages ;/                                                 25           56.3       19.3
Manufacture of textiles                                                              18           49.7       17.1
Manufacture of footwear, other wearing apparel and made-up textile goods               2           1.2        0.4
Manufacture of wood and cork and furniture                                             1           0.2        0.1
Manufacture of furniture and fixtures                                                  1           0.4        0.1
Manufacture of paper and paper products                                                2           9.0        3.1
Printing and publishing                                                               6           13.6        4.7
Leather and leather products industry                                                 1            0.5        0.2
Manufacture of rubber products                                                         3           8.8        3.0
Manufacture of chemicals and chemical products                                       U1           32.2       le.1
Manufacture of non-metallic mineral products, exc. petroleum products and coal         3          11.1        3.8
Manufacture of metal products exc. machinery and transport equipment                   9          18.9        6.5
Manufacture of machinery exc. electrical machinery                                     2           2.9        1.0
Manufacture of electrical machinery                                                    2           1.1        0.4
Manufacture of transport equipment                                                     2           2.1        0.7
MisceUaneous manufacturing                                                             6           3.7        1.3
Service industry (hotels)                                                             5           31.9      U10
Basic metal industries                                                                1            4.8        1.6
105 2/      291.2 2     100.0
I/  Includes 4 loans for fish processing, value 8 million sucres.
v/ The number of loans approved is approximately 50 percent of loan applications received. The total
number of loans differs from that shown in Table 3 as some of the above loans are composed of several tranches
with different repayment periods and are split for purposes of Table 3.
2/ Total value of AID funds: 86.1 oG.3u sucres.
July 18, 1968                                                                                                         1!



ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
Comision de Valores - Corporaction Financiera Nacional
Summarized Balance Sheets
(million sucres)
Assets 1/                                            Liabilities 1/
1964     1965     1966     1967                        1964     1965     1966     1967
Loans Payable to
Cash                   22.4     19.8 2/   5.8     17.1   the Central Bank    134.4    143.5     93.8     80.5
Securities            365.3    397.2    451.6    405.3   Loans Payable to      5.4     14.7     72.8     86.5
AID
Interest receivable
and prepaid assets   19.0     24.2     22.1     20.5   Other Liabilities     0.8      1.5      3.7      3.5
Loans Receivable                                         TOTAL LQANS
Government          176.2     167.2    76.9      9.3   REPAYABLE           14O.6    159.7     170.3   170.5
Industry              5.9      35.6   123.5    182.7
Other                 1.2       4.1     6.7    U1.1    Deferred Income      27.7     29.9      27.4    27.1
Total Loans         183.3     207.0   207.1    203.1   Capital paid in     393.2    428.2     457.0   413.6
Other Assets            0.2       0.4     2.8      2.9   Undistributed        28.7     30.7      34.7    37.7
-  -  -   -     earnings
TOTAL ASSETS:         590.2     684.5   689.4    648.9                       590.2    648.5     689.4   648.9
As at December 31 for 1964, 1965, 1966 and June 30 for 1967.
2/ Including time deposits.
July 18, 1968



ANNEX 4
Table 3
ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
LOANS GRANTED BY THE CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL-
Length of Loans         No. of Loans        Value mill-           Percentage
ion sucres
3 years                      5                 1.1                   0.4
a  "                         8                11.3                   3.9
5  "                        24                24.7                   8.5
6  "                         9                  9.7                  3.3
7  "                         2                 2.4                   0.8
a  "I                       20                 84.5                 29.0
9  "                         0                   0                     0
10  "                        43               120.7                   41.5
1L  "4                                         36.8                  12.6
115                291.2                 100.0
1/   Approvals cumulative to August 31, 1967
July 18, 1968






ECUADOR: COMISION DE VALORES-CORPORACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD    OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
GENERAL MANAGER
ASSISTANT MANAGER                        ASSISTANT MANAGER                       ASSISTANT MANAGER
ADMINISTRATION                             TECHNICAL                               SECURITIES
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES                    PROJECT APPRAISAL       l            SECURITIES AND TREASURY
AND ACCOUNTS SECTIONS                    AND CONTROL SECTIONS      l                    SECTIONS
1z
February, 1968                                                                                                          IBRD-3730   x






ANNIEX 5
Page 1
ECUADOR
PTSIIERIEO POJrF:CT
TPRAITIiTG PROGTUAM
iTrainirip Prorprar to be included in Project
1.        An intensive training program is necessary for the three key
crew m,e.:bers (the cantain, chief engineer and net bosun) of each rurse
seiner. In established tuna purse seine fisheries elsewhere, these
positions are normally attained after 5 - 15 years service on -urse seiners
and. the fulfillment of licensing and certification reouirements.  A large
,.ortior of the lengthy time period involved is, however, attributable to
the competition for better-paid positions rather than to actual renuire-
::ents :for experience. Fisherren of superior intelligence and extensive
exrerience on other types of vessels could nualify for key positions on
nurse seiners after one year of training of the nrorer type and intensity.
2.        During the first year of the progran this tra.ining would be
conducted by three foreign experts. 'i'lereafter, the training would be
provided by three local exnerts who would be employed by the National
Fisheries Institute of Ecuador (NFI).  'I:'hrougout the programn, NFT would
emnloy a consultant to assist it.  The training would be conducted on
a purse seiner purchased by the Government of Ecuador and financed by the
Banlc. This vessel would be of a type and size similar to the project
vesse].s.
3.        The total gross cost of the training-progran would be US$737,000.
An analysis of this artoiint, by type and year of expenditure is shown in
'.'able 1.
Foreimn Rxoerts
4.        Three Spanish-speaking exnerts would be provided for one year as
fo'llows:
(a.) Captain. A master fisherman, hasving a fishing captain's certifi-
cate and with at least five years' experience in tuna purse seine
fishin,a.
(b)  Wet Bosun.  A master fisherman or crew men, with at least five
years of experience in tuna purse seine fishing, and a thorough
knowledg,e of the assembly, raintenance and repair of purse seine
nets.
(c)  Engineer.  A qualified vessel engineer with at least five years
of ex-nerience in the use, repair and maintenance of diesel
ergines of at least 500 hp., and of the freezing and. refrigeration
enui.-.rent on board fishing vessels.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Local Experts
5.        The National Fisheries Institute would provide for the duration
of the training program:
(a) a qualified skipper;
(b) a bosun with five years' experience on fishing vessels;
(c) a ships' engineer.
Training Vessel
6.        The Government would provide, for a period of four years or more,
a purse seiner similar in size and type to the project vessels. The train-
ing vessel furnished would be seaworthy and completely equipped for fishing.
It would be equipped with a brine immersion refrigeration system in good
working condition.
Organization of the Program
7.        The training program would be managed by NFI and all the personnel
of the program, including the foreign experts, would be under the authority
of the Director of NFI.
Trainees
8.        The trainees, who would be the future captains, chief engineers
and net bosuns of project vessels would be selected by the sub-borrowers
who would pay their wages during instruction. Trainees would be approved
by the Director of NFI, who would appraise their experience and abilities.
The Director would, at any time, dismiss from the training course any
trainee for a serious breach of discipline or inefficient work.
9.        When on board the training vessel, the trainees would work as
crew members and execute any normal work required for the operation of the
vessel.
10.       Prerequisites for trainees would include:   (1) three years' ex-
perience aboard commercial fishing vessels over 40 feet registered length,
during one year of which the trainee must have been in charge of operations
comparable to his proposed position on a project purse seiner; (2) success-
ful completion of a literacy test devised by the Director of NFI.
Training Operations
(a) Classroom Instruction
11.       Trainees would receive classroom instruction followed by experi-
ence aboard the training vessel in the subjects indicated in Table 2. The
list of subjects in Table 2 is not to be considered exhaustive, and it may



ANNEX 5
Page 3
be supplemented with further details and additional subjects at the dis-
cretion of the Director of NFI.
12.       The Director of NFI and the instructors would be responsible for
planning of classroom training. This would not exceed three months' dura-
tion. (This time would also be utilized for annual repairs and maintenance
of the training vessel.) The courses would be held for a minimum of five
days per week at six hours per day. Successful completion of the classroom
courses would be a prerequisite to practical training aboard the training
vessel.
(b) Phasing of Instruction Aboard Training Vessel
13.       Training would be coordinated with the project building schedule.
During the first year, the three local experts would receive instruction
with the key crew members of the first three project vessels. During sub-
sequent years, they would be the instructors.
14.       Under a rotation plan, trainees would, during certain trips of
the training vessel, lead the operations for which they would be responsible
under actual fishing conditions.
15.       They would rotate within the various jobs on the vessel at the end
of every second trip. This would ensure continuity and retention of train-
ing in the same tasks over time periods of two consecutive trips. Instruc-
tors could devise their own rotation plans as long as all key personnel
received sufficient time in charge of their own specialties. In addition,
the trainee captains should have some experience in all of the crew tasks;
the engineer trainees should spend more time on deck machinery, equipment
and fish-packing when not on the engine-room training position; and the net
bosun trainees should concentrate on deck crew tasks and power boat opera-
tion.
Supporting Personnel
16.       In addition to instructors, the training vessel would have perma-
nent crew members as follows:
(a) One full-time cook during the first year;
(b) One full-time cook and two deck-hands during all succeeding
years.
Alternative Training Methods
17.       There are four alternative methods of training which were con-
sidered and rejected. These are:
(a) Training in a nautical school in Ecuador or abroad. To the
knowledge of the mission, no nautical school provides suitable
training either in Ecuador, or abroad. The training program
proposed would be, in effect, the setting up of such a school
for a limited period.



ANNEXR 7
Page 4
(b)  Training with foreign companies operating purse seiners.  This
method has been successfully used for taining Chinese fishermen
for tuna long lining. Unfortunately, it cannot be used for
purse seining, since a relatively minor mistake by a trainee
could result in considerable commercial loss to the operating
vessel. If training were arranged in this manner, it is antici-
pated that compensation required by operating companies would be
considerable and impossible to tie down in legal agreements satis-
factory to both parties.
(c) Using the first of the project vessels as a training vessel
throughout the program. The use of this boat as a trainer for
a period of four years and its subsequent sale to an operating
company as a used vessel would obviate only the necessity of
purchasing a used purse seiner. The main disadvantage of this
method would be that the whole project would be put back by one
year or more during construction of this vessel. A subsidiary
disadvantage would be the high cost of a new vessel for training
purposes. In addition, from the mechanical point of view, a new
vessel would not provide the tuition on engineering and opera-
tional aspects that would be necessary to overcome problems in
vessels that had aged by several years. A used purse seiner
would present exercises in maintenance to the trainees which
would be essential in the eventual operation of their own vessels.
(d)  Using foreign crew meimbers to fill key posts on each project boat
until local counterparts could take over. This method was most
favored by potential sub-borrowers, bankers and government in
discussions with the mission. It is an attractive proposition,
but the numbers of trained men required, who would have to be
Spanish speaking makes it unsuitable for the project vessels and
there are other disadvantages. While this is the method by which
most fishermen learn, they learn only over a considerable period
if they are not wholly responsible for the conduct of operations.
The mission estimates that a period of five years would probably
be necessary before the foreign crew could be replaced by their
local counterparts. The cost of such foreign crews would be
considerable. Tuna purse seiner captains operating from
California obtain annual salaries ranging up to US$60,000. The
average is in excess of US$20,000. Engineers and net bosuns are
also well paid. The cost of such men over an extended period
would seriously impair the viability of the project. However,
it is possible that some sub-borrowers would be able to provide
experienced crews at a reasonable level of cost. If any sub-
borrower could do this, these men, provided they were approved
by NFI, would not be required to undergo the training program.
Alternative to Purchase of Training Vessel
18.       The mission considered the possibility of chartering a purse
seiner for the period of the training program. Although definite estimates



ANNEX 5
Page 5
cannot be obtained, it is believed that the cost of such a charter over four
years would probably be equal to or exceed the purchase cost of the proposed
second hand vessel.
July 18, 1968






ANNEX 5
Table 1
ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
COSTS OF TRAING PROGRAM
(US$'OOO
Purchase of      Foreign                          Wages of
Trainer      Experts and    Local    Running    Crews in   Training
Year    Purse Seiner    Consultant    Experts    Costs    Training     Total
1        225                                                          225
2                         170         12         65        36         283
3                          10         12         65        36         123
4                          10         12         65        36         123
5                          10        12          65        36         123
225              200        48         260       1X4         877-
C==                                     =        =
j1  The estimated catch of the training vessel might reduce these amounts
by a total of US$320,000 over four years.
July 18, 1968



Annex S
ECUADOR
Table 2
FISHERIES PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
SHORE TRAINING CURRICULUM
Subjects                                            Requirements
Captain     Engineer     Net Bosun
1. Practical navigation                       x
2. Net making and repair                      x                        x
3. Typical purse seiner operations            x            x           x
4. General preventative maintenance           x            x           x
5. General mechanics                          x            x           x
6. General hydraulics                         x            X           x
7. General electricity                        x            s           x
8   General refrigeration                     x            x           x
9. Applied mechanics                                       x
10.  Applied hydraulics                                     x
11.  Applied electricity                                    x
12.  Applied refrigeration                                  x
Notes:    Courses 4 through 8 treat rudimentary theory with general
applications to purse seiner*.
Courses 9 through 12 are of more advanced, directly applicable content.
July 18, 1968



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
OUTLINE SPECIFICATIONS OF TUNA PURSE SEINER
General:
1.        The proposed purse seiner should have an overall length of 90 to
95 feet, a fish hold capacity of about 150 short tons of fish, a freshwater
capacity of 2,650 to 3,000 gallons, a fuel tank capacity of at least 14,900
gallons, a main engine of about 500 h.p. continuous output and crew accom-
modation for 13 men.
Construction:
2.        Steel.
Rigging:
3.        Steel mast with crow's nest, boom designed for use with power
block, and auxiliary boom for brailings.
Deck Equipment:
4.        One tuna purse seine winch, hydraulic with three drums and
two gypsies;
One power block, hydraulic, appropriate for handling standard
seven strip tuna purse seine;
One topping winch, hydraulic for main boom;
One windlass (anchor winch, hydraulic, with one gypsy);
One davit, with blocks designed for tuna purse seining.
Propulsion Machinery:
5.        Main engine approximately 500 h.p. with hydraulic reduction and
reverse gear.
Auxiliary Machinery:
6.        Two diesel engines, with generators each capable of supplying
normal vessel auxiliary power requirements, including refrigeration of fish
holds.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Refrigeration Equipment:
7.        Fish hold insulated with plastic foam and coated inside with
epoxy paint or equal; hold divided into four tanks for freezing fish in
brine. Brine tanks to be separated from ship's hull by longitudinal bulk-
heads (double skin) construction, refrigeration equipment designed to
freeze and maintain fish at a temperature of 0F (-170C); equipment will
include two compressors.
Navigation and Electronic Equipment:
8.        One auto pilot, radio telephone, two identical echo-sounders
with depth range of 1,000 feet.
Fishing Gear:
9.        Tuna purse seine:  Minimum length - 2,500 feet.   Depth - 7 strips,
each of 100 meshes of 4-1/4 inch stretched mesh webbing plus 50-mesh bottom
strip and selvage.
Auxiliary Boats:
10.       Seine skiff - minimum dimensions:   length 14 feet; breadth 9
feet; depth 3 feet. Diesel engine, 75 hp.
11.       Speedboat - planing hull - minimum length:   13 feet.  Outboard
engine: 50 hp.
July 18, 1968



ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
TIME SCHEDULE AND DISBURSEKENT ESTIMATES
(us$'OOO)
COSTS                                                        FINANCE
Purse                            Interest
Designs      Seiners                           and Other
Purse    and Super-    Working    Training    Harbor   Charges During            Bank    Government      Sub-
Year    Seiners    vision       Capital    Program     Study     Construction    TOTAL    Loan    of Ecuador    borrowers
1         -          30           -         225         -            4O           295     295        -            -
2       1,050        20           -         283        150           78         1,581   1,233       155          193
3         -          20           48        123         80          117           388     199       105           84
4       1,750        30           -         123         53          167         2,123   1,727        97          299
5       1,400        20           80        123         -           252         1,875   1,472        77          326
6         -          -            64         -          -           300           364     300        -            64
Total:   4,200       120          192        877 -      283          954         6,626   5,226       434 1        966
1/ The estimated catch of the training vessel would probably reduce these amounts by US$320,000 over four years.
July 18, 1968






Annex 8
Page 1
ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
SUB-BORROWERS - ESIlATIED INCOME STATEMENT OF ONE PURSE SEINER
ASSUMPTIONS
I. Operations - Yearly operations are scheduled as follows:
(a) 15 fishing voyages of 18 days                      270 days
(b) Yearly laying down period (repairs and overhauls) 95 days
365 days
One average fishing voyage is comprised of the following:
(a)  Navigation days                                     1
(b) Fishing days (searching within fishing ground and
actual fishing)                                  12
(c) Landing of catch, refuelling, loading supplies       5
Total        18
II. Annual Catch
The annual catch for 180 fishing days is estimated to be 2,000
short tons (per basis in Annex 2) for Year 3 onwards. Lower catches
estimated in years 1 and 2 because of crew's inexperience.
III. Annual Sales
Based on prices prevailing in Manta in the second half of the 1967
season with an addition for frozen catch. Total catch of 2,000 short tons
is estimated to include 1,800 short tons of skipjack at US$93 per ton and
200 short tons of yeIlowfin at US$114 per ton.
IV. Operating Costs
(a) Diesel oil: based on a consumption of 0.05 gals per effectively
used horse power per hour (horse power effectively used is esti-
mated at 450 hp for the main engine and 80 hp for the auxiliaries);
210 hours per trip with main engine; 350 hours per trip with
auxiliary engines; 2.36 sucres per gallon.
Lubricating oil: estimated at one-fourth cost of diesel oil.



ANNE% 8
Page 2
(b) Crew's participation: US $14 per short ton of fish caught
(total catch: 2,000 short tons).
(c) Crew's food: 200 days of food aboard at US $11 per day..
(d) Repairs and maintenance of ship: Based on annual average of
experience of California USA-based vessels of 150 tons. Increased
material costs in Ecuador compensated by reduced labor costs.
(e) Gear replacement and Repairs: Based on California experience of
US $5 per ton of landed fish.
(f) Miscellaneous expenses include harbor fees, unloading fish, Ecuadorian
fishing permit, loading supplies, etc.
(g) Insurance: Based on California experience of 150-ton vessels. One
hundred percent of replacement cost, including skiff, motor boat,
and net, but these items only for total loss.
(h) Foreign fishing licenses: Based on cost of three Peruvian trip
licenses per year.
V. Depreciation: Based on 15 years of vessel life. Residual value assumed
at 15 percent of original cost.
July 18, 1968



ANNEX 8
Table 1
ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
Sub-borrowers - Estimated Income Statement of one Purse Seiner
Year 1       Year 2        Years 3-13
- ------------(US$W U)-------- -
Annual Fish Catch (short tons)
Skipjack                                    1,350        1,620          1,800
Yellowfin                                     150          180             200
Total:                                      1,500        1,800          2,000
Sales Income
Skipjack @ US$93 per ton
Yellowfin @ US$114 per ton                    13           171            190
Costs
Fuel and lubricants                            16           16             16
Crew's participation                           21           22              28
Crew's food                                     2            2              2
Repair and maintenance (vessel)                20           20              20
Gear replacement and repairs                   12           12              12
Miscellaneous expenses                          2            2               2
Insurance                                      17           17             17
Fishing permits                                 5            5              5
Total Costs before Taxation, Interest
and Depreciation                               95           96            102
Total Profit before Taxation, Interest
and Depreciation                               48           75             88
Depreciation                                      22           22              22
Net Profit before Interest                        26           53             66
Interest paid                                     19           37             35 1/
Net Profit after Interest                          7           16             31
Taxes                                              -            4              8
Net Profit after Interest and Taxes                7           12              23
37 This amount will decrease in later years.
July 18, 1968






ANNEX 9
ECUADOR
FISHERIES PROJECT
Sub-borrowers - Estimated Cash Flow of one Purse-Seiner
Construction
Period                Years
18 months       1          2        3-13
- ----------------US$1000 -----------
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Net Profit before Interest,
Taxes and Depreciatimn                           48        75         88
CFN's Contribution (mainly Bank
Loan)                                356
Sub-Borrowers' contribution              90
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUNDS                   446         48        75         88
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Debt Service
Loan Amortization                                  8        18         20
Loan Lnterest                                     19        37         35
Total Debt Service                                27        55         552/
Taxes                                                -         4          8
Costf Project
Vessel                                350
Monetary Stabilization Charge          35
Designs and Supervision                10
Working Capital                        16
Wages of Crew in training              12
Interest during construction           23
Total Cost of Project                 446
mdI APPLICATION OF FUNDS                446         $7        59         63
Sub-Borrowers' Net Cash Inflow                        21        16         25
LONG-TEIU4 DEBT-SERVICE COVERAGE                     1.8       1.3        1.5
Y   -TO1 amountawil  remain constant to year 13 although the portion
allocated to interest will decrease and that to amortization will
increase.
July 18, 1968






WESTERN             ECUADOR                                                                       0
0
FISHING            PORTS         AND                        -         COLODBIABANOKO
GROUNDS
20    o       20     40     60        IL
05 FATHOM SPOT
100 FATHOM SPOT U
-    .-                '0
-=--5_~~~~~~IL LA PLATA
, .,   _                               B3  AThOM  SP0'f  <  f   W4 1   FATli, SPOT
TH    PEUIDG     'hE MIGE1(000f             uZ                 J/
0= -            (        S E    J   m- 
H)\              H X~~~~~si                  I    YAQ
4-1 _.j./_)+ (_
/^/   _                 I                           M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aln Roada
M. .RHILdH
5   t              (  ./        *                             _w_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ International boundarlea
Lilit or Fi.hlng Grounds
.      Key Pl.hin0 ACH-H
MARCH 1968 8                                                                                                                        D-_2_ 



