RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                   Report No. P-624
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RIECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
FISHERIES PROJECT
July 18, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONMbEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A FESHERIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies of US$5.3 million to the Republic
of Ecuador.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In March/April 1967, an FAO project identification mission, under
the Bank/FAO cooperative program, collaborated with the Ecuadorian authori-
ties in outlining the project. Further assistance was provided when a
Bank/FAO project preparation mission visited Ecuador in August 1967. The
request for financing was submitted to the Bank in September 1967, and the
project was appraised in November/December 1967. Negotiations for the
proposed loan took place in Washington from June 24 through July 3, 1968.
Ecuador was represented by Ambassador-at-Large J. Federico Intriago Arrata,
Ambassador Carlos Mantilla Ortega, Mr. IManuel Calisto (National Planning
Board), Mir. Jaime Morillo (Corporacion Financiera Nacional), Mr. Jose
Iturralde (Corporacion Financiera Nacional) and Dr. Gonzalo Paredes (Embassy
of Ecuador).
3.        Since 1954, the Bank and IDA have made seven loans and two credits
to Ecuador for a total of US$71.1 million (net of cancellations). The
proposed loan will increase the total of Bank loans and IDA credits to
Ecuador to US$76.4 million. The following is a summary statement of Bank
loans and IDA credits to Ecuador as of June 30, 1968:



-2-
Loan/                                               Amount (US$ Million)
Credit No.  Year      Borrower             Purpose   Bank IDA   Undisbursed
94 EC      1954  Comite Ejecutivo de       Roads     7.5    -       -
Vialidad del Guayas
137 EC      1956  Empresa Electrica Quito   Power     5.0    -       -
177 EC      1957 Empresa Electrica Quito    Power     5.0    -       -
176 EC      1957  Republic of Ecuador       Roads    14.5    -       -
212 EC      1958 Port Authority of          Port     13.0    -       -
Guayaquil
379 EC      1964  Republic of Ecuador )               9.0    -      2.8
Roads
51 EC      1964 Republic of Ecuador )                 -    8.0     7.0
501 EC      1967  Republic of Ecuador       Agri-     4.o    -      3.9
culture
12 EC-/     1968 Republic of Ecuador        Edu-            5.1      _
cation
Total (less cancellations)                           58.0  13.1    13.7
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                                         17.6
Total now outstanding                              40.4
Amount sold:                                1.5
of which has been repaid                  0.9       0.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                     39.8  13.1
Total undisbursed                                   6.7   7.0    13.7
4.       The Consortium Highway Project (Loan 379/Credit 51) is a two-
stage project which is being financed jointly by the Bank/IDA, AID and
IDB under the chainnanship of the Bank. Disbursement has been delayed as
a result of adverse weather conditions during 1965-1966, lack of local
1/ Not yet effective.



- 3 -
contractors qualified to undertake civil works and lack of interest among
qualified foreign contractors in submitting bids for civil works. Dis-
bursement of the IDA Credit commenced recently as this Credit is solely
for the financing of Stage II of the project. The project is progressing
reasonably well and is being kept under close review.
5.        IFC has one investment, made in 1965, of approximately US$2
million equivalent in equity and debt of La Internacional, a major
Ecuadorian textile firm.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.        Borrower:                Republic of Ecuador.
Amount:                  The equivalent in various currencies
of US$5.3 million.
Purpose:                 To assist in financing the foreign
exchange costs of acquiring twelve
tuna purse seine fishing vessels,
a training program for key crew
members of these vessels, and harbor
studies to provide data for possible
future expansion of fisheries harbors.
Amortization:            20 years including 6 years of grace;
28 semi-annual repayments beginning
on January 1, 1975 and ending on
July 1, 1988.
Interest Rate:           6 1/4 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:       3/4 of 1 percent.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A report entitled "Appraisal of a Fisheries Project" (TO-640a)
on the project is attached.
8.        The project represents the first stage in the Govemrment's
program to expand the fishing industry. It will make use of abundant off-
shore fish resources and give support to what may become an important
activity in an economy badly in need of diversification. The project has
also been given special priority by the Ecuadorian Govermment because of
its potential for increasing the country's export earnings.



9.        Included in the project is the design and acquisition of 12
tuna purse seine fishing vessels, a training program for key crew members
of these vessels, and harbor studies to provide data for possible future
expansion of fisheries harbors.
10.       The project would introduce to Ecuador a more efficient method
of fishing for tuna and would more than double present production. Studies
carried out by the Inter-Amerlcan Tropical Tuna Comrr.isaion for the area
in which the vessels would operate) in the Pacific off the Ecuadorian
Coast, indicate that the abundance of tuna is more than sufficient to
warrant the expanded exploitation which is envisaged. When all vessels
are in full operation, an increase of over US$3 million in annual foreign
exchange earnings is expected. This increase represents almost 45 percent
of the foreign exchange eamings for the erntire Ecuadorian fishing industry
in 1967.
11.       The Government would lend the proceeds of the loan allocated
for acquisition of the vessels to its wholly-owned development finance
corporation, Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CUN), which would then lend
to private fishing companies and individuals acceptable to the Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Sub-loans by CFN would be
for 14 years including 2 years of grace at a rate of interest of 10 percent,
and CFN would amortize its loan from the Government as it received capital
repayments from sub-borrowers. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk on all repayments due to the Bank. The National Fisheries
Institute, under the Ministry of Industries and Commerce, would operate
the training program for key crew members and would also provide technical
advice to CFN. The harbor studies would be carried out by the National
Planning Board.
12.       The estimated cost of the project is US$6.6 million equivalent,
of which US$4.5 million is for the design, supervision of construction,
construction and equipment of the vessels, US$0.8 million for the training
program, US$0.3 million for harbor studies and US$1L0 million for interest
during construction. The proposed loan of US$5.3 million would cover most
of the foreign exchange component estimated at US$5.9 million. The
remainder of the foreign exchange requirement would be provided by the
individual fishing enterprises, which would also meet the local currency
costs relating to their sub-projects. The balance of local currency
expenditures, in respect of the harbor studies and the training program,
would be provided by the Government.
13.       Procurement of vessels would be made on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the supervision of CEN.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMNTS AND AUTHORITY
14.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Ecuador, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Corporacion



Financiera Nacional and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section h(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
15.       The draft agreements contain in the main covenants similar
to those found in agreements for previous fisheries projects. Attention
is drawn to the following particular provisions:
a. The construction of the vessels will be phased in order to
permit adequate evaluation of the performance of the initial
vessels before further vessels are constructed (Section 2.07(a)
of the draft Project Agreement).
b. The sale of fish for export by direct transshipment in
Ecuadorian ports by project vessels will be on terms and
conditions not less favorable than those enjoyed by processors
on land (Section 5.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
c. The Central Bank will sign the Loan Agreement in order to
give effect to the negative pledge undertaking on its behalf
(Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). In view of the
autonomous status of the Central Bank, this has been the
practice in all previous loan agreements with Ecuador.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
16.       The judgements provided in the Section on the Ecuadorian
economy in the recent President's Report on the Education Project (P-607,
June 5, 1968), are still valid.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMET
17.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
18.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Republic of Ecuador
in an amount equivalent to US$5,300,000.



-6-
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Republic of Ecuador in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million three hundred
thousand United States dollars (US$5!,300,000), to mature on and prior to
July 1, 1988, to bear interest at the rate of six and one-quarter percent
(6 1/4%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as
shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set
forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Fisheries Project) between Republic
of Ecuador and the Bank, and the form of Project Agreement between the
Bank and Corporacion Financiera Nacional which have been presented to this
meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
July 18, 1968



