~~~ (I
s?vu a;-;6-   |                                RESTRICTED
Report No.   PI- 10
RL' 
This report s for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized ornizations
or personL It may not be publed, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responbity for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
MINERACOES BRASILEIRAS REUNIDAS S. A.
BRAZIL
June 16, 1971
Industrial Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Except where otherwise stated all figures are quoted
in U.S. dollars (US$). The project cost estimate is shown
in both US$ and New Cruzeiros (NCr$) of 1969.
US$1            =       Nr$4.06
NCr$1           =   US$o.246
NCr$1 rmillion   =   US$ 246,305
Weights and Measures
Except where otherwise stated, all tonnages are
expressed in Long Tons (LT):
1 Long Ton              1.016 Metric Tons
1 Long Ton         =   1.120 Short Tons
1 Long Ton             2 2,240 Pounds
1 Kilometer (Km)   =   0.62 vales
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
MBR      =   Mineracoes Brasileiras Reunidas S.A.
RFFSA    =  Rede Ferroviaria Federal
CAEMI        Cia. Auxiliar de Erapresas de Mineracao
ICO4    a   Industria e Cozercio de M4inerios S.A.
EEM      =  Empreendimentos Brasileiros de Mineracao S.A.
CMN      =   Cia. de Mineracao Novalimense
SOMISA   -   Sociedad Mixta Siderurgia
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION§ ............................i
I. INTRODUCTION    .................  1........................
II. THE SPONSORS AND THE COMPANY ....        ........................
A.   CAEMI ..............................................          2
B.   St. John D'el Rey Mining Company ...............              2
C.   Hanna Mining Company ................. ... ...........        2
D.   Genesis of the Project ..................         .           3
E.  The Borrower - MBR .,      ..... ......... .                   3
III. WORLD IRON ORE MARKETS ......      ......................   .      5
A. General Background ....                                         5
B.   Brazilian Iron Ore Production    ..............               5
C.   Supply and Prices .................0                          6
IV. THE PROJECT AND ITS EXECUTION .       .     ..........             7
A.   The Mine - Aguas Claras .....      ..................         7
B.   The Ocean Terminal .................................          8
C.   Environmental Considerations ................                 8
D.   Construction Schedules    ..................                  9
E.   Management, Staff and Labor ........................          9
V. CAPITAL COSTS - FINANCIAL PLAN - PROCUREMENT ............         10
A.   Capital Costs . ........................ . ..10
B.   Financing Plan ...6       .................................  12
C.   Procurement and Disbursement .......................         15
VI. REVENUES - OPERATING COSTS - FINANCIAL ANIALYSIS .........        16
A.   Revenues         ..........................................  16
B.   Aguas Claras Operating Costs .......... .. ...........       17
C.   Profitability and Financial Position ...............         18
D.   Effects of Expansion on Profitability .... ..........    20
This report has been prepared by Messrs. R. N. Pigossi, J. W. P. Jaffe,
and R. L. Bosson of the Industrial Projects Department and Mr. G. F.
Bain of the Transportation Projects Department.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VII. ECONOaIC JUSTIFICATION - RETURNS TO GOVERNMENT
AND SHAREHOLDERS - SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS .............     ...    20
A.   Internal Economic Return .       . .........................    20
B.   Beneflts to Government .       . ...................2  ......  20
C.   Returns to MIBR Shareholders ........................    21
D.  Split of Project Benefits            . . .23
E.  Foreign Exchange Benefits .              .                    23
F.  Sensitivity Analysis.                                         24
VIII.AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS ....         ..............    24
TABLES
1.  Reconstructed Consolidated Income and Cash Flow Statements for
All Companies Being Merged into MBR (1966-1971).
2.  Reconstructed Consolidated Balance Sheets for all Compaie Being
Plerged into MBR (1966-71).
3. Protected Income Statements for Aguas Claras Operation (FY 1974-89).
4.  Depletion Allowance for Aguas Claras Operation (FY 1974-84).
5. Projected Cash Flow Statements for Aguas Claras Operation (FY 1971-
89).
6. Projected Cash Flow Statements for Combined Iron Ore Operations
(FY 1971-89).
7. Projected Balance Sheets for Combined Iron Ore Operation. (FY 1971-
89).
8.  Distribution of Earnings from Aguas Claras Operation (FY 1972-89).
9. Internal Financial Rate of Return, Aguas Claras Operation.
10.  Return on Investment for MBR Shareholders and Brazilian Government
at Ultimate Production Levels of 10 and 15 million Tons per
year.
11.  Estimated Split of Net Project Benefits (FY 1972-89).
12. Net Foreign Exchange Earnings from Aguas Claras Operations - Base
Project with Sales Buildup to 10 Million Tons per Year.
13. Net Foreign Exchange Earnings from Aguas Claras Operations -
Expansion Project with Sales Buildup to 15 Million Tons per
Year.
ANN EXES
1-1.     MBR Ownership and Control
1-2.     ICOMI Financial Indicators
1-3.     Hanna Mining Company Financial Indicators 1960-70
2-1.     Marketing Annex - The Outlook for Iron Ore
2-2.     Brazilian Iron Ore Production and Exports
2-3.     Trends in Japanese Ore Supplies
3.       The Mine
3a.      List of Major Units of Mining Equipment



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
3b.      Mine Facilities Pictorial Flow Sheet
4.       Ocean Terminal
5.       Environmental Considerations
6.       Implementation Schedule
7.       Detail of Capital Investment
8.       Estimated Value of MBR equity as of March 31, 1971
9-1.     Equipment to be Financed by World Bank
9-2.     Construction Materials to be Financed by World Bank
9-3.     Computation of Probable Foreign Exchange Content of
Internationally-Bid Civil Works That Can Be Financed
by the Bank
10.       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11.       Ore Sales
12.       Average Operating Costs for Aguas Claras Operations
13-1.     Sensitivity Analysis
13-2.     Notes to Sensitivity Analysis
13-3.     Cash and Profit Break-Even Prices at Constant Sales Level of
9 Million Tons per Year
13-4.     Cash and Profit Break-Even Sales Levels at Constant Ore Price
of US$8.38/Long Ton
Maps
1.       General Location
2.       Ore Deposits in the Iron Quadrangle
3.       Location of Sepetiba Terminal






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Mineracoes Brasileiras Reunidas, S.A. (MBR), a private Braziliah
company, has requested a Bank loan of US$50 million to cover one-third of
the cost of a project to mine and export a minimum of 10 million tons of
iron ore per year beginning in late 1973 from a large deposit near Belo
Horizonte in the State of Minas Gerais. Tht ore will be shipped over a
largely existing railroad to a new marine ti!rminal some 640 km away to be
constructed on Sepetiba Bay, about 100 km west of Rio de Janeiro. The
terminal will be able to handle bulk ore vessels of up to 250,000 DWT,
among the largest presently being built. Transport from mine to port will
be provided by the Federal Railways (Rede Ferroviaria Federal - RFFSA)
which has requested another IBRD loan of US$46 million to finance part of
the new rolling stock and spur lines needed to serve the MBR project. The
RFFSA loan is appraised in IBRD Report PTR-77a; the present report is con-
cerned only with the appraisal of the loan to MBR for the mine and ocean
terminal.
ii.       The project sponsors are Cia. Auxiliar de Empresas de Mineracao
(CAEMI), a private Brazilian holding company engaged primarily in minerals
development and steel production, and Hanna Mining Company of the U.S.,
which also was a sponsor of the Alcominas Aluminum Project in Brazil, to
which the Bank made a loan of US$22 million in 1968 and which started op-
erations in the fall of 1970 about on schedule and within budgeted cost.
CAEZI, and therefore Brazilian nationals, will control MBR. Total initial
MBR equity will be US$80 million, consisting of existing fixed assets val-
ued at US$50 million and US$30 million in new cash investments by the spon-
sors, a consortium of Japanese steel and trading companies, and a U.S.-
owned shipping company.
iii.      MBR's ore reserves are high grade and are estimated at over 1.6 bil-
lion tons. Aguas Claras, the largest of 36 deposits in MBR's concession area
and the mine upon which the project is based, contains over 375 million tons
(proven and inferred) of mineable hematite ore with an average iron content
of 68 percent. The deposit has been explored adequately, has very little
overburden, and is well suited to the open-pit mining operation envisaged.
Engineering design and project execution will benefit from the sponsors'
experience with similar large-scale mining projects in the U.S., Canada and
Brazil. Hanna will provide technical assistance at cost during the con-
struction and operating phases. The ecological implications of the project
have been examined in detail and it is judged that the project can be carried
out with minimum adverse effects on the regions surrounding the mine and ocean
terminal, provided that certain precautions are taken.



- ii -
iv.       Total project Costs are estimated at about US$143 million, with
the foreign exchange component varying between 45 and 52%, depending on the
degree of participation in procurement by Brazilian manufacturers and con-
tractors.  Project costs will be salit about evenly between the mine and
the terminal.
v.        Financing requirements for the project are estimated at about US$155
million, of which US$30 million will be financed by equity and the remainder
by loans from IBRD (US$50 million), five Japanese trading companies (US$50 mil-
lion), the Japanese Eximbank (US$7 million), and the U.S. Eximbank (US$18
million). There will be no Brazilian loans made for the project, but the
US$50 million Japanese loan will be untied and can be used for expenditures
in Brazil. The other bilateral funds will be tied to purchases in the U.S.
and Japan respectively. Close to 60% of the proposed Bank loan will be used
for equipment and construction materials procured worldwide rnd the remainder
for internationally-bid civil works and interest during construction on the
Bank loan.
vi.       Iron ore prices, which were depressed through most of the 1960s,
recently have firmed up, and the growth of demand for iron ore is expected
to require free world production to increase by about 40 million tons each
year throughout the 1970s. Over 70X of the project's initial annual output
of 10 million tons has been committed in long-term sales contracts with six
Japanese steel companies and another 20% to buyers in Europe and Argentina.
While these arrangements provide a sound commercial base for the project,
it should be noted that the project will be highly dependent on the Japanese
steel market. Because of the very good quality of ore that MBR has to offer,,
both as to physical properties and chemical composition, it is anticipated
that additional long-term contracts will be concluded prior to the project
start-up and that the company will increase its annual production to 15
million tons within the first five years of operations.
vii.      On the basis of conservatively projected ore sales and prices and
operating costs, it is estimated that MHR's Internal financial return before
income taxes will be 19Z with a sales build-up to 10 million tons per annum
or close to 25% if sales increase to 15 million tons annually within the first
five years of operations as expected. The internal economic return of the
combined MBR and railway projects is expected to range from 18% at the lovor
build-up level to 23% at the higher. Sensitivity tests on the impact of
various adverse circumstances indicate that the combined economic return is
not likely to drop below 13%, even with a combination of gradually increasing
operating costs and price erosion.
viii.     Since ore reserves are ample and easily accessible, and mining
costs therefore can be determined with more than a normal degree of accuracy
in what otherwise are inherently risky mining projects, only serious adverse
commercial circumstances, such as the occurrence of severe recessions in the
steel industries of Japan and elsewhere, would endanger MBR's financial
position. Adequate protection of the Bank's loans to MBR and RFPSA is
afforded (i) by the strong cash generating ability of the project itself;
(ii) by a US$20 million shareholders guarantee to cover cost overruns and



- iii -
working capital requirements until such date as the project has demonstrated
thet capacity to mine and siip ore at a rate above break-even; (iii) by
liquidity protection provided through restrictions placed on MBR's ability
to declare dividends or reinvest surpluses in fixed assets; and (iv) by a
mortgage on MBR's assets that the Bank will hold.
ix.       In developing one of Brazil's major and abundant resources, the
project is of high economic priority to the country. Average net foreign
exchange benefits are expected to range from about US$50 million to about
US$74 million annually, depending on the ultimate level of sales. Over an
assumed project life of 15 years, about 73% of net project benefits are ex-
pected to accrue to the Brazilian Government through various direct taxes
and reductions in Government subsidies to the Brazilian Railways. Another
11% will accrue to Brazilian shareholders; thus about 84% of net benefits
are expected to remain in Brazil. In comparison with other mining projects
that the Bank Group has assisted in the past, this is an unusually high re-
turn 'o the country in which the mine is located.
x.        The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan to MBR of
US$50 million equivalent for a term of 15 years, including a grace period of
about 3-1/2 years, with provision for accelerated repayment if dividends to
the sponsors surpass certain stipulated levels.






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Mineracoes Brasileiras Reunidas S.A. (MBR), a private Brazilian
corporation, has requested a Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent to cover
one-third of the projected cost of an iron ore export project (known as the
Aguas Claras or MBR Project). The loan would be guaranteed by the Brazilian
Government.  A second Bank loan of US$46 million has been requested by the
Rede Ferroviarili Federal S.A. (RFFSA) to finance part of the railway facili-
ties required to serve the MBR Project and estimated to cost approximately
US$113 million. The railway loan is appraised separately in IBRD Appraisal
Report PTR-77a. 1/
1.02      The project sponsors, the CADII Group of Brazil and Hanna Mining
Company of the U.S., first approached the Bank for financing in 1965, and
numerous discussions took place over the next four years as the project
concept evolved. Full appraisal by the Bank could not begin, however, until
mid-1970, when MBR reached agreement with RFFSA on a rail freight contract
and signed a long-term ore sales contract with Japan. Appraisal missions
visited MBR headquarters in Rio de Janeiro and the project sites near Belo
Horizonte and on Sepetiba Bay (see Map 1) in June and October/November 1970
and a special mission to consider the project's ecological implications went
to Brazil in January 1971. Throughout the appraisal period, MBR had con-
current financial discussions with co-lenders in Japan and the U.S. that
resulted in firm commitments to cover required financing for the project.
1.03      This would be the second direct Bank loan to the industrial sector
of Biazil; the first was the Alcominas Aluminum Project (Loan 526-BR, January
1968) which also was partly sponsored by Hanna Mining Company and was satis-
factorily completed in November 1970.
1.04      This report has been prepared by the appraisal team, consisting of
Miessrs. Pigossi, Jaffe and Bosson of the Industrial Projects Department and
Mr. Bain of the Transportation Projects Department.
II. TIIE SPONSORS AND TIIE COlMPANY
2.01      The principal sponsors of the project are Cia. Auxiliar de Empresas
de Mineracao (CAEMI), a Brazilian holding company, and Hanna Mining Company
of the U.S. (Hanna), which is investing in the project through its subsidiary,
St. John D'el Rey Mining Company. A Japanese group that will purchase a
major portion of MBR's iron ore output will have a minorJty interest in MBR,
as will a Liberian subsidiary of a U.S. shipping company (Annex 1-1).
l/   Referred to herein as the "Railway Report'.



-2-
A.   CAEMI
2.02      CAEMI is a Brazilian holding company, incorporated in 1951, whose
principal activity is manganese ore mining and exporting in the State of
Amapa (N4orthern Brazil) carried out through Industria e Comercio de Minerios
S.A. (ICOMI), owned 51% by CAEMI and 49% by Bethlehem Steel Corporation of
the U.S. ICOMI also serves as CAEMI's principal vehicle for controlling
various iron ore activities in the State of Minas Gerais, a speciality steel
mill in the State of Sao Paulo, a plywood mill in Amapa, a shipping company
which operates tugboats and ocean-going barges, and a company which carries
out mineral exploration and research. ICOMI is in a strong financial posi-
tion, as indicated in Annex 1-2, which probably understates the company's
net worth considerably. Projections of ICOMI's future sales indicate that
CADII will receive at least US$2.5 million in annual dividends from ICOMI
throughout-the implementation period of the MBR project. CAE1I thereby will
have sufficient debt raising ability to allow the company to cover its obli-
gations under the MBR Shareholders Agreement (Para. 5.08) to provide MBR
up to US$10 million for cost overruns and initial working capital deficits
that might be incurred. During loan negotiations, CAEMI agreed not to sell
or otherwise encumber its shares in ICOMI throughout the period the Share-
holders Agreement is in effect, thus protecting CAEMI's principal source
of inccme.
B.  St. John D'el Rey Mining Company
2.03      St. John D'el Rey is a British corporation that has been engaged
in iron ore exploration and mining in Minas Gerais for over 40 years. Its
affairs are controlled and managed by Hanna Mining Company of the the U.S.,
which acquired 51.8% of its stock in 1958. The balance of St. John shares
are held in the U.S. and U.K. by private and institutional shareholders.
Only a small portion of the shares are traded regularly. St. John's prin-
cipal activities are carried out through a wholly-owned Brazilian subsidiary,
Cia. de Mineracao Novalimense (CMN), which holds and operates iron ore con-
cessions in the immediate vicinity of the City of Belo Horizonte. Its most
iiportant property is the Aguas Claras deposit, upon which the MBR Project
is based.
1'. Hanna Mining Company
.04      Hanna Mining Company and its subsidiary companies collectively are
the second largest producers of iron ore in the world, with operations in
the U.S., Canada, Australia, and South America. The company has shown strong
financial growth over the past ten years, as indicated in Annex 1-3. Hanna
is responsible for the technical planning and execution of the MBR mining
project (Para. 4.16), and will be an indirect guarantor of the Bank loan,
providing US$7.5 million to back-up a US$10 million obligation by St. John
under the Shareholders Agreement. Hanna is financially sound and has
sufficient resources to cover such a guarantee.



-3-
D.   Genesis of the Project
2.05      In 1965, CAEMI and St. John entered into an agreement establishing
the conditions under which they would consolidate their iron ore properties
and operations in Brazil. An initial plan for exportation of pre from the
Aguas Claras reserve through a new terminal on Sepetiba Bay was approved by
the President of the Republic in December 1966. In April 1970 Mineracoes
Brasileiras Reunidas S.A. (MBR), the CAEMI subsidiary that will carry out
the project, signed a long-term contract with six Japanese steel companies
for delivery of an aggregate of 105 million tons of Aguas Claras ore over
a 16-year period. Finally, in July 1970 MBR entered into an agreement with
RFFSA for rail transport from the mine site to the Sepetiba terminal, and
Bechtel Overseas Corporation cf the U.S. completed a study of the proposed
project, showing it to be technically and economically feasible. These
actions provided a solid base ipon which financing for the project could
proceed.
E.   The Borrower - MBR
1. Ownership
2.06      Following consolidation of the CAEMI and St. John assets,
MBR will be jointly owned 51% by a holding company, Empreendimentos
Brasileiros de Mineracao S.A. (EBM) and 49% by St. John.  EBM will
in turn be owned 61% by CAEMI which will provide CAEMI with a 31.1%
indirect share of MBR. The balance of EBMI ownership being held (20%)
by a consortium of the six Japanese steel companies buying ore from
MBR and the five Japanese trading companies providing debt finance
for the project, and (19%) by Universe Tankships, Inc. a Liberian
subsidiary of National Bulk Carriers, a U.S. shipping firm. Hanna
owns 51.8% of St. John and has, therefore, a 25.4% effective share
of MBR. Annex 1-1 illustrates the pattern of ownership and control
for MBR.
2.07      Effective ownership of MBR will be as follows:
% Ownership
EBM                                            51.0
CAEMI                           31.1
Japanese                        10.2
National Bulk Carriers           9.7
St. John D'el Rey                              49.0
Hanna                           25.4
Minority Shareholders           23.6



-4-
2.08      The sponsors have indicated that they plan to offer shares in EBM
or MBR itself to the Brazilian public once the project has reached the point
where such shares would be marketable.
2. Existing Equity
2.09      'i'he total cash investment of CAEMI and the St. John shareholders
in the assets being consolidated into MBR is US$29.9 million. The partnere
have agreed to value their respective properties at the time of merger on
the basis of the original cost of each plus interest at 6% per annum from
the purchase date tuo to the merger date. This values existi1i equity at
somewhat more than US$50 million, tae figure the sponsors wilk use in the
first consolidated balance sheet.  it study undertaken by the Bank indicates
that US$50 million represents the approximate present value eS anticipated
future MBR cash flows using a discount rate of 20%.  This coetitutes a rea-
sonable basis for acceptance of the proposed valuation (Anne- 8).
3.  Past Financial Performance
2.10      Financial performance during the past 5 years of the various CAEKI
and St. John iron ore operations being consolidated into MBR is summarized
below:
CAEMI and St. John Iron Ore Operations
Consolidated Financial Indicators
(US$ million)
Jan-March
1966    1967    1968    1969        1970        1971 ft
Shipments (million LT)    2.2       1.9      1.8     1.8        2.4         0.6
Gross Revenues             19.0    16.4    12.4    17.2        17.4         4.22
Net Earnings               (0.3)   (0.8)   (0.5)    0.4         1.2         0.2
Cash Flow                  0.7      0.3      0.5      1.3       2.1         0.5
Quick Ratio              0.35:1  0.46:1  0.41:1  0.49:1        1.0:1       1.1:1
/1   Unaudited.
'.11      These figures are amplified inr Tables 1 and 2, which split consoli-
dated totals into CAEMI and St. John components. The statements show that,
on their own, the existing operations have been only marginally viable for
much of the period. However, both groups have shown improvement during the
last two years and, had all of the operations been consolidated in a single
tntity, it is likely that their overall performance would have been somewhat
better than the above figures indicate. It also should be noted that Hanna's
purchase of St. John shares in 1958 was specifically aimed at development of
the Aguas Claras deposit. The existing St. John operations, therefore, have
absorbed some of the Aguas Claras development costs, a8d this has tended to
redluce their apparent profitability.



III. WORLD IRON ORE MARKETS
A. General Background
3.01      The long-term outlook for iron ore recently was reviewed by the
Bank's Economics Department, whose assessment is attached in Annex 2-1.
3.02      The Bank's view is that world steel production, excluding Japan
and the Asian centrally-planned countries (ACPC) 1/, can be expected to reach
750 million ingot tons by 1980, in contrast with actual production of 474
million tons in 1969. Japan's steel production, which amounted to 82 million
tons in 1969 and about 93 million tons in 1970, is predicted to reach 140
million tons in 1975 and perhaps 200 million tons by 1980. It is anticipated
that total world steel production (excluding the ACPC), will increase from
about 556 million ingot tons in 1969 to 950 million tons in 1980.
3.03      Japanese crude steel production of 140 million tons in 1975 implies
a need for over 160 million tons of iron ore imports in that year. Of this
amount, about 140 million tons were contracted by the end of 1970, including
7 million tons from MBR.
B.   Brazilian Iron Ore Production
3.04      Because of its immense, high quality iron ore reserves, estimated
at over 30 billion metric tons, or 12% of known world reserves, Brazil is
rapidly developing into a major force in the world iron ore market (Annex
2-2). In 1969, Brazil produced about 28 million tons of iron ore, equiva-
lent to 4 percent of world production. During the same year, about 19 mil-
lion tons were exported, or approximately 13 percent of total world exports.
Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD), the Government mining company which
accounts for 80 percent of Brazil's shipments overseas and is the fifth
largest iron ore exporter in the world, exported about 24 million tons in
1970. CVRD is negotiating additional contracts with European and Japanese
consumers and plans to expand shipments to over 40 million tons annually
by 1975.
3.05      In addition, preliminary surveys of high grade deposits in the
Serra dos Carajas region in the State of Para indicate reserves sufficient
to justify large scale mining operations. A joint company set up by CVRD
and a subsidiary of United States Steel Corporation is undertaking detailed
exploration, which is expected to be completed by the end of 1971. If the
deposits are developed and contracts are secured, the venture probably will
be exporting an initial 30 million tons of ore per annum by the late 1970's
to the U.S., Europe and Japan.
1/   Mainland China, North Korea, North Vietnam.



-6-
C.   Supply and Prices
3.06      In 1970, world iron ore supplies had difficulty keeping up with
demand for the first time in more than 10 years. C.I.F. prices, which had
declined by as much as 30 percent during the preceding 10 years or so as port
facilities were improved and ship sizes increased, rose by 8 percent at the
beginning of the year. Current trends indicate that the market situation -is
likely to remain strong up to 1972-73, when a number of recently-started
projects are due to come on-stream. Thereafter, price movements are less
predictable and likely to be shaped primarily by trends in supply, handling,
and ocean transport.4ion costs, as well as by the organizatiQ  of world mar-
kets.  On balance, these factors are expected to keep average prices during
the mid- and late-seventies in the neighborhood of recent levels, in actual
terms. In real terms, however, prices may decline as much w Jy 10 percent
during this period.
3.07      Another factor of importance to price considerations is the practice
introduced by the Japanese steel companies, which collectively are by far the
world's largest importers of iron ore, of concluding long-term ore purchase
contracts stipulating not only volumes but prices as well. This has led to
the adoption of similar contracts by the European steel companies. Since nw
iron ore mines require increasingly large amounts of fixed investment, prim-
arily due to high infrastructure costs associated with mine development, it
is not likely that future projects will be undertaken without the assurancoe
provided by off-take contracts for a large part of the production. In con-
sequence, the world iron ore market is likely to become more stsble than it
has been in the past.
3.08      Within the Japanese supply sphere (Annex 2-3), as with most of the
world market, the F.O.B. selling price of iron ore specified in individual
contracts is greatly influenced by iron content and chemical .ad physical
characteristics of the ore. In such respects NBR will enjoy several advan-
tages over its competitors. First, it will produce a top-quality ore (68
percent iron and low in phosphorus, silica, alumina and sulfur), the deoaad
for which will continue to increase as steel companies maintain their effoAwi
to improve blast furnace productivity, reduce the coke rate, and meet in-
creasingly strict air pollution standards. The overall quality of the MER
ore probably will be superior to any other ore under contract to the
Japanese steel mills. The combined silica/alumina content of the MBR ore,
at 3%, is much lower than that for ores from GVRD (3-7%), Australia (8-10X).
and India (some over 12%). The sulfur content of the MBR ore, at 0.01%, is
the lowest of all the contracted ores, a positive factor in view of Japan's
increasing concern with sulfur-derived pollution. The typi.l sulfur
content for other supplies is in the range of 0.5-0.8%. The MBR ore phos-
plhorus content of 0.08% is only marginally higher than that of the majority
of the other ores. In addition to advantages stemming from the ore itself,
the loading facilities proposed for tho Sepetiba terminal will accommodate
the largest ore carriers planned for the mid-70's and thus make transport
costs for MBR ore competitive with those of closer producers not yet equipped
to lhandle such large ships.



-7-
3.09      These considerations have resulted in very favorable contract terms
for MBR. While MBR's selling prices will be influenced by worldwide move-
ments in the price of iron ore over the long run, its competitive advantages
should always enable it to receive close to the maximum prices offered at any
given time.
IV. THE PROJECT AND ITS EXECUTION
A.   The Mine - Aguas Claras
4.01      Full descriptions of the iron ore reserves and the proposed
mining and ore preparation methods and facilities are given in Annex 3.
1.   Ore Reserves
4.02      Following consolidation of the CAEMI and St. John iron ore operations,
MBR will own properties covering an area of 45 square kilometers in the vicinity
of Belo Horizonte in the State of Minas Gerais (see Map 2).  These contain
reserves estimated at over 1.6 billion tons of high grade iron ore distributed
in 36 deposits.  Aguas Claras, the largest and highest grade deposit, contains
over 375 million tons (250 million tons proven and the balance inferred) of
mineable open-pit hematite with a dry grade of 68 percent iron and very low
contents of phosphorus, sulfur, silica and alumina. It will be the center
of MBR mining activities. The deposit has been thoroughly explored and
sampled by means of tunnels, drilling and surface pitting and ore reserves
have been estimated conservatively. The orebody has sufficient proven re-
serves to sustain a mining rate of 15 million tons of iron ore per year
for 17 years.
2.   Mining Plan
4.03      Because the Aguas Claras orebody is massive and outcropping, it
is well-suited to open-pit mining and has a very favorable stripping ratio.
Conventional side-hill open-pit mining methods will be used, with ore and
waste drilled, blasted and loaded by shovels into trucks for haulage to the
processing plant or waste dumps. Operating 6 days per week and 3 shifts
per day, the rate of mining initially will be about 12 million tons of
crude ore per annum to produce 10 million tons of saleable ore. A list
of the major units of mining equipment is shown in Annex 3a and a picto-
rial flowsheet of the mine and preparation plan in Annex 3b.
3.   Ore Preparation
4.04      The ore preparation plant will consist of primary crushing,
screening, secondary crushing, final screening and washing, and hydraulic
classification facilities. The design of the process plant and ore hand-
ling facilities is based on data furnished by extensive laboratory and



-8-
pilot tests and follows well-established practice. In its initial confi-
guration, the plant is expected to be capable of operating at a rated ca-
pacity of 15 million tons of crude ore per year, with provision for future
expansion beyond that level.
4.05      Total initially-saleable production is expected to amount to
about 83 percent of the ore mined. The balance will consist of very fine
material (minus 100 mesh) that initially will be stored. The company is
actively investigating the possibility of marketing this fraction, either
in its natural state or as cold-formed pellets.
B.  The Ocean Terminal
4.06      A full description of the ocean terminal is provit in Annex 4.
4.07      The terminal will be located on property owned by PMR on Guaiba
Island, 1,000 meters off-shore at the entrance of Sepetiba Bay and about
100 km west of Rio de Janeiro. This site was selected after consideration
of various alternative sites along the Brazilian coast, giving due weight
to technical and economic factors, as well as the feasibility of transport
(Annex 5). The terminal will receive and unload unit trains of iron ore,
provide stockpiling facilities for a minimum of three grades of ore, and
load ocean-going vessels up to the 250,000 DWT class. The island will be
linked to the mainland by a steel piling railway trestle approximately
1,740 meters long which will join with the existing railway whlch runs
along the northwest shore of Sepetiba Bay. A small causeway is to be
constructed from the island to connect with the trestle and to provide
shelter for the four tugs which will assist ships in mooring at the pier.
A general layout of the Bay, showing the location of the terminal facilities,
is shown in Map 3.
4.08      Sufficient space exists at Guaiba Island and its immediate off-
shore areas for future expansion of operations to an annual level of 25
million tons, and provision has been made in the terminal design for addi-
tional facilities to meet that level. Adequate provisiOns have been made
for the supply of fresh water and electric power and the disposal of sewage.
Additional facilities for the collection of oily wastes from the ore/oil
carriers loading at the terminal will be provided if they are demed
necessary by studies to be undertaken during the next few months (Para.
4.11). The existing approach channel to the terminal site will be dredged
to a depth of 22.5 meters and a width of 300 teters to accommodate bulk
oil./ore carriers of up to 250,000 DWT.
'+.09     The mine and terminal will be connected by a 640 km rail line,
most of which is already in existence and which is described in the Railway
Report.
C.   Environmental Considerations
4.10      It should be possible to carry out the MBR project successfully
with minimum adverse environmental effects on the regions surrounding the



- 9 -
mine and ocean terminal. MBR is aware of the importance of this issue par-
ticularly in view of the project's size, and the Company has agreed to take
a number of steps to ensure that the project not only will meet current legal
requirements regarding environmental controls, but also that its actions will
not foreclose future options for non-industrial use of land and water in the
regions of the project sites.
4.11      The Bank's study of environmental issues and the conclusions re-
sulting therefrom are detailed in Annex 5. This investigation included a
special mission to the Sepetiba terminal site comprising several special-
ists in the field of ecology. The findings of this mission were discussed
with the project sponsors, and agreement was reached during negotiations
that the execution and operation of the project would be carried out with
due regard to ecological and environmental factors. More specifically,
MBR has agreed to prepare plans, acceptable to the Bank and the Brazilian
Government, by the end of 1971 for protecting the waters in and around
Sepetiba Bay from pollution originating from vessels visiting the terminal
or from on-shore wastes, and to carry out these plans, or acceptable al-
ternatives, prior to completion of the project. In addition, MBR has
agreed to consult with the Bank prior to implementation of any plans to
erect a pelletizing plant at Sepetiba Bay, should the Company's current
investigations of such a plant indicate that its location at the Bay would
be desirable. These restrictions should enable the Bank to take an active
part in any MBR planning and execution pertaining to those developments
most likely to affect the ecology at the terminal site.
4.12      At the mine and ore preparation plant MBR will undertake a number
of measures to control dust and to filter and purify water used in ore pro-
cessing. The proposed methods appear satisfactory.
D.   Construction Schedules
4.13      The project construction schedule (Annex 6) is based on MBR's con-
tractual obligation to start shipping ore to Japan on October 1, 1973. To
meet this date, mining must commence by July 1, 1973 in order to allow build-
up of adequate ore stockpiles at the terminal. This means that construction
should start no later than July 1971 for the mine and October 1971 for the
terminal. Preliminary engineering is underway and to date the project is on
schedule.
E.   Management, Staff and Labor
4.14      Primary responsibility for engineering design and supervision of
the project during the construction phase will lie with Bechtel Overseas
Corporation of San Francisco, California, although some of the work will be
sub-contracted to engineering firms in Brazil. A contract for Bechtel's
services has been drawn up and is satisfactory. It is anticipated that
Bechtel also will be employed as Technical Adviser to RFFSA in the execution
of the railway portion of the project, assuring close coordination of the to-
tal project at the working level (Railway Report, Para. 4.09).



- 10 -
4.15      To provide for coordination of project implementation at the
policy level, MBR and RFFSA have agreed to establish a joint management body
consisting of senior officials of both organizations who have authority to
take specific actions necessary to keep the project on schedule.
4.16      Hanna has agreed to make available to MBR, at cost, advisory
services on all technical and economic aspects of the project, and to pro-
vide training of Brazilian personnel in the U.S. and Canada. The basic prin-
ciples of the agreement appear satisfactory. Overall management control
and responsibility for day-to-day operations will rest with experienced
Brazilian executives, most of whom are coming from CAEMI. MKR'e President
and chief administrative officer is Dr. Arnaldo Walter Blank, former Presi-
dent of the Banco Central do Brasil, who has over 40 years of experience in
Brazilian banking and financing. The Vice President responsSble for MBR
operations is Sr. Daniel G. Sydenstricker, former manager of ICOMI's man-
ganese operations in Amapa and a Director of CAEMI.
4.17      Total staff and labor requirements at a production level of 10
million tons per annum are estimated to be about 760 at the mine and 180
at the terminal, most of whom will be Brazilian* filling new jobs created
by the project. Labor pools in the regions surrounding both activities
are considered of sufficient size to satisfy all skilled and semi-skilled
labor requirements, although considerable training will be necessary. Labor
requirements during construction will be close to 1,500 people.
V. CAPITAL COSTS - FINANCIAL PLAN - PROCUREMENT
A.   Capital CostS
5.01      The project cost estimate, based on a feasibility study undertaken
for MBR by Bechtel Overseas Corporation, is detailed in Annex 7 and sumar-
ized below:



- 11 -
Project Cost Estimate
NCr$ millions            US$ millions
Foreign   Local          Foreign   Local
Currency Currency Total Currency Currency Total
Mine and Preparation Plant         90.9     87.3   178.2   22.4       21.4    43.8
Ocean Terminal                    110.8     60.9   171.7   27.3       15.0    42.3
Engineering and Project            26.0     34.5    60.5    6.4        8.5    14.9
Management
MBR Administration During           5.3      5.7    11.0    1.3        1.4     2.7
Construction
Uwners' Advance Expenditures        3.2      6.1      9.3    0.8       1.5     2.3
Working Capital                    16.2     31.3    47.5    4.0        7.7    11.7
Price Escalation                   23.1     30.5    53.6    5.7        7.5    13.2
Contingency                        24.0     23.5    47.5    5.9        5.8    11.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               299.5    279.8   579.3   73.8       68.8   142.6
Financial Charges During           51.2       -      51.2   12.6        -     12.6
Construction
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED          350.7    279.8   630.5   86.4       68.8   155.2
5.02      The estimates are considered reasonable and reflect the combined
experience of Hanna and CAEMI with similar large scale mining operations in
Canada, the U.S., and Brazil, and their knowledge of the region where the
Aguas Claras mine is located. Total contingency 1/ and escalation allowances
of 8.2% and 9.3% respectively provide adequate protection against price in-
flation and unexpected construction problems. A provision of US$3.3 million
to cover the possible cost of environmental protection facilities has been
included in the above estimates and is considered conservative.
5.03      The estimated foreign exchange component, US$73.8 million, or 52%
of total project costs, assumes that all major items of equipment and civil
works contracts submitted to international competition will be supplied or
carried out by foreign firma. Brazilian suppliers and contractors are ex-
pected to be competitive in several categories, so that actual foreign ex-
change costs could be as low as US$63.9 million, or 45% of project costs.
1/   The overall contingency level has been determined by aggregating contin-
gency requirements for individual cost components based on probabilities
of quantity and price overruns assigned to each.



- 12 -
Possible increases in individual cost elements due to the 15% preference
that will be given to Brazilian suppliers (Para 5.15) are adequately
covered in the contingency allowance
B.   Financing Plan
5.04      The financing plan is as follows:
Projected Financing Plan
US$ mili^on
Long-term Debt
IBRD                                             50.0
Japanese Trading Compunles                       50.0
Japanese Eximbank                                 7.0
U.S. Eximbank                                    18.2
125.2
New Equity
St. John                                         14.7
CAEMI (EBM)                                      15.3
30.0
Total New Financing          155.2
5.05      At completion of the project and in accordance with the above
financing plan, MBR's pro-forma capitalization is expected to be approxi-
mately as follows:



- 13 -
Pro-forma MBR Capitalization - September 30, 1973
US$ million   US$ million    %
Long-Term Debt                                      125.2     59.1
Equity:
New Equity                      30.0
Existing Equity (3/31/71)      5(0.0
Retained Earnings /1             t.6
Total Equity                                  86.6      40.9
Total Capitalization                                211.8    100.0
/1   Projected retained earnings from 3/31/71, the MBR consolidation date
to 9/31/73, the beginning of Aguas Claras Operations (Table 6).
1.   Equity Financing
5.06      The project sponsors will be required to advance a total of US$30
million in new equity to MBR in the ratio of 51% (US$15.3) million) for CAEMI
and 49% (US$14.7 million) for St. John. Of this new equity contribution, an
estimated US$2.3 million in advance owners' expenditures were incurred prior
to 1971 and approximately US$10 million in additional funds will be drawn down
prior to effectiveness of the Bank loan to finance work that must be undertaken
during the interim period to keep the project on schedule. Common shares will
be issued for the US$30 million in new equity, and payment for these shares
will be made on a dollar-for-dollar basis with drawdown of the first US$30
million on the Bank loan. CAEMI has arranged to finance all its new equity
contribution to MBR through sale of shares in the holding company, EBM, that
will own 51% of MBR's shares (para. 2.06); US$8.2 million will come from the
Japanese trading and steel companies for their 10.2% share of MBR and the bal-
ance will be covered by Universe Tankships.
5.07      The St. John portion of new equity will be raised through a
rights offering to its shareholders.
2.   Shareholders Agreement, Security Agreement, Pledge Agreement
5.08      In addition to their obligations to provide US$30 million in new
equity for the project, CAEMI and St. John have agreed to advance MBR up to
an aggregate of US$20 million in additional funds to cover (i) possible cost
overruns to complete the project; (ii) working capital deficiencies between
the time of project completion and a date, not less than 12 months thereafter,
upon which the project shall have shipped a total of 4 million tons of ore
over a period of six continuous months (80% of initial capacity); and (iii)
at the end of the fiscal year during which the above test has been satisfied,



- 14 -
additional working capital to increase, if necessary, current assets of MBR
to a level at least equal to its accounts payable plus MBR's following year's
full debt service (principal and interest). These funds must be advanced in
a form and on terms satisfactory to the Bank, either as equity or as sub-
ordinated loans that can be repaid only after certain liquidity restrictions
are met. CAEMI's portion of the shareholders' guarantee will be 51%, or
US$10.2 million, and St. John's will be 49%, or US$9.8 million. Hanna Mining
Company has agreed to provide unconditionally up to US$7.5 million to back up
St. John's obligations (the Security Agreement); and, in lieu of firm commit-
ments for the remaining US$2.3 million St. John obligation, St. John has
agreed to pledge all of its shares in MBR to the Bank (the Pledge Agreement).
3.   Debt Financing
5.09      The proposed US$50 million IBRD loan will be for 13 years at the
standard interest rate plus a 2% Brazilian Government guarantee fee. Prin-
cipal and interest will be in 24 equal installments beginning on December
1, 1974, 14 months after the projected start of Aguas Claras operations.
Provision has been be made for accelerated repayment of the Bank's loan in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Para. 7.08. From a security
standpoint, the Bank loan will rank pari passu with other senior debt.
5.10      The five Japanese trading companies handling the long-term ore
purchases from MBR will serve as the conduit for a loan to MBR of US$50
million, comprising US$30 million from the Japanese Eximbank and US$20
million from commercial banks. The loan agreement was signed in February
1971. The effective interest rate is about 9.6%, including Brazilian with-
holding taxes on the commercial portion. This loan will be secured by a
first mortgage on MBR's assets in which the Bank will share ari passu.
The combined loan is for 15 years, with repayment of principal proportional
to ore shipped under the sales contract at the rate of U.S. Cents 60 per
ton for the first 84 million tons (representing about 12-1/2 years for
total repayment). These amounts will be withheld in Japan from payments
made to MBR for the ore shipped.
5.11      MBR also is expecting to draw upon an additional US$7 million in
supplier credits from the Japanese Eximbank for equipment purchases in Japan.
This loan has not yet been negotiated, but it is MBR's firm intention to use
these funds if the prices on Japanese equipment are competitive with alter-
native sources.
5.12      MBR has received a financing cormitment from the U.S. Eximbank
totaling US$26.3 million, of which US$22.5 million 1/ can be applied against
purchase of U.S. goods and services and $3.8 million can be used for local
currency expenditures. 2/ The financing plan shown in Para. 5.04 indicates
that only about 70% of these funds will be needed if the Japanese supplier
1/   50% will come from Eximbank itself, 50% from commercial banks with
Exiin guarantees.
2/   Representing local'currency loans guaranteed by Eximbank.



- 15 -
credits described above are used as intended, leaving a balance of about
US$8.1 million.  The U.S. Eximbank loan will be for 12-1/2 years, ineludtilng
2-1/2 years grace.  The effective overall interest rate wll.l be about Li'.
5.13      With full utilization of the US$7 million in Japanese supplier
credits, the resulting US$8.1 million of uiused US Exim funds, plus the US$20
million shareholders completion and working capital guarantee described above.
will yield MBR up to US$28.1 million of contingency financing. This is con-
sidered sufficient to cover foreseeable cost overruns within a reasonable
range of probabilities.
C.   Procurement and Disbursement
1.   Under the IBRD Loan
5.14      The categories of expenditure recommended for Bank finance are:
Recommended IBRD Procurement
Percent of
US$ million    Total Loan
(a)  Equipment to be procured with
international competitive bidding         25.4          51
(b)  Construction materials to be procured
with international competitive bidding   4.0             8
(c)  Foreign exchange component of civil
works undertaken with international
competitive bidding                       12.6          25
(d)  Unallocated amount available for ex-
penditures for equipment, materials
or civil works                             5.0          10
(e)  Interest during construction on IBRD
loan                                       3.0           6
Total IBRD Loan             50.0          100
5.15      Detailed breakdowns of categories (a) and (b) are shown in Annexes
9-1 and 9-2. All goods and services financed under the proposed loan will
be acquired through international competitive bidding. The loan will fi-
nance the c.i.f. imported cost of equipment and construction materials, up to
US$3 million of interest during construction on the loan and 54% of inter-
nationally-bid civil works, such fraction corresponding to the estimated
foreign exchange component of those civil works contracts most likely to
attract meaningful international competition (Annex 9-3). The foreign ex-
change component of civil works hgs been estimated on the basis of an eval-
uation of likely participation by Brazilian contractors. Actual Bank



- 16 -
disbursements for civil works expenditures are expected to represent no more
than one third of the total cost of all civil works in the project, including
those to be bid only locally. This is close to the foreign exchange per-
centage the Bank presently is using for disbursements of road and port
projects in Brazil. The disbursement rate for civil works will be the same
whether or not Brazilian contractors are chosen.
5.16      Brazilian manufacturers will be given a preference on internation-
ally-bid equipment and construction materials equal to 15 percent, which is
lower than prevailing import duties. In all cases, the Bank will disburse
the full cost of such items even if they are won by Brazilian suppliers.
Brazilian manufacturers are expected to be chosen for approximtely 15-20
percent of total equipment purchases and up to 50 percent of the total for
construction materials. The equipment component of US$25.4 minllion to be
financed by the Bank represents about 63 percent of projected overseas
equipment purchases for the project.
5.17      To ensure that the project is kept on schedule the Bank agreed
during loan negotiations to recommend financing on a retroactive basis MBR's
actual cash outlays from June 1, 1971 for items that will be purchased in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. The total of such retro-
active financing is not likely to exceed $800,000.
2.   Under Other Financing
5.18      Out of total project expenditures of US$155.2 million, US$25.8
million, or about 17X, will be tied to specific sources of finance.  All
overseas purchases of equipment not covered by the Bank loan will be
obtained under the Japanese and/or U.S. Eximbank loans. Thes* goods are
expected to cost about US$17.6 million and will consist primarily of
items that can be obtained on a tied basis in Japan and the U.S. at prices
reasonably competitive with world-wide sources.  The U.S. Eximbank loan also
will cover the estimated US$7.6 million cost of Bechtel's engineering and
construction management contract.
5.19      The US$50 million loan from the Japanese trading companies will
be available for project expenditures anywhere in the world and will be
applied mainly to local currency costs.
VI.  REVENUES - OPERATING COSTS - FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Revenues
6.01      Details of the ore contracts that already have been signed by MBR
are presented in Annex 11.
6.02      Annual ore sales of 9.3 million tons (wet long ton basis) are
fixed by long term agreements with five Japanese steel compaflie. (7.3 million
tons), British Steel Corporation (1.3 million tons), and Soeiedad Mixta



- 17 -
Siderurgia (SOMISA) of Argent:.na (700,000 tons). Each of these contracts
provides for periodic renegotiation of the sales price on terms that are
likely to favor MBR. A further 700,000 tons annually will be reserved ini-
tially for spot sales, following normal practice in the industry. It should
be noted that the overall project will be highly dependent on the Japanese
steel industry, which will purchase over 70Z of production rewulting from
development of the Aguas Claras mine.
6.03      Financial planning for the Aguas Claras operation has been based
on an assumed steady sales rate of 10 million tons per year. It is reason-
able to expect that this level will be exceeded quickly and that sales from
the Aguas Claras mine will rise to 15 million tons per annum within the first
five years of operations.
6.04      The three long-term contracts and spot sales are expected to yield
annual revenues from the Aguas Claras operation of US$83.8 million, or
US$8.38 per ton FOB. These estimates are considered to be conservative.
6.05      While all of the projections have been based on prices and reve-
nues FOB Sepetiba Bay, the Japanese and SOMISA contracts give HBR the
option to deliver 20% and 50X respectively of the total tonnages C & F the
destination port. It is likely that the British Steel Corporation contract
will contain a similar provision. MBR currently is investigating possibili-
ties that are available for taking up these options, either by shipment in
its own bottoms, probably through a subsidiary company, or by charter ar-
rangements, and the sponsors feel they soon should be able to make an offer
acceptable to the Japanese for C & F shipments beginning in 1975. The Bank
will be informed of these arrange'ents as they are finalized.
6.06      For purposes of projecting the financial condition of MBR as a
whole, and not merely the Aguas Claras operation, it has been assumed that
the iron ore operations of the existing St. John and CAEMI properties will
continue to export at least 2.2 million tons of ore annually through the
Port of Rio de Janeiro until 1980. Sales projections for these operations
are shown in Para. 9 of the Notes to Tables 3 to 8. These are considered
to be reasonable since the ores coming from the existing mines, like those
of Aguas Claras, are of high quality and should remain in strong demand if
market conditions are as projected in Chapter III.
B.   Aguas Clare  Operating Costs
6.07      Projected operating costs for the Aguas Claraa mine are shown in
detail in Annex 11. At the base production level of 10 million long tons
per year, they are expected to be as follows:



- 18 -
Projected Operating Costa for A&uas Claras Project
Percent of
Unit Costs at       Sales Price
10 million LTPY      (US$8.38/LT
(US /LT)
Direct Costs (mine and terminal)   1.73                  20.6
Rail Freight                         2.62                31.3
Indirect Costs (including
average dqpreciation and
interest)                          1.97                23.5
Average Annual Costs (before
income taxes)                      6.32                75.4
6.08      These figures assume utilization of equipment and facilities at
an average rate of 80%, leaving considerable room for decreaoee in unit
costs with improved operating efficiency. Like the capital cost estimates
discussed in Chapter V, they have been based on estimates by the sponsors,
assisted by Bechtel Overseas Corporation and other consultants, and reflect
their extensive experience with similar large-scale iron ore operations in
Canada and the United States, in addition to their knowledge of Brazilian
conditions.  On the whole, the estimates are considered to be realistic.
Except for depreciation and interest, all costs used in the projections have
been escalated at an annual rate of 6% from 1970, when they were made, to
March 1977, the end of the initial fixed price period under the Japanese ore
sales agreement. It can be expected that thereafter most inczases in op-
erating costs can be offset by price increases negotiated periodically with
the major ore buyers generally following world inflation.
C.   Profitability and Financial Position with Aguas Clara
Production Buildup to 10 Million Tons
1.   Financial Roturn
6.09      Projected financial statements for the Aguas Claras operation,
assuming sales buildup to 10 million tons per annum, a sales price of
US$8.38 per long ton, and a constant price/cost relationship after FY 1977,
are shown in Tables 3 to 5. The major indicators are as follows:
Prolected Financial Indicators for Selected Years - Aquas Claras
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year Ending March 31             Total
1974   1975  1976  1970  1980  1985  1989  1974-89
Total Shipments CMLT)    1.4       8.6  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0    150.0
Gross Revenues           11.7    72.1  83.8  83.8  83.8  83.8  83.8  1,257.0
Before-Tax Profits      (10.6)    7.2  13.5  15.0  17.1  27.4  33.7    304.0
Income Taxes               -       -      -    2.0   2.6   8.2  10.0       67.7
Net Income              (10.6)    7.2  13.5  13.0  14.5  19.2  23.6    236.3
Cash Surplus after
Debt Service          ( 5.0)   10.7  16.1  14.0  15.2  16.7  26.4    249.7



- 19 -
6.10      The projections assume that MBR wiLl elect to minimize its tax
liabilities by taking up full depletion allowances, equal to 20% of mine-
head value of all ore shipped during the first 10 years of Aguas Claras pro-
duction. Projected depletion reserves will total US$78.1 million over this
period. By law this amount must be capitalized and thus becomes ineligible
for dividends. The cash flow statements indicate cash surpluses on Aguas
Claras account in all but FY 1974, when losses from the first six months of
operation will cause a short-term deficit. The total project cash flow dur-
ing construction and operations, excluding financial charges and capital in-
flows, is projected to be US$314.0 million, representing an internal finan-
cial rate of return, after taxes, of 17.5%. The return before taxes is
estimated at 18.8% (Table 9).
2.   Debt Service Coverage
6.11      Projected cash flow statements for the combined operations of MBR
are shown in Table 6. Long term debt service coverage is insufficient in
FY 1974 only, rising to 1.7 times in the following year and then ranging
from 1.9 to 2.5 times in subsequent years. The ratios for Aguas Claras
operations alone are only slightly lower. The debt equity ratio, with a
write-up to US$50 million of existing assets being consolidated into MBR,
decreases from about 60:40 at the beginning of Aguas Claras operations to
below 30:70 after FY 1980.
6.12      Pro-forma balance sheets for MBR as a whole are shown in Table 7.
The quick ratio (cash and equivalents divided by current liabilities) is
projected to increase from a low of 0.8:1 in FY 1974 to around 1:1 there-
after, assuming maximum payout of dividends. Agreement was reached during
negotiations to protect MBR's liquidity by disallowing dividends if, as a
result of such dividends, MBR's current ratio (defined as cash and equiva-
lents plus inventories divided by current liabilities, including the follow-
ing year's principal and interest on long-term debt) would drop below 1:1.
In addition, it was agreed that investment of cash surpluses in flxed assets
above US$2 million per annum would be subject to prior approval of the Bank
or similar liquidity restrictions, except for necessary capitalized expen-
ditures for renewals and replacements of existing assets.
6.13      Despite the healthy long term cash position projected for MBR, the
initial period of operation could find the company short of cash if the
sponsors' expectations for existing operations, set forth in Table 6, are
not achieved. Even if they are, and these operations generate US$9.4 mil-
lion in surplus cash during the PY 1972-74 period as projected, the cumula-
tive net surplus for MBR as a whole at the end of the first six months of
Aguas Claras operation still will be only US$7.4 million. The sponsors'
forecasts for the existing operations assume profit and cash margins con-
siderably in excess of past performance, which at most has yielded net annual
cash generation of only US$2.1 million (Para. 2.10). They base their opti-
mism on two factors: (i) increased prices achieved during the past year
that appear likely to hold during the next 2-3 years and (ii) increased
operating and administrative efficiency that will be attained through



- 20 -
consolidation of the various mines into a single company under one management
structure. Even though these assumptions probably are valid, it may become
necessary for MBR to call upon CAEMI and St. John (Hlanna) under the terms of
the Shareholders Agreement and Security Agreement (Para. 5.08) to make up work-
ing capital deficiencies during the initial operating period resulting from
any failure of the existing MBR operations to perform as expected. To al-
low MIBR to respond to cash shortages that are only short-term in nature and
therefore do not require permanent advances from the shareholders, the Bank
agreed during negotiations to allow the company to undertake unsecured short-
term borrowings not exceeding US$4 million outstanding at any one time during
the period the Shareholders Agreement is in effect and up to an aggregate of
US$10 million thereafter. Further borrowings of any type without the prior
approval of the Bank will be restricted to US$7.5 million, and this amount
will be allowed only after the debt/equity ratio drops below 50:50. These
restrictions, together with those on investment and dividends (Para. 6.12)
will provide sufficient protection of MBR's liquidity.
D.   Effects of Expansion on Profitability
6.14      As indicated in Annex 13-1, operating costs are only expected to
increase by about one third with an increase in annual production from 10
to 15 million tons. As a result, it is anticipated that margins will in-
crease significantly and the internal financial return before taxes will
increase from 18.8% for the 10 million-ton project to 24.5% if the amuual
sales buildup is to 15 sillion tons as expected.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION - RETURNS TO GOVERNMENT
AND SHAREHOLDERS - SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
A.   Internal Economic Return
7.01      The internal economic return of the combined MBR (Aguas Claras)
ancd Railway Project is projected to be 18.3% per annum with minimum sales
buildup to the base level of 10 million tons per annum and 22.8% if the
buildup is to 15 million tons. This range is considered to be satisfactory
in the Brazilian context. The assumptions behind the estimates are detailed
in Annex 13-2. Non-economic costs incurred by MBR and RFFSA in the form of
d;-ect and indirect taxes have been subtracted from the operating cost
streams. On the whole, the cost and benefit streams that have been used are
considered to be conservative, thus tending to understate the actual economic
returns that are likely to be attained.
B.   Benefits to Government
7.02      The estimated revenues that will accrue to the Brazilian Govern-
inent over the life of the project assuming sales buildup to 10 million tons
are shiown in Table 8 and summarized below:



- 21 -
Benefits to the Brazilian Government
Accrued Revenues
D)uring 15-1/2 year         Percent
Source of Revenues              Operatint Period          of  Total
(t1S$ millions)
Iaxes on I'roduction and Property                28.5                    8.4
Income Taxes                                     90.8                  26.8
Taxes on D)ividend Distributions                 57.3                   16.9
Taxes on Earnings Remittances Overseas           28.5                    8.4
Covernment Guarantee Fee on IBRD Loan             9.7                    2.9
Keduced Government Subsidies to RFFSA            123.9                  36.6
Total Revenues                       338.7                  100.0
With a 50% increase in the ultimate sales level, to 15 mlIlion tons annually,
revenues to the Government can be expected to nearly double, to US$585
million (Table 10).
7.03      The Government's total newv investment in the combinedl project will
consist of 2IUSA's UF$60.5 million contribution to the railway portion.
Therefore, as Table 10 indicates, the discounted rates of return on the Gov-
ernment's investment will be 19.57 and 28.3% witlh utti-iate sales buildup to
10 and 15 million tons annually respectively.
7.04      The above revenue estitates do not include indirect taxes on tBR
and RFFSA operating inputs, whiclh slhould yield US$70-SO million in addition-
al Government revenues over the assumed 15-1/2-year operating period. Nor
clo they include the long-term indirect benefits that will accrue to the
railway system through the plhysical and operational improvements made to
accommodate the MBR project.
C.   1'eturns to M1I'BR Shareholders
7.05      Projected distributions of earnings from thc Aguias Claras project
with sales btilduitip to 10 million tons are slhowin in Table 8.  It has been as-
sur,ed thlat maximum possible divldendls will be paid otut, subject to the fol-
lowing: restrictions, whlicli were agreed during negotiations:
(a)  Divtdends can be paidl only fromn net accumulated earnings;
(b)  Reserves of cash and equivalents for the wlhole of MER must
be sufficient, after dlividends are declarecl, to cover accounts
payable and total MBiP debt service req'iirements (principal and
interest) for the followIng year;
7.06      W4ith the above restrietions basic dividlends froni Aguas Claras earn-
lngs are projected to begin in FY 1977, 3 years after the start of operations



22 -
arn  total  LSS212 million over  tlhe projected  life  of  the  10 million  ton-
?er-year project. After an effective tax rate of about 40% on gross divi-
Juw&;-,  tlie shareholders' actual net receipts  will be  US$127  inil   ion.   hliese
L\ecelpt-S  wi.ll almost double,  to US$.239 million,  if  time ultimate  annual sales
lCvil  reaclies  1.5  instead  of only  the  b)aSiC  10 million.
7.07          'l'lie retLrns  on  Investment  for  thie various  MBP,  shareholders  are
showni  in 'ab Ibe  1 t and  stimmnmarized  belov,.:
Not Returus Lo iharehollder!
Brasilian Shareholdaers(CAEMt)   St. Johni D'dl Hey  Other Forelgn Shareholdorsi    All Shareholders
Total Ilnvestplruit US;26't;!U    Total Invu:itmant. IWiVOMM  Total Invostravnt UZ'ItMA  Total Investwntn U&5S(O:Q4
Now Invustjiient 0    t?'w Invuut.1alrit lF:;'Ml!1    New Jnvest,nont 1.13WMM    New Investment U'MIU!!M
10 t5fFrr     l 5M--p-r  -E&M9         '           10) MM<p    15r. .i-T-    Io RATPT   17Mor-
Average aninlual
returm on total
investrunt       11.9%       24.8%          6.9%      11.9%        8.6%      15.4%          8.8     16.6%
Ave r.lag ann ual
returni oni new
investement        /'a        'a/          18.4%     31.7%         8.6%      15.4%         23.4%     44.2%
Discourntedt return
on total lInrest-
Mont              6.2%        14J.5%        1.7%       7.2%        3.6%       9.8%          3.7%     10.4%
Discounte,l nttirtu
on now Investcm,nt  n/a       nva          10.6%      18.MM        3.6%       9. d%        12.8%     22.3w
Ir,asinucli as thle original Investment of the sponsors in MBR is less than
tlhe U"S$50 million  value  to  be assigned  to  the MBR  assets  at the  time of
70loso lidation  (Palra.  2.09),  the rates  of return  on  total  investnient shown
for  CAFMI andl St. Jolhni undlerstate  the  expected  profitability  of  thleir in-
vestments  considerably.   Conversely,  the returns  on new  investment are
ovcrstatod  insofair as  they  fall  to  recognize  any value  for  the existing
3.I;sel ;.   Tlhe result, therefore, is  that time  true  returns  to  the  two major
;harehmoledtrs are Il?ely to lie somiiewlhere between the two extremes.
7.08          To  ensure  thlat  the  rate  of payout to  the 11il1l' shareholders  does  not
t?\cced  tlit!  -ate of amortizaition  of  the  Bank's  loan  to any  serious  degree, it
; a  reed  dur inli. negot i at i ozns thait if gross (dividlendls  in any  year exceed
;.   Illionl phi is  the  sihortial  l b etweieil llS$15.0) mliiion  and  dlividends
.i Ini:11v     - 1  c1 lared  * irinI,, thc  previous  two years, senior debt will be  pre-
;I b, II  \.  Hc 1,. olillt of  :;tlc      ess.   Because of PJSlK's considerab)l.  cash
thi,o..,',t this  provi:;imn  i:; not  IikeI.y  to  restrict dividlendls  to  any  signifi-
r .Z1,':\t  [til    it  -oliolld, hlotwever, res is L  in  lIt.' loan  being  fully  amortized
,I t III tci, Veils  cam  IV , wi t II prepaivImmtt s beginninjg, ab)(ou1t  lY  19@79-80.



- 23 -
D.   Split of Project Benefits
7.09      The financial projections indicate that approximately 84-85X of
net cash benefits accruing from the MBR project will flow to the Government
and Brazilian shareholders (in the ratio of about 5 to 1). The total split
of such benefits is shown in Table 11 and summarized below:
Split of Net Project Benefits
Net Cash Benefits   Percent of Total
Recipient                     10 MTPY   15 MTPY   10 MTPY  15 MTPY
(US$ millions)
All Shareholders                          126.7     238.7       27.2      29.0
Brazilians                             53.7      111.4       11.5      13.5
St. John                               49.7       85.7       10.7      10.4
Japanese                                23.3      41.6        5.0       5.1
Brazilian Government (Incl. RFFSA)        338.7     584.8       72.8      71,0
Total Taxes and Net Dividends             465.4     823.5      100.0    100.0
Total Accruing to Brazil                  392.4     696.2       84.3      84.5
Total Leaving Brazil                       73.0      127.3      15.7      15.5
7.10      These figures point out one of the most important conclusions that
can be drawn concerning this project: that by far the major portion of the
benefits flowing from exploitation of one of Brazil's most valuable resources
will accrue to the nation itself. The outside investors will receive reason-
able returns on their investments and technological inputs, but not at the
expense of a reasonable return to Brazil. Both the percentage of net project
benefits remaining in Brazil and the Government share compare very favorably
with past projects of this type financed by the Bank. Furthermore, despite
the fact that Brazilian shareholders will own only 31% of MBR's shares, they
will receive approximately 45% of its effective net income distributions to
private participants.
E.   Foreign Exchange Benefits
7.11      Projected foreign exchange effects of the combined mine, terminal
and railway project are shown in Tables 12 and 13. During the 15-1/2-year
operating period, net foreign exchange earnings are expected to total US$777
million with sales buildup to 10 million tons and US$1,135 million for the
more likely 15-million ton project. These represent annual surpluses of
US$50 million and US$74 million respectively, or about 60% of projected sales.
The figures have assumed maximum foreign exchange outlays in capital and
operating costs and therefore probably understate the net exchange earning
capacity of the project.



- 24 -
F.   Sensitivitv Analysis
7.12      An analysis of the sensitivity of the .'inancial and economic pro-
jections to various adverse circumstances has been undertaken and is de-
scribed in Annex 13. The tests indicate that the economic return of the
combined mine, port and railway project is not likely to drop below an
acceptable level of 13%, even under the following severe circumstances:
(i)  A 25% construction cost increase and a delay in initial rev-
enues of one year; or
(ii) A combination of gradually decreasing real ore prices- (10%
every 5 years) and increasing real operating costs for both
MBR and RFFSA (15% every 5 years).
Under such circumstances the internal financial return to MBR alone also can
be expected to remain at acceptable levels: 9% and 17% with annual produc-
tion buildup to 10 and 15 million tons respectively.
7.13      The break-even analysis shown in Annex 13 indicates that with min-
inium arnual sales of 9 million tons (somewhat below the amount presently
covered under long-term contracts), ore prices could drop more than 15% for
extended periods of time and not endanger HBR's ability to meet all of its
cash obligations, including those to RFFSA. Similarly, if the ore price re-
mains at least at its initial level of US$8.38 per ton, sales could drop
25-30% below planned minimum levels for several years and still allow MBR
to meet its cash obligations. It is concluded, therefore, that MBR's fi-
nancial position will be strong enough to enable the company to withstand
any adverse circumstances that it is likely to encounter.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
8.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached between the Govern-
ment, MBR, CAEMI, St. John, Hanna and the Bank on the following principal
points:
(i)  CAEMI and St. John each will undertake to provide up to US$10
million to cover project cost overruns and working capital
deficiencies during the startup period. These funds will be
advanced on terms satisfactory to the Bank, either as subordinated
loans or as equity. Hanna will guarantee unconditionally up to
US$7.5 million of St. John's obligation, with the balance to be
secured by a pledge to the Bank of all of St. John's shares in
MBR. CAEMI's obligation will be secured by a negative pledge
providing that it will not sell, pledge or otherwise encumber its
shareholdings in its major subsidiary, ICOMI, during the period
the Shareholders Agreement is in effect (Paras. 2.02 and 5.08).



- 25 -
(ii)  Payment for the US$30 million in new MBR equity will be made
dollar for dollar with drawdown of the firet US$30 million of
the Bank loan (Para 5.06).
(iii) MER can declare dividends only out of cumulative earned surplus
and only to the extent that the company's current ratio (as
defined) after such dividends remains above 1:1 (Para 705).
(iv)  Annual dividend payments in excess of US$7.5 million, averaged
over three consecutive years, will be matched by prepayment of
senior debt to the extent of such excess (Para 7.08).
(v) MBR investments in fixed assets above US$2 million per annum
will be subject to prior approval of the Bank or liquidity re-
strictions, except for necessary capitalized expenditures for
renewals and replacements of existing assets (Para 6.12).
(vi)  MBR may undertake short-term borrowings not exceeding US$4
million outstanding at any one time during the period of
effectiveness of the Shareholders Agreement and up to an
aggregate of US$10 million thereafter. Medium- and long-term
borrowings will be limited to the lesser of US$7.5 million or
an amount that would increase the debt equity ratio to no more
than 50:50 (Para 6.13).
(vii)  By the end of 1971 MBR will prepare plans, acceptable to the
Bank and the Government, for protecting the waters of Sepetiba
Bay from pollution and will carry out such plans, or acceptable
alternatives, prior to completion of the project. HBR will con-
sult the Bank prior to implemention of any plans to erect a
pelletizing plant at Sepetiba Bay (Para 4.11).
8.02      Major conditions of effectiveness of the loan are the following:
(i) The reorganization of MBR to consolidate the various St. John
and CAEKI properties shall have been completed and approved by
the Government.
(ii)  The Pledge Agreement providing for a pledge of St. John's shares
in MBR to the Bank shall have been executed.
(iii) The mortgage to be shared pari passu by the Bank and the Japanese
lenders shall have been executed.
(iv)  All of the conditions of effectiveness for the Railway Loan
shall have been met.
8.03      Based on the foregoing, the proposed project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan to MBR of US$50 million equivalent for a term of 15
years, including a grace period of 3-1/2 years.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1971






MIM IRON ORE PROJECT
RECONSTRUCTED OWSOLMATE.D INCOME AND CASH FIDW STATEMIITS FR ALL QDMPANI2 HUM MERGED INTO II-3
(in tZ$S000 equivalent)
*o Tear 79 r December 31,                                2961                                                        1968Z9'                         1969-1            _             19703-/           Jan. 1.  7 to  ab 31, 1971-
St. Jduo                        3t John                        St. JoS                                h St.                         Johnt   St. Jons   John
CAU4I     D'el Rey              CAEII    D'el Rey               CARNI    D'el Rey                CAEI    D'el Rey                CAM4I    D'e1 Rey               CADI      D'el Rey
Propwties  Properties  Total  Properties  Properties Total  Properties  Properties  Total  Properties  Propties  Total  Properties  Properties  Total  Properties  Properties  Total
Sales                                   12,055       6,918     18,973   10,o09      6,034      16,443    8,369      4,003      12,372   11,784      5,431      17,215   11,749       5,625     17 371    2,950        1,21.6     4166
Cost of Sal]                             9.623       6,799     16,422    9,039      5,381      14,423    6,646      3,528      10,171.   9,161      4,955       14,116    9.059      5,160     14:219    2,265        1, 089     3 354
Oroas Profit                           2,432         119      2,551    1,370        65o       2,020    1,723         475/      2,208    2,623        476       3,099    2,690        465,    3,155       685          127        812
Aazietrative Eapenmes                  1,431           1 V    1,131    1,242        - 4/      1,242      895                     895   1,354         - Wt/     1,3541   1,551                      1      390            /       39
Dqseciatim   Amortizatimo                650         419-     1,069      600        557       1,157      544         480       1,024      667        292         959      600         311        911      15O          80        230
Operating Profit (Loss)                    351        (300)        51    (472)         93        (379)    284         ( 5)         279     602         184         786      539        154        693       145          47        192
Other Inco                                 685         211        896      463        286         749      296        471          767     781        338        1,119      922         750     1,672      230          l55        385
Other EXpeees                              529         699      1,228      586        607       1,193    1,006         434       1,440    1,088        401       1,489      456        236        692      114          110        224
Earmings before Tax                        507        (788)      (281)   (595)       (228)       (823)    (426)        32        (394)    295          121        416    1,004         667      1,671      261           92        353
Taxes                                       26          13         39      -           13          13      -           108         108      -           73          73      330         142        472       80          30        110
UT AliNNsOlG                            481        (801)      (320)   (595)       (2411)      (836)    (426)       ( 76)       (502)    295          48         363      674         526      1.199      181          62        243
CASH Fow                                                                                                                                                /
Net Ernings                              481        (801)      (320)   (595)       (2411)      (836)    (426)       ( 76)       (502)     295         48         343      674         526      1,199      181          62        243
Depreciati  and Amortization             650         419      1,069      600        557       1,157      541         480       1,024      667        292         959      600         311        911      150          80        230
1_131        (382)      749        5        316         321      118         404         522      962        340       1,302    1,274         837      2,110      331         1412       1.73
1/  Thse subaidiaries ead propertiea of CAEMI and St. John D0el Rey being sombined to fore MBR.
2/  The accounts for the years 1966-69 are -onversions of audited  -ruseiro sttet nts into do11ar-equivalent statements ad teus have some distortions due to the variou  rates of esnetary correction that h-', bee, used. Thq are
cosidered, hero , to reflct accurately the financial condition of the compnies.
3/  The accounts for the yre  1970-71 are esti_tes, based upon audited cruseiro statesnts for Septembe 30, 1970 and projectioe made by sponsor.
V    Addiistrative Expenses have been aggregated into cost of sales.
Industrial Projects Departent
IY i1971



MR IRGtl ORE PROJECT
fECONiSTRUtCED CONSDLIDATKD -AIAN-CE SHFEETS FM LL COMPM IEl BEINO MMRED INTO MM11
(Ir, US$ 000 equivalent)
Yeazl PLdlng Deceaer 31,                             1966'-                         1967-                           98                             1969-/                         1970.'-                 Mar.h 31. 19712
St. John                       St. Jh                        t"A M                           St. John                        St. John                       St. John
CAEM     D'el Ray             CAEMI    D'el Rey               CAEMI    D'el Rey              CAEMI    D'e1 Rey              CAEMI    D'el hey               CAEMI    D'el Rey
ASSTSP PropertiePropertal  Properties                                                         Total  Properties  Properties  Total  Properties Properties  Total  Properties  Properties  Total  Properties  Properties  Total
Cash and Receivables                      1,700         303    2,003      1,261        398     1,659     1,225        420    1,645    1,414           524    1,938     2,036         857     2,893-4/  2,320       1,252    3,5724/
In.entories:
Ore                                      886         583    1,469       744         385     1,129     1,151        236    1,387        660         288      948       975         390     1,365     1,000        30G     1,300
Supplies and Prepaid Itoe                457         548    1,005        737        459     1,196     1,061        529     1,590     1,005         500    1,505       866         665     1,521       900        500     1,400
1,343      1,131     2,474    1,481         844     2,325     2,212        765    3,977      1,665         788    2,453     1,8141      1,055     2,886     1,900        800     2,700
Total Current assets                 3,G03      1,134    4,477    2,742        1,2h2     3,984    3,437        1,185    4,622    3,079        1,312     4,391     3,877      1,912     5,789     4,220       2,052    6,272
Investmets m.d Dhferred Bxer.ee5/          308        2,306     2,614      337       1,854     2,245       471      2,174     2,645       471       2,186    2,657       481       2,150     2,631       480      2,120     2,6-o
Fixed Assets - Net                        6,693       1,1,7    8,140    6,683        1,297     7,980    6,180         681,    6,864     6,205         702    6,907     5,605         880    6,485      5,450        800     6,250
Other Asets                                 101         -         101      169         -         169       -          -         -         -           -         -        -           -         -         -           -        -
Total Ion-Current Assets            7,102       3,753    10,855     7,189      3,205    10,394    6,651        2,858    9,509     6,676       2,888     9,564     6,086      3,030    9,116      5,930       2,950     8,850
TOTAL ASSETS                       10,14,5      5,185    15,332     9,931      4,447    14,378   10,088        4,0143    14,131    9,755      4,200   13,955      9,963      4,942   14,905   10,140         4,972    15,122
LIAEILITIES
Current 1iahlities                      4,665          971    5,636     3,309         296     3,605     3,611        408    4,019    3,238           742    3,980     2,449         700    2,896      2,500        700    3,200
Due to Associated Coopanies§/               -         4,243    4,243       -         4,534     4,534       -        4,1214    4,1224      -         3,909    3,909       -         4,132     4,132       -        14,'0C    14,100
fleserve. for Contingencies                 259         -         259       67         -          67        50        -          50        35         -         35        60                    60       60          -         60
Kmon-Current Liabilities              259       4,243       259        67       4,534    4,601        59       4,124     4.,183      35       3,909    3,944         60      4,132     4,192        60       4,10    14,160
Paid-in Capital                           7,005       3,317    10,322     8,950      3,317    12,267     8,950      3,317    12,267     8,950       3,317    12,267    8,950       3,306    12,256     8,950      3,306    12,256
Accumulated Deficit                     (1,784)      (3,344)  (5,128)  (2,395)    (3,700)  (6,035)  (2,532)    (3,806)   (6,338)  (2,468)    (3,768)  (6,236)   (1,496)           (3,196)   (4,692)   (1,360)     (3,U14)  (I1: ':9'
het Worth                           5,221       (  27)   5,194    6,555        ( 385)   6,172      6,418      (  489)   5,929     6,482      ( 145i)   6,031      7,454        110    7,564      7,590         172     7,762
TOTAL LIARILITIES                  10,.145      5,187    15,332     9,931      4,447    14,378   10,088       1403    14,131    9,755         4,200   13,955      9,963      4,942   114,905    10,150       4,972    15,122
Quick Ratio                              0.36:1      0.31:1   0.35:1   0.38:1        1.3:1    0.46:1   0.34:1        1.3:1    0.41:1   0.44:1      0.71:1   0.49:1   0.83:1        1.2:1    1.0:1   0.95:1        1.8:1     1.1:1
I/  Those subsidiaries and properties of CAlM  and St. Jobn D'el Rey being combined to fore MRR.
2/  The accounts for the years 1966-69 are cconversios of audited cruzeiro statements into dollar-equivalent state,oeets and thus have sose distortions doe to the differing rates of monetary correction that suat be used in such
transformati-s. They are considered, hwever, to reflect adeqoately the financial condition of the copwnie.
3/  The accounts for tbe years 1970-71 are estimates based upon audited cruzeiro statements f- September 30, 1970 and projections cade by the sponsors.
4/  Cash generated during these periods, if not put to alternative uses, will be available for later expansion and is incluied in the combined cash flo, shoen in Table 6.
5/  Includes 25% equity investeent in Minwacao Morro Valho Gold Mine.
6/  Unsecured loans fron the holding company, St. John D'el Rey. Upon formation of MK, this debt is to be aggregated into the revalued capital of Us$50 aillion.
Industrial Projects Departssst
ny 11



MBR IRON CRE PROJECT
PROJECRED INCO3tE SATJA{EIITS FOR AGQtS ClAUS OPERATION
BASE PfdJ1CT WITH SALES BUILDIP TO 10 MILLION TONS PER WAR
(In 0   '000 equivalent)
Fisal year ending March 31,                              1974      1975      1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982      1983      1984     1985       1986     1987      1988      1989      Total
(6 n_thITt
Total production (dillion long tons)                      2.9       9.0      10.0     10.(      10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0       151.9
Increase in in.entories (mllion long tons)                1.5       0,4       _   -          -              -        -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -          1.9
Total shipmects (dillion long ton,)                       1.4       8.6      10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0       150.0
OpeiatIng Rerecme (9888.38/LT)                           11.7     72.1      83.8      83,8 83.8           83.8     83.8      83.8      S3.8      83.8      83.8     83.8      83.8      83.8      83.8      83.8     1,257.0
Direct Costa
Mine and preparation plant                            3.8       9.7      11.2     11.6      11.6      11.6     11.6      11.6      11.6      11.6      11.6      11.6      11.6     11.6      11.6      11.6
Rail freight ($2.62/LT shipped)                       6.7      23.2      26.2     26.2      26.2      26.2     26.2      26.2      26.2      26.2      26.2      26.2     26.2      26.2      26.2      26.2
Terminal                                              1.2       2.7       3.0      3.1       3.1       3.1      3.1       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.1      3.1       3.1
Nine developnt stripping                              2-        3.C       3.2      3.4       3.b       3.2       2.7      2.7       2.7       2.7       2.6       2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0
Increase in insentories at sine and terninal         (4 7)    %0.9)       -         -         -         _        -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -
Indirect Costs
ejr. ia Ira t'                                        0 .?      1.4       1.4      1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5       i.5       1.5       i.5       1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5       1.5
Taxes - sole  = p-nperty                              O.'       1.6       1.9      1.9       1.9       1.9      1.9       1.9       1.9       1.9       1.9       1.9       1.9       1.9      1.9       1.9
Ins;rance                                             0.7       0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6       0.6      o.6       o.6       0.6       0.6       0.6      0.6        0.6      0.6       0.6       0.6
Dprectaon                                             4..5      8.9       89       8.7       8.4       9.2      8.9       7.5       7.2       7.2       6.0      4.7        5.3      5.3       h.6       1.6
Anort1zati n                                          1.6       3.2       3.2      3.2       3.2       3.2      3.2       3.2       3.2       3.2       3.2                 3.2      3.2       3.?       1.6
Total opeating csto                                  16.6      53.L      5,.6    6&,2       59.9      60.5      59.7      58.3      5.0      58.o      56.7      54.8      55.4_    5.8      54.7      50.1       874.1
Operating Prolit                                         (4.9) 1    . 7      24.2     23,S      23.9      23.3     24.1      25.5      25.8      25.8      27.1      29.0      28.8     28.4      29.1      33.7       385.7
Interest on long-ters debt                            5.7     31.5      10.7      10.0       8.9      .01       7.0       6.0       4.9       3.9       2.7       1.6      0.7       -         -                   81.7
Profit Befe   axes                                      (1G.6)      7.2      13.5     13.6      15.0      15,2     17.1      19.5      20.9      21.9      2L.4     27.8      27.7      28.4      29.1      33.7       3o4.0
Depletion allo-ance                                    -          -     10.1      12.6       8.2       d.2       8. 4     8.6        8.7      8.8      !4.,                                                         7 -  18.1
Taxable income                                      (10.6)     7.2       3.4       1.0      6.8       7.0       8.7      10.9      12.2      13.1      19.9    27.4       27.7     20.4       29.1    33.7        225.9
Less: Income tax - 3.                                            -         -       0.3      2.0       2.1       2.6       3.3       3.7       3.9      b.O      9.2       9.3       t.5        d.7    10.1          07.7
Add: Lepletion (Table 8)                                    -           10.1      12.6       8.2      8.2       8.4       8.6       8.7      8.8        4.5      -              -                      -           78.1
met Profit                                              (10.6)     7 .2     13.5      13.3      13.0     13.1      14.5      16.2      17.2     10.0      i8.4    19.2       19.4      19.9       20.84    23.6        236.3
Profit IIable fr lDivi ends                                _         _         _       0.7       4.8      L9        6.1       7.6       8.5       9.2      13.9    19.2      19.4      19.9       20.4    23.6         158.2
(Net pro it e   deipletign)
Indostrial Projects Departmt
hRY 1971



MhA Ir)l? t,RE PROJECT
DEPLETIONJ AL1IANCE FOtl AGUAS CLARAS OPERATION
BASE PROJECT WTIF SAIES BUILDUP TO 1G MILLION TONS PER YE"A
(In US$ millions equivalent)
Fiscal year ending March 31,                             1971h           1975         1976          1977         lQ78         197,          2            1;o.  '0      170;'        191)             1984
(6 months) 
Ooerating revenue - FOB Sepetiba                         1 .7            72.1         81.8         8.8          88            d.d3.d                    8?.9         83.8          83.8             83.8
Less:
Rail freight                                          3.7           22.5          26.2         26..          26.2         2t.,         26..          2.            6 .    :    26.?             26.2
Terminal
OperatlnglSost                                  1.2             2.7          3.C           3.1          3.'           .1           ,.1          22            3.1          3.1              3.1
Interest                                        2.7             5.4          5.0          4.7           4.2          3.8          3.3           2.8          2.3           1.8             1.3
Lepreciation and Anortization2/                 2.9             5.7          5.7           5.6          5.5          5.o           5.7          5.0          h.o           h.9 44.3
Adninistration                                        C.7            1.L;          1.1,         1.5           1.'          1.r          1.5           l.:          12            1.5             1.5
Taxes - Sole and oroperty                             G.3            1.6           1.9          1.9           1.9          1.9          i.9           1.9          1.9           1.9             1.9
Insurance - transit and terirnal                      J.1            C.2           _.2          ^.            ',            ,            .3            .- .i                    C.)              0.3
T^-al :educt_ons                                11.6           39.5         43.4         3.3.3        hie.7         42.6         42.0          lo.8         40.2-         39.7            38.6
Net 'alue FCB  ;inre                                      '.1               .6        403.4        4o.5         Li .1         41.2         41.8          3-. 43.6                   4IJ.1           45.2
Lepletiort Al'owance   20                                  _             6.5           8.1          8.1           8.?          8.2          3.           8.1.6         8.7           8.8             4.53)
Cumrulative Le?letion                                      _             6.'5         14.6         22.7          r.0          '.1          h7.'         56".1         6lh.8         73.6            78.1
-/  Arsuried equal to L 7% of total interest Da:nmerts.  Basis is ratio of capital cost of terrir.al 'aci1'.t,es anc eqz:Q i.ent to si-ilar co:tts :>r                  a e.t us a J.,1.
2/ Equal to 317% at total depreciation and amortization on same 17asis as in Note 1.
3/ Allowance for t months.
Industrial Projects Department
Hay  1971



MBR IaDN ORE P20JSCT
PDJECTED 0AS3 FLOW ST T3JIFTS IOR AWAS CLARAS OlhUTON
?SZIJU PR)C                       10T XUXO  202
(In us* mlj1on  eqeiltJt)
Fisoal Year aidin  Yhrl  31,                                    11       1972   1973    197i    1975    1976    1977    1978         1979    1980      1981    1982      1983      98         5       V      36        1938    1969     Tow
5ixc Or FPOWs
Povft before ine   ta et d ii rla  t                         -         -              (4.9)   18.7    24 2    23.6    23.9    23.3    24.1    25.5    25.8            25.8    27.1    29.0    28.4    28.4    29.1    33.7    385.7
0e F-Ooian i m: -dsation                                     _ _          _            6.1    12.1    12.1    11.9    31.6    12.1    12.1    10.7    10.1            10.4 .    9.2      7.9      8.5      8.5      7.8      3.9    154.9
Tota; fuso -,rat-. frza operatkon                            -         -       -       1.2    3D.8    36.3    35.5    35.5        35.7    36.2    36.2    36.2    36.2    36.3          36.9    36.9    36.9    36.9    36.9         Sio.6
3b8m   cqaF 2C                                               2.3       7.0   20.7       -        -        -        -            -        -        -        -        -        -            -        -        -        -        -       30.0
IR loan                                                     _        7.0   25.0    18.0         _        _        _        _        _       _        _        _        _        _        _        _        _        _        -       50.0
jqan'-- 1---                                                  -      15.0   25.0    10.0         -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -             -       _    _                50.0
J4parz^- L      ,.                                           -        2.0    3.0       2.0       -        -                                                     _ _ -  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _                                              7.0
U.S. i_ii                                                     -       5.0   10.0       3.2       _        _        _       -        -        _        -        _        _        _        _        _        _        _   _            18.2
wda FU2L_ .i;2.3                                                     36.0   83.7      33L      30.8    36.3    35.5    35.5    35.7    36.2         36.2    36.2    36.2        36.3   36.9    36.9    36.9    36.9    36.9    695.8
4 ..io.-.0n a. oFPme
Inmestrt in pird  iaseti                                     -       20.0   65.o    10.1         _-                    -        -            -        -        -             -        -                 -       -             -       95.1
Renewal cf of     t                                          -         -       -        -        -        -       0.2      0.7     1.6      0.9       -       0.2      0.4      10.1      -       0.9      0.7      0.2      0.4      16.3
Or.- s Adn-c e9iticin                                       2.3        -                -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        _        _        _        _        _        _        2.3
Ad-mnjst,iton and P-npnrtirg e-p-aitares                     -        3.4    2.3       9.3       -        -        _        _        -       _        _        _        _        _        _        _        _        _        _       15.0
inoete   end Pn,.sct uMag_int                                -        9.0    4.7       4.0       - o              _        _        _        _        _        _        _        _        _        _        _        _                17.7
innreose 1-L 'rrEmt asnete other than cadh:
Sppro     an d! sppues                                    -        1.2    2.4       1.3       -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        4.5
Iiin or, nvntorie-                                                  -       -       11.7     09                                                                                                                                     5.6
F1mna1 chlarges:
Interest d0rlig constrction                                -       0.7    5.7       h.9       -        -        -                                                                                                                  1 -  _  _  _  _  _  _ -1.3
Cd1tment Caiges                                            -         .4    o.4       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       _        _        _                 _                          _        _        o.5
It.Lrvo IBIRD 1OlD ((ail. 0t gsorate fee)                 -         -       -       2.0      4.9      4.6      4.      4.0      3.7      3.3      2.9      2.5      2.0      1.5      1.0    0o.1            -        _            37.2
Interst i Japanese lon                                     -        -       -       2.3      4.4      4.o      3.6      3.3      2.9     2.5      2.1      1.7      1.3      0.9      0.5      0.2       -        -        -       297
Iterest on J.A.S. Uk-lI loan                              -         -       -       0.3      0.5      0.5      0.5      o.4      0.4     0.3      0.3      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.1      0.1       -        -        -        4.0
Interei. on U.S.  c-Iu loan                               -         -       -       0.7      1.2      1.1      1.0      0.8      0.7      o.6      0.5     0.3      0.2       -        -                 -                 -        7.1
With-dning tas on iteet                                    _               0.3      o.6      0.5      0.5      0.5     0.4      0.4      0.3       0.2     0.2      0.2      0.1       -        -        -                          4.2
Total _lh.a.    erg-                                               1.1    6.4    10.8    11.5    10.7    10.0           8.9      8.1      7.0     6.0      1.9      3.9      2.7      1.6      0.7       -        -        -       94.3
Amr.isation f loan.:
1BS& lonw                                                  -        -       -        -       2.7      2.9      3.2      3.4      3.6      3.9     4.2      L.5      L.8      5.2      5.6      6.o       -        -        -       50.0
papinae loan                                               -        -       -       0.5      3.6      4.2      4.2     112       1.2     4.2      4.2      4.2      4.2      4.2      4.2       3.9               _        _       5D.0
J.apanee j.I. loan                                         -         .      -       0.1      0.5      0.6      0.6      0.5      0.6      0.6      0.5     0.6      0.6      0.6      o.6      o.6       -        -        -        7.0
".s.  ds-   na                                             -        -       -       0.9      1.8      1.8      1.8      1.8      1.8     1.8      1.8      1.8      1.8       1.1      -                          -        -       18.2
.ct al .wrtlnatioo                                        -         -               1.5      8.6      9.5      9.8      9.9    10.2    10.5    10.7    21.1    11.4    11.1    10.4    10.5              -        _        _      12g 2
tax                             :                                   e      - -  -                     -       0.3      2.0      2.1     2.6       3.3     3.7      3.9      6.0      8.2      8.3      8.5      8.7    10.1       67.7
Fd sD Used                                                   2.3     34.7    0.7       a _.8    1.0    320.2    20.3    21.5       22.0    a.o       20.0    19.9    19.6      29.9     20.2    20.4        9.2     8.9    10.5      444.1
Net Camh Sopli for Year on Amas Clres Acount                  -       1.3    3.0       7.4      9.8    16.1    15.2   l111o        13.7    15.2    16.2    16.3    16.6         6.4    16.7    16.5    27.7    28.0    26.4    251.7
l-
Iotft ia1 Pxn.cts D&rtnD1t
KW7 1971



MBR IRON ORE PEJBCT
'WOCTED CASH FWV STTEMNTS FOR COlMM  IRON ORE OPERATIONS .Tni
AWlS  -L-A             U SALIIS   ILUJP TD 10 HILLION im PER YAR
kin w1 xs.a= ill   ivsnent)
Fiscal year me)iz  JhPr  31,                  i        1       19731                    19776              1978    1979             JA1981   1982    I        198      1               19867     188    1989    Total
datim  Oerations Only
Total SUipsnte (mi.lion log t   )           2.3      2-3      2.3     2.3      2.2    2.2       2.2      2.2     2.2    2.2                                                                                      22.4
OPetig ru                                   17.9    18.8    20.9    20.i    19.3   184         I        18.6    18b6   18.6                                                                                     190.8
(_) Total operltin costa                1b.64    16.3    17.1    174       16.3   15.7      15.7    15.7    1S,7   15.7                                                                                      162.2
P.mftt h.Dbre iCmoi  tax                    1.       2.5     3.8      3.3      3.0    2.9       2.9     2.9      2.9    2.9                                                                                      28.6
(Assume these operatiorm do not oonUtnz  beyond 1980)
(-I ne  tax                              0.5     0.8      1.1     1.0      0.9    0.9       0.9      0.9      0.9    0.9                                                                                      8.8
Not Profit                                  1.0      1.7     2.7      2.3      2.1    2.0       2.0     2.0      2.0    2.0                                                                                      19.8
(+)Dour.,8tiov and atsatLon              0.9      0.9      0.9     0.9      0.9    0.9       0.9      0.9     0.9    0.9                                                                                       9.o
Not Cssh  eneratU  - iUg Operatom           1.9      2.6      3.6     3.2      3.0    2.9       2.9      2.9     2.9    2.9                                                                                      28.8
Agne C1are OnIp
Pfofit Before Inoe Tax ml ILeret             -        -       -      (4.9)   18.7   24.2       23.6    23.9    23.3   24.1       25.5   25.8    25.8       27.1    29.o   28.4    28.4        29.1    33.7    385.7
(K) Depredtion and aswt±zatLon            -        -       -       6.1    12.1   12.1       11.9    11.6    12.4   12.1        10.7   104      104      9.2      7.9    8.5       8.5      7.8      3.2    154.9
Total Furds Gnemted from Onortom            -        -       -       1.2    3D,8   36.3       35.5    35.5    35S7    36.2       36.2   36.2    36.2      36.3    36.9   36.9    36.9        36.9    36.9    540.6
(-) Inrm  tax                             -- -                              -                0.3      2.0     2.1    2.6        3.3    3.7      3.9      6.o      8.2    8.3       8.5      8.7      9.7      67.3
(_) quipment rmewals                      -        -       -                -       -        0.2      0.7     1.6    0.9        -      0.2      0.4     10.1       -      0.9      0.7      0.2      0.4      16.3
Nst Ceis Gnsration - Agms Clares             -        _               1.2    3D.8   36.3       3,0    32.8    32.0   32.7        32.9   32.3    31.9      20.2    28.7   27.7    27.7        28.0    26.4    456.6
CcAlind Opertiom
Ist Cash Generation - Ca"n d OR             1.9      2.6      3.6     4.4    33.8   39.2       27.9    35.7    34.9   35.6       32.9   32.3    31.9       20.2    28.7   27.7    27.7        28.0    26.4    485.4
Itwest on lonWtea  debt2/                  -       -        -       5.7    115    10.7      10.0     8.9      8.1    7.0       6.0    4.9      3.9       2.7     1.6    0.7        -         _-              81.7
Amortization of lans                       -       -        _      1.5      8.6    9.5        9.8     9.9    10.2   10.5       10.7   11.1    11.4       11.1    10.4   10.5        -        -        -      125.2
(_) Total debt service                    -        -        -      7.2    20.1   20.2       19.8    18.8    18.3   17.5        16.7   16.0    15.3       13.8    12.0   11.2        -        -        -      20S.9
( g)  4  C1ara fLzmncizg                  2.3    36.0    83.7    3).4.)      -       -                 -               -         - -             -         -       - -  _  _                          -      156.4
(-) A4as Claras investnts3/              2.3    34.5    80.9    36.6        0.9      -        -        -       -                 -      _                                                             - _55.2
Armej Cash Suns1n                           1.9      4.1      6.4    (5.0)   12.8   19.0       18.1    16.9    16.6   18.1        16.2   16.3    16.6       6.4    16.7   16.5    27.7         28.0    26.4    279.7
Cdulative Cash Sarolw                        1.9     6.o    12.4      7.4    20.2   39.2       57.3    7h..2    90.8  108.9    125.1.  l41.4   1Sd.O    164.4   181.1  197.6   225.3    253.3   279.7
Debt Serdice Covw*M/
CdosLOd PE Operations                         -       -        -      0.6      1.7    1.9       1.9      1.9      7      %         2.0    2.0      2.1       2.2      2,4    2.5       -         -       -
Agan  Clas 0n3                                -       -        -      0.2      1.5    1.8       1.8      1.8      i.8    1.9       2.0    2.0      2.1       2.2      2.4    2.5       -         -       -
I/ After depletion.
7/ Including withholding tax on interest pqments to cormial banks.
/ bSRludng wrkisg cqsital (cash) but includiig c<_tment charges and inter-st during ccnstruct:on.
i licding resnls exponditure  fro calculations.
Isdustrial Projects Department
May 1971



'SR LLN ..hi PFiJECT
'ROJECTED BALANCE SdEETS FOh ODMdiNEu Iit liNRE OCSRATI2N FY 1971-89
(USS eitlion e.pdvala.-t)T
Fiwcl Year Edhing Nrh 31,                                                 1          197         9                    9         i          On8       1981       1972       1963      1937        198                  19 8         9
Csb/                                     2.3       6.2       12 .        8.6      14.5       16.3       13.9      12.9       12.4      11.6       10.8       10.1        9.4       7.9        6.1         5.1       5.0         5.0        5.0
Rece0ih1                                 1.       1.3        1.3        2.6       1 1        6.9       C.9        6.9        6.9       6.9        6.9        6.9        6.9       6.9        6.9         6.9       6.9         6.9        6.9
Iaun Ore In,eotoriao                     1.3       1.3        1.3       6.o        6.9        6.9       0.9        6.9        6.9       6.9        6.9        6.9        6.9       6.9        6.9        6.9        6.9         6.9        6.9
suppliea                                 1.4       1.4        1.4        2.1       2.4        2.4        2.        2.4        2.4       2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4       2.4         2.4       2.1        2.4         2.4        2.4
TotsL Curo-     As .ets               6.       10.4       16.8       19.6      29.9       30.5       30.1      29.1       28.6       27.d      27.0       26.3       25.6      24.1        22.3      21.5       21.2        21.2       21.2
Inreastents and .of.rred  1paenaes          2.6       2.6        2.6       2.6        4.9       19.3      33.1       43.9       54.1      64.9       74.3       82.8       90.9      64.9       84.2       82.2       90.2        97.8      100.2
GOss Fied Aset.s (Inl. Spre Psrts)         13.6      3-od      102.2     112.6      112.6      112.6      12 .8     1-13.5     115.1     16.0       116.0      116.2      116.6    126.7       12S.7      127.6      128.3       128.5      128.9
Less: Depreciation                       7.3       8.2        9.1      14.5       24.3       34.1       43.7      53.0       63.1       72.9      80.4       87.6       94.8    100.8        105.5     110.8      116.1       120.7      122.3
Met Fixed A-:et.                      6.3      26.6       93.1       98.1      88.3       78.5       89.1      60.5       52.0       43.1      35.6       28.6       21.8      25.9        21.2      16.8       12.2         7.8        6.6
Pre-operating EV,enae
Fine deoelpjnt, aengieerig md            2.3      1h7        21.7       35.0      35.0       35.0       35.0      35.0       35.0       35.0      35.0       35.0       35.2      35.0        35.0       35.0      35.0        35.0       35.0
pro3oct m geent
Intarest d coitmt dcarge                  -        1.1        7.4       12.6      12.6       12.6       }2.6      12.6       12.6       12.6      12.6       12.6       12.6      12.6        12.6       12.6      12.6        12.6       12.6
durirg onttractio.
Laesr  Anrtiration                        -         -          -         1.6       4.8        8.0       11.2      14.4       17.6       20.8      24.0       27.2       30-L.     33.6        36.o       wu.0      43.2        ''         47.6
Rlet fre.operatirg &Penee             2.3      15.8       29.1       46.o      42.8       39.6       36.1      33.2       30.0       26.8      23.6       20.4       17.2      14.0        10.8        7.5       4.4         1.2         -
R_e-alnetion of Assets and                  38.0     36.0       38.0       38.0      38.0       38.0       38.0      38.0       38.0       38.0      38.0       38.0       36.3      38.0        38.0       38.0      38.0        38.0       38.0
XPi6ng Right. 2/
TOTAL ASSETS                         55.5      93.2      179.6      204.3     203.9      205.9      206.7     20h.7      202.7      200.6     198.5      19fl.      19.0    186.9        176.5      166.0      166.0      166.o      166.0
LABIELTI0 S
Lccounts Payable and Short-term Loans     3.2      3.2        3.2        4.5       7.4        7.9        7.9       7.9        7.9        7.9        7.9        7.9       7.9       7.9         7.9        7.9       7.9         7.9        7.9
Current Portion of loog-tem Debt          -         -         1.5       8.6        9.5        9.8        9.9      10.2       10.5       10.7      11.1       11.4       11.1   _ 10.6         10.5         _-                               -
Total Current Liabiliti.e                3.2       3.2        4.7      13.1       16.9       17.7       17.8      18.1       18.4       18.6      19.0       19.3       19.0      18.3       18.4        7.9        7.9         7.9        7.9
Iorg-Te Debt: (les murrent purtion)
br1ld Benk LoOn                         -       7.0       32.0       47.3      44.4       4i .2      37.8      34.2       30.3       26.1      21.6       16.8       11.6       6.0          -          - _                   -          -
Jap,neae Loan                          -       15.0       39.5       45.9      41.7       37.5       33.3      29.1       24.9       20.7      16.5       12.3        8.1       3.9          -         -          -           -          -
U.S. abExik Loan                                5.0       14.1       15.5      13.7       11.9       10.1        8.3       6.         4.7        2.9        1.1        .
Japanese  da   k Loan                   -       2.0        h.9        6.4       5.8        5.2        4.7       4.1        3.5        3.0        2.1       1.8        1.2       0.6
Tota  Laog-Term Debt                    _      29.0       93.5      115.1     105.6       95.8       85.9      75.7       oS.2       51.5       43.4       32.0      20.9      10.5
Equty Candtai 2/W                        52.3     59.3       80.0       80.0      80.0       80.1       80.0      80.0        3.1       0O.3         .       bO.O 80.2 81.:       80.0          .2       80.0       80.0       80.0       80.0
qetRin df ldCog                           _        1.7        4LI       (3.9)      1.4        2.3        0.3        -          -          -          -         _          _         _            _         _         _           _
Depl.tion rherse                           -                                                                                                                                                  76- 10.1  22.7  30.9  }.  1.,  56.1  61.8  73  7  7.1  78.1  78.1  78.1  78.1
Net Worth                               52.3      61.0       d4.4       76.1      81.4       92.4      103.0     110.9      119-       127.5      136.1     141.d      ;,:.      158.1       156.1      158.1     158.1       158.1      158.1
TOTAL LIALBLIIES & EJUlTY            55.5      93.2      179.0      204.3     203.9      205.?      206.7     204.7      1 _.7      2iO.o      19d.5     1-o.1      14,.-    186.9        176.5      A66.0      166.0      166.0      166.0
Current Ratio')                        1.5:1      2.8.        - -:1    0.7:1     1.0:1      1.n0l      2.0:1      l.e:2      .0:,       .C:1       ..-    :  1.                 - _.:        I.         r.7.1      .'.4:1      2.4 1     2.4:1
Qui.k Ratio C                          1.0:1     2.3:;      3.0:1      0.8:1     1.2:1      1.2:1      1.2:1      1.1:1     1.:.1      _.                                                     :L 2.9:1  .9  i.d:l 2.  1.51    1.5:1      1.5:.
Long-Tere-. D:bt/.-'ty Ratio         2.0.100.0  3267                 05.5.2.5  50.9:9.1   .5:5.                               :50:100.0  0.0:100.0
1/  BElarce  h-eet for larch 31, 1971 corroponds vith that  hon in TTble 2 -.copt that a..et write_-p (Note 3) io not includei 1' .he 1e:tor.
2/  Cash reqoirad to maintain a ourrent ratio of 1:1 in order to sati2fe dIvidend and inv-estoont remtrt-tiin
3/  Upon formation of th  nev oo pny, the aosets and mineral right. of the csbin-d ooapadeo are to be re-oloe-  to 11992 nilon e4.iraient vSe. iOr.. 2.00).
Asoues faIl diridend payout, i.e. *11 net profits after taxeo e.d depletion on Agas Claras -cco-nt and net prfie oft-ar tax oithoot depletion for exieting oporationa, subject to liquidity re-trOition- outlined in Table 8.
5,  Coh!.eiuo reoetirdbeouplusrsonentor o  ,r--ded-be;000C00......o.le.......hr..-t...,...h................... pp'--'            iet -2ht:C-n1
Si Coo! plus  reaeloableo diaid3e  by -ccoantt ro1aio-a-o slhr-t:rrn -    ebl:': 'ho-  =-'- r : - - '   :     '       c.^       -    - t:
Industril1 Projeota Departsent
Juew 1971



)SR I.MN ORE PROJEC?
DL3TR33UTION OF FARNINOS FiDM A0IAS CLIARS OPRATION
hAse PRO.JEtiz AE WITH0LWHIAP ro 10 IULLCIO rONS PFR ILtS
(In U5$ sulions equivMlent)
Fiscal year ending Mearh 31,                                       1973      974    1975    1976         7     1978     1979      1980     1981     1982     198,    19834     1985     1986     1987      19       1989    Total
AMs Clars Alone
Clative Cash S&rD1uS                                  1.3       4.3      (3.1/   6.7       22.8    38.0    52.0    65.7        80.9    97.1   313.4    130.0   136.4    153.1    169.6    197.3   225. )         51.7       -
Nbt profit after tax                                   -        -       (10.6)    7.2     13.5    13.3    13.0       13.1    14.5    16.2        17.2    18.0    18.4       19.2     19.4    19.9    20.i,    23.6        236.3
) D letio  alloance                                    -        -         -       -       10.1    12.6       8.2      8.2      8.4      8.6      8.7      8.8       4.5       -        -        -        -        -       78.1
Profit flidhLe for Divide.is)                           -        -         -                 -       0.7      4.8      4.9      6.1      7.6      8.5      9.2     13.9     19.2     19.4    19.9    20.4        23.6    158.2
Dividerds declared                                     _         _         _      _         _        0.7      4.8      4.9      6.1      7.6      8.5      9.2    13.9      19.2     19.4    19.9    20.4    23.6    158.2
COilative didids                                        _        _         _                         0.7      5.5    10.4    16.5    24.1    32.6    41.8    55.7           74.9     94.3    114.2   134.6    158.2         -
C e Slas . ter Dirid -                 1.3     3.3       (3.1)   6.7       22.8    37.3    46.5    55.3    64.4    73.0    80.8    88.2    80.7             78.2     75.3    83.1    90.7        93.5       -
C1acltive Cash  3uhrpl. Reio'esteds/'                   -        -        -       -         9.9    24.8    35.0    44.3    54.2    63.6    72.1    80.2            74.2     73.5     71.4    79.5    87.1    89.9
broins fIR reiweeteut of cash surpluseeW               -         -         -      -         -       1.0       2.5      3.5      4.4      5.4      6.4      7.2      8.0      7.47    7.3        r1      7.9       8.7      76.9
(-) Incom  Tax - 30%                                   -        -         -       -         -         .3     0.8      1.1      1.3      1.6       1.9      2.2      2.4      2.2      2.2      2.1      2.4      2.6       23.1
Neti_ted additionl dividd                              -        -         -       -         -         .7     1.7      2.4       3.1      3.8      4.5      5.0      5.6      5.2      5.2      5.0      5.5      6.1       53.8
Total Di,ldls Delared                                  -         -        -       -         -       1.4      6.5      7.3       9.2    11.4      13.0     14.2     19.5     24.4    24.6    24.9    25.9        29.7    212.0
(-) Metribtion tax - 5%                                -        --                                     -     o.3      0.4      0.5      o.6       0.7      0.7      1.0      1.2      1.2      1.2      1.3      1.5       10.6
Groee B3ae for Distributi                              -         -         _       _                1.4       6.2     6.9       8.7     10.8    12.3    13.5       18.5     13.2     23.4    23.7    24.6        28.2    201.3.
(-) th       t#e54                                     -        _         _          _              0.3      1.4      1.6       2.0     2.5       2.9      3.2      4.3      5.3      5.4      5.5      5.7      6.6       46.7
(-) Penelty taxe'.-                                    _        _         _   _                      -        -        -       0.3      0.7       1.0      1.3      2.7      4.1      4.1      4.2    43.5        5.6     28.5
Total Uroetive Diidens                                                                               1.1      4.8      5.3      6.4      7.6      8.4      9.0     11.5     13.8    13.9    14.0    14.4    16.0    126.2
Split: To Brazilia                                                                                   0._4     1.7      1.9      2.4      2.9      3.2      3.5      5.0      6.2      6.2      6.2       6.6      7.5      53.7
To 3t. Jeha                                     -        -         -       -                 0.5      2.2      2.5      2.8      3.2      3.5      3.7      4.3      5.1       5.2      5.3      5.2      5.7      49.2
To Otbhr Joreigo                                -        -         -       -         -       0.2      0.9      0.9      1.2      1.5      1.7      1.8      2.2       2.5      2.5      2.5      2.6      2.8      23.3
Diroct Revenes to Cosurumet
Sole and Property,   r-7e  7/                        -        -        0.3    1.6        1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9       1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      28.5
IXnce Tax - Basc projecti                            -        -         -       -         -       0.3      2.0      2.1      2.6      3.3      3.7      3.9       6.0      8.2      8.3      8.5      8.7     10.1      67.7
Ine Tax - Reinvestment                              -        -         -       -         -       0.3      0.8      1.1      1.3      1.6      1.9      2.2       2.4      2.2      2.2      2.1      2.4      2.6      23.1
Distribution Tax                                     -        -         -       -         -        -       0.3      0.4      0.5      0.6      0.7      0.7      1.0       1.2      1.2      1.2      1.3      1.5      10.6
Witbbodiag Tax                                       -        -         -       -         -       0.3      1.4.     1.6      2.0      2.5      2.9      3.2       4..3     5.3      5.3.     5.5      5.7      6.6      3.6.7
Perety T-                                                         -              -                 -        -        -       0.3      0.7      1.0      1.3      2.7  45.1          3 4.1    4.2      4.5      5.6      28.5
mareatee lee on 1BRD Loan                        _('.2    1.3                            1.2      1.2      1.1      1.0      O.S      0.8      0.7      0.5      0.3      0.3       0.1       -        -        -        9.7
total Direct Coormont Revenues                       _                 0.5     2.9       3.1      4.0      7.5      8.1      9.5    11.4    12.8    13.7        18.7    23.2    23.2    23.4         24.5    28.3    214.8
Redaned Oowti. Subsidies to R1FBA                   _        -        3.0     6.7       6.1      6.5      6.5      6.7      6.9      7.1      7.2      7.4       8.4      9.8    10.1    10.1    10.1    11.3         123.9
Toa Goernment Ravn                                   -        _        3.5     9.6       9.2    10.5    16.0       14.8    16.4    18.5    20.0    21.1          27.1     33.0    33.3      33.5     34.6     39.6    338.7
1/ Naxixa all able dividends after takin  full depletion. Excludes dividends from profits on reinvestsent of cash surpluses.
Dividends allowed only whore (i) all past deficits ha"e been recovered;  ii) a current ratio of 1:1 is maintained after declaring dividend; and  iii) legal reseree reqairement is satisfied (covered by debt service
and depletion reserves).
3Cesb smplaes available for retnvesteent in fixed assets and prepayment of lcng-tem debt, excluding the cash balance required to maintain a current ratio of 1:1.
Assus 10S  average annual return on reinvested surplanes with one yer  ag.
:/ Rates vary by shareholder  ategory: Breailian shareholdera - lS% of declared di-tionds  standard rate o coolnattee shares-
Foreign shareholders   _ 2C% of declared dividends  standard rate for non-resident shareholders)
6/ Applies to repatriation of capital by foreign shareholders.
7/ Prio  Tle 3.
Irdustrial Projects Departaent
June 1971



NOTES TO TABLES 3-8
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
i4AJOR ASSUMPTIONS USED IN FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
FMR AGUAS CIARMS OPERATION
1. Sales Price and Revenues
A weighted average price of $8.38 per long ton of ore has been
assuned throughout the projections. (See Annex l1l paragraph 1.01).
2. Inventories
Approximately one-fourth of inventories will be held at the mine
and three-fourths at the terminal. The terminal stockpile capacity has
been deteruined by mathematical optimization based on expected ship arrival
frequencies. Inventories at the terminal will cover approximately seven
weeks sales.
J. Accounts Receivable and Payable
Receivables are projected to follow the trend established by exist-
ing MBR operations and are projected at the level of 7% of annual revenues.
Accounts payable are assumed to follow a similar historical trend and are
estimated at 8% of annual operating costs.
4. Average Annual Operating Costs at 10 Million Long Tons Per Year
Annual Cost      Unit Cost*
($ million)       (T*/7
Direct Costs
Mine and preparation plant                11.6           1.16
Rail freight                              26.2           2.62
Terminal                                   3.1           0.31
Mine development stripping                 2.6           0.26
Total direct costs                   43.5           4.35
Indirect Coats
Administration                             1.5           0.15
Sole and property taxes (Note 6)           1.9           0.19
Insurance                                  0.6           0.06
Depreciation (Note 5)                      7.1           0.71
Amortization (Note 5)                      3.2           0.32
Interest                                   5.7           0.57
Total indirect costs                 20.0           2.00
Average Annual Operating Costs              63.5           6.35
* Detailed breakdowns in Annex 12



NOTES TO TABLES 3-8
Page 2
5. Depreciation and Amortization
(i) Depreciation figures are based on the following assumed
asset lives:
Depreciable Life
(yea rs )
Mine shovels and trucks                                 7
Blast hole drills                                       3
Small vehicles                                          5
Electrical distribution equipment                       5
Preparation plant                                      10
Other mine equipment                                    5
Terminal equipment and facilities                      15
Included in depreciation are annual charges on the following
equipmert and facility renewals:
Total Cost over 15 Years
($ million)
Mine equipment                                       11.0
Terminal equipment                                    0.3
Tailings pond additions                               3.0
Miscellaneous additions                               2.0
Total                                           16.3
(ii) Amortization figures are based on the following expenditures
incurred prior to start-up.and amortized over 15 years of operations:
Total Cost
($ ndillor S )
Owner's advance expenditures                               2.3
Administration and pre-operating expenditures             15.0
Engineering and project management                        17.7
Financial charges during construction                     12.6
Total                                               47.6
Annual amortization over 15 years                         =
6. Taxes and Depletion
(i) Sole taxes are levied at a fixed rate of US Cents 17.4 per long
ton of ore shipped, based on the minehead value.  Property taxes are about
US Cents 1.6 per long ton.



NOTES TO TABIZS 3-8
Page 3
(ii) Income taxes are computed at the current rate of 30% of
taxable income.  The law allows a depletion deduction equal to 20% of the
minehead val,ae of all sales during the first ten years of operations.
The estimatedl depletion allowance for MBR at 10 million tons is computed
in Table 4 and totals $78.1 million over ten years.  This amount must be
incorporated into the capital of MBR as a reserve and is not eligible for
distribution as dividends. However, the shareholders of MBR are not re-
quired to take the full depletion allowance and therefore could distribute
as dividends all or part of the assumed depletion reserve -- but only after
paying a 30% income tax on the incremental amounts. Because they also
would have to pay high taxes'on the dividends themselves, they should have
substantial incentives to take the full depletion allowed, provided that
attractive reinvestment opportunities exist in MBR itself. It has been
assumed that they will choose to take the full depletion allowance and use
it for expansion of production facilities and accelerated repayment of
long-term debt.
7. Debt Service
Debt service projections have been based on the following debt
financing:
(i) An IBRD loan of $50 million for 15 years, including 31 years
grace, at 7.25% interest and 2.0% Braid-lian Government guarantee fee; with
repaymnt of principal and interest in 24 equal semi-annual installments.
(ii) A loan through five Japanese trading companies of $50 million
for 15 years, including 2 years grace; US$30 million will come from the
Japanese Eximbank, and US$20 million will come from Japanese comuercial
banks. The effective rate of interest, including Brazilian withholding
taxes on the comuercial portion, is about 9.6%.  Principal repayments will
be made in direct proportion to actual ore shipments to Japan under the
ore contract with the Japanese steel companies (at the rate of approximately
$0.60 per ton for the first 84 million tons of the total 15-year Japanese
sales of 105 million tons), with minimwu annual payments beyond startup of
$4.2 million, equivalent to the withholding rate on 7 million tons.
(iii) A Japanese Eximbank loan of $7 million for 15 years, including
2 years grace, at 8.0% interest, repayment to be effected in the same manner
as for the other Japanese Loan. This loan is still to be negotiated.
(iv) A U.S. Eximbank loan and guarantee of commorcial loans total-
ling $26.3 million, of which approximately $18.2 million will be used. The
term will be 12½ years, including 2½ years grace, with an effective interest
rate of about 7.5%.
Loans are assumed to become effective on September 30, 1971, with
principal repayments to begin between October 1, 1973 and March 31, 1974 for
the Japanese Loans (proportional to shipments), on June 30, 1974 for the
U.S. Eximbank, and on December 31, 1974 for the IBRD loan. 1)
1) These dates differ slightly from those used in the projections.



NOTES TO TABLES 3-8
page 4
Commitment charges of 3/4 of 1% on the undisbursed balances
are assumed for all of the loans. Interest, withholding taxes, and
commitment charges incurred during construction and totalling $12.6
million will be capitalized.
8. Existing Operations
Iron ore operations of the existing St. John D'el Rey and
CAEMI properties being consolidated into MBR will oontinue to export
through the Port of Rio de Janeiro until at least 1980.  dile
these are physically independent of the new Aguas Claras operation,
they will be an important part of the financial structure of MBR.
The sponsors expect these operations to generate cash surpluses
during the Aguas Claras construction phase sufficient to cover initial
operating losses from Aguas Claras. Their projections are shown in
Table 6. }Revenue estimates are based on the following salea projections:
Fiscal Year
Ending                   National                  Average       Projected
March 31  Exort Sales    Sales       Total Sales   Unit Price      Revenue
kLllion LT)  (Rfl3Won LT)(Million LT)   T17($ )       ($ Million)
1971         2.0           0.3         2.3           7.78          17.9
1972         2.0           0.3         2.3           8.19          18.8
1973         2.0           0.3         2.3           9.09          20.9
1974         2.0           0.3         2.3           9.09          20.9
1975         1.8           0.4         2.2           8.77          19.3
1976         1.7           0.5         2.2           8.45          18.6
1977         1.7           0.5         2.2           8.)45         18.6
1978         1.7           0.5         2.2           8.45          18.6
1979         1.7           0.5         2.2           8.)45         18.6
1980         1.7           0.5         2.2           8.45          18.6
It has been assumed for purposes of the projections that these
operations will not continue beyond 1980.
9. Distribution of Earnings
Maximum dividend payout has been assumed for Aguas Claras opera-
tions following maximum allowable depletion. Dividends are subject to
the following restrictions:
(i)    Dividends are payable only from net accumulated earnings.
(ii)   After dividenl pVm.am., aswh =vplwsa plus rewivables
and inventories from the combized M operations not be greater than or
oqual to aWcounts paYables; IUsbihort-tern debt, and the   olleving year' I
full interest and anorisatim parnts 0X long-tern debt. (if1111 orant
ratio of 1:1).



NOTES TO TABIES 3-8
(iii) Legal reserre requirements iuat be satisfied.
Dividends from existing operations Mll be subject to the same
restrictions.
Dividends are subject to the following taxes:
(i)    Distribution taxes of 5% of the deolared amounts, paid by
MBR.
(ii)   withholding taxes  on the distributed dividends, equal to
25% of the declarod amounfor foreign shareholders and 15% for Brasilian
shareholders.
(iii) Penalty taxes on the amounts remitted overseas by foreign
shareholders on those amount over and above 12% of invested capital.
Rates range from 40% (12-15% portion) to 60% (over 25% portion).
10. Reinvestment of Surpluses
Following maximum dividends as described above, it is assumed that
remaining cash surpluses (depletion plus deproeiation) will be invested in
plant expansion and accelerated repayment of long-term debt. The loan docu-
ments require MBR to kmep a current ratio of 1:1 following such investment.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1971






TABLE 9
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
INERNAL FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN OF AGUAS CIARAS OPRtATION
BASE PROJOT WITH BalKS BUILDUP TO 10 MIILION TONSi PR 1WR
(In US$ millions equiva1ent)
Total
Total ftnds            Cash Flow
Fiscal Year   Initial!                 Generated               After
ending    Inmestaunt  Equipment       from       Income     Income
Period     Maroh 31      Cost      Renewals   Operationsl/   Tax         Tax
-    _ T IT(F T
0         1971         2.3                                            ( 2.3)
1         1972        33.6                                            (33.6)
2         1973        74.4^                                           (74.4
3         1974        31.14Z                      1.2                 (30.2)
4         1975         0.9                       30.8                 29.9
5         1976                                   36.3                 36.3
6         1977                      0.2          35.5        0.3      35.0
7         1978                      0.7          35.5        2.0      32.8
8         1979                      1.6          35.7        2.1      32.0
9         1980                      0.9          36.2        2.6      32.7
10         1981                                   36.2        3.3      32.9
11         1982                      0.2          36.2        3.7      32.3
12         1983                      0.4          36.2        3.9      31.9
13         1984                     10.1          36.3        6.o      20.2
14         1985                                   36.9        8.2      28.7
15         1986                      0.9          36.9        8.3      27.7
16         1987                      0.7          36.9        8.5      27.7
17         1988                      0.2          36.9        8.7      28.0
18         1989                      0.4          36.9       10.1      26.4
Total      142.6         16.3         540.6       67.7    3114.0
Discounted Rate of Returnd   - 18.8% before Income Tax
17.5% after Incom  Tax
1/ Includes total project costs minus financial charges during construction.
2/ Includes $2.0 million in working capital (cash) not directly reflected in
Table 5.
y  Discounting to March 31, 1971.
4/ See Table 5
Industrial Projects Departaent
May 1971



APfR MLN OtA  PRNJECT
REJRN ON lWgmIMT FOR 1s1R SRAR4NOLDM  ANJ bNMHILLN ODYVNENr
AT ULTlNa7E P!DIucTLiN LEVELS OF 10 ANU l5 IIILLIUN 7UNi F%R iEAH
arazi ..ir   rein1tr   '                         St. John Del Rey                        Other Fcreign Sh reholdera                     All Shareholder.
Total Invetamt S25 mtUlor,                 Total Inve.taent 140 nillion                Total ltm*etL,,nt n15 illion              Total ITve-tant o0 million                      Ie-l lIIn Governlent
Now Irvestaont                        Ne loestant $15 Mdllion                    New Inwstnent S15 ilon                     NKw I--teest $30 mgllion                   m         pnt J60.5 milion
F> heterr or =3  .:    Rtrexttl                           e       Kturn or            dreocua                 Netrn              iffeoti o1               etro 0                                    Retort, on
Fiasa.1 r_r            DdlCrera-              I,peeame             L ieitrd.l'            Investimnt          Djidm`rZV              loeoteent          )lOlT   5     fI                   1- Investent'et
Eming Maroi 31-,                           12                     T!           sn I             W                                                                                                                          NW  !!n!I5"T,10 ft
1974         ,                 -          -          -          -          -         -                      -        -          -          -          -         -           -         -        3.5    J     . s   5.6 S:d
1975                                                            .                    ,          _           _         _         _                     _                               _        9.6        9.6       19.3       15.9
1976                -        1.9          -        7.6                   2.5         _         6.2          -       0.9         -        6.0          -        5.3          -       6.6        9.2      l14.4       20.7       23.8
1977              0.4        2.3        1.6        9.2        0.5        2.9       1.2         7.3        0.2      1.3        1.3        8.7        1.1        6.5        1.4       8.1       10.5       18.1       22.1       29.9
1978              1.7        6.5        6.8       26.0        2.2        5.3        5.5       13.3        0.9      2.7         6.o      18.0        4.8       16.5        6.o      18.1       14.0       30.3       27.9       5o.o
1979              1.9        6.3        7.6       25.2        2.5        5.3       6.3        13.3        0.9      2.7         6.o      18.0        5.3       14.3        6.6      17.9       14.8       33.6       28.9       55.2
1980              2.4        6.7        9.6       26.8        2.8        5.5       7.0        13.6        1.2      2.8        8.0       18.7        6.4       15.0        8.o      18.8       16.4       35.0       31.2       57.9
1961              2.9        7.3       11.6       29.2        3.2        5.8       8.0        14.8        1.5       2.9      10.0       19.3        7.6       16.o        9.5      20,0       18.5       37.8       34.4       62.5
1932              3.2        7.8       12.A       31.2        3.5        6.1        8.8       15.3        1.7       3.0       11.3      20.0        8.4       16.9       10.5      21.1       20.0       39.5       36.7       65.3
1983              3.5        8.3       16.0       33.2        3.7        6.3       9.3        15.8        1.6       3.1      12.0       20.7        9.0       17.7      31.3       22.1       21.1       40.8       38.2       67.4
1981,             5.o        9.5       20.0       38.0        4.3        7.0      10.8        17.5        2.2       3.4      14.7       22.7       11.5       19.9       16.4      24.9       27.1       47.1       46.4       77.9
1985              6.2       10.5       24.8       42.o        5.1       7.6       12.8        19.0        2.5      3.7       16.7       24.7       13.8       21.8       17.3      27.3       33.0       53.0       53.9       87.6
1966              6.2       12.6       24.8       42.4        5.2        7.6       13.0       19.0        2.5       3.7      16.7       24.7       13.9       21.9       17.4      27.4       33.3       53.7       53.8       88.8
1987              6.2       10.7       2b.J       42.8        5.3        7.7      13.3        19.2        2.5       3.7       16.7      26.7       14.0       22.1       17.5      27.6       33.5       53.8       54.2       B8.9
1988              6.6       11.0       26.4        6. o       5.2        7.8       13.0       19.5        2.6       3.8       17.3      25.3       14.4       22.6       18.0      28.3       34.6       55.1       56.0       91.1
1989              7.5       12.0       30.0       48.o        5.7        8.3      14.3        20.8        2.8       3.9      18.7       26.0       16.0       24.2       20.0      30.13      39.6       59.7       62.3       98.7
Total            53.7      111.4                             69.7       85.7                             23.3      1:1.6                          126.2      238.7                           338.7      584.8
Avere. eul                                  1.1.9S     24.8%                            6.98       11.9%                           8.6S      15.4S                            8.8%      16.6S                            32.95      53.7%
return on total
s4mtmat orr
la yomez
Av*raeeal                                   UA n       n/a                             18.4%       31.7%                           8.6%      15.b%                            23.6$     46.2                             32.9%      53.7%
retwn on ,e
inotsrneet rrer
18 7mev.
DlenotAd return                             6.2S       14.5t                            1.75        7.2t                           3.6%       9.8t                            3.7i      10.6t                            19.55     28.3%
n ttal inst_nt
er 18 is ne
Disonted return                             n/S         /a                             10.62       18.41                           3.6t       9.8%                           12.8d      22.31t                           19.5%      28.3
on nr invntsot -
over 18 ysre
lIhback period on     n/a        n/                               10.1 yre  6.8 yrs                           13.9 yrs  9.b yrs                        9.6 yrs   6.3 yrs                           6.1 y.e   5.1 yr.
rmr in. esntre
in IT 1972
k *esvma _ma.   dividnd pVa t and r_ittnce abroad of *11 net fuad  on fo-nlm oharrhold-r a-co0ot-.  zisoftide dinideado are net of 11 teas, inoludig those on dividend., i.e. distribution ta   (leoled on coqpay at tie of
diatribution), .dtheolding tae. (withheld fton  all aber.oldeino' dide.nd. at aource - a-e Note 5 of Table 8) *nd penalty t. (.dthheld at morure from roreign shareholders' reittancen abroad). A _use that n depletion ia takn
on inmrm,ntal profita fro. exnxion sbove 10 mtillion ton  par year. Thi. allot.. ioroasod di oideMnd. bht -rq at higher ni se-ti-r t-n r0t r.
2/ ir table 8. Inaladee direst Government re enues fre  all direot toe. levied on MB8R oai it, ehar-&older,, gt.nrate- ree on  BRD loon to MR, and c..h br-efit. or       1 subsidy paynents to !SA. Ltclodv  al.1 indirect taeo.
Indoltrial Projst Departaent
NV 1971                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I.



TABLE 11
NBR IRON ORE PROJECT
ESTIMA7D SPLIT OF NET PROJECT BNWTS Fi  197289Y
10 millionL1 5om                LTo    .
Cash     A of          c dash    7, Or
Benefits   Total       Benefits   Total
($  nI n)              ($31n )
I.   All Shareholders                        126.7      27.2        238.7      29.0
(i)   Brazilians (A E)                53.7       11.5       111.4       13.5
(ii)   St. John D.l RaMy                49.7      10.7         85.7      10.4
(iii)   Other Foreign                   23.3        5.0         41.6       5.1
II.   Brazilian Government?/                  338.7       72.8       584.8       71.0
III.   Total Not Cash Benefits                 2465.4    100.0        823.5     100.0
(i)   Total accruing to Brazil       392.4       84.3        696.2      84.5
(ii)   Total leaving Brazil            73.0       15.7        127.3      15.5
]6/ Net projeoct benefits (not cash benefits) are defined as the sum of
maximum effective dividends in the hands of shareholders after all
tame (inoluding those on dividends) plus all direot payments mad.
to the Government over the life of the project plus cash benefits
to RFFSA. Dividends to foreign shareholders are assumed to be re-
mitted overseas in toto and thus represent not dividends after pay-
ment of penalty t on   remittances over and above 12% of invested
capital.
g(   Includes all direct pymunts to the Oovernment resulting from MBR
operations plus cash benefits accruing to RFFSA through net contri-
butions to RFFSA overheads and, thereby, reduced Governmnt subsidies
to RWFSA.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1971



MBR IROK '0RK Pi0JEI7?
HgT7 PI'RF.1IN FXOiAK3E gARNINGS FR08 AGUAS CLRAS OPERAONS - BAS PROJEOT WITH SALES BUIIOUP TO 10 MILLIOK TONS PER YEAR
':qretructi-n                                                                                                                         Average for
Period                                        "  p  .  r  a  t  t o  n s                                                             Operatiny
Fisc.a joar ending K-h 31,                                                                       1971 - 1771.     l71   l975  l376   1077   7h    197L   I7       1961   19132  19613      19b28 1,      9                                Poriod
6~' Mo.)                                                                        100 1.    110 1.0 1.                     millions/year)
Production Rate (lMillion Long Tois)                                                                               2.9    9.0  10.0                          10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0             10.D   10.0
Capital Inflows . IBi
Shore Capital                                                                                      30.0
IBI  Lon                                                                                           50.0
Japanese Lo.ns                                                                                     57.0
U.S. EX-Iu lan                                                                                     18.2
155.2
Capital Inlw-  IIFS
IBRD Loan                                                                                          8277
U.S. k-lu Loan                                                                                     2K.7
RFFSA/bra,il Gonvernt                                                                               7.2
Reene to Ma fro; Sle f  .e                                                                                        11.7   72.1   83.8  o3.8  83.8   83.8   83.8   33.8   83.8   b3,C   83.8   83.5   83.6 _.8   83.8   83.8
TOTAL Dmrse                                                                                       229,6        21.7   72.1   83.8   83.8  113.8  83.8  113.3  83.8   83.13   83.8   03    113.8  83.8  113.1   83.5   83.8            _8141
Capital hpeoiiture - IDR
Fixed Assets and E7aip,rt boeyal  (56 S FEC)                                                      53.3           -      -      -    0.1    0.3    0.6    0.3       -      0.1    0.2    3.-J'  -      0.3    0.3    0.1    0.2
Proope,atjig ipoas s'2 5 FM)                                                                       6.
Ciraari,g and Prejet  aonAgeeent (h3.5% FBC)                                                        7.?
Owwrs' Advance kpendit-   and Increases in Supplies (32 S  and 62.(% F"ES respecti-:1y)             3.7
Interest ad Canitamt Cherge during Cortrwtion                                                     12._                                                                                          _
Sub-Total                                                                                    83.7                  _      -    0.1      0.3    o.6    0.3     -     0.1    0.2    3.9            C.3   0.3    0.1    0.2            0.1
Capital kpeoditwres - RrSA
Locoetives ed  Frelg4  Care (100% FIE)                                                            51.9
Civil Work  (16.7% FM)                                                                              3.9
Buildings and ifpw,nt (60.5%  EC)                                                                   7.8
bigiaeritz   and Spervision f9.0% FSlC)                                                            o.5
Contingenies (55.7% F3C)                                                                            6.4
Intezst duoing Constzwtion                                                                          4.1
Sob-Total                                                                                    74.6
Operating feinditures - MRI
Direct Costs (21% FEC includes aim, plant and technical saintenwuce ad supplies)                                0.92   2.9&/  3.1    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6    3.6              3.5
Administration (40S FEC inclules technical assistance)                                                          0.3    o.6    o.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    o.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    o.6              0.6
Sub-Total                                                                                                  1.2    3.5    I.O     .2    4.2    4.2   4,.2    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2    L. 2    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2            41.
Opwrating kpeniitures - RFFSA
Direct Costs (20.C% FEC)                                                                                        O S    1.9    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1              2.1
Treck ihnewal (7.5% FEC)                                                                                         -     0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    Ol.   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1               0.1
S.b-Total                                                                                                   0.5    2.0    2.2    2.2    7.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2              2.2
Debt Strlcr - I3R,                                                                                                 6.8   19.6   19.7   19.3  18.4   17.9  17.2   16.5   15.8   15.1   13.7   12.0   13.2          -      -      -           13.1
Debt Service - RFFSA                                                                                               1.6    7.1    S."    0.3   9.3    8.1    7.9    7.7       7 76          6.4    5.0    4.7    1.7    1.7    3.5            6.6
Livideds:  to St. John Shareholders                                                                                 -      -       -     o.5    2.2    2.5    2.8    3.2    3.5    3.7    4.3    5.1    5.2    5.3    5.2    5.7             3.2
to other foreign  breboldert                                                                            _      _      _     0.2    0.9    0.9    1.2    1.5    1.7    1.8    2.2    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.6    2.8             1.5
-      -      -     *.7    3.1    3.1    4.0    4.7    5.2    5.5   6.5    7.6    7.7    7.8    7.8    8.5              4.7
TOTAL OUTFLP                                                                                 158.3        10.1   32.2  'I.6  34.8   36.5   36.4  35.1    3.3   35.1  34.6  36.9   31.0             .   19.2   19.0 358.6  ...5.31
NaT PORETON FTCRAE 513RPLDS                                                                   71.5         1.6   39.9  49.2   49.0  47.3   47.4  48.o   46.5  48.7   49.2   46.9   52.8   53.5   64.6   64.8   65.2                5o0o
1'  ReplAcernt of ait  wnd olant equipecnt -  y be sprr-d    .-wer   .1 yearo.
2'  Foretgn e.rcasnge cots of i-nmtory builduP (1  1 eiliion ovmr F7s 19'1-7) er   nr',dI,l tn dlr-r1 costs.
Induatriol Projocts Depant- nt
1aY 1971



MlR IKIN 8t5 PROXCT
M12  ORION EMCHAME 5R8R1113R3 FIAS A3UAS CLARS OPERATIONS . aB5SIO*I PROJECST aTH SAIi BUILDUP TO 15 WILL;l TOMl  PER YEAR
(US, million eq4vialntl
Constroctioo                                                                                                                     Ars-age for
Period                                              0  P E Ri A T I 0         S                                                 Operating
Fl.a   year eod. tloch 31,                                                  Per                                         id  ; 1  1976 1977   197b    I    0   11   1e2         3 7                 195   1957  198         9       Pirion
Prodnetim late 'Million LMag Tons)                                                                              2.9  9.0  10.0  12.0  12.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0   15.0    15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0
Capital Inflow M
Shre Cpita                                                                                       30.0
imm Lose                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50.0
J_nee loon                                                                                       57.0
U.S. &-r, Loan                                                                                   ad
155.2
Casdal Infoi  - 1113
IBM ri4f                                                                                         46.0
U.S. ax-i loan                                                                                   26,7
Otbtr Sourc                                                                                       6.8       -     -      -      -   13.61'  -
79.5
Reven1  to PM  from Sale of Ore                                                                         -      11.7  72.1  83.8  99.5  99.5  121.8  1.2.8 12b.8  121.8  124.8  124.8   124.8 124.8  124.8 124.8 124.8             112.2
Total Inflom                                                                                    234.7    11.7  72.1  83.8  99.5 113.1  12.8  321.8  124.8 124.8  124.8  124.8   124.8  121.8 ,124.8  124.8  124.8            112.2
Coital   mditure - 1
Fied Assets   d Equipnt Ranoel  (56 % PC)                                                        53.3       -      -    2.4' 0.1   b.831  0.9   0.5        -    0.1   0.3    5.9V               0.5   0.4   0.2    0.3         1.1
Preperating I9me  (M2 1 FdC)                                                                      6.b
Awheri-3 and Ppo3i Hanagemet (43.5% FC)                                                           7.7
Ome  Ad.oe  eNd Increuse in Supplies (32 % ad 62.5% PEC respectiely)                              3 7
Inteat and Citment Charge  dwutr Coetructimo                                                     12.6
Su-Total                                                                                    83,7
Cm1tal ksditur  - 11tM
Lcoeaotives and Fright Care (100% FP)                                                            56.6       -     -      -      -   13.61.           -     _      _      _       _        _      _     _      _      _          -
Civi Wws (26.7% FM)                                                                               3.9
Dldirge -d Iqip-nt (60.5% FSC)                                                                    7.8
hgsmarisg and Superwiston (9.0% FEC)                                                              0.5
Conting cie (55.7% PBC)                                                                           6.4
rnteest during Ce.tructin                                                                         43
Sub-Total                                                                                   79.5
Oeratirn kvenditurse - MR
Direct Coats (2S FE - il        am n, plant and trerinal maintennce  nd supplies)                  -       0.91/ 2.92/ 3.1   !.3   1*.3   5.b   5.b   5A.b   5.b   5.           5.4.    5..   5.    5.4   5.4    5.4           b.9
h jiroistrmio  (40% FE - includes technical "sixtance)                                                    0.3   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6    0.6              o.6   o.6    o.6   o.6   0.6           0.6
Sub-Total                                                                                             1.2   3.5    .       O 1.9    .9   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0    6.o         6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0            5.5
O2   timg 8*edlturss - RFFS3
Direct Coets (20S FE)                                                                              _       0.5   1.9   2.1   2.7   2.7   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3    3.3              3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3            3.0
Track Re-1I ('.5% FMC)                                                                             -        -    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1              0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1            0.1
Sub-Total                                                                                             0.5   2.0   2.2   2.8   2.8   3.b    3.b*   3.    3.4    3.4    3.4           3.4   3.b   3.4   3.4   3.4            3.1
D btR Ser ice - MEE-                                                                               6.8  19.6  19.7  19.3  18.4  17.9  17.2  16.5  15.8  15.1   13.7    12.0  11.2               _                     1 3.1
M_t_  Servt   _     -                                                                                           1.8   7.7   9.5   9.3   9.1   8.8   8.6   8.1    8.3   8.1    7.6             6.2   5.1   5.1   5.1   3.6           7.2
Ditied,Sl.5, Sn'bodo-                                                                                            -      -    2.5   2.9   5.3   5.        55    58     61     63      7.       76    1.6 .7         7.1    8.        7.2
Dividends:  -to r foreign       3ldar                                                                                        2 0    1.8   2.7   2.7   2.5   2.9   3.0   63 1         7.0      7:6      ..  71 7         7
-     _ -    3.4   4.2   8.0   8.0   8.3   8.7   9.1    9.4   10.4    11.3  11.3  11.4  11 .°  12.2                8.2
Total Outflor                                                                                        163.2    10.3  32.5 1 41.2  40.6  61.6  45.0  44.0  43.0  b2.7  42.3   17.o             38.9  37.5  26.3  26.3  25.5          38.2
NET FOREIGN ERCHURO S1UCPtS                                                                           71.5      1.4  39.3  42.6  58.9  51.5  79.c  60.8  81.8  82.1  82.5   77.8    85.9  87.3  98.5  98d5   99.3                  71.0
I/  Purchos" of extra loccotives and rolling stock to axpand capcity to 15 dllion tons per annm.
2/  Imest_nt to expand  im ar.d plnt capacity fine 10 million tooe/year to 12 million tons/year.
3/  Ineeteent to expand   ine and plant capacity from 12 dllion tons/year to 15 million tons/year.
R/ eplacement of elm  and plant equipaent which mybe spr~ead ower se,eral yal
Foreign exchange cmto of inventwcy buildup (t1.3 millimonnea"r 7  1971-7r)w ainuded in  irect cets.
Industrial Project. Departmeet
May 1971






ANNEX 1-1
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
MINERACOES BRASILEIRAS REUNIDAS S.A.
OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL
CAEMI         JAPANESE       UNIVERSE       HANNA         OTHER
(ANTUNES      STADENG        TANKSHIPS,     MINING        NON-
GROUP)    ~~~~~~COMPANIES  IN.CMAY                    SHAREHOLDERS
61%      20%     19%                   52%     48%
,I i .  .......
ST. JOHN
EBM                        D'EL REY
MINING
COMPANY
51%s            49%
June 1971                                                      IBRD-5839(R)






ANNEX 1-1
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
MINERACOES BRASILEIRAS REUNIDAS S.A.
OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL
CAEMI         JAPANESE       UNIVERSE       HANNA        OTHER
(ANTUNESSTEEL &          TNSISMNNGNON-
ANRTUNES      TRADING        TANCI.PC, MINN              BRAZI LIAN
GROUP)   ~COMPANIES      IN.CMAY                     SHAREHOLDERS
61%     20%      19%                  52%     48%
ST. JOHN
EBM                        D'EL REY
MINING
COMPANY
5t %            49%
MBR
June 1971                                                     IBRD-5839(R)






ANNEX 1-1
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
MINERACOES BRASILEIRAS REUNIDAS S.A.
OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL
CAEMI               JAPANESE             UNIVERSE              HANNA              OTHER
(ANTUNESSTEEL &                     TNSISMNNGNON-
GANTUNE)             TRADING              TANC.HICOMI ANIN                        BRAZI LIAN
GROUP) N i 5COMPANIES                    INC      I            COMPANY            SHAREHOLDERS
..........~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ttt.
...   ..                  .  ......
619%        20%          1 9%                          52%         48%
ST. JOHN
EBM                                    D'EL REY
MINING
COMPANY
51X%                   49%
MBR
June 19711
June 1971                                                          18~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD-5839(R)






ANNEX 1-2
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
INDUSTRIA E COMERCIO DE MINERIOS S.A. - ICOMI
FINANCIAL INDICATORS1)
Fiscal Year ending March 31,                1969        1970       1971
($ million equivalent)
Gross Operating Revenues                    24.7        25.5       34.7
Net & Income                                  8.2        9.4       13.2
Cash Dividends                                 -         1.8        2.9
Net Working Capital                           0.7        0.3        4.0
Investments in Subsidiaries &
Associated Companies                      47.1        51.3       52.3
Net Fixed Assets                             5.1         6.1       15.8
Total Shareholders Equity                   47.7        55.2       65.5
Current Ratios                             1.2:1       1.1:1      2.121
Long-Term Debt/Equity Ratio                 9:91        4:96       9:91
1) Audited.
Industrial Projects Departme nt
June 1971






ANINEX 1-3
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
HANNA NINING CCMPANY
FINANCIAL INMCATORS 1960-1970
Fiscal Year ending Dec. 31,   1960    1965    1970    1960-70
(1 mil=on)   -         % Increase
Gross Operat  g Revenues-/    90.3    148.2  203.4         125
Net Income B                   10.1      16.5   28.1      178
Cash Flow -                   13.7       21.6   35.3      158
Net W,brking Capital           24.7      51.9   74.1       200
Total Shareholders Equity      96.3     147.3  226.2      135
Cash Dividends                  2.3       4.3   11.4      396
Long-Term Debt/Equity Ratio  0100      26:74  1288         -
1/ Excludes dividend income from subsidiaries.
2/ Consolidated.
3/ Net earnings plus depreciation and depletion.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1971






ANNEX 2-1
MBR IRON OM PROJECT - MARKETING !NIXX
THE OUTLOOK FOR IRON OREY
1. Characteristics of the Iron Ore Market
1.01    Iron ore is used almost entirely for steelmaking; its importance,
traditional and potential, therefore, needs hardly any emphasis. The iron
ore market has certain distinct features, whiah are relevsat in assessing
its future outlook. Moreover, the patterns of world production and trade
have changed significantly over the last two deoades.
1.02    Until the early fifties, iron ore was produced primarily by the
major steel producing countries. In 1950, for ecample, developed market
econonD countries, whioh accounted for four-fifths of the world crude steel
output 2/, produoed 72 pe:rcent of the world iron ore output (in iron content);
the U.S.S.R. and Eastern 1Burope produced about one-fifth of both the world
crude steel and the world iron ore output, and developing countries, ut..lic
accounted for about 2 percent of global crude steel production, produced
about 8 percent of the world iron ore output.  By 1968, however, fully one-
quarter of the world iron ore supply came from developing countries, roughly
80 percent of it being produced for export. Mirroring this structural shift
in world production, plus the emergence of Australia as a majo' produo3r fAi
exporter of iron ore in the mid-sixties, the iron ore self-sufficiency ratios
of the major steel-consuming developed market econony countries rose as
follows between 1960 and 1968:
Proportion of
Consumption Imported
(Percent)
1960          1968
Uni.ted States                 31             37
EEC and United Kingdom         48             66
Japan                          90             97
1.03    While iron ore imports into developed market economy countries
from developing countries expanded by roughly 50 percent in the 1960-68
period, each of the above three principal regions have different import
patterns, geographioally and commercially, i.e. in terms of the conmon type
of transaction. The United States obtains roughly 60 percent of its import
requirements from Canada 20-25 peroent from Venezuela, and most of the
remainder (15-20 peroent5 from Liberia and a few South American countries;
lJ  Prepared by the Economics Department.
2J Unless otherwise specified, the term "world" in this annex includes the
U.S.S.R. and Eastern Europe but excludes Asian-centrally planned
countries, iron and steel statistios for which are scant.



A'TRESX 2 oa
imports from Australin are negligible. The mnajor 8uropean importers1/ pur-
chase abouA ',i percent of their imported ore within the region (from the
miijor twe -urope n oroducers, namely, France and Sweden), 6-7 percent of
`- "Otn ianada, and the blulk of the remainder (38-39 percent) from develop-
ing countries; 60 percent of this remainder comes from African-countries,
one-third of it from Liberia alone.  learly 30 percent of Japans s importe,
as wellI as total  requirements of iron ore (.Japan produies only negligible
ouantitie5 domesti.cal ly), however, come from Austral.ii, 12 peYert from
2mnada, the U.s., and Sout,h Africa, and the rest from a large number of
developing countri-es.  The major sluppliers to Japan among this group are
Tndia2  Peru, Chile, Maloysia and Brazil in that order.
.o4i    (On1y a portion of internzitional trade in iron ore. is transacted
-rj a "free Piarket" in so far as that term applies to a eystam of eihanges
between -independent buyers and sellers on the basis of day-to_-day markset,
CQnditions and prices.  A substantial propo2rtion of,world trade is t'pw-
4determined."l Chief among transactions  hich fall in this group  ue -ship-
i.-nts fror xninea (soetimes referred to as llcaptive,!mines" by the trade) to
steel plants under coommon ownership.  In addition, a large and growing-pro-
portion of iron ore trade is transacted under long4ven -contracts of up to
20 years duration.  Generally, the principal benefits of sueh arrangements
are assuring a market for all or-part of the supplir s output, on the-one
hand, and a steady source of o3e for the steel imaker, on, the other, and in-
sulating prices against short-term fluctuat-ions.  Aooordingi oestitates by
the UICITAD Secretariat, roughly 95 percent :f U.$. iron ore  t orts come
:f rom 1eantive mines" abroad, mostly in Canada and Venezuela._/ Approximately
70 percent o;1 11.1. and -LC imports are obtained in the "free market."  Qfver
9' percent oi otapan's requirements, however, a-re imr.tortod under long-tern-t
contracts.3/  (Iverall, only about a third of :world trade in iron ore is
transacted in aocordanee,with traditional trade prac tioes in a "free market.
1/   Austri3, Belgiwai-Imxembourg, the Fadedal "pubhlJ.c of Gvvany, the
Netherlands and United Kingdom, in this oomputatiou.
T    D, Problems oP the Iron Ore Ngrkist,D/B/f*l/ron /T
A iearnlr ) C pereent of Fastern E*ropeAs ir0on ove impofts too we obtained
undar it:tergoqvrzrental a&"angewttse, wh*oh are analogous to long-term
orvntr:-e:-,s, maostly f-roii the Soviet Unien.
e.f  'Tne .c t, th L- such a large proportion of world trade is p-r lp-deter-
min3d' Yloi.s uot nmean that the ircn ore market should be Tegarded as
uzC)ori.petit,iv4.  The dqwnward rorlce trand. over the last decadq,... would
i;> 2.nex.I r ule on this asaumption. 14hare iie, -n Cact,, intienie compe-
t dtion, first to at-tract !iwestmiekn, than to conc:lude long4-enrcontractts,
wzd  finally, to sell in what mnay be *e*=ed the residual. 'free iaarket'.
'TUNCTA , Interlnational Action orn OMModities i'i light of 1ecent Oeve r) -
en t2a:  oTL   o    eThM                           /      pl,199
p._3



AM irEX 2-1
Page3
2.   Past Trends and Issues: An Overview
2.01      Though it faces sevreral problems, which are noted later, iron ore
is no-t a "problem commodity" in the common sense of the term, i.e. as applied
to some primary commodities. *World requirements and import demand have been
expanding quite rapidly; it faces no serious threat from substitutes; and,
more importantly, its growth potential is not stifled by an excessively low
income elasticity of demand.  NPr is it a commodityr in conflict with the
reqjuirements of technologicnl. progress.  Econom.c developiment and i.ron and
steel have moved and are likely to continue to move together.  Furthermore
and renv3lrkably, during the last decade, iron ore has experienced two favor-
able and interrelated trends not shared by many primary commodities- (a)
world trade h.as growni faster than world consumption, and (b) the share of
less developed countries (IDC's) in world exports has expanded drawaticallyg
as illustrated below:
Volume (iron content)       Growth i?ates
i.,gn- .1yi to V5-MT-fo-=
1950    1957    1968    1966-68   1966-68
TR-licn-NeTric tons)          praeWT
1V-orld consumption               115.2   193.7   326.7       6.3       5.4
t4orld exports                     21.8    64.1   138.0    11.4         8.0
.xports of LDC's                    6.2    27.8    65.6    14.8         9.0
Ratios                                  (percent)
World exports to world             19       33      42
consumption
IDC exports to world exports       28       43      48
2.02      Changes in the relationships indicated by the above ratios have
been brought about by several factors including the limitations of domestic
iron ore supplies and deterioration in ore quality in some developed coun-
tries, the discovery and exploitation of high iron-content reserves in many
developing countries, and sharp reductions in ocean transportation costs
resultingf Crom the introduction of increasingly larger, special ore carriers,
which broadened the sphere of viable, or economic imports beyond those from
traditional suppliers. As noted earlier, these led to the accentuation of
-the import dependence in ore, of steel-consuming developed market economy
countries as a group.  The notable beneficiaries of this trend wmong deve-
loping countries hlve been Brazil, Chile, India, Liberia and Mauritania,
wiose combined exports of iron ore (in iron content) trebled between 1957
aind 1968.
;n .03lost striking, however, and of immense interest to the world iron
.tnd steel community, have been the phenomennal and unabett,ed growth of steel
product-ion, and therefore iron ore consumption, in Jap=n and the emergence
o.l' Australia in the aecond half of the sixties as a iwior force, as supplier,
in the world iron ore market. Japan's orude steel output has expanded at



ANNEX 2-1
a more or loss steady rate of nearly 15 per3ent per annum since 1960.
Australli pushed its exports of iron ore from negligible quantities in
1965 to 11 mil.ion tons (Fe content), or over 7 percent of world exports
in 1968. Significantly, trade between the two countries expanded rapidly:
by 19&c8, 90 percent of Australia's exports wen-t to Japan., and one-fifth ol'
Jatvn 's import requirepents were met by Australia.  The importance of this
exchun-e in -the con text of the present annex is enhanced by the fact that
Japan obtains most of its ore in the "free market, if largely from deve.oping
countrles.
2.04      According to many observers, iron ore faces a number of problems,
s at.tested to by the convening and proceedings of an international Ad Hoc
ieeting on Iron Ore under the auspices of UNCTAD in January 1970. In fact,
,,he agenda Lor this meeting, in which the Bank was representad, was devoted
wholly "to identify the problems faced by the commodity" under the follow-
ing headings:  (a)  investments, (b) ocean freight), (c) prices.  The prin-
cipal elements of the concern expressed on these subjects at the meeting,
-ristly by 2?Tport,=nr  ooiuntries, particularly the IDC's, can be summarizod
as follows:
2.05      Investments.  Recent structural changes in the world iron ore
situation,Tsuch as E6e significant expansion of the volume of world trade,
revolutionary developments in ocean transportation and ore handling, and
new techniques in iron ore processing, iron-making and steel-mking neces-
sitate very heavy investments by the countries concerned, in addition to the
normal invsstments needed "in order to expand markets to secure new ousto-
mers and to offset the deterioration in existing mine plants." Investrmnts
should provide t"a reasonable return to producers which would cover: (i)
remuneration for work perfornmed, (ii) repayment of capital an interest,
and (iii) adequate recompense for the loss of non-renewable resources."
2,06      Ocean Freight.  Importers and exporters have not shured in prac-
tice equitabl7y from cost-reducing advances in maritzim  transport; "the
aenerfit3 have accrued almost entirely to iwporters,' s-nc most of the
export trade is conducted on an f.o.b. basl.  Mov'eover, most, of the ship-
ping space availnble for the transport of iron ore is under the oontrcl of
iLnporters.
-7   Irices.  Average prices, as measured by export unit values, hLve
I ,T s d   downward trend since 1957, steeper for exports from deve-
Loping countries than for those from developed countries., reduaing profits
Wid tending to ddi3scourage invotment in the expansiojn of production as well
,1; c;1a23LT_ losses in potential foreign exchange earnings.
. (O8     !ot, a'.u  participating countries, particularly importinC oountries,
atreed with 'the ar3ove assesement or the supporti   argu ts. 3pace doa
not    rerist .incussing or balanc.ing the diffring vie.        may be noted,
1/  l'lor a swnmary of the princ.pal argwmnts andL counter-arg=vwts prose'nted,
c;ee U;ICTAP ! t Of the Ad Hog. Deti    on      n Cre   TD/B/C.l/Iron Ore/l
i?ebruary lcz 1970.



ANNLC 2-1
Hage >
however, that some of the above lproblemr'" have lost their urgency in recent
months. Prices, for example, have moved up by about 10 percent since early
1970, following the steel boom associated with sharp demand growth ia Japan,
revival of demand in Nestern Europe and the holding out of conswption in
the U.3. in 1969 despite the slow-down in the econonvr. Further conmnts on
price trends are offered later.
2.09      By and large, the apparent concern  of both exporting and import-
ing countries in the future outlook for iron appears to arise not so much
front a particularly Ien concern in anr one of the above problems or from
fears of a chronic shortage or surplus in the long-run: it is generally
recognized that demand mill continue to grow, though probably at a slower
rate than in the past, and that exploitable world reserves are ample.
itather, the concern seems to be prompted by the following two general con-
siderationis.  one, the recent and continuing rapid rate of change - in con-
sumption patterns, trade patterns, transportation, technology, etc. - makes
forw.ard planning highly complex; there tre innumerable factors, some highly
technical, vich need to be taken into account. .urthermore, the vast
,anounts of investment required - for mines, ports and other infrastructure -
enhance the importance of such planning and of ensuring profitable sales, or
reviewing marketing strategy.  In short, the countries concerned feel not
threatened, but insecure. At the heart of the concern is al.so the issue of.
sharing equitably between importers and exporters or aimong exporters the
costs and rewards of expanded output and trade, progress in maritima trans-
port, technological change, et.'
3.   The Long-Term Outlook .. Problems and Approach
3.01      It is extrenely difficult to project wiorld demand for iron ore,
e3pecially 10-15 years ahead, with confidence for several reasons. A major
(lifficulty arises from the very close and firm interrelation over time bet-
ween production of steel (the principal iron ore constuning industry) and
economic growth as measured, for exanaple, by growth in GDP: rather than
facilitating the task of projection, this renders it more complex, for it
requires reliable forecasts of economic growth for the principal steel-
consuming regions or countries. A long-term steel forecast tends to be as
good a9 the economic growth forecast on which it is based. In addition,
while tho atatistical relationship between steel consumption and economic
,-rowth continues to hold strong in most observations, it can be argued con-
vincingly that demand for steel can be influenced by the atructure of growth,
i'l adtiLi.on to tho r,l. of growth, o.t. n econ*ry.  Iajt Yu  n     9oItTheiist, as
hhi ra.jnrity of the final products mide from iron and steel. are dur,a.ble
0oo0(1, Uc cum).;ativo leveJ3: ol' consumption tmnd to I)( 1i.igh1, rclevnmb, .i..c.
1,;hc I uvul ol't a count-amrls 11steel took" becomos one of' tho cracial mneanures
ol. U11S itij Vied demaM(1 !'or steel  'rhus, the role oa' the "steel ^3toc'cr?
1l,  T'hle J 'ev,_ Ind. c1i'upoi.i ,i.on or .y;o o ' the sicel 3 tck has n. bWaring on
the nupply ot scrr) and, there fore, on the dem,rnd for pig-i.rorn n3so.



kllhr 24
~X2
plus the ahility of otrong governmnts to inFluenco steel oppsu7ption through
investblt decisions imply that conoepto suoh as per oapita consunption,
minirnLi requirements, s:aturation levels  ete, - koy meiauures in po jooti.;s.g
le:,.. id -or 1'ood - tend to be loss relevant in the pre3ent ca:e,
3.0       It i.. possible, nevertheless, to exaiivino the outlook for iron ore
co11siupt ion c ilplnrohesivcly by attempting,  'or e_vuipl o, to esti 1t;e the
,ro'wth pot_ent,i. ol steel-using secLors or indus.tries (automobi1e, ship-
build:ing, coidstruc l-ion, etc. ) and their raw inatari;.l requirementa in major
cou.=itrics, but this requixes vast resour¢eti.  Sach exeraises au  carried
out, on a continuing basi;,, by the staff of the Monoj4Lc Ono;Lss9ion .fo
'aro-x,e (1?M), the Aiuropean EcoCn   Cor=nlty's Seoretariat and bir stotl
-terests and pl.o=ning autho.Ltie$s in indivdual courltriesa  IT  ordor -to
build on, and nriroOze the benefits of, this datailed wor}k  whet is done
below is, first, to arrivw  ind.pndently at ta rougl tentative judCint of
the i'uture trend i.n world demiud for onrde. stol. seaondl, to et         Stato furc
proi.Vct,in. ill tTi.pn, the largeot and miost dyn,=c iron ore xiport m;arket;:
.J-aly, bt-. D1>re darivi  at a fia  global eoatiz-to, to examine the iimLied.
re3idual production for l-he world, axeluding Japan, in Dlght of Iinom stoel
produck ion plans iaid possibilities in other xegions, Attent,ion i; given Va 30
to tie impl-ications of recent Japanese long-tor% oontraots.
1;.  Dema;lnd Lor Steel
4.o.     'ilorlcd crucde steel production, whioh at the glo4  .10    and over
Inng periods coin be consiadered to be equivalent to  consitption, expanded at
a rate of :.6 nercent per annum betwmn 1950 and 1969p, aWat4 to an aveage
annual inF rease of 5,7 persont in the index of world induat%41n. production
-Ps 10)  'rle growth ritea in atool prqcotion and the W.I,P, indexc in
the nore recent, 1959-69 period wre 6,2 po'cemt and 6,i  p*Utlt, resptAs
tively.  'Takin- the i.I.P. index aa a p3  fow  40o  gcrvea, #wwm2. eati-
rttes of tile inooume el"astioity of wotid doan4 for cotvde sH41  wV 0 capputed,
using both log-log and semi-1og eqations and obserrationn  f;v tho p_Viods
19,o-5, 1<5M.J-68 4nd 1929-69. The oeffieentq of determination (?2)
orbt. Ioe  r,l fed fro;1 ,966 to .289 (highest for thJ 1952)-69 peiodj Dog-,.og,
nd loin?st Lor the 1955-68 perLod, sni4olo), and the *lastia@.y aoaffiaients
varied from *-h to .98 (hi.ghest for the l956  perio4, 1 latg  and low1 t
;or t'le        iv;'     lricd, salsl-alog),
A 1.:eL conaideration in using theo   latiorhi.p  for etiattig
'utuLre leveJI s of ste.l cons.Wut;on ought te be ¶dm h of t.hm am tpv0ojectable
no't on onr O;n .t.tci  ti a.l,  -1t J10e  AUher, Qwnntitba4ve or qvitativ.  rrttnn 3.
*kor rozrvle , u-Anu1o)-_Afl.Y a strong came ecf be mzu3e, 'i prior   for worklxg-
-11, . dec3iiiri  o1 elnstAcityo whih imUlies that sateae ¶tion  Cow wi.th
indtistri-I nroduv.nirn, but with a gSro-ing lag,  JAh somw to havw l,  the
expAreience of the United "tat  ever the laat 50 eaern, 1J4.e  $:ognbi17
that world steel oonasi.ption iz the future Pwr indeed fil to rise an ;pidly
1hese ,rowth rates ae bawd an leAt.vaquove, g mstrie tr'ends, i.e.
trends .fitted to the log=rithm  of ta  d.ata,.



AJX"is0, _-1
Page 7
in the pn.st, however, in view o:f thc rela-tive shonir-.ess o,& the  er--od
cons'dere-d here, the huge reservoir of deiwmd in developing countries, tle
surpr-isin-' dcyn:-uinsr 0-  Tpanese demand, and the noten'i;-0l nced -Cor sockO-0
IPzve3tnet.2 (housing, schools, etc.) even in the mora cleveJorneO.d coLuntries,
t,cere do -not appear to be sufficient grounds for adhering rigidly to the
concept cf declinirnE elasticity.  On the basis o,Z the constant elasticities
prevf.lint- in the past 10-20 years and projections for ihe ;,.I.P. index
bs.;ed 0In recent GD)P projections ['or OECD countries by the  SCT) Secretariv.t,
estijmIaLors Or future world crude steel nroduction work out to 727-70 m,l3_lion
metric tons around 1975 aLnd 938-1,056 million tons .rounld 1)80.  To guard
against .' possib2 e upward bias resultiing from  . possible overestinmatioa ol'
the  :. . P. index growth, world steel production is tentatively projected,
rauther, at 700-750 mill]ion tons and 900-1,000 nillion tons ;in 1)75 -ird 1900,
r0spect5.vely.  The i]iiplied growth rate from, 1069 to 1,.80 works out to bcabout
Percent. ner annur, comparedi to 3.6 percent in 1950-39 wnd 6.1 percent in
195f9-69.
l.o03     The above tentative estlyna.tes compare with other i;ndependent pro-
jections as follows.  A comprehensive study of the tworld iron ore nv.rkut
nrocpred by the IECE in 1.968 projected world crude steel. production in 1980
at eJO million tons, i.e. lower than the esti:mrutes above.1/ It has beeni
recognized by the ECS and the majority of experts since then, howiever, that
the specific forecast -or Japan therein had, been grossly underestimated, the
1900 estimate having been exceeded already in 1960.  Another Uorecast places
world steel production .-t the end of -the decade at about 900 million t.ons.
f7i.nally, two major steol companies in the U.S. are reported to have forecast
a level of one billion tons for world crude steel production around 1980.
Thus, our tentative projections are not significantly out of line with these
estir.!-tes.
14 .°l    focusing on 0:p.panI, as .a result of the nhernomenaJ growth in her
steel industry, with output having quadrupled since 1260, this country has
become the world's third largest prodlucer of crude steel., after the U.3.
*nd the U.S.S.R. hiaving accounted for about 26 percent of world production
in J.,69.  Japan is, too, one of the world's two largest exporters oC steel
-nd steel. products, the otler one beiing the Federa. L'enublic of Germtrn,
.uoplyinlrg 17 percent of total. exports from principal exporting countriess.2/
This malms it by far the world's largest importer of iron ore:3/ in 1968,
it absorbed 28 percent of worJ.d imports.  In addition, Japan has accounted
.or 25 percent of the increment in world crude steel. output between 1960
/   Uniited T.tions,  hle Worl.d riarket Cor Iron Ore, 1968.
2/   I i 19(9, T;_p:trl ts steel exports wore equivalent to roughly one - Courth
oi' its output.
t   ,1~"T    P:tz.ioduces oni.: a mu)ll tion tons of iron ore, In grosos weight, a
lit,t,lc over one ncrcent c)f its requirerents.  Production has been
declining since 196.3.



A1tlin  2T.x, -1
and 19638, 29 peroent, of the growth in apparent world consumption of iron ore,
31 percent of the -rowth in world steel. exports, and nearly I',) percent or
t',a  iL  world iron ore iriports over the same 8-year period.
4,0j      The reasons for this remarkable experience in steel pr.oduction and
related areas are varied and not all of them are linked to -the rapid groaw-h
o0  the econony.  Special contributing factors have been (a) the partlicular
attention given to the location of new steel plants - in coastal areas or
near industrial complexes - to reduce freight costs; (b) extensive plant
and equipment investments, with low construction costs; (c) economies of
scale through the construction of giant blast furnaces; (d) lower wage rates
n those in competing industrial nations; (e) modern equipment:, such as
.C cnojgen furnaces (ID converters), and technology; (f) efficient indus-
trial organization with regard to the size of companies, intra-industry coope-
ration, etc.; (g) ef:lficient utilization of raw materials leading, for example,
to a substantial reduction in the coke ratio; and (h) ensuring adequa.te supp-
lies of iron ore through long-term contracts.
hx.06     Projecting into the future, it is often held that the growth of
Japanese steel output is bound to slow down considerably in the years ahead.
This is based on one or more of the follJowing argmients:  (i) the economy
cannot continue to grow at very high rates indefinitely; (ii ) the elasticity
of domestic demnd for steel is likely to be reduced as Japan approachets or
reaches the U0". level of per capita consumption, (iii). bottlenecks will
develop - in labor availability, coal supplies, etc.; (i3rV) steel exports
are unlikel,y to rise as rapidly as in the past.
4.. 07    IJhile these do indeed point to deceleration in growth rates in
the ;.ron and stee2 industry, they need not lead to too pessimistic expecta-
tions. A priori, the strongest one amaong the above arguwents is the one
concern3ng futuEre steel exports, in view of the growing restrictive attitudes
.Coward imports on the part of the U.S.,, which already has a voluntary export-
restraint agreemnt with Japan and severaJ Western L uropean 71Tpliers.  4ith
re,rard to the other argumnts, it may be noted that the lowest grawth projec-
tivyl :r ~r apulls CrT)P over the next -10 years is 10 percent per annTurl. A
'oW+!t 0o. thi.-s ordler simply cannot be achieved without further substantial
rr  in stee-T consumption.  1hurthemore, the coult,ry is believed 1o have
1 znenso hwelklog in roaids, housing., zndi othor pUiflic  investment.!/  Con-
sii irizovements in labor productivity anid economies in coke uise should
C se  t,he nr'h<lo0m or Inlhor or coal shortage.
l 02l    Th-ce -;icome el.asticity of demnnd For steel in Japan has beon
1!  ,TJapants per capita "steel stock" in 1966 was estimated at 1.9 tons coIi-
rared to 3.8 tons irn Franoe, 5.7 tons in the Federal Republic of Germany
and 9.0 tons in the U.S. It is generally acknlowledged that a country's
demand t'or steel rises rapidly until the level of the steel stock
reaches 5 tons per capita.  (The Daiwa Invest=nt ,ionthly, TolWo,
'lovember ]?1969, p.8).



AUnTNX 2-1
page 9
declining, though log-log equations give somewhat better statistical results
(higher I-)-2) than seri-log equations.  The average elasticity coefficients
work out to 1.4 (log-log) and 1.17 (semi-log) for the 1955-69 period,   i4hile
the elasticity nriy be reduced over the next 5-10 years, it is unlikely to
be lower than oree. As to the future level of GMP, exercises by private or
public research units in Japan project average growth rates of 10.6-12.6
percent per annum, while the OECD Secretariat has projected an annual increase
of 10 percent for the seventies., Accepting the lowest rate, 10 percent, for
GDP growth and an income elasticity of demand of roughly one, Japan's domes-
tic crude steel requirements hn 1980 work out to 170-175 million tons, com-
pared to 61 mill ion in 1969.1'  Assuding that steel exports, which doubled
ini the ]ast five years, grow at a rate somewhat lower than that of' world
steel consumption (to allow for the fact that demrand for steel in the U.S.,
the largest importer of steel from Japan, has been growing slower than world
demand), Japanese steel exports are estimated to rise to about 25 million
tons by 1980. Thus, crude steel production may be in the neighborhiood of
200 million tons around 1980, compared to an estimated level of 90-95 million
tons in 1970.
1X.09    nThere is greater uncertainty concerning Japants crude steel produc-
tion level around 1975, because of uncertainties regarding the tath of growth
or cyclical developments in the economry over the next ten years.-ecent
forecasts (as of the middle of 1970) by the Japanese steel industry place
steel production in 1975 at around 160 million tons, and huge investments
to reach this capacity level are reported.  floreover, this figure implies
iron ore requirements (in gross weight) of 170-180 million tons.  According
to one source, "for arrivals from 1973-74 fiscal year, Japanese integrated
producers have already negotiated long-term contracts for some 132 million
tons and with options for an additional 5j4 nillion 2ons, this wi-l. raise its
potential imports to a total of 186 million tons."2/  Tfhus, there is consi-
deratble justification, apriori, to project a steel production level of at
leastl350 mLillion tons ini1975,implying a faster expansion in the first half
of the decade than in the 1975-80 period. fIore recent reports, however, in-
dicate that the Japanese steel industry has revised its production forecast
for 1975 downward, to 130 million tons. Though the finality of, or the
reasons for, this revision are not entirely clezar, we haeve given it some
weight by adopting r.figure between the two estimates, namely, 140 million
tons.
4.io     Tlle residlu:0.- between the projections for worl) . steel production
.ind I:apancse steel production arrived at above works out to ,'>40-600 million
ho)s around 3.97') and 700-800 mi.llion tons around 1980.  There is merit in
I/   Tt iinust be remembered that consumption figurus renfor to apparent con-
sviapti.on of stool and steo:] products (production, plus or minus net
trade) and include the steel content of indirect steel exports, such
'Ls machinery, motor vehicles, ships, etc    No attempt could be made to
ex-mmine the outlook For these separately.
2/  I.eta-l FBulletin, January 30, 1970.



ANNEX 2_1
page 7 r
comparing these figures to independent estimates for the same area (world,
excluding Japan) prepared by certain European inter-governmental organiza-
tions such as the ECE, since the latter are based largely on detailed pro-
Jections or estimates by official or industry sources in the individual
countries concerned, which cannot be improved upon easily. The range of
these estimates is 670-760 million tons of crude steel produetion for 1980.
While the figures developed here (700-800 million tons) are somewhat higher,
they are not significantly out of line and, in our judgment, do not imply a
need to revise our estimates for world production.
5.   Iron Ore iequirements
;.01     The derivation of demand for iron from steel production is a priori,
rather simple, calling principally for a judgment on the future crude sreel/
pig-iren rati.o, which depends in turn on the level of scrap use.  Projecting
this ratio systenatically, however, has become an extremely comp3ex task as
a result of recent technological innovations in steel-making, which vary from
.zountry to cotuitry, the highly active) state of the scrap market, and of for-
mal or informal national or internqtional regulations affecting scrap trade.
The 11,'IS staff, recognizing the crucial importance of the changeable relation-
ship between crude steel production and pig-iron output in their study of
the world iron ore market, are now engaged in a comprehensive study of the
scrap market. lo more than an arbitrary assumption on this relationship
can be made here, The average arude steel/pig-iron ratio for the world is
projected at 72 percent, not significantly different than the average for
the last l years, or at the lower level of the ECE forecast of 7'?-75 per-
cent, Assuming, further, a ratio of iron ore (in terms of iron content) to
pig.iron output of 0.90-0.95:1, world iron ore requirements (in iron content)
work nut to 450-510 million tons in 1975 and 580-680 million tons in 1980,
compared to about 340 in 1968. It is difficult to convert these into gross
tonnage, since the iron content of world ore rtroduction has been changing;
but it is quite likely that the ratio will rise in the years ahea4d as newly
exploited reserves in Brazil, Australia, etc., have a high iron rwtio.
.4orld iron ore requirements in gross weight may be in the neighborhood of
o(Xl millior tons around 1975 and over one billion tons around 1980, cmpared
1;o ;-tout 64C million in 1968.
T'urni  ig,g J;O import  demand, the bulk of Japanese requirements are
1 >5to he m-e J throug ports, as Japan produces only negligibhle quanti -
ties or iron ore, which are not likely to expand. For the other rmajor
indus.T-i LJ atreus, nanely, the U.S., the U.K., and the european Coal and
Steel Gonmunilty, we have adopted E;EG Comnission estim-ates of the "import,
balance," which assume that the donestic output of the three areas will
-row by only 13 percent between 1968 and 1980, or conaiderably slower than
consumption. Assuming, in addition, more or less arbitrarily, that imports
by developing oountries would grow on the average by 1.5-2 million tons a
vear, and Eastern E;uropean imports to expand by h0-50 percent in the next
1' years, world iron ore import requirements (in iron content) are projec-
ted at 250-J3rs milli-on tons in 198n, oompared to about 150 million in 1968.



ANNWEX 2-1
Page 11
5.03      The projections developed in this section and the implied growth
rates are summarized below:
Actual         Projected            Growth Rates
VMS    1975           19Y        3-968-h0  1968-75
(mil ion tons)                  (percent)
a<orld
Crude steel output         512    700-750      400-1,000   .-8-5.7  4.6-5.6
Iron ore requirements.  341    450-510         580-  680   4.5-5.9  4.0-5.9
(Fe) 
Iron ore requirements   n.a.   (765-835)   (085-1,1550)
(gross)
Iron ore imports (Fe)     349    220-240       250-  300   4.4-6.0  5.7-7.1
Iron ore imports         n.a.   (375-41.0    (425-  500)
(gross)
.Japan
Crude steel output          67       140          200         9.5      12.2
Iron ore requirements      43         98          150        11.0      13.6
(Fe)
Iron ore requirements    (69)       (160)        (220)       10.2      13.6
(gross)
o),0}   It should be emphasized tha.t because of the difficulty of projec-
ting the weighted average iron content of future world ore production, the
figures referring to gross weight are very rough estimates and are therefore
shown in p-arentheses.  In fact, they are almost certain to have an upward
-ias, since the average metal content of irozi ore produced is expecbed to
rise, i.e. the volume of ore yielding a given amount of iron is lilcely to
decline.  Furthermore, as the estimates are shown in round figures, the
ratios between crude steel. output and iron ore requirements and between
gross weight and iron content are somewhat distorted.  Finally, the year
lO6A, rather than 1969, is shown for comparison, as figures for the latter
ire not av-3iJ ible for each item. As all series seem t,o have expanded
rapidly, faster than the trend in 1969, had it been possible to .ake this
year as i base, the implied Cuture growth rates would he lower._l
'. J3upply aund. Prices
f*i.l1    It is appropriate in I ror ore to examine thn supp3y outl.ook nard
1-h- rprice outlook jointly, in view of the close interrolation betwnen prices
tad :ir.nveaIrkrtnt, Invenstaent 'irid nutput,, and  .vtilahili lies - actual or
1/   IOr ex:nple, in 1[969 world cruda steel production andi Japanese crude
s-teel output ;rew by 8.2 percent and 22.4 percent, re3pectively.
Japaneso production is estim.ated to have r.sen  ..high. is 95 mil.lion
tons, by as much as 16 percent in 1970.



Af l 'kX 24-
ex7)ect,ed - -rnd prices.  Unlike with other commodities, where an aggyregate
app roach inay I)e adequdate, in iron ore t}le supply si- tu, tion needs to he ex;i -
- 1CO .i *] co.'lury-'by-covitry, mine-by-mi.ne, or project-by-project. IJb, i .u!.
Ge 'rA'l113c  ron  L'  Aliat, theoretioally t1-; least, otio cannot or olwhii V ;,t,
tom s ,  the possibility that a  Ihi;i1 Coli tjt  rruiy (i flc vr anc¶ bo] 'I oc
injg Tirge reserves and becomne a major force in the market; the AMis3tral iian
e rperience j  :i case in point.  Such a comprehensive analysis could not be
made at this stuige for the purpose of this exercise.  The supply rf; tu¶tion
is tierefore discussed in broad terms.
6. 82     iorld iron ore res;erves are undoubtedly ;npl.e r and constitute no
ku30 for co'ncern.  floreover, est:.mates of the inventory of reserves, after
.1lowing l'or depletion, have been increasing as a result of continuing dis-
coveries, as illustrated below:
Reserves          Potential Orese
(gross weight, bill:Eon tons)
1954 estimate                  85                  2/
1966 estimate                 248                 205
1/   "Potential ores are masses which, to be exploitabl.e,
demand favorable technological, economic or local con-
Iiitioons than those existing."
2/  Nlot included in the 195l survey.
6.03      The iCE study published in 1968 projected, on the baais of its own
;nalysis and estimates submitted by countries, a level of world iron ore
production (in i.ron content) of 60-585 million tons in 1980, whdch falls
siort of our dejuand projection by about 100 million tons.  However, it is
now clear that Australia's producti.on potential had been grossly under-
estImated: between 1966 and 1968 Australian output rose from 7Al million
.O'is (Fe) to nearly 15 million tons. Output is expected to treble, rather
th::.'n clouble (as implied in the ECE study) by 1980.  Austratlia's connitments
iawder long-term contracts to Japan alone for 1975, wnount to 30-35 milJ.ion
-onns (Yie cont.ent).  'rhere are reasons to BellIwm that past projections for
-7' nnuntr:iesz (such as South Africa and Brail.) have been conservative
also.  Though little output growth for South Ufrica had been anticipated,
t.his country hss been seeking a long-term contract for the sale of' 1-
wn; ion tcns (gross weight.) to Japan annually for a period of 10 years.
''V.'tl ;t' correct-ing Cor these "underestimnationFs" does not, raise I&Cf's world
,;unpl.y prolioct.ion to the level of this paper's demad projection, there is
'' reaso:i t) speculate that the additional supply needed will not be forth,
Ou: ing, assumiLg no major deterioration in prices.  In short, we do not
"%3resee a ma;jor imbalance between capacity and demand one way or another -
e"e requiring a significant adjusta*nt - around 1980.
Ni      (In (in the other hand, there is some evidence that expectations con-
eerning the rate of expansion in some coimtries or mines, or the activartion



ANNEX 2-1
Page 13
of certain new projects in the last 2-3 years have not materialized
fully. A major Indian project was started at a smaller scale than
planned. Another major project in Australia, one of the biggest in the
world, has fallen behind schedule by more than two years. The reasons
for this are numerous and include administrative delays, problems in
financing, and greater concern in tying sales under long-term contracts.
These are clearly interlinked: for example, the huge investments required
(a large part for building and infrastructure) has induced entrepreneurs
to seek secure partners or markets in advance. The role of price in this
connection, if any is not clear. It cannot be concluded, however, that
prices have been insufficiently attractive, since the last few years
have seen too, the simultaneous expansion of production capacity in a
number of countries.
6.o5    In 1969, supply had difficulty in keeping up with demand for the
first time in more than 10 years. Prices, which had declined by as much
as 30 percent in real terms in the preceding 10 or so years, rose by 8
percent in early 1970. It is reported that contract prices of Swedish
ores in the Western European markets, applying to shipments in 1970-71,
were raised by about 10 percent recently. The market situation is likely
to remain strong up to 1972-73, when recently started projects are com-
pleted and others reach full prodaction in a number of countries, par-
ticularly Australia and Brazil. The price trend thereafter is less certain
and will be shaped primarily by the following forces:
(a) The trend in production and handling costs. There is no
doubt that the sharp decline in prices, in both actual and real terms,
experienced in the last 10-12 years was induced or reflects partly
significant reductions in costs. It is generally acknowledged that while
further reductions are possible, these are not likely to be as sharp as
those in the past, particularly for the world as a whole, cost-reducing
new technology having already spread more or less evenly among major
producing countries. A key imponderable, is the effect of recent or new
investment costs and of future interest rates on total costs.
(b) The trend in ocean transportation costs. Despite the sharp
decline in freight rates witnessed in recent years, there appears to be
further room for cost reductions in ocean transportation. Expansion of
vessel size and economies associated with efficient routing are continuing
unabetted.  Furthermore, new revolutionary techniques are in the drawing
board or on trial. The benefits of such developments may be shared more
equitably between importere and exporters than in the past. Some exporters,
such as Brazil, are slowly building up their own fleets. In addition, some
recent long-term contracts stipulate the price for some quantities on an
f.o.b. basis, and that of other quantities on a c & f basis, implying con-
cern with the distribution of further economies in transport costs.
(c) The organization of the market and sales. A key issue is
the level of long-term Japanese-Australian contracts and their impact on
the market. It can be predicted that by 1975, Australia may supply or
undertake to supply 40, perhaps up to 50, percent of Japan's iron ore
requirements. As this level is approached, other exporting countries,
anxious to secure markets, may accept lower prices.  On the other hand,



A2hEJ 2-1
Page 5 4
Aistralia and Japan may beomae progressively concerned with their
mitual inter-dependence in iron ore and, therefore, more interested
in tradng with other countries or in the "free market." Last but
not least, Western uropean mills, already ooncerned with Japan's
apetite for ore, may, and indeed are quite likel2y to, enter into
long.term purchase contracts. Among reoent developmenta indioative
of this possible trend are two recent medium-term contracts between
the Federal Republic of Germany and Greece with Australia, and a
large long-term contract between Rumania and India.
6.06    On balance, these developments are more likely to keep prices
in the mid and late seventies on the average in the neighborhood
of recent levels, in actual terms, than to either lower or raise them
significantly. In real terms (in 1969 dollars), however, prices may
decline by about 10 percnt, but not nqch more. barring unforeseen
techno'logical innovations or international market-regulating arrangements.
Economics Department
February 1971



ANNEX 2-2
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
BRAZILIAN IRON ORE PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS
Production         Exports
(millions of long tons )
1960             9.;               5.0
1962            10.5               7.5
1964            16.7               9.6
1966            24.4              11.5
1967            22.3              13.2
1968            24.3                .7
1969            27.6              18.9
Source: ILAFA - Revista Iatinoamrioana
de Sidesragia, No. 125, September
1970.
U.S. Department of the Interior -
Minerals Yearbooks 1961, 1962 and
1965 (for the first thxe export
statistics).
Industrial Pro jects Department
June 1971






ANNEX 2-3
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
TRENDS IN JAPANESE IRON ORE SUPPLIES
Percentage of
Total Iran Ore Purchases
Percentage of            Contracted under
Total Iron Ore Imports      Long-Term Contracts
Supply Region          in 1970                   for 1975 3/
Australia               34.3                       46.1
south America           20.6                       31.3
India and Goa           18.2                       10.1
Africa                  12.6                         5.6
North America            4.5                        4.9
Others                   9.8                        2.0
Source:  Iron Ore Import 1970, TEX Report.
1/   Note:  Increasing dependence is being placed on Australian
and South American sources. Brazil accounts for 70%
of the South American increase, with MBR and CVRD
accounting for 40% and 60% respectively of the
Brazilian increase.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1971






ANNEX 3
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
THE MINE
1.   Iron Ore Reserves
Introduction
1.01      The iron ore deposits and mines owned by MBR are located in the
vicinity of Belo Horizonte in the State of Minas Gerais. They cover an
area of 45 square kilometers within the Quadrilatero Ferrifero. The com-
pany's properties contain reserves estimated at 1,612 million tons of high
grade iron ore distributed in 36 deposits; about 46 percent of the reserves
have been proved and indicated by 12.7 km. of tunneling, 15.2 km. of drill-
ing and pitting and the remainder inferred from geologic mapping.
1.02      Aguas Claras is the largest and highest grade deposit owned by
the company and will be the center of initial mining activities. It is
located some 10 km. southeast of Belo Horizonte. The orebody contains
over 375 million tons of minable open pit hematite ore with a dry grade of
68.0 percent iron, of which more than 250 million tons are proven. This
was determined by 3.8 km. of tunneling, 5.9 km. of drilling and 0.4 km. of
pitting.
Geology
1.03      The geology of the regicn is described in Geological Survey Pro-
fessional Paper 641-A, U.S. Department of the Interior, dated 1969 entitled
Physiographic, Stratigraphic and Structural Development of the Quadrilatero
Ferrifero, Minas Gerais, Brazil.  Caue Itabirite (iron formation) of Precam-
brian Age is the host rock for the Aguas Claras deposit. The orebody is a
tabular lens striking N1-450 E for 3,000 meters and outcropping at an eleva-
tion of between 1,240 and 1,350 meters along the Serra do Curra ridge. It
dips 300 to 600 southeast.
1.04      Most of the exposed portions of the orebody are capped by a mate-
rial locally known as canga, which is a ferruginous conglomerate composed of
rubble derived mechanically from the iron formation firmly cemented together
into a hard matrix.
1.05      The hanging wall is partly weathered phyllite, which is an argil-
laceous rock intermediate in metamorphic grade between slate and schist.
The footwall is moderately hard canga which is suitable for fill material
for the rail loop.
1.06      The horizontal width of the orebody increases from about 40 meters
at the ends to a maximum of 480 meters toward its central portion. The
tested vertical depth from the highest outcrop of hematite to the deepest
ore intersection is 477 meters (1,565 feet).
L.07      The ore mineral is predominantly hematite, while gangue consists
mainly of quartz and clay minerals. Hematite is both granular and speculari-
tic and occurs in compact, platey and powdery varieties.  It is commonly
fine-to-medium grained; in general, the finer the grain size, the harder
the ore.



ANVNEX 3
Pa-ge 2
;xploration
1.08      ThE  basic exploration philosophy has been to use tunneling mainly
for obtaining representative samples for testing. Drilling was used to
supplement the tunnel results, detormine geological contacts and probe the
orebody at depth. The grade and s-vructure of the ore to be mined during the
early life of the mine are based primarily on tunnel data.  These will pro-
vide a means of closely controlling grade and structure as the mine benches
are developed.
To date Aguas Claras orebody has been mapped in detail and tested
mainly on cross-sections 100 meters apart with 50 drill holes, 31 adits, 4
d-ifts and 50 pits with a total penetration of 10.1 kIn.
Sampling and Testing
1.09      The adits were sampled by continmous channeling broken into 3-meter
intervals for chemical and structure testirxg. Sludge and core from drill
hclas were sampled and chemically analyzed generally in 3-meter intervals.
All told 4,174 samples were collected and 37,177 analyses, specifically for
iron, phosphorus and silica content but also in some instances for other
chemical constituents, performed. Check analyses were carried out by inde-
pendent laboratories in the United States which confirmed those performed
in Brazil.
1 ].0     The chemical analysis program showed that the iron content of the
ore varied narrowly between 67.2 and 68.2 percent with a weighted average of
68.0 percent. The phosphorus content averaged 0.051 percent, silica 0.52
percent and alumina 0.92 percent with only minor variations between the hard
and soft ore types.
1.11      Concurrently and continuing to date, a substantial field and labo-
ratory investigation has been carried out on the structure and physical
characteristics of the ore to determine what size products will be produced
by the different, ore types found in the deposit. On the basis of these tests
the proportions of the three types of ore which will be sold were determined
ticr ooltows:
Coarse ore - minus 2 inch plus 1/2 inch                  15 percent
Fellet ore - minus 1 inch plus 1/4 inch                  23 per-cent
Sinter feed - minus 1/4 inch and containing not
more than 20 percent minus 100
mesh material                             62 percent
Total                                                   1(X) percent
1.12      The total product is expected to amount to about 83 percent of
the ore mined and the balance will be minus 100 mesh fines that will be
stored in fines ponds.    MER is actively investigating the suitability
of this fine ore for pelletizing.



Mu*SX 3
Page 3
Open Pit Reserves
1.13      The reserves of open pit ore in the Aguas Claras deposit have been
estimated on the basis of the following criteria:
Crude cutoff                   A minimum iron content of 64h  on a dry basis
and a maximum phosphorus content of 0.12!
Tonrnage factor                3.6 tons/cubic meter for hard and soft/mixed
types of ore
lining dilution                Norinal
Structure                      After passing through 8 inch crusher
Lowest pit elevation           820 meters (between 420 and 530 meters below
the present ridge line).
1.14     MAeasured ore has been projected up to 50 meters on strike and down
din rrom an ore intersection in a tunnel or drill hole. The projected dis-
tance is not over 25 meters when measuring ore blocks on end-sections, close
to faults or where isolated drill holes are involved.  Indicated ore is ore
lying within the projected ore zone which extends beyond the limits of the
mneasured ore for a .urther distance of up to 50 meters, as determined by
geological evidence. Inferred ore is ore based on geological projections
or judgment and includes the ore lying below the level or beyond the hori-
zontal limit of the indicated ore.
1.15      On this basis the reserve of measured ore is 152 million tons or
40.2 percent of the potential minable reserves, which are estimated to be
378.4 million tons down to a pit level of 8;0 meters.  Of the measured ore
77.8 million tons, or 51.3 percent, was proved by tunneling and 74.0 million
tons, or 48.7 percent, by drilling. These tonnages correspond to 20.6 per-
cent and 19.6 percent of the potential minable reserves.
1.16      A breakdown of potential minable reserves by ore type is shown
below:
Potential Minable Reserves
; 1 Or
Type of Ore      Wu,nti.Ly  Total  P,- 11  +10lM  -lOO0I0   Meas.  Inm.  Inf.
(thousand                      (Percent)
!Hard, mnssive        28,379    7.5    5.8   1.4   0.4   47.6   28.9  23.5
r(1c;WT! hard        65,030   17.2    9.3   5.2    2.7   45.2   22.0  32.8
U'[ediur sort         4G,2l0   12.2 i4.7   4.8    2.7   52.4   2h.r,  23.1
3ort or granular    235,288   62.2   12.7  28.4   21.1   35.b.  27.4  37.2
Ftlat ore              3,452    0.9    0.6   0.2    0.1   47.4   38.6  14.0
Totaql            378,359  100.0   33.1  ho.0   26.9   1O.2  26.j  33.5



AVNEX 3
Pa.ge J4
rThe stripping ratio, based on volumetric c.iJ.culation, i.s 0.18
cubic meter of waste per totn of crude, or 0.26 cubic yird per long ton.
L    ' itaJ.Thrgy
-troduction
2.01      Processing the Aguas Claras ore will consist of crushing, screen-
iing and clcssification. The technology for this operation is wel] establish)erd
and the proposed equipment comprises standard components. The processing
p'.nt is designed to produce blast furnace ore in two size ranges, minus 2
inch plus 1 inch and minus 1 inch plus a inch and a sinter fines product
t -& is essentially minus V inch plus 100 mesh.  Consideration is also being
ven to the utilization of the minus 100 mesh fraction as a feed for pel]e-
tiizing operations.
Previous Investigations
2*02     0O1 the basts of a classification test program on a large samp.e
of Aguas Claras fines crried cut at Hanna's Hibbing Research Labotatoryj
linnesota, in 1965 it was determined that a suitable sinter fines product
containinfg less than 20 percent minus 100 mesh could be produced utilizing
a sT)iral classitier.
2.Oj      In 1969 samples of unwashed and washed minus '- inch Aguas Glaras
fines were sent to a number of JaiDanese steel mills and one large U,.3. steel
company for s3inter investigations, These tests showed that classified
Aguas Claras fines were well suited to the production of sinter.
Current Test Program
2.04      To deternine the response of the various types of ore p3'esent in
the Aguas Claras deposit to the classification process a pilot screening and
c:i ssification nlart was constructed for this purpose at the nearby Ii.tuda
.n.ina. ()le of the miain features of the test program now under way is finding
a use efor the riiLinus 100 mesh spiral classifier overfl3ow fraction as a pellet
foed material * This material which amounts to 17 percent of the crude feed
is currently regarded as tailings.  Test results obtained to date indicate
tlat sinpJ.e desliming in a cyclone classification circuit reduces the alumina
and phosphorus present in this fraction to acceptable levels.  The deslimed
.linU.s. 100 mnesh fraction will subsequently be tested winth respect to fil-ter-
Ln{- hindli.r Pig :d palletizing characteristics to determine its sui,.':illtiy
-!s  pell vL fooid imiterial.  The data generated from this pilot plarib opera-
:.1: wil. boe 'v-..1 ble ror the final. design of the Aguas Claras washin  plant.
) . 'n fllflPl,
Pji. Design and JIining Qperations
.01.     The Agua5 'o:larts orebody is mi.ssive and outcropping.  It can thero-
.ar .rho re-dily nwhri.ped anLd prepired for open pit raining.  l.nirig opera-
Jn,s wiill ;)e simnil:ir to thoso used in r1os;t open pits Lhroughouh the world:
-mndi wacto will. li drill-ed a.nd blastod and loaded by clectric shovels into
.rc:; .i.'or haul tge Lo the plant or waste dumps.



AMT1rbX 3
Page 
3.02      As ore mining proceeds) the overlying wiaste Will concurrently be
reimoved. approximately six months in advance of ore min-Lng. FTater-lal contain-
4nn  less than 64 percent iron or more than 0.12 percent phosphorus is classi-
f:e d as waste and will be trucked to dumps located close to the deposit.
3.03      *vs stated above, exploration of the deposit has shown it to be
,'hirl.v uniform in grad.e and to contain a minimal amount of internal waste.
kut bec'iuse the ore consists of hard and soft portions, mining will be under-
taken 3electively to insure that the proper proportions of hard and soft ore
-.re supplied to the plant to produce the desired proportions of saleable ore.
3y stripping the waste 6 months in advance of mining, sampling blast holes
.nd perCormirng additional exploratory drilling, the various types of ore
wil]. be delineated far enough ahead to deternine where the mining shovels
should be stationed to produce the prescribed mix of ore types.
3.O4      Miining will initially be at the rate of 11.9 mLillion tons of crude
ore per aznnum to produce 10 million tons of sal .eable ore.
3.0.      V ining benches will be a minimum of ten meters high.  Fina l pit
sl.o3es will be 1:1, except in the phyllite material., whiere slopes wiC J. vary
accordinr  to the nnture of the material encouvntered.  Tlaul roads will be 70
feet wide to accoziaodate large hauling units and will he maintained at sim
percent Zrade.  Steeper grades will be avoided in the early years, because
they are considered potentially dangerous for laden trucks travelling down-
Oit fevelopment
3.0))     Approxcim' t.ely 2 .3 million cubic meters of waste will be removed
prior to the commencement of ore production.  This preproduction stripping
program is designed to develop roads and benches to allow access to suffi-
c:ient ore of the various types required to produce the desired blend.  Ini-
tially contrq-ioYrs' equipment will be used, but this will he replaced by 11BR Is
own equipment ordered for the project as and when it is delivered and assem-
bled.
4lning Equipment
3 .u      Targe sca:c equipsent, has been chosen Cor the min.ing operation in
order {.o reduce as Car as possible the uniL handling costs.  For ore mining,
tfiz  large shovels are considered the m:nimum for reliability and blending
nurn)oses.  *ith initial mining at an annual rate of approxin:intelyy 12 nillion
IoTng t,wri. per year, 1.0 cubic yard shovels are require-d.  i'aectric shovels
.trc cho.;(n, a, they !ire more readily available in this size range; they are
'I,so more eCCicieniU .ncl a suitable source of' elecLric nower is available at
o mrni.ne.  "or ore h1u0l0ae, l(X-tort electric wheel trucks were chosen as a
m:.i ch 1'1)r -thle 1( cubIic yard shovels.  These are the largest and most erCi-
ciolt. units with a proven record in iron ore mining.
NI)(    ,^'or tre str.ippiin,rg operal,ion smal:ler eloctr-ic shovels or six cubic
-,rd.'d ca.v-cill  ril.l. be used because oP'L their greatcr i,,-neuverabh1lity.  Trucks
o, '.-ton capacitY have boen se)ectod to mratch these shovel s.



AM\TEX 3
3.09      Experience with similar ore at other locations indicates that
9-7/8 inch rotary drills will be the best selection for ore production.
3.10      . fuJl list of the proposed mining equipment .is given in ALnnex 3a.
4. 'Lne Facilities
Introduction
1t.01     The Aguas Claras mining, ore preparation and rail loading racili-
ties are designed for an initial production of 10 million long tons of sale-
able ore per {mnum.  [he expansion of production to greater tonnages in the
-15ure has been a basic consideration throughout all phases of planning.
The mine facilities will be located near the center and downhill
fromn the orebody writh the primary crusher founded on ore near the contact.
The rexmainder of the facilities are located downhill and beyond the limit.
of the orebody. This location holds haul distances during all stages of
:ill niiig to a mint%..=.
4.03      The processing plant incorporates crushing, screening and classi-
.ication operations to produce blast furnace ore in two-size ranges and a
sinter fines product.
4.04      Stockpiling and rail loading facilities, as well as complete main-
tenance, support and administrative facilities are also included.  The rail-
road loop turnaround in the mine area is a part of the mine facilities.
4)W.05    It has been asswumd that all operating personnel will live in
13elo Ilorizonte and vicinity.
Access
4.o6      The systam for ore shipping is based on the unit train concept in
iw;hich the cars are loaded and unloaded without uncoupling.  Lo.ading is accom-
plished while the train is moving. This system requires a loop in which the
train can turi around without uncoupling the locomotive.  The area inside
the loop wil1  contain the maintenance shop, office, laboratory and car
rep.d.r.
1t.0Y     Access to the mine will be along the existing access road which
will he upgraded and widened.
ie  \re -r_paration Plant
flencral
5.01      'PThe Aguas Claras ore is fairly constant in chemical composition,
but varies physically.  Primarily hematite, it ranges from material which is
hard, massive amd thickbedded to that which is soft and friable.  Ac6ordingly,
plaLt l.'eed and thus the ratio of the three products will vary somewhat with
t iLLe.  In general, the equipment selected has about 20 percent excess capa-
ei t.y  hich should take care of any irregularities in the feed.



XkM  X 3
Page 7
5.02      The sizing process will consist of primary crushing, screening,
secondary crushing, final screening and washing, and hydraulic classifi-
cati.on.  The wash water will be recovered in a fines thickener.  Surge capa-
city will be provided in the form of a stockpile between the primary and
secondary crushers to permit uniform feed to the secondary crusher and down-
stream sections. The proposed process flow-sheet is shown in Annex 3b.
Equipment sizing and the material balance used in the plant design
are based on data collected from metallurgical testing carried out by MBR.
The secondary crushing plant and the screening and washing plant are designed
to accommodate future expansion.
Crushing
5.04      The 60-inch gyratory primary crusher will be capable of handling
20 million tons per annum.  The high first cost of primary crushing plants
and the relatively small increment in cost of a unit to handle the larger
tonnage is the reason for this. The plant is designed with two dumping posi-
tions for 100-ton rear dump trucks. Product size will be nominally minus
8 inch.
5.05      From the surge pile the ore will be reclained and conveyed to the
secondary crusher feed bin. After passing over a vibrating screen to elimi-
nate the minus 2-inch fraction, the feed will pass through one 7-foot stan-
dard cone crusher to produce a minus 2-inch product.
3creening and Washing
5.06      The secondary crusher plant product will be distributed over 5
screening plant bins. Each bin will have about one-half hour's supply of
feed and will service a screening and washing line. The coarse and pellet
ore products will be made here. The undersize from the screens will go to
the spiral classifiers, where the sinter feed will be separated from the fines.
5.07      Wet screening with spray water wash was selected as the best way
to make the two coarser separations. Alternative methods were examined, but
were found to be less applicable for this size range.
5.08      The selec-tion of spiral classifiers for the 100-mesh separation
was made from many possible methods. The major deciding factors were first
cost, ease of operation, maintenance cost and sharpness of the separation.
Tailings Thickening
1,.g     'The function of this section of the plant will- be to reclaim the
water from the dilute fines leaving the screening and washing section.  This
will lIc done in cyc)ones and a thickener.  The overflow from the thickness
w-0l1 11o rocycled to the screening and clashifying section, wi le the under-
flow will go to the fines disposal pond.



ANNX 3
Page o
6.   Cre Handling Facilities
Ore Stockpile
6.01      The stockpiles are designed to hold one week's supply of each mate-
rial. This is considered to be the minimum requirement haring regard to the
logistics of coordinating the mine, the railroad and the terminal.
6.02      Three rail mounted stackers will 2eceive the three products from
the ore sizing plant and will stack them simultaneously. The layout design
of the piles allows for future expansion. Provision for draining the water
from the ore stockpiles and reclaiming it will be made.
stockpile Reclaim and iailroad Car Loading
6.03      Two crawler mounted bucket Wheel reclaimers will be proTided to
reclaim ore from the stockpiles and load it into ore cars.  Only one reclaimer
will be operated at any one time, while the other will act as a standby and
thus provide a high degree of reliability in the loadout operation. The
design loadout rate is 4,,000 long tons per hour.
6.04      Loading will take place while the train moves.  The loading system
consists essentially of a loadout conveyor, equipped with weigh scale and
discharging to a shuttle conveyor. As the ore flows into the car, the weigh
scale will record the weight and give a signal at a predetermined point.
The official weight of the car widll be reeorled by a track scale.
7.   Ancillary Facilities
Maintenance Shop
7.01      A fully equipped maintenance shop will be provided.  This will
=include facilities for truck and crawler equipment repair, a general repair
shop and stores. There will be fabricating, welding, machine and electrical
shops. Space is reserved for an engine repair shop. Engines will initially
be sent to Sao Paulo for repair until such time as crew of meChanics is
trained on the job.
Laboratory and Others
7?.CI     A sample preparation and analytical laboratory, fuelling station,
c-zpiosives store and an emergency ore car maintenance shop will be provided.
8. Utilities
:.4ater
8.01      The make-up water demand of the plant is estimated at 2,200 gallons
per minute.  This is the quantity of water lost in the tailings, ore stock-
piles and in the ore shipped, during a long dry spell with dry ore froi the
mine :)id no reclaim Crom the fines pond.



ANTCX 3
Page 9
8.02      The process water will be obtained from a reservoir to be con-
structed on the lower reaches of Cardoso Creek, near Nova Lima. The reser-
voir, with a capacity of 800,000 cubic meters, will be forned by the con-
struction of a concrete gravity dam. A pumping station below the dam will
convey the water to the plant through a 14-inch diameter pipeline approxi-
rntel,y 3.6 km. long.
8.03      Potable water for the plant will be supplied from a flowing well
north of the loop area.
Power Supply
8.04      Power supply to the main substation will be via a 69KV overhead
circuit by CEMIG from their Nova Lima substation approximately 5 miles
distance.
8.05      The peak demand of the Aguas Claras mine facilities is expected to
be L1,000 KW with a daily average demand of 9,000 KW. The prime contribu-
tors to the high instantaneous peak demand wlll be the electric ming shovels.
Communications
8.o6      Communications for the coordination of the mining, transportation
and marine terminal operations will be provided through a combination of
government-owned and operated facilities and MBR-owned and operated inter-
nal cormuunications aystems.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1971






AN'EX 3a
LIST OF MAJOR UNITS OF MINING EQUIPMENT
2    10 cubic yard electric shovels
3    6 cubic yard electric shovels
1    33 cubic yard diesel shovel
1    100-ton electric wheel rear dump trucks
15    50-ton rear dump trucks
2    9-7/8-inch rotary drills
6    6--inch down-the-hole drills
2    3k-,-inch air drills and compressors
Dozers, graders, water trucks, loader
and other mobile equipment to service
and support the operation.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1971






MlNERACOES BRASILEIRAS REUNIDAS, S.A. AGUAS CLARAS PROJECT
MINE FACILITIES PICTORIAL FLOWSHEET
LEGEND
@ X    WLL                                                r Y t SoLlDS0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOLID',
ELECTRIC ~     ~         ~        -PIAR   FO
DRILL  ~ ~        ~       ~       LPR~AELfULP
GPM        ~~WATER
OLPAP TRLJCK  HOVEL                                                                                    ELO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IWSHEET B.ASIS = 12 , O0 LT PY OF ORE
A00 TON END   f fi   j    SENCH 10M HIGH                                       MINING AND PRIMARY CRUSHING 6000 HRS. PER YEAR
SECONDARY CRUSHING, SIZING, AND
WASHING 6500 HRS. PER YEAR
Y60$ P RtA ty                                                                                                                                      PRODUCT P   10,000,000 LT PY
)  ( CRUSHER                                                                                                                                      |       sMAJOR            PRODUCT -TPY
EEOUIPMNT      INITIAL        FUTURE
< BSELT                1- -__ITEM  I_, 00000  15,000,000 20,000
APRON  ,ODOSURGE ;P;LE   |         100 L. TONS  LIVE60" PRIMARY                                                                      I          I
APRON  URGE PILE                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CRUSHER
FEEDER                                                                             100 L. TON LIVE                                                              B'-0 EODR
EELT                  ~~~~~~~~SURGE BIN                    3'                                                                      6         6
ARN   CONVEYO                        APONSCREENS                                                                              -                   ----
| FEEDERS1       -C                                                                 -dJSAR FEEDERS  _ _                     0R7' SECONDARY    I          2         2
FEDR ,R,    ,R6Y!  1                         I                 .             CONE CRUSHER
/V/IBRATISCREEN G     jEMERGENCY    DISTRIBUTION    S                    6'14' SIZING         5          °        10
SCREENS  'STOCKPiLE                                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCREENS_-        B j T
84 SPIRAL
-9-s9                                                         CLASSIFIER       I    .     _2
~~~~~ ~~~250'9 THIKENR!2
\                   t ,i ~~~~~~~~7' STANDARD             LINE S    5LNS   i_0                                                    , 3    
CONE CRUSHER                        LINE 4                                      C               2
L   3LINE 23
5 - BELT FEEDERS   LINE I
SPRAY WATER
SCREEN.
STACKERS  3W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-YCLONES   TPCLLN
92 BELT CONVEYRTPCLLN
122C -37A                                                                                              -TOTAL oF 5sLiNES
STACKER           19
246 5Z    3 6
SHUTTLE                       COARSE ORE                                                LSIIER                                       2 C O07N Ig 1_9
STORAGE    CONVEOR                       29, 000 LTO                                   STACKER CONV 8ER       7             A                 P FEED 
BINS    COARSE PELET SINTER 
T  5 LTTEA.  RE ORE  ORE
3-APRON                                                                                                           L1 
FEEDERS                                      2 - 3UCKET WHEEL RECLAIMERS SINTER ORE
B LT SCSLE  ~ ~      'HTILETHICKENER
SHUTTLE -IVE 2-SUTTL                                                                                   OLowPLUMPS                                 PIA
C0ONV'YOR 2-SHUTTC E                                      EL. 790 M_                                                                             3L0P          FINES POND
CA S C_                                                                                                                                                  EL. 960 M
II                                                                  M2@  ATER
IIREC-LAIM
PROCESS       CESS WATER PUMPS                                                                                                         z
WATER                                                                                                                                 X
RESERVOIR                                                                                                                   8RD 5557  Wl






ANNEX 4
OCEAN TERMINAL
1. General
1.01    The Sepetiba Terminal, which will be located in Gualba Island
offshore from Ponta de Santo Antonio, is designed to receive and unload
unit trains of iron ore, to provide stockpiling facilities for a minimum
of three grades of ore and to load, initially, ocean-going vessels up to
the 250,000 DWT class. In the second stage program, additional channel
dredging will permit vessels of greater capacity to be handled at the
terminal.
1.02    The layout provides for initial stockpiling of 1,500,000 tons of
ore and allows expansion of the storage yard to stockpile 4,700,000 tons.
The stockpile capacity providing for uninterrupted shiploading is based
on several considerations which could lead to interruptions in the uniform
flow of product from the mine to vessel. These include railroad delays
due to slides and washouts during the rainy season, derailments, unexpected
mine production delays, strikes, weather conditions at sea which could
delay shipping, and the inevitable variations in scheduling of vessels
due to factors beyond the control of MBR. A special study was carried
out by the sponsors at the Bank's request to determine the optimum stockpile
size.
1.03    Additional engineering investigations, particularly concerning
foundation data, are now underway and will be completed before finalizing
the terminal arrangement. These include a seismic survey to better define
sub-surface conditions, current and wave studies, additional soil borings
and pier design studies. Areas requiring further consideration include
determination of the orientation and type of pier, the design of retaining
dikes, and the optimal stockpile location.  Arrangements have been made
for MBR to inform the Bank of the results of these studies as they are
completed.
2. Guaiba Site Conditions
2.01    Guaiba Island is located near the entrance to Sepetiba Bay,
alongside a deep natural channel which connects the Baia de Ilha Grande
and Sepot.iba Bay and runs between Ilha Grande and the continent. Availapble
naval hydrographic charts and additional surveys indicate that this channel
will require no dredging for depths to 19 meters. Dredging in certain
segments of this channel will provide the required 22.5 meters (MLWS) dredged
depth and a bottom width of from 350 meters to 600 meters.
2.02    The island is hilly, and mountain counterforts penetrate into the
sea. Sandy beaches lie between these counterforts. A land area of 579,700
square meters on the south and east side of the island was purchased by MBR
for the marine terminal. The property is located about 1,800 meters from
the continent shoreline and about 1,000 meters from Guaibinha Island.
2.03    A wave study conducted in July 1969 indicates that the only
significant waves penetrating to the terminal site will be from a southerly
direction. The Ilha Grande offers protection against waves generated by
the mnost serious polar invasions which, in this area, penetrate 'rom west



ANNEX 4
Page 2
southwest and southwest with velocities up to 25 knots. A wave generated
by winds blowing from the south at 25 knots, which is rather unusual,
would reach the south side of Guaiba Island as a wave two meters high;
20 knot winds from a southerly direction would generate waves of
apDroximately one meter high. The frequency in this direction is 10 to
20 percent (depending upon the month) but the percentage of winds above
15 knots is a small fraction of this frequency.
2.04    Tides measured at the island during a limited period of investi-
gation are on the order of one meter with a maximum of about two meters.
2.05    A considerable amount of site data have been collected and utilized
in developing the conceptual designs outlined herein. These data include
hydrographic charts, contour maps prepared from aerial photography, field
control for the topographic mapping, subsurface investigation and weather
and tide data. Subsurface investigations have included 17-borings in water,
45 auger holes on land, 12 test pits and 41 wash borings in the approach
channel. A second program of soil borings was started in September 1970
and will be finished in 1971.   This added information is required to
establish the final channel alignment and cost and the alignment and
design of the pier.
2.06    The 40-kilometer sailing line and approach channel from Laje
Branca in Baia da Ilha Grande to Guaiba Island will have a minimum depth
of 22.5 meters. Depthsfrom Laje Branca to the Atlantic range upward
from 25 meters.
2.07    Approximately 8 kilometers of the channel will require dredging
of an estimated 5,400,000 cubic meters of bottom material (not including
the allowance for overdredging).
2.08    Adequate navigation aids including radio communication will be
installed. It is anticipated that approximately 30 buoys and several
ranges will be required to mark the main channel. Approval by the Brazilian
Navy will be secured and the new channel will be marked on charts and pub-
lished in Notices to Mariners.
2.09    Radar equipment will be provided on the pier to monitor the dock-
us: speed of vessels and permit better control of the berthing operation.
I-)    T'o pxrovide the necessary berthing assistance for ore ships, four
tugs of 35 toii bollard pull have been included in the estimates.  In addition,
three work boats, one launch and two utility boats have been provided to
support the shipping operation.
3.  Sit   rearation and Land Fill
3.01    An area of approximately 330,000 square meters will be required for
the first stage of the terminal, requiring approximately 1,600,000 cubic
meters of dredged sand fill material, 600,000 cubic meters of rock for
dikcs and riprap, and 600,000 cubic meters of compacted fill. Rock for con-
struction of Cue dike and for shore protection will be obtained from exca-
vation on the iTland.  The sand fill within the dikes will be dredged from
borrow areas :an Sepetiba Bay and adjacent borrow sources, or it will be
rock excavat£ed from the site area.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
4. Pier
L.n1    The pier structure will be approximately 440 meters long and
27 meters wide, and water depth of 27 meters at the berth will permit
docking of ships up to 300,000 nWT on the seaward side and up to 100,000
DWT on the landward side.
4.02    A steel piling pier with a concrete dock on which a shiploader
will travel is proposed. Final design and alignment await the completion
of additional soil borings. Adequate fendering will be provided. The
shiploader will have a rated capacity of about 10,000 long tons per hour
and will be capable of loading ships on either side of the pier.
4.03    The deck will accommodate one traveling shiploader and a lane
for small trucks. Limited boring data to date (two borings under pier)
indicate loose sandy material overlying firm residual soils and bedrock.
4.04    Final choice of the type of pier depends on the results of
additional foundation boringu and detailed comparison of alternates.
5. Railroad Access Trestle
5.01    The access trestle will be approximately 1,740 meters long
consisting of 58 thirty-meter spans. The structure will consist of steel
pilings supporting steel girders.
5.02    Five borings along the planned alignment indicate loose to firm
sands of varying thickness overlying firm residual soils and bedrock. It
is planned that piling will be jetted through the sandy material and
driven to refusal into the residual soils.
5.03    The bridge will include a special 40-meter span for passage of
small boat traffic. A 600-meter long rock causeway will connect the
trestle to Guaiba Island.
6.  Ore Unloading, Stockpiling, Reclaim and Shiploading
6.01    Ore will be received in trains consisting of from 76 to 125
solid bottom ore cars of 95 metric tons capacity equipped with rotary
couplings. The locomotives that power the train will position the
first car in a single rotary dumper and thereafter an automatic car
pusher will position the train to dump successive cars. The cars will
remain coupled during damping at the rate of 37 per hour, or 3,500
long tone per hour (LrPH).  The car dumper structure has been designed
for a tandem rotary dumper, with the second dumper to be installed
in the future.
6.02    Ore will be drawn from the dumper hopper by a 60-inch manganese
steel apron feeder and discharged to a 54-inch belt conveyor. This will
discharge to a 5LI-inch transfer conveyor, which will traverse the end
of the storage area and discharge the ore to either of two 60-inch
reversible stockline conveyors.  The two stacker-reclaimers will straddle
thene conveyors. The conveyors will discharge to the stacker-reclaimer
boom conveyor via a collapsible tripper during staclcing of the ore into
stockpiles.



AMEX 4
Pa-ge- 4
6.03    The stacker-reclaimers will be rail-mounted bucket  ieel machines
with 47 meter booms. The wheel will be byauseed for staekin  and the boom
belt reversed for reclaiming.
6.o0l    Ore mill be reclaimed at an average rate of 6,50Q LTPH for each
machine and 'will discharge from the staclcer-reclaimer boom conveyor to the
60-inch reversible stocklinet conveyor. A 60-inch reclaim t.ansfer conveyor
and a 60-inch surge bin feed conveyor will deliwr the owe to a 1,600 LT
surge bin.
6.o5    An automatic sampling system will take a out por:odioally for
analysis of structure and moisture  otents an well &a to pz'o,ide sampler
for chemical analysis.
6.06    The surge bin will be desiped to regulato the flow to t4e hip
and allow for shiploader movements of several minutes dation without stop-
ping the reclaim operation. Ore vill be drai from the biA by an 84-inch
manganese steel apron feeder and dLscharged to a 60-inch surge bin discharge
conveyor, which is reversible.
6.07    Ore being loaded on ships will discharge from the 60-inch pier
transfer conveyor to the shiploader feed oonveyor and to the shiploader.
'The belt tripper is integral with the shiploader. The 38-meters telescop-
ing, luffing, slewing boom on the shiploader will carx7 the conveyor which
vill transfer the ore to the ships. Sach shiploader will havr a rated capa-
city of 7,000 LTPH.
.ot0   The  xonveyorB will be designed for 120 percont oe  thir rated
carrying oapacity. Standardisation and interchangeability of drive modules
are a pri:me design consideration.
6.09    Promision for future expansion will be made,, S iting of a aeoond
car dumper, ixtension of the tm  initial etaockr-feeder conhvmyvr   to about
double their initial length and the addition of a third st4aimr-f*der con-
veyor A.t_ associated stacker-reclaimer. A second shiploading syst4M Will
be added including conveyor train, surge bin and shiploa4r. A  this stage
i.re W:Lll be received at 7,000 LTPH and loaded at 1,SOo LTPR.
t>  !-ItiLately it will be poasible to deliver ore from both oar dupers
%:1 a t.Le stockline and simultareouasl.y reclaim from two otber atocklines
vo two !haloaders.
. Utlitties
7.01    Ai.quate arrangemets for fresh water, sewage  nd service power
si>tpply hafve been made, subJect to the possible    d for *Ai&tonal facilities
as desei f)ed in the ecological discuussion of Para. 4.32.  Ton houses for
~stervis:ry personnel will be built. All other of the 180-man labor force
ill roietde in nearby villages and commute to the site by a aall rail-bus
to be  "'a.-ted by the terminal.



ANNEX 4
page 5
7.0'      To support the train unloading, stacking and shiploading opera-
tions, auxlliary mobile equipment will be required. It wil]. be used to
maintain equipment, roads and grounds, haul supplies, transport personnel
anrd shuttle empty and full ore cars as required.
8.   Electrical
8.01      The aggregate electrical load for the Guaiba Island terminal faci-
lity is expected to have the following characteristics:
-  Connected horsepower                                      6,800
- Hourly average demand, kW                                  5,703
- Monthly billing 15-minute demand, kW                       6,000
-  Power factor for billing purposes, percent range          95-100
-  Instantaneous peak demand, kW                             6,300
-  Daily load factor, maximum, percent                       95
- Weekly and monthly load factor, percent range              10-30
8.02      Arrangements have been made with the Furnas for an adequate supply
of electric power.
8.03      The entire conveyor system between the railroad dump pocket and
the shiploader will be controlled from a central graphic panel. The con-
trol room will be located near the surge bin and sampling house. Adequate
fail-safe systems will be included.
Transportation Projects Department
Nay 1971






ANNEX 5
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
ENVIRONENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
A. At the Sepetiba Terminal Site
1.      The Bankts inquiries and on-site studies regarding environmental
issues at the Sepetiba terminal have been concerned with assuring (i) that
the choice of Sepetiba Bay over other potential locations is based on
sound technical, economic and environmental considerations; and (ii) thAt
all steps will be taken at the tenninal site to prevent or largely mini-
mize water pollution and other potential threats to the environment. Both
are of considerable importance since Sepetiba Bay, up until now, has been
untouched by major industry and is primarily a recreational and commercial
fishing area. Over the years various plans have been drawn up for develop-
ment of industry in the region surrounding the Bay, but none to date have
been carried forward. Thus, the MBR project will represent a step in a
new direction for the area and it is important that future options for
non-industrial use of Sepetiba Bay not be foreclosed by development of the
project.
Selection of the Sepetiba Bay Site
2.      MBR's decision to use a site within Sepetiba Bay for the MBR ocean
terminal resulted from studies which began in 1958 of a number of alterna-
tive sites along the Brazilian coast. These studies were intended to locate
a protected site on deep water where large, modern bulk vessels could be
accommodated and efficient and economical rail transportation could be pro-
vided from the mine site.
3.      A survey of inland rail transportation facilities indicated that,
of the existing routes, those of the Central do Brasil offered the most
advantageous means of ore transport frcmn the mine area. This portion of
the Brazilian Railway System was operating substantially under capacity,
but, with broad gauge, was capable of development into a heavy tonnage
carrier to meet the requirements of major iron ore transportation. While
this conclusion regarding rail transport '.ndicated a need to use an ocean
terminal site in the general vicinity of Rio de Janeiro, a survey of other
possible locations was undertaken over several hundred miles of the Brazil-
ian coast. The results of this survey led to the recommendation that the
Sepetiba Bay area, with its natural protection, deep water and accessibility
for the Central do Brasil would provide the most appropriate location for
the terminal.
4.      The Port of Rio de Janeiro itself was rejected as a potential site
on the grounds that both the Port, with its limited draft conditions and
inadequate loading facilities, and the railroad lines leading to the ?ort
through the city, were already highly congested and therefore could not lend
themselves to adaptation for efficient motemenL of the large shipments to be
made by MBR. Other sites were rejected on account of their inaccessibility



ANNEX 5
for rail transport or need for extensive har,)or facilities that would
have been far more expensive than those proptwed at Se*tiba.
5.      The Fort of Tubarao near Vitoria, through which the Government
Mining Compary, CVRD, presently is exporting over 20 minlion tons of iron
ore per year, more recently was eliminated from consideration on two
counts.  First, the CVRD-owned rail line, extending from their mine north-
west of Belo Horizonte to Tubarao, already is used to capacity and will
be expanded to increase CVRM Is ultimate export capacity to over 40 million
tons annually. Once the CVRRD export targets are reached, there will be
little excess capacity on the route, so that MBR still would have to pro-
vide an additional, totally new line at very high cost if it wished to use
Tubarao as its terminal site. The second, and perhaps more important,
reason was that the Japanese steel mills, which buy a large portion of
CVRD's ore and also will purchase ore from MBR, pzpressed unwillingness
to have all of their Brazilian ore supplies go through a single port.
6.      On these bases it can be concluded that from an overall eoonomic
and technical point of view, Sepetiba Bay represents the most appropriate
site for the MBR ocean terminal, even though this means utilizing a rela-
tively untouched coastal area. MBR's choice of this site has been
approved by the Brazilian Government.
dosed Environmental Protection at Sepetiba Bay
7.      Since bulk oil/ore carriers will be used for a large portion of
MBH ore shipments, the danger that oil slops might be discharged from
these vessels into Sepetiba Bay is a major problem that must be dealt with
effectively. Carriers that have discharged oil, and subsequently are to
tako on ore at Sepetiba from MBR, normally will have cleaned their tanks
prior to arrival at Sepetiba and therefore must find some means of dispos-
inig of the resulting mixture of oil, water and detergents used in cleaning.
If discharged in or near the Bay, these slops, which are toxic, would be a
threat to comiarcial fishing and recreational facilities in the area. In
tUhe past suecx slops usually have been disoharged at sea prior to arrival
at. tlhe destination port. In the fiuture, however, as national and interna-
+lonal t.gWat.ions on oil pollution are strengthened, it is likely to become
-,m..-;essary for the slops to be held until arrival of the vessel at the dles-
is. La4.n   -ort, wre they then can be pumped ashore to a slop tank or
.: : w    svilclity for safe handling.
j'.   1It iS not possible at this time to make a definite judgment whether
,ueh  rAs}hore facilities will be necessary at bepetiba Bay or an alterna-
V ,e arragement will prove sufficient.  However, at  ie         s request
.Wis suestiont 1i presently being examined by MBR, and agreement was reached
iuring negotit.afiion that, by the end of 1971, MBR would pipare plans,
tvasonab4yL  a>'.-epLable to the Bank and the Brazilian Goverment, for
&u) dealin  w iA oil slops from ships calling at the terminal, (ii) disposal
of soli.d waste and sewage originating at the terminal, and (iii) dealing
with acci6anr-i oil spills and minindzing the effect of any such spills that
might occur .. uia terminal or its immdiate vicinity.  MR has agreed that



ANNIX 5
Page 3
after discussion of these plans with the Bank and the Government, it
will implement the plans, or acceptable alternatives, prior to completion
of the project.
9.      Since ore will arrive at the terminal with considerable moisture
content, having been dedusted during preparation at the mine (see below),
there is not expected to be a dust problem when the ore cars are dumped
at the terminal. Even so, the car dumping facility will be designed to
allow the addition of commercially available dust collectors if they
prove necessary. The dumped products will be conveyed and stacked in a
manner similar to that used at ths mine. The ore storage piles are
expected to turn over every sixty days, but if surface moisture evaporates
to a point where dust becomes a problem, the piles will have to be sprayed.
10.     The ore that will be reclaimed from the stockpiles and conveyed
to the shiploader will be in a moist condition, so that no dust problems
are expected at the transfer points involved in this operation. All con-
veyors operating over the sea, and the shiploaders themselves, will be
designed to prevent spillage of solids into the water.
11.     The terminal marine equipment necessary for assisting vessels
while passing the approach channel, as we!.l as during berthing and deberth-
ing operations, will consist of 4 tugboats and a few work and utility
boats. MBR has indicated that it will exert all efforts and discipline
to avoid oil spilling by such vessels and to comply with Brazilian law and
regulations regarding ocean pollution.
12.     MBR also has given the Bank assurances that the physical design of
the terminal facilities on Guaiba Island and the trestle connecting the
island with the mainland will be carried out in a manner that will minimize
their visual impact.
13.     An environmental hazard not covered by the steps described above is
that MBR may wish at some point to construct a pelletizing plant at or near
the terminal to process fines material shipped from the mine (Para. 4.05).
While MBR s economic incentives to construct such a plant might be consider-
able, the potential for ecological damage due to possible sulfur emissions
and dust problems could be substantial unless adequate precautions are
taken.  It was agreed during negotiations, therefore, that MBR would not
construct such a plant without prior consultation with the Bank.
B. At the Mine Site
14.    Viasits by Bank staff to the existing MBR mining operations near
Belo Horizonte have demonstrated the company's own interest in environmertal
control. The procedures described below for dust and water pollution con-
trol at the new Aguas Claras operation already are carried out at the exist-
ing mines, exoept on a somewhat smaller scale, and have proven very success-
ful.
15.     Dust created by the Aguas Claras mining operations is not expected
to cause major problems. Blasting will create a oonsiderable amount of
dust and fly-rook for a momentary period, but will take place so inf--squently



ANNEX 5
PagN 4
as to be negligible. Drills will be equipped with dust oollectors and
can be considered dust-free. Traffic on haul roads may raise dust, but
this will be minimized by frequent sprinklLng. The main access roads,
and roads around offices and shops will be paved.
16.     The mined ore will be transferred by truck from the mine to a
crushing plant which will be equipped with a fan drawing air from the
crusher dump pocket and from hoods at the crusher and apron feeder dis-
charge to a dust collector. If necessary, water sprays will be used on
the feeder discharge and the ore conveyor. The ore from the crusher
will be stored in an open pile by means of a boom stacker and water
sprays will be used to control dust. This stockpile will retain ore for
only a few hours so that the ore will not have a chance to dry out before
it is reclaimed by either of two apron feeders located underneath the
pile whioh will be fitted with water sprays to allay dust. The crude ore
then will be conveyed to bins which will be enclosed and connected to a
dust collector.
17.     Tailings from the processing plant will consist of fine hematite
sand and slimes. This slurry will be sent to cyclones to remove the fine
sand. The cyclone overflows will go to a thickener, the overflow of
which will be returned to the process plant. The underflows of the cy-
clones and the thiokener will be sent to a tailings pond in a valley
below the plant, formed by constructing an earthen dam. A polyelectrolyte
Jqrocculate will be added either to the thickener feed or to the tailings
pond feed to the extent necessary to keep the effluent from the tailijngs
pond clear. Tailings pond water will be further clarified by, passage
through a filtering dam and will be recycled back to the prooessing plant.
18.     The ore products will be conveyed to a storage area prepared with
a system of underdrains covered with canga. This system will remove the
drainage water whioh will flow down to the process water reservoir. The
products mill be reclaimed with a bucketwheel excavator which will dig
into the pile and mix the underlying damp material with any dry surface
material so that the train loadout will not have a dusting problem. Piles
in longer atorage during the dry season will be sprinkled periodically.
'll# cucketwheel excavators will discharge to conveyors and thence to bins,
0) tadars, t. shuttle oonveyors, and to a continuously moving train.
.irg .i ro expected to be objectionable at these transfer points.
Tho water supply will come from a reservoir below the plant which
.n.'-1  e    te natural runoff behind a dam.  Because water is to be with-
.r....  with  ,  product and by evaporation, this reservoir will have no
;etw exvept when natural runoff exceeds the owm-lative process re-
.;:4rements s6nce the last rain.  To minimize erosion in the mining and
.pr.ossing gsreas, cuts will be fitted with lined ditches at the top and at
thes:r base, These also will drain to the reservoir. Fu\rthermore, the
nkdyliite c.j".s will be especially designed to minimize the area exposed to
-:    o ae vatesr.  Any muddiness that may ocour in the runoff and the drain
s t.reans i.s expecpted to be deposited by siltation in the process water
re serroir.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
20.      Sanitary waste from the ore preparation plant will go to a
septic tank Which will discharge to a tile drainfield. Sanitary waste
from the other facilities will go to an aeration type sewage treatment
plant sized for 650 people.
21.      MBR has indicated to the Bank that it plans to take appropriate
steps to control erosion at the mine site through reforestation and other
such methods. These also will minimize the visual impact of alterations
to the terrain that will be caused by the maining operation. The
City of Belo Horizonte itself will not view any such effects since it
faces the opposite side of the mountain from that being mined.
lndustrial Projects Department
Tune 1971






MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION   SCHEDULE
1970             1971                        1972                      1973
:Al SO|D J |FIMIA|M|J|  A  I||  J |F |M|A|MJJ|| ONDJF|S||                        I
MINE FACILITIES AND                 III 111111111111111111111111111111111111 II
PREPARATION PLANT                                                                               -
MI'NE ELECTRICAL SUPPLY                1                         111111
MINE WATER SUPPLY                          111111111111111111111111111 III
8
uJ    I
PROCESS WATER AND                          IIIIIIIIIIIIIIItII   IlIllilIlliI
TAILINGS DAMS                                                                                          O
MINE BUILDINGS                          11111111111111111111111                       _Z
TERMINAL FACILiTIES                                                                                   L011111111111111111 -11  o
AND DREDGING                                                _     
F-           ~~0
PIER, CONVEYOR TRESTLE
AND RAILWAY BRIDGE                                                             m  1 _0      Isis
TERMINAL ELECTRICAL SUPPLY
TERMINAL WATER SUPPLY                    11111111111111111111111              __II_
`LWMINAL BUILDINGS
m
x
IIIItJIiIIIlliIIiiIiltillhIIIIItIIIiIIIl  EN G I NE ER I N G 
F M-X&X     3=12S   fN    mmE!     k{lam F  C O N S TR U C  I O N                                         IBRD 5577






ANNEX 7
MER IRON ORM PROJECT
DETAIL OF CAPITAL INiESTMENT
(In US$ 000 equivalent)
Foreign     Local
Currency   Currency   Total
1/
I.  Owners' Advance Expenditures (1969-70)
Transportation contract                         31        128        159
Terminal and other approvals                     7         64         71
Sales negotiations                              62        121        183
Finance negotiations                           269         340       609
Preliminary design and engineering              87         723       810
Feasibility report                              20          82       102
Engineering contracts                          345         -         345
Total advance expenditures                  821       1,458     2,279
II. Mine Equipment
Min);g shovels                                2,631        541     3,172
Hatilage trucks                              4,883         671     5,554
Blast hole drills                            1,259         113     1,372
SMaU trucks and cars                            _          460       460
Electrical distribution equil4wnt               -          451       451
Other mining equipu nt                         613          49       662
Total mine equipment                    9,386      2,285    11,671
III. tMiine Facilities
Office building and equipment                    50        322       372
Repair shop and equipment                       281      1,1442    1,723
Laboratory and equipment                        12          50        62
Other buildings and equipment                   -          199       199
Electrical power facilities                     150        214       364
Utilities and oormmnication                     107        761       868
Railroad yard - loop track                     1.0        359       489
Total mine faoilities                       730       3,-347    4,077
IV. Pre-Operating Expenses (Mine)
Temporary construction and services             440      1,440     ,880
Site preparation (2 million ou. m.)           ,614 141437           ,0
Developuent stripping (2.3 million ou. m.)    985        1,943     2,928
Mine mgt. and development drilling              845        845    1,690
Total pre-operating                       3,915       5,665     9,580



ANNEX 7
Foreign     I.al
OurraM      C urr"    Total
V.      Preparation Plant
Excavation and plant sit.               -        1,592     1,592
Primary crusher                      1,393      1,760      3,153
ore stockpile and reclaim              111         367       478
seoondary oruAher                      424         698     1,122
Ore sizing plant                       131         976     1,107
stockpile, reclaim, and loadout
facilities                        3,932      1,1450     5,382
Tails disposal and water reclaim       221        976    ls197
Total plant                       6,212      7,819    14,031
VI.     Tailings Pond Dom                          560        330       890
VII.   Process Water Dam                        1,620       2s014.3    3,663
VIII.  Torminal Eguipmnt and Facilities
Compaoted fill and dikes             1,56i        977      2,538
Sandfill                             1,154        6&6      1,800
Construction and installation        1,000      1,589      2,589
Railway access bridge                2,964         836     3,600
Conveyor trestle and pier            4,780      1,720      6,5OO
Ferry and tug dock                     -            47        47
Dredging                             1,924         756     2 ,680
Oxe handling equipnt and
installation                      5,O12      1,725      6,767
Conveyors                            2,502        459      2,961
Water and electrical aystem            414      2,332      2,7146
Tugs and utility boats               2,300        308      2,608
Temparary construction                 530      2, 784     3,314
Shop and miscellaneous equipmnt        100        521        621
011 slops facilities (tentative)    3,000         300    J,300
otitsl tarminal                  27,271     15,000    42,271
_;# 'k MBR Admiastration
Ad1miIsLration during conatruction     772      1s277      2,049
Insur uece                             500        100        600
ToUai admini3tration              1,27;e     1,377     2,649



ANNEX 7
Page 3-
Foreign     Local
Cumrency   Currency   Total
X.      Engineering and Projeot Management
Mine equiprent                          180        260       440
Mine facilities                         390        520       910
Pre-operating expenses                  590        780     1,370
Preparation plant                     2,100      2,900     5,000
Terminal                              3,116      4,064     7,180
Total engineerinr' and             6,376      8,524    14,900
management
X2.     Working Capital
Spare parts                           2,700        400     3,100
Initial supplies                        -          950       950
Iron ore inventoriee                  1,288      4,312     5,600
Cash                                    -        2,000     2,000
Total working capital              3,988      7,662    11,650
XII.    Escalation 2
Advance expenditre s                    -          -          -
Mine equipment                          531        183        714
Mine facilities                          27        680        707
Pre-operating expenditures              475        688    12163
Preparation plant                       225      19863     2,088
Tailings pond dam                       104         60       1614
Process water dam                       300        378        678
Terminal equipment and facilities    3,029       2,895      5,924
MBR administration                      -          -          -
Engineering and project management      714        716      L1,430
Working capital                         284         48        332
Total escalation                   5,689      7,511    13,200
XIII.   Contingency 3/
Advance expenditures                    -          -          -
Mine equipment                          770        100        870O
Mine facilities                         100        330        430
Pre-operating expenditures              587        848     1,1435
Preparation plant                       200        961     1,161
Tailings pond dam                        71         42        113
Process water dam                       206        260        466
Terminal equipment and facilities    3,239       1,961      5,200
MBR administration                      101        110        211
Engineering and project management      600        728     1,328
Working capital                         -          481        481
Total contingency                  5,874      5,821   :iL695



ANNE 7
Page 4
Foreign     Ldcal
Gerrengy   Orrency   Total
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     73,714      68,842    142,556
XaV.    Interest and Cozmitment Charges
during Construction 4/                  12,600         -       12,600
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                8155_ 68,842    15,156
1/   Owners' advance expenditures 1ncurred prior 'to the,,end of 1970.
2/  In each category capital cobts have been escalated it 8% p.a.
from the time of Bechtel's estimates (June, 1970) to the anti-
cipated dates when firm contracts will be signed for provision
of the specific goods and services.
3/   Bechtel has calculated project contingenoies using computerizad
risk analysis. The basic cost oouponents of each-eatimate have
been segregated and probabilities of overruns applied to each
based on various assumptions pertaining to uncertainties in
design and price (materials and labor), The various components
have been combined in a mathematical equition showing the total
project cost as the sum or product of the various aost cdMpo-
nents. This equation then has been entered irfto a 'Monte Carlo
sibuulation program generating over 2,000 probable cost varia-
tions. From this has been obtained a probability distribution
which depicts the probability of various underruns tnd over-
riw.e,. The final contingency figures chcsen represent the
-;>:  which, in aggregate, have a 60% probability of covering
any total cost overrun.
1h./ .ITnwe.st during construction includes $Q.5 million in withhold-
ing taxes paid on interest paymnt pertaining-t tob& comercial
portions of the U.S. and Japanese loans..
Industr.i Projects Department
June 19-71



MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
ESTIMAED VALUE OF  IIITG MBR EQUITY AS OF MARCH 31, 1971
(in US$ illions equivalent)
EmLsting
Fiscal year               Auas Claras Operation                    Spns   Sponsors'  CcObined             20%      Discounted
ending      Gross    Opsrat     Incom    zquipaent   Dobt        Not Cash     Equity      Not Cash   Discount       Cash
March 31    Revenues    cost -p  Taxes      Reneval   Service   Generation    Outlays        Flow      Factor        Flow
1972         -                                                    1.9          7.0          5.1        .83        (4.2)
1973         -          _         _         _           _         2.6         20.7        (18.1)       .69       (12.5)
1974        11.7      10.5        _         _         7.2         3.6            -         (2.4)       .58        (1.4)
1975        72.1      41.3        -                  20.1         3.2           _          13.9        .48         6.7
1976        83.8      47.5       3.2        -        20.2         3.0          3. 0& /.2.9             .40         5.2
1977        99.5      52.4       4.o       0.3       19.8         2.9            _         25.9        .33         8.5
1978        99.5      52.10.l4             0.9       18.8         2.9          5.53/       14.4        .28         4.0
1979       124.8      63.7      10.5       2.1       18.3         2.9            -         33.1        .23         7.6
1980       124.8      63.7      11.0       1.2       17.5         2.9            -         34.3        .19         6.5
1981       124.8      63.7      12.0        -        16.7          -             -         32.4        .16         5.2
1982       12h.8      63.7      12.7       0.3       16.0          --                      32.         .13         h.2
1983       124.8      63.7      13.2       0.5       15.3          -             -         32.1        .U1         3.5
1984       124.8      63.7       15.4    1.3.5       13.8          -             -         18.4        .09         1.7
1985       124.8      63.7      17.2        -        12.0          -             -         31.9        .08         2.6
1986       124.8      63.7       17.4      1.2       11.2          -             -         31.3        .06         1.9
1967       124.8      63.7       17.5      0.9                     -             - _42.7               .05         2.1
1988       124.8      63.7       18.0      0.3          _-                       -         42.8        .05         2.1
1989       124.8      63.7       19.6      0.5          -          -             -         41.0        .04         1.6
I.    Discounted Present Value of Future Net Cash Flow                           45.3
II.   Estimated Cash Value of Surface Land Ouned by Group - 27,648 ha.            5.5
III.  Estimated Cash Value of Cultivated Eucalyptus Forest                        1.5
ESTMuTED TOTAL VALUJE OF MBR EQUITI                   52.3 
1/ Excluding depreciation and interest.                                  TO
T/ Expansion to 12 million tons from retained earnings.
37  Expansion to 15 million tons from retained earnings.
Indu3trial Projecti Department
I)V 1Q 1






ANNEX 9 -1
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
EQUIPMENT TO BE FINANCED Br WORID BANK
ON BASIS On  PELIMINARYf JSTIMUTOS
(T-I US$ thousands equivalenIT
Item                               Cost2/
(1)  Rubber tired bulldozers                                   334
(2) D7 Class bulldozers                                        186
(3) D8 Class bulldozers                                        104
(4) 3 CY front end loader                                       73
(5)  6&'1 Blast hole drill                                     921
(6)  3½" Air drill                                             145
(7)  45 Ton mobile crane                                       129
(8)  60" x 89" Gyratory crusher                                643
(9) Apron feeders (various)                                    641
(10) Bridge cranes                                              245
(11)  Conveyors, belts and miscellaneous                      2,303
(12)  Dust collectors                                            23
(13) Water pumps                                                195
(14)  7' Cone crusher                                           332
(15)  Vibrating screens                                         117
(16)  Belt feeder                                                36
(17)  Screw classifiers                                         190
(18)  Thickener mechanism                                       172
(19) Cyclones                                                    51
(20) Chlorinator                                                  7
(21) Tripper and traveling stacker                            1,0o45
(22)  Bucket-wheel reclaimer (crawler)                        1,713
(23) Railroad car puller                                         54
(24) Track scale                                                149
(25) Miscellaneous mechanical equipment                         170
(26)  Communication equipment mine and terlnual                 283
(27) Shiploader                                              1,390
(2b) Rotary car dumper                                        1,051
(29)  Bucketwheel stacker-reclaimer                           4,528
(30) D8 Class bulldozer                                         113
(31)  Front end loader                                           73
(32)  Locomotive and railroad cars                              420
(33)  Tugs 2,000 hp                                           3,257
(34)  Launch, work and utility boats                            186
(35) Apron feeders                                              237
(36) Dust collectors                                             11
(37)  Pumps                                                      12
(38) Office and shop equipment (mine and terminal)            1,734
(39) Elect. and instru. equip. (mine and terminal)            2,088
Total                                             25,361
1/ Including escalation and contingency.
LndusLrial Projects Department
June 1971



ANJ 9-2
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS TO BE FINANCED BY iORLD BAIiK
ON BASIS OF PRZJJIJAR  ISTIMAT
(In VS$ thioiwands equivalent)
item                                  cost
(1)  Struotua  sAwl                              400
(2)  Steel plate vork                            69
(3)   Pipe, valves, fittings                      607
(4)  Wire and cable                             1,330
(5)  Rails (for mine and terminal)               400
3,366
Escalation                                  417
Contingency                                 290
Total                                4$073
Ind.i trial Projects Department
June 1971



ANNEX 9 -3
MBR IRON ORL PROJECT
COMPUTATION OF PROBABLE FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTENT
OF INTERNAMIONALLr-BID CIVIL WORKS THAT CAN B  FINACE  BY THE BAK
ON  bIS- OF PRELIMINAI ESTIMATES
Foreign
Contract Packages To Be Let            tocal    Foreign   Total    Exchange
Under World-Wide Competitin !Cot Cos  Costs/ costs    Portion
(In-=  millions equieIii't)  (percent)
Mine
Site preparation                     1,964    1,588     3,552       45
Mine access roads           .477                742     1,219       61
Inner-mine roads and drainage          926      331     1,257       26
Tailings pond dam                      517      650     1,167       56
Process water dam                    3,201    1,606     4,807       33
Total mine                        7,085    4,917    12,002      41
Terminal
Site preparation                     1,745    1,974     3,719       53
Sand fill                            1,157    1,191     2,348       51
Dredging                               987    2,509     3,496       72
Railway access bridge                1,610    1,839     3,449       53
Conveyor trestle and pier            3,268    5,210     8,478       61
Total terminal                    8,767   12,723    21,490       62
GRAND TOTAL                      15,852   17,640    33.492       5 W
1/  This list includes only those paokages that, in the judgment of the
Bank, are most likely to attract meaningful international competition.
-/ Assuming that 50% of each oontract package idll be won by Brazilian
firms except: Dredging-100% foreign; Inner-nine roads and drainage-
100% Brazilian. Foreign exchange components therefore do not agree
entirely with Annex 7 in vhioh foreign exchange estimates were based on
the assumption that Brazilian contractors and suppliers would be less
oompetitive, thus indicating the maximum foreign exchange outflow likely
to be incurred during construction. Here an attempt has been made to
keep the foreign exohange.component to the lowest likely level so as to
assure that the fraction of civil works ultimately financed by the Bank
does not exceed actual foreign exchange expenditures.
3/ Including contingencies and escalation.
1/ Approximately 33% of total projeot civil works.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1971






ANNEX 10
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Fiscal          Quarter Ending          Estimated            Estimated
year                                   DTiaursemret        Amount Undisbursed
1971/72         September 1971             -                    50.0
December 1971            3.0                   47.0
March 1972               4.0                    3.0
June 1972                5,0                   3B.0
1972/73         September 1972            5.0                   33.0
December 1972             7,0                  26.0
March 1973               8.0                   18.0
June 1973                8.0                   10.r
Jue17
1973/74         September 1973            6.0                    4.0
December 1973            3.0                    1.0
March 1974               1.0
June 1974
10.0
Expected Date of Loan Effectiveness - September 30, 1970
Closing Date - December 30, 1976
Industrial Projects Department
June 1971






ANNEX 11
MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
ORE SALES
1. Ore Sales Contracts
1.01    MBR has signed three long-term sales agreements, as summarized
below:
MBR Long-Term Sales
(wet long ton basis)
Average                                       Anual
F.O.B.  Oct.73-Mar.74   Apr.74-Mar.75   from APr1i  75
Buyer       Price   Sales Revenues  Sales Revenues  SeI     RevenusE
-  /LTT (U$  m7iI- (mil- (C mS mil-  T    Cui3-
lion   lion)    lion  lion)      lion  lion)
LT)            LT)              LT)
Japanese Steel
Companies 1/    8.16    1.0      8.2     6.2    50.6      7.3     59.6
British Steel
Corporation     8.37    0.3      2.5     1.1      9.2     1.3     10.9
Sociedad Mixta
Siderurgia     10.50    0.3      3.2     0.7      7.4     0.7      7.4
Argentina
(SOMISA)
Total         8.38    1.6    13.9      8.0    67.2      9.3     77.9
1/  Nippon Steel Corporation (46.4% of total), Nippon Kokan Kabushiki
Kaisha (16.4%), Sumitomo Metal Industries (16.4%), Kawasaki Steel
Corporation (16.4%), Kobe Steel Corporation (2.2%), Nisehin Steel
Company (2.2%).
1.02    The Japanese agreement, which was approved by the Brazilian
Government in December, 1970, covers sales of 105 million dry tons at
the basic rate of 7 million dry tons (7.3 million wet tons) per annum
and extnds through March 1989.
1.03    The British Steel Corporation contract has not been drawn up,
but a basic agreement has been signed defining the sales terms and providing
for final agreement during 1971. The contract will be of unlimited
duration, with provision for termination by either party, upon two years
notice, after 1986. Total sales over the minimum agreement period wiUl
be approximately 17 million tons at the basic rate of 1.3 million tons
per annum.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
1.04    The Argentine Contract is an extension of an existing agreement
between CMN, a St. John D'el Rey subsidiary (Para. 2.03), and SOMISA by
which :60,000 tons of ore are shipped annually through the port of Rio
de Janeiro. The sponsors plan to shift most of this tonnage, plus the
additional 250,000 tons provided in the new contract, to the new terminal
a' Sepetiba.  The contract extends until the end of 1975, with provision
for a five-year extension at the same basic rate of 700,000 tons per annum.
To the extent that this arrangement is not as firm as the Japanese and
British contracts, the minimum long-term sales base for NBR can be con-
sidered 8.6 million tons, comprised of sales to the latter two only.
1.Ov    The Japanese contract provides for periodic revision of the ore
pr-ce in light of changing iron ore market conditions.  Negotiation of the
first revision will take place in mid-1976 and the new price will go into
effect in April 1977, with subsequent revisions every four years thereafter
for the life of the contract. The agreed price range for each revision
period is 16% above or 4% below the standard price that applied in the
previous period, except for the final period when the range is plus or minus
1!%. Over the 151-year contract life, the price can be increased by as
much as 56% but cannot be reduced by more than 23%. In addition, the
mechardics set forth for the price revisions make it likely that the price
paid by the Japanese will rise faster or fall slower than long-term changes
iii world market prices. The overall effect on MBR promises to be very
favorable, allowing them to recoup, at least in part, any real operating
cost increases that might be incurred.
1.o6    Both the SONISA and British Steel agreements provide for price
revision every two years, the allowable range for the former being 5%
above or below the price applicable to the previous period. The range for
the British Steel contract has not been specified yet, but is likely to
be similar.
1.07    The Japanese and SCQISA contracts allow the buyers, at their
option, to vary actual off-take in any one year by plus or minus 10%,
pro viding cilztable prior notice is given to NBR. A similar arrangement is
exFected for the British Steel contract.
.*03    In the Japanese case, however, the buyer cannot reduce the quantity
-ieaa-ed bvy mcre than an aggregate of 15% in any two years of each four-year
*.t4 . a(i.e. rt, to 10 % in one year and 5% in the next). In addition, the
jua-:ty of decrease must be made up within the same four-year period so that
,the agre_ate taken over four years remains the same as it would have been
if the buyer's option had not been exercised.  Thus, over the life of the
roject, there tan be no gross revenue reductions due to demand fluctuations,
barring Force Majeure.
1 C09    During the first two full years of production, April 1974-March 1976,
t-he Vlapanes have been given a further concession, allowing them to reduce
osf-take b) 300,000 tons per annum, but only on the condition that the
reduction wiil be made up by 1980.
1. if    Ove- the long term, volume variations of the type described above
are unlike!y to have any great effect on the financial condition of MBR,
particular!yL since any decreases under the Japanese contract, which is by



ANN  .11
Page 23
far the ast 1mportant,  at be made up ia later years.
2. Spot Sales
2.01    MBR plans to reserve at least 700,,000 wet long tons of annual
production for spot sales so as to take advantage of the most favorable
world market conditions existing at any one time. It is not an-,4cipated
that it will have any trouble disposing of those amounts, assuming, of
course, stability in the world iron ore market. Together with the sales
already fixed under contract, spot sales will bring total annual sales
up to the initial target level of 10 million tons.
3. Sales bbxpansion Beyond 10 Million Tons per Annum
3.01    MBR sales from the Aguas Claras mine are expected to exceed 10
million tons not long after the beginning of operations. Preliminary
discussions have been held with French and Italian companies on sales to
each country of 500,000 tons per annum under 12-year contracts. Consum-
mation of these agreements is expected during 1971. In addition, the
Japanese steel companies have indicated to MBR that they wish to shar
in any expansion of production. No proportions have yet been indicated,
but with the Japanese buyers also being shareholders in MBR, inoreases in
their future off-take are expeoted to be substantial.
3.02    Initial sales expansion is expected to occur in two ways. First
is the sale of minus 100 mesh fines (pellet feed) that will be produced
at the rate of approximately 1.9 million tons for every 10 million tons
of product. As indicated in Annex 3, these fines will be stockpiled
initially; but it is anticipated that they eventmally mill be sold,
either as fines or as cold-bonded pellets. Assuming the former case, an
FOB sales price of $7.00-7.50 per ton is probable, yielding NBR as imch
as $:3-14 million in additional revenues. Because these fines will be
produced anyway, the incremental costs of their sale will consist only
of rail freight and handling costs at the mine and terminal. Profit mar-
gins, therefore, will be very high, giving NBR substantial incentives to
begin fines sales as soon as possible.
3.03    Further sales increases during the early stages are anticipated
from improved utilization of equipment and personnel. The sponsors expect
to be able to increase total production to 15 million tons per annum, in-
cluding fines, with only a small increase in fixed investment. The
resulting effects on projeot profitability are examined in Annex 13.
4. Sales Coiiissions
4.o0    Eeropt for the Japanese ore contract, MBR sales receipts wiLl be
channeled through one or more off-shore subsidiaries which will act as
sales agents on behalf of the Brazilian company. This is the practLee
currently being followed by the individual companies being oonsoliQated
into MBR. According to the sponsors, up to 3% of sales receipts normally



are taken by the off-shore ocmpazy, and the balance is trawf.rrd to
Brasil. Th  awUbt withheld allot cowrage of out-of-"~  ovum
sales expenditure., including paymnt  to indvidaal agenrs in the
countries In   th  Sales origizate.  Suh a----r_te hav to be
approved by the Brasilian echange control authoritles, givig  dqiet.
protection to the B&4ts,  ioUrosts,
Industrial Projects Departhent
June 1971



NBR IRDN CRE PROJECT
AVERAGE OPERATING CCB TS FOR AGUAS CLIRAS OPERATIONS'
BASE EROJECT WITH SALES BUILDUP TO 10 MILLION TONS PER YEAR
(In US$ millions equivalent)
Administration        Freight                             Annual
erating            Maintenance         and Supervision       Taxes &      Total      Total       Grand       Unit
Labor   Supplies    Labor    Suplies        or      upplies    Insurance    Labor    Supplies    Total          Cost
Mining                                     0.2       4.6        0.1         1.0       0.1          -             -        0.4         5.6         6.o       o.60
Ore Preparation                           0.2        3.4        0.1                   0.1          -             -        0.4         3.4         3.8       0.38
Technical Assistance-/                      -         -          -                    0.3          -             -        0.3          -          0.3       0.03
Y:ine and Plant Administration              .-                                        0.8         0.7            -        0.8         0.7         l.        0.15
Total Mine and Preparation Plant         O.lh      8.o        0.2         1.0       1.3         0.7            -         1.9        9.7        11.6       1.16
Development Stripping                      0.1       2.2        0.1         0.2        -           -             -         0.2         2.4        2.6       0.26
Rail Freight                                -          -         --                                -           26.2         -           -        26.2       2.62
Terminal Operation                         0.3       1.5        0.1         0.2!J     0.4         0.6            -         0.8        2.3          3.1      0.31
Administration - Rio                        -          -         -           -        0.8         O.1h           -         0.8        o.4         1.2       0.12
Administration - Cleveland                  -         -          _           _        0.3          _             -         0.3          _         0.3       0.03
Sole and Property Taxes                     _         -          _           _         -           _            1.9         -                     1.9       0.19
Insurance                                             -          -                     -                        0.6        -           -          0.6       0.06
Total Operating Cost Excluding           o.8      11.7        0.4         1.4       2.8         1.7          28.7       I.o        14.8        47.5       4.75
Depreciation and Interest
1/   All estir3a½ee have been escalated at 6% per vear from January 1, 1970 to thp end of the initial price period of the Japanese ore contract, i.e. in ?arch
1976.   Tt is Issurned in the finsnc  l przjections that afttr FY 1976 ou  prices will be renegctiated sc as to reccup any real cost incresses that
are incurred, thus keeping the relationship of prices arni costs constant.  The average prices shown above do not apply to the buildup period when
unit costs are somewhat higher.
2/   Maintenance supplies included in operating costs.
3/   Estimtated direct costs and overheads payable to Hanna Mining Company through Technical Assistance Agreement for 75 rima-months of on site assistance
per year.
Id Dredging. All other maintenance expenses included in operating costs.
7/   Estimated paynent for saaes, engineering, research, geological and financial assistance from Cleveland-based Hanna Mining Company staff.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1971






AEX 1.3-1
1BR IRON OR3 PROJECT
SNSITIVITY ANALYSS
1. Eoonoudo and Fiacil  Rot=ns
1.01      A lseitivity anayis ha been carried out to determine the
likely effects of certain changes in the level of sales, ore prices, and
various cost categories on tbe finaicial return to MBR and the internal
econamic return of the combned MBR and railway project, The results
indicate that even widr severe asswptions, the overall rates of return
to NBR itself and the econoW of Brasil should remain at aoceptable
levls.  ohe projected effects of the assumd  ircstances on MBR's
internal finrac    return (before incm  tams) and the internal economic
return of the combined project are amwurisod below:
Sumur  of Sensitiity Analsis
Interxal Rates of Return
10TI                  12 MM                 15 
Coabined     BM      Cambined    la        Combined     mBR
Case             Econamic  Financial  Economic  Financial  Economic Financial
A.  Base projeot           18.3      18.8        20.9      22.3        22.8      24.5
B.  Construction costs
up 25% and revnuos
delayed one year       12.9      13.2        15.0      16.3        16.7      18.3
C. Avg. ore prices up
25%                     25.1     29.0        27.8      32.4        29.7      34.5
D. Avg. ore prioes
dowl 25%                10.2      4.2        12.8       8.7        114.7     11.2
E. MBRRFFSA operating
costs up 25%            16.0     15.5        18.7      19.5        20.7      21.7
F. Ore prices down 10%
every 5 yr..            15.0     13.0        17.7      17.1        19.5      19.3
G. Operating costs up
15% every 5 yrs.        16.7     16.7        19.5      20.6        20.9      22.8
H. Combination F and G    13.1        9.2        15.9      14.4        17.7      16.7



ANNEX 13-1
Page 2
1.02       The various tests that ha.ve been ran are described in Annex 13-2.
Real costs and prices have been used throughout the analysis, so that all of
the changes are denominated in the same constant value dollars that are used
in the base projections. It also has been assumed that the rail freight rate
which is fixed in dollar terms under the formula agreed bebween MBR and
RFFSA, will be adjusted periodically to compensate RFFSA for any erosion in
its real revenues caused by dollar inflation.   Therefore, the real cost of
rail freight is assumed to remain constant.*
1.03       As the summary indicates, the effects of an increase in the scale
of operations from 10 to 12 million tons per year are more pronounced than
are those of a further increase to 15 million tons.   This is particularly
evident under the various assumptions of inoreased costs or decreased prices.
It occurs because, as assumed in the analysis, the major portion of the in-
crease to 12 million tons will come from sales of fines that are by-products
of the mining process. Since the costs of mining and processing these fines
already have been absorbed in the costs allocated to the first 10 million
t,nni  the ineremental expense of shipping them will be relatively low.
Although unit costs can be expected to continue downward as production in-
creases further, the effect on project returns will be less pronounced since
additional mining and processing costs will be involved. On average, with a
5C% increase in production from 10 to 15 million tons, total operating costs
should increase by no more than one-third. Since operating margins at the
higher tonnages will be considerably greater than at 10 million tons, the
project should become less vulnerable to swings in prices or costs as the
production level increases.
1.04       If changes in real costs and prices occur, they probably will do
so gradually, as has been assumed in Cases F and G, where the rates used are
the maximum considered likely. In Case H, a cocbination of both decreasing
prices and rising costs is assumed. Despite the cost/price squeeze, the
returns remain at aoceptable levels, except at 10 million tons where MBR's
financial return of 9.2% indicates only marginal operations, even though the
conbined economic return remains above 13%.
2. Break-Even Anauis
2.01       2.nnex 13-3 examines the situation where ore prices would fall, but
M,.IRIt pirsert long-term contract would be honored so that the minimum sales
lttvei in any one year would be 9 million tons., It is shown that the price
could fall to as low as US$7.00 per ton for extended periods of time during
the first six years of operations, or more than 15% below expected minimum
levels, and still enable MBR to meet all of its cash obligations, including
those to RFTSA. After 1980, the break-even price decrease.s gradually below
US$7,00 on both cash and profit accounts.
it see para. 4,32 of Railway Report



ANNEX 13-1
page- 3
2.02       Annex 13-4 indicates what might happen if prices would remain
constant at US$8.38 per ton but sales would fall due to strikes, natural
disasters, or other causes that might prevent MBR from shipping planned
tonnages. Here the cash break-evwn point for anmual sales, assuming full
payments to RFFSA, in accordance with the provisions of the rail freight
contract,* ranges from 7.0-7.5 million tons during the first four years of
operation, and then falls gradually thereafter. It is concluded, there-
fore, that tonnages could decrease 25-30% below planned minimum levels for
extended periods of time during the early years, and by even greater
amounts after 1978, and probably not impair MBR's ability to meet its
obligations.
Industrial Projects Department
June 1971
* If shipments by rail decrease below 9 million tons in any year, MBR will
be required to pay RFFSA the charges that would have been incurred at the
9 million ton level, less out-of-pocket costs saved by RFFSA for any reduc-
tion in actual shipments below that level.






ANNEX 13-2
1BR IRON ORE PROJECT
NOTES TO SENSITIVIT! ANALYSIS
Ceneral
(i)    Internal financial return calculations are solely for MBR,
and not RFFSA, the financial apeots of vihich are discussed in the Railway
Report.
(ii)   Financial returns to 131R are before income taxes but after
payment of direct taxes at the mlne (sole and property) and indirect taxes
on operating inputs. Before income tax figures have been used to avoid com-
plications in the sensitivity analysis eue to the effects of depletion
allowances.
(iii) Internal economic return calculations are for the comiiMned
project comprised of the MBR segment (mine and terminal) and the railw-ay
(RFF3A) segment.  Changes in the rail freight rate paid by MBR do not affect
the economic return, but only the respective financial positions of the two
project entities.
(iv)   Economic costs have been used to the extent practicable in
the economic analysis.  On t7he IIR segment, 25% of the cost of manufactured
operating and maintenance supplies has been estimated as a minimum level of
indiroct taxation, consisting of tariffs on imported items and value-added
and excise taxes on domestic production. These taxes have been subtracted
from the operating cost stream for purposes of the economic analysis. In
addition, sole and property taxes incurred at the mine, plus all income
taxes, have been treated as cash inflows. On the RFFSA segment, indirect
taxes equivalent to 44% of fuel costs have been subtracted from the cost
stream (fuel costs being the largest component of rail operating costs).
No attempt has been made to estimate other indirect taxes on RFFSA costs,
which are considered to be relatively small. For both the MTR and RFFSA
portions, all capital inputs are considered to be duty free and labor costs
from the financial analyses are taken to represent true economic costs.
On the whole, the estimates of indirect taxes are conservative, thus tend-
ing to understate the economic returns.
(v)    Heal costs are u3ed throughout thie sensitivity analysis
attl al I channgea in costs or benefits represent real changes, with monetary
correctlJons a] ready included.
(vi)   MBR operating costs do not include rail freight charges.



ANNEX 13-2
Page 2
Case A
(i)    Sales buildup
Fiscal year ending    Buildu  to Ultimate Sales of
March 31:,              1      2  TF    15 IT?Y
~O%1(Mllion IT)
1974 (6 months)         2.9        2.9        2.9
1975                    9.0        9.0        9.0
1976                  ]10.0       10.0       10.0
1977                   10.0       12.0       12.0
1978                   10.0       12.0       12.0
1979-89                10.0       12.0       15.0
(ii)    Rase prices
Ultimate Sales      Regular Ores      Pellet Feed    Avg. Trice-9
(11til-lion LT/yr)  (MilI on T,,T/yr)  (Mil]ion T.T/yr)    ($/LT)
10.0              10.0                0              8.38
12.0              10.4               1.6             8.29
1.50              13.4               1.6             8.32
*Assumes regular ores 4 $8.38/LT
pellet feed  A .$7.55/LT
(ii.i)   Base costs (economic and financial)
(a)    At 10 million tons per year:
llailway costs according to Table 13 of 1aial.way
Rleport, corrected -for effects of 3-month differences in fiscal years; iOR
costs according to Table 3 of this reportb.
(b)    At 12 million tons per year:
Ttailway costs accordingcl to Ta.ble 12 of rZailiway
orL, similirly corrected (including increased investment for rolling
ol a.d track renewals).
MBR costs assume additional investment of $3.0
mdllion in FY 1.976 For rpellet feed (fines) handling equipmnent ancd only  uinor
increases in total operating costs over those at the 10 mill.ion totn leveL.
(Sales of' pellet -f'eed are merely the realization of potent,ial revenues from
wsL5te mrateri.ils that are produced anyway -- approxi..ml,ely 1.9 million tons
or' fines are produced for every 10 million tons of regular ores).  In addi-
tion, increased sales of regular ores amounting to 1o00,000 tons per annwun
.ire assumed t.o result from improved utilization of equiprent, with onl,Z
sml .ircreases in total operating costs.  On average, total 14BR, operatinr
costs (includi nrg overheads) at 12 mi . ll.on tons arc estimated to be In.'.
mrc.ater th,kn at 10 million tons.



ANNEX 1?-2
Page 3
(c)    At 15 million tons per year:
Railway costs according to Annex 6 of Railway
Report, similarly corrected (including further increased investment for
rolling stock and track renewals);
MBR costs assume additional investment of $5.5
million for mine equipment and inventories needed for increased sales of
regular ores from 10.4 to 13.4 million tons per year. Fines sales remain
at 1.6 million tons as above. Unit operating costs decrease considerably
due to increased utilization of initial investment. The effect of new
equipment on total operating costs is small. On average, total operating
costs (including overheads) at 15 million tons are estimated to be one-third
greater than at 10 million tons.
Case 13
This assumes that project construction costs for both the 1SR and
railway segments would increase by 25% and that initial project revenues
would be delayed by one year, as would subsequent expansions to 12 and 15
million tons. 1Ihile some increases or delays might be contemplated, an
extreme situation such as that assumed here is considered unlikely.
Cases C and D
Average real ore price changes of plus or minus 25% from the levels
assumed in Case A are considered unlikely, particularly in light of the large
portion of total sales already covered by long-term contracts at fixed prices
in the early years. The cases are shown here, however, to demonstrate the
pro'ect's sensitivity to extreme price variations. The economic return of
the project as a whole is shown to be less sensitive to ore price changes
than is the financial return to MBIR.
Case E
This case would only arise in the event that operating costs for
both MBRt and the railway proved to be grossly underestimated, an improbable
event. Both economic and financial returns are shown to be comparatively
insensitive to such changes in operating costs.
Case F
This case assumes that real ore prices would decrease at a compound
aniu a]. rate of 2.1% per annum beginning in the second year of operations.
This rate is equivalent to a drop of 10% every L years, the maximum decrease
thought likely during the early years of operation (see Para. 3.09). For
t,hi  case, this rate o1f decrelase i3 assumied to continue for the full projec-
tion period.  As an indicator of the effect of possible fLture trends, such
a gradual decrease is :i more realistic worst-case assumption than the incre-
inettLl price drop postulated in Case D.. Barring a serious recession in the



ANNE 33-2
FZ9ge 4 
iron ore market, average real ore prioes are unlikely to decrease faster
than the rate used in this case. The figures indicate that the effect of
such a gradual price decrease on both financial and economic returns
probably wuld be considerable, although still not enough, in itself, to
seriously, undermine the viability of the project.
Came G
Rather than the incr_ental oost inrease assumed in Case E, it
is more likely that real operating oosts would increase gradully over the
life of the project; due, for example, to wes rising faster than labor
productivity. The increaas is not 4.ikely to be more than 15% every five
years, equialent to the amnual compoud rate of 2.8% which is  smsd bhre.
Ag4in, the project's financial and ecoonioc returns aro      to be fairly
insensitive to sch operating cost incroass.
Case R
The case ombines the effects of both the gradually decreaing
real prios asmd in Case F and increasd  reel operating costs of Case G0
both being worst oases. The result is to lower oBR s financial return sig-
nificantly, particularly at 10 million tons per annum vhere magins are
lower, and to decrease the economic return of the project as a whole by a
lesser amount. A combination of the two factors to thi.s extre  is unlikely.
i0en so,, the reulting economic returns would not be intolerable, although
)BR could find itself in financial difficulties during ths later years, par-
ticlarly if sales have not increased above 10 millio  tons per yer.
industrial Projects Department
June i9771



MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
CASH AND PROFIT DREAKEVEN PRICES
AT CONSTANT SALES LEVEL OF 9 MILLION TONS PER YEAR
7.50   F -   -T                              .-.,,                                    -1   ---  -
7.00
6.50
LU
w  6.00
5.50
Li
-        PROFIT BREAK - EVEN
5.00;           CASH BREAK-EVEN    -
1974  '75   '76   '77   '78   '79   '80   '81   '82   '83   '84   '85   '86   '87   '88   '89   '90
YEAR                                          IBRD 5788






MBR IRON ORE PROJECT
CASH AND PROFIT BREAK-EVEN SALES LEVELS
AT CONSTANT ORE PRICE OF $8.38/ LONG TON
8.0                                             I                     I      I
17.0    '75      anmnm                                        ___'77 '78 '79 '80 '8_'8_'8_'8 _ '8_'6_'7_'8_'9_'0
0Y0
600
6.0
LU.
__ 5.0
z
LU
4.0
u-i 
PROFIT BREAK - EVEN
3.0~  mmm         CASH BREAK-EVEN
z
1974   '75    '76    '77    '78    '79    '80    '81    '82    '83    184    '85    '86    '87    '88    '89    190
YEAR                                                IBRD 5787 






u°                  ,                                 ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40   f
t   t  BRAZIS                                                                                              TUBARA)            2
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPRT SAT .                                                                          NCIHe        
) 4 X X ANESOw ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITABIRA  
STATE      OF        MNAGUAG CLARAIS
I    /   /  /   g DVA ERA     )AL /
W / ~~~~~~~~~~BELO HR ZOg                                                                            |0._
/ + zINHOcxi s v-__ -_____ j                STAtE               lTING      A
AL           /     \  9  ~~~~~~~~~ITABIRITO                            R01  OF   VIMORIA 
-               DEJAEROMIEACE                           SBANTOIRS RUDA  N.A
>        /        \ \ t~~~~~~~~.BURNIER                               ESITO5NO/                        N
t / ~~~~~SEE MAP 2    J OQIM MURTINHO                                                            0 > 
\   /                 ~~~~~~~~~CONS. LAFAIETE                              <
STATE                                           E OF AINAS  ; GERAIS                         A        POE
I  \  tARBACENA                              G          LOATLogend
/ \ I / e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XISTING RAILRkOAS
--A.                                                   aSANTOS DUMONT                                                        P  it++++  OPOSeD RAILROADS
.  j   \                  \                    <                      6                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING HIGHWAYS
-  / -                         ANDRELANDIA   CAJUIZ DE FORA                      0       M0                    -io    20        2
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A                                             1SAE Lo                  MORE EV ACUAIO
-220'                                                                                OF          /R,)OUOTE                                   22*-
-22° / . _vf ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIO  DE JANEIRQ/^
(   /                   .      w.-   mRE~~~~~~               ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~S RIOS   /  
SANTS  -   4M A'  RUC                                                                                     BRAZIL                           -
APRL 11                                                                                MINERACES BRASILEIRAS REUNIDAS S.A.
[   z           ;JLREIS  g    MAP~~~~~~3 STi TE OF GUANABARA                    AGUAS CLARAS  PROJECT
STT      s S^   AULO     ^                SEPETIBA TERMINAL                                    GNRlLCTO
SAO PAULO                                                                                                   GEEA   LOCATO
t        ,'t                   ~~~~ATLANTIC   OCEAN                                                   Mf
,),)3                                                         o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 50  100=  22 0
v w   X   r \                 44e                                   42                      KiLos*eTERs44  4                >
APRIL 1971                                                                                                                               IR    25






. % JA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SICAT -AS
BRAZIL
MINERACOES BRASILEIRAS REUNIDAS S.A.                                                                     L                 t                                                               BIRA
AGUAS CLARAS PROJECT                                                                                                                                                            )
ORE DEPOSITS IN THE IRON QUADRANGLE                                  N                                     PASIANO
PI     MBR OPERATIONS                                                                                           ROCAS                                                                       ERA
o     TOWNS
*     VILLAGES
*     OPERATING MINES
O     OTHER MINES                                                                                                                                                             LE AD
IRON ORE DEPOSITS
LAGOONS & DAMS                                                  CNAE
ROADS
_.-.-~--.--RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                        ICA
0    5 10 15 ..;O... 2,-PROPOSED RAILROADS   5                                                             OVA LiM   SAOsS                             BAR
o    s    10  IS 20   2s                            so                *           B         TM "tOAL 50.<ARAEARBARA
Kilometers
o    5               ,_                                            ,> =t,5 10  20  30                                                                                           ERDA
?           E     M         E        .    .         .   %   T                 i                tA~~~~~       ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BIRIT    
*S   X    \t   ,*\    8~~ R   A  Z  I L            - /;                                          1t\                              Nxttt 
i   oS              5  ~~~~~~~BRAIAGEAIS                                    .            b   
Tt &ORUMEA    RELO N  ENTE
L  IJACEAR 
1* '  .   x- _   __  ^ /   yJOAGUIM MURTINHO
APRIL  1971                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD  3296R






iKA                                                                            TO BELO HORIZONTE
44I                                                                                  & AGUJAS CLARAS                 4'3                                             Log.nd
1N                                                                                                 -H-/-APERI-     ! ! 8 8 | | | | | | JAPERIRAILROADS (SINGLE TRACK)
N f-h\----W11 -It    - RAILROADS (MULTIPLE TRACK)
-SAO PAULA                                                                                                                                                                    ........ RAILROADS PROPOSED
ZONE (URBAN AREA)
- - - - - -  STATE BOUNDARIES
4 ,/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ ~~~~~~Ig                                                                                                              HIGHWAYS
22A45                                       RIRAO DAS LAJES
23COROA                                         t a           0       0                                                           ~                                                            A
i SEPETIR< :y U A TERMIN  *   AR I 
~.A-MARiNE ACCESS                                                  IR~< ) _ , 5~ f4NBARAZI                                       L
7    ROUTE             J-A 3_AEG                                         -                                         3GAURATRAADtEU          $C                     MINERACOES BRASILEIRAS REUNIDAS S.A.
R i, A                                                      AT L ANIC r0 c                                                                  AGUAS CLARAS PROJECT
05              10P E5T0I                                              10
. 440                                1            5          0                  5                  5                43-30'                          LOCATION OF SEPETIBA TERMINAL2
~~~Kilom.t.vs                                              hAl.,s                                                                                                                         0 
APRIL   1971                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD  3297R RA



