Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3405,MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$18.0 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR THE
LAC ALAOTRA RICE INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
February 28, 1983.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
December 1981                   December 1982
Unit                      =    Malagasy Franc (FMG)    =    Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00                   =    FMG 278                     =    FMG 367.71
FMG 1,000                 =    US$3.59                          US$2.72
FMG 1,000,000             -    US$3,590                    =    US$2,720
(The cost estimates are based on US$1 = FMG 375)
GLOSSARY OF ABREVIATIONS
BTM           Agricultural Credit Bank
CCCE          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(French development fund)
CVA           Circonscription de la Vulgarisation Agricole
(Agricultural Extension Division)
DDR           Directorate for Rural Development
DEP           Directorate of Studies and Programming, MPARA
EDF           European Development Fund
FAC           Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French technical
assistance agency)
FOFIFA        Center for Agricultural and Rural Development Research
MPARA         Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
(Ministare de la Production Agricole et de la Reforme
Agraire)
SDR           Rural Development Service
SOMALAC       Development Agency for the Lac Alaotra region
GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
LAC ALAOTRA RICE INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers:        Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:   Ministry of Agricultural Production and
Agrarian Reform (MPARA)
Development Agency for Lac Alaotra (SOMALAC)
Center for Agricultural and Rural
Development Research (FOFIFA)
Amount:           SDR 16.7 million (US$18.0 Million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard
Project
Description:   (i)  Objectives:  The proposed 5-year project would aim
at increasing rice production and the marketed surplus in the
Lac Alaotra region, thereby saving foreign exchange
expenditures on rice imports. This would be achieved mainly
through the rehabilitation of existing irrigation
infrastructure, the supply of farm inputs, and management and
institutional technical assistance.
(ii)  Main Project Components:
(a) The rehabilitation of existing "modern" irrigation
networks on about 25,000 hectares; and the improvement of
water availability on traditional schemes, on about 3,000
hectares;
(b) The production of improved seeds and provision of
agricultural equipment and inputs to the whole Lac Alaotra
basin (about 68,000 hectares);
(c) the reinforcement of SOMALAC, the regional develop-
ment company responsible for agricultural development in
the project area through material support, technical
assistance and training;
(d) assistance to the agriculture extension services
(CVA) of the Ministry of Agricultural Production and
Agrarian Reform (MPARA), including the provision of
vehicles and equipment, training and construction of a
central warehouse;
(e) the establishment of a network of gauging stations;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(f) pilot activities aimed at increasing agricultural
production;
(g) the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation
unit; and
(h) studies related to the proposed project and for the
preparation of agricultural projects in Madagascar.
(iii)  Benefits:  Benefits resulting directly from Project
investment would consist of increased production of rice.
The value of annual incremental production of 51,100 tons
of paddy is estimated at $15.8 million, at full
development (year 11). These benefits would accrue to
about 35,000 farm families in the Project areas.
Additional quantified benefits would result from Project
investments in seed production, gauging stations, and in
pilot schemes and dissemination of new cultivation
techniques, and from technical assistance for project
preparation.
(iv)  Risks:  The success of project implementation will depend
greatly on the success of the organizational
rehabilitation of SOMALAC, as well as on the efficiency of
the extension and research services. The financial
rehabilitation of SOMALAC which has been initiated will
require a continued Government commitment throughout the
project period and thereafter. The successful marketing
of project output is dependent on prices fixed annually by
the Government. Careful supervision and a thorough
assessment of performance at a scheduled mid-term review
will be essential.
Project Costs:
Foreign     Local      Total
--------(US$ Million)------
Re-equipment of SOMALAC                          5.5         1.2        6.7
Irrigation rehabilitation                        7.0         3.4       10.4
Re-equipment of CVA MPARA                        0.3         0.1        0.4
Agricultural equipment and inputs                3.5         1.0        4.5
Technical assistance and studies                 4.6         0.8        5.4
Training                                         0.4         0.3        0.7
Pilot activities                                 0.3         0.2        0.5
Base Cost                                       21.6         7.0       28.6
Physical Contingencies                        2.3         0.6        2.9
Price Contingencies                           4.7         1.8        6.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              28.6         9.4       38.0



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Foreign     Local      Total
--------IJS$ Million--------
Government                                       -          5.5       5.5
IDA                                             15.8        2.2      18.0
CCCE                                             8.8        1.2      10.0
FAC                                              4.0        0.5       4.5
TOTAL                                           28.6        9.4      38.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY          FY83       FY84      FY85      FY86     FY87      FY88     FY89
-------------------------(US$'million)…----------------------
Annnual        1.0        2.5       3.5       4.2      3.6       2.4      0.8
Cumulative     1.0        3.5       7.0      11.2     14.8      17.2     18.0
Rate of Return:  24 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3980-MAG
Maps: IBRD 13654R1
IBRD 15665R



.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR THE LAC ALAOTRA RICE INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar of SDR 16.7 million
(US$18.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance the Lac
Alaotra Rice Intensification project. Proceeds of the credit would be given as
a grant to the Ministry of Agriculture Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA)
and the Center for Agricultural and Rural Development Research (FOFIFA). The
Development Agency for the Lac Alaotra region (SOMALAC) would receive its share
of the proceeds as part grant and part equity. The project would be co-financed
with a US$10.0 million loan from the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE), repayable over 15 years including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 4.5 percent per annum, and with a grant from the French Technical
Assistance Agency (FAC).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Madagascar - Economic Memorandum" dated November 3,
1981 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An economic mission
visited Madagascar in March/April 1982 and an Economic Memorandum (MAG 82-5) was
issued on June 4, 1982 for the Aid Coordination Conference for Madagascar, which
was held in Paris on June 17 and 18, 1982. An economic mission visited
Madagascar in November/December 1982 to prepare an updating economic memorandum,
which will be issued shortly. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I to
this report.
3.       Madagascar, with a population of 8.7 million and a per capita GNP of
about US$330 in 1980, is among the poorest countries in the world. It is a
sparsely populated country (about 14 persons per square kilometer) with less
than 20 percent of the population living in urban areas. Although generally
well endowed with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are consider-
able regional variations in ecology and climate. The central plateau, the most
economically advanced region, has a subtropical to temperate climate, the south
is the poorest region with an arid climate and infertile soils, the eastern
region has a tropical climate and although rich agriculturally, crops are
frequently devastated by cyclones. Agriculture accounts for about 35 percent of
GDP; about 85 percent of the national labor force is engaged in agricultural
activity, and agricultural products account for about 80 percent of the
country's export earnings. Total export accounted for only about 16 percent of
GDP in 1974-81, a rather low share in comparison with most low income
developing countries.



-2-
4.       Madagascar's development over the past decade has been disappointing.
With a population growth around 2.8 percent per annum, real per capita GDP has
decreased by about 1.5 percent per annum; in 1980 per capita real income was
probably about 20 percent below its 1970 level. Even with sluggish and erratic
development, Madagascar's policies until 1978 had been characterized by cautious
and conservative public finance and balance of payments management. In 1979 and
1980 Government undertook a very large program of public investment with a
marked shift to dependence on external sources for its financing. Investment
outlays (in volume terms) increased by about 13 percent per annum between 1978
and 1980 and the share of investment in GDP which had been around 14 percent
since the early 1970s rose to around 21 percent in 1979 and 1980. The increased
investment thrust and its attendant import needs coincided with almost stagnant
export earnings and a deterioration in terms of trade, so that Madagascar's
balance of payments position deteriorated very sharply in 1979 and 1980.
General Government and state enterprises accounted for virtually all of the
increased investment expenditures so that the budget expenditures and the
overall budget deficits increased dramatically in 1979 and 1980.
5.       Overall output growth has continued to be very erratic over recent
years. Real GDP increased by about 10 percent in 1979, increased by less than 1
percent in 1980 and decreased by about 9 percent in 1981. The short-lived spurt
of growth in 1979 was due to increased activities associated with the investment
boom and to improved weather conditions benefiting agricultural production but
already in 1980 agricultural and manufacturing production were adversely
affected by inadequate supplies of necessary inputs and raw materials which
became much more acute in 1981.
6.       Agricultural output grew on average by about 1 percent between 1977 and
1980, thus continuing the very sluggish development which has characterized
Madagascar's agriculture since the early 1970s. Output in 1978 was seriously
affected by the prolonged drought conditions which had prevailed since 1976 and
declined by about 6.5 percent. With improved weather conditions in 1979 output
increased by about 7 percent but in 1980 is estimated to have grown by only
about 2.5 percent and preliminary indications are that output in 1981 declined
by about 1.5 percent. Production of rice, the principal staple food, has
virtually stagnated over recent years; estimated production in 1981 was about
7 percent below its 1977 level. Domestic production has failed to keep pace
with domestic needs, especially to satisfy the growing urban population, and
imports of rice have grown rapidly from about 60,000 tons in 1975 to about
200,000 tons in 1981. Production of coffee, Madagascar's major export
commodity, which had risen steadily during the first half of the 1970s, declined
sharply in 1976 and 1977, mainly due to unfavorable weather, and then increased
moderately from 1978 to 1980. Production in 1980, about 80,000 tons, was still
somewhat below its mid-1970s level. Production of cloves, Madagascar's second
most important foreign exchange earner, is subject to a four to five year
production cycle; the peak production reached in 1980 was still significantly
below the poor level of 1974. Vanilla production dropped sharply between 1978
and 1980 due to the combined effects of poor maintenance, unfavorable weather
and competitition from synthetic substitutes. Production picked up in 1981 but
was still about 35 percent below the 1978 level.



-3-
7.       Growth of manufacturing output has continued to be slow and erratic;
real value added in the sector increased by about 13 percent in 1979, decreased
by about 3 percent in 1980 and decreased by about 25 per cent in 1981. Food
processing (including beverages) and textile production are the dominant
activities, accounting respectively for about 35 percent and 21 percent of the
sector's value added. Output of food and beverage industries grew on average by
about 2 percent per annum over the 1977-80 period. Textile production, which
increased by about 9 percent in 1979, decreased by about 5 percent in 1980, in
which year production was affected by reduced raw material supplies and by
machinery maintenance problems. The only industries which have shown a regular
growth of output over recent years were cement, tobacco, leather goods (mainly
shoes) and paper products. The combined share of these industries in total
manufacturing value added in 1979 was just over 15 percent. The manufacturing
sector has been generally operating at a low level of capacity utilisation over
recent years. With increasing scarcities of imported raw materials and spare
parts in 1980 and 1981, the dislocations to production have become increasingly
severe.
8.       2Iadagascar's fiscal situation has deteriorated dramatically since 1978,
due to sharply rising current expenditures and increased Government spending on
capital investment. The current budget surplus, which used to be substantial,
turned to a deficit as revenues failed to keep pace with the growth of expendi-
tures. Furthermore, as Government intensified its efforts to raise investment
levels and stimulate the economy, public investment expenditure rose from 16
billion FMG in 1977 to 93 billion FMG ($250 million) in 1980. Outlays on the
consumer subsidy for rice increased from about 4 billion FMIG in 1975 to nearly
12 billion FMG ($35 million) in 1980. The overall Treasury deficit increased
from about 4 percent of GDP in 1978 to over 18 percent in 1980. W4hile borrowing
from external sources was greatly expanded in both 1979 and 1980, the budget
deficits were financed primarily by borrowing from the Central Bank, which
provided about two thirds of the financing of the 1980 deficit. Preliminary
estimates for 1981 indicate that government expenditures (current and capital)
were substantially cut back and that the overall deficit in 1981 was equivalent
to about 15 per cent of GDP.
9.       Monetary and credit developments over recent years largely reflect the
Government's deficit financing needs. Domestic credit increased from about 126
billion FMG ($330 million) at end of 1977 to about 340 billion FMG ($1,510
million) at end 1980. Most of this expansion was accounted for by Government
borrowing from the Central Bank, whose share of domestic credit rose from about
23 percent in 1977 to about 53 percent in 1980.  Despite a significant reduction
in net foreign assets, money supply grew by over 20 percent per annum during the
1977-1980 period. Available price information for Madagascar is fragmentary.
There is a wide-ranging system of controlled prices which appears to have become
inoperative with most goods selling at prices well above control levels. A
price index for low income families shows an acceleration of price increases to
about 18 percent in 1980 and over 30 percent in 1981 compared to about 14
percent in 1979 and an annual average increase of about 4.5 percent from 1975 to
1978.



-4-
10.      Madagascar's balance of payments position deteriorated dramatically
over the 1977-80 period. The current account deficit, which had averaged around
FMG 8 billion ($21 million) from 1975 to 1977, rapidly increased to about FMG
130 billion ($350 million) in 1980, i.e., from less than 2 percent of GDP to
over 18 percent of GDP. From 1977 to 1980 the import bill virtually doubled
while export earnings increased by only around 3 percent. The overall balance
which had been in surplus by about FMG 3 billion ($8 million) in 1977 was in
deficit by about FMG 59 billion in 1980. Transactions with the rest of the
world have been financed by a total exhaustion of reserves, an unprecedented
increase in foreign borrowing and by incurring substantial arrears on external
payments obligations. The increased import bill has been the most striking
feature of recent balance of payments developments. Average import prices
increased substantially (over 40 percent) during the 1977-80 period and import
volume showed approximately the same proportionate increase. While nearly all
categories of imports increased, imports of capital goods grew at a particularly
rapid rate and accounted for approximately half of the increase in the import
bill between 1977 and 1980. Export growth was sluggish in 1981 but a
significant cut back in imports reduced the current account deficit to the
equivalent of about 13 per cent of GDP.
11.      The development of the Malagasy economy has been constrained over many
years by a number of basic weaknesses, e.g. low productivity in agriculture,
slow growth in major primary exports and inadequate domestic savings. The sharp
deterioration in Madagascar's economic and financial situation in 1979 and 1980
reflects these continuing problems. The significant shifts in government policy
through a greater openness to external finance and, also in pushing vigorously
for a higher level of investment have been accompanied by continued sluggish
export performance and deterioration in the terms of trade. The import bill has
been swollen not only by imports of capital goods but also by a growing import
of consumer goods, especially rice, for which domestic production and distribu-
tion weaknesses are a serious problem. The country is well endowed with natural
resources and the administrative cadres are relatively well trained. A more
effective use of these resources will depend, however, on a lasting correction
of the serious imbalances which exist on both balance of payments and government
budget accounts.
12.      In June 1980 the Government concluded a stand-by agreement with the IMF
which aimed to restore balance of payments and budgetary equilibrium. Some of
the individual policy measures in this program were implemented, e.g. measures
to increase government revenues, but efforts to limit government expenditures
were not successful and the program was suspended.  A new stand-by agreement was
concluded in April 1981. This provided SDR 109 million (US$130 million) to be
drawn up to end June 1982. The stand-by agreement placed limits on public
expenditure, government borrowing from the Central Bank and new external borrow-
ing, and entailed a reduction in external payments arrears. Implementation of
the stand-by proceeded successfully up to July 1981, but unanticipated short-



-5-
falls in export earnings, due in large measure to weak world coffee prices and a
smaller than anticipated inflow of new capital from international commercial
banks, made it impossible for Madagascar to adhere to the stand-by performance
conditions in the following months. A further Stand-by Agreement was approved
by the IMF Board in July 1982. The agreement covers the period to mid 1983 and
makes available SDR 51 ($57 million) million under the Stand-by together with
SDR 22 million under the compensatory financing facility. In addition to
placing limits on public expenditure, government borrowing from the Central Bank
and new external borrowing, the Stand-by Agreement provided for a devaluation of
the Malagasy Franc, for an increased producer price for rice and for the
elimination of the consumer subsidy on rice. In June 1982 an Aid Coordination
Conference, chaired by the World Bank, was held in Paris and was successful in
mobilizing new grants and credits from bilateral sources of SDR 60 million to
cover the external financing gap for 1982 which was estimated to remain after
taking account of IMF resources. At the June Aid Coordination Conference the
formal establishment of a Consultative Group was approved and a first meeting of
the group is envisaged for April/May 1983.
13.      The IMF program of stabilization measures needs to be complemented by
measures to enhance the long-term viability of the economy. A Plan for the
period 1981-86 has been prepared. The Plan envisages a much more vigorous
effort in export expansion and an action program for greater self sufficiency in
food production and supply of raw materials. Administrative steps have already
been taken to strengthen regional economic planning and the operations of
government enterprises.  Priority is to be attached to a rehabilitation and
greater utilization of the existing capital stock with limited new investment
largely concentrated in production sectors. Government has made substantial
progress in preparing a public investment program for the 1983-85 period which
would be a key element in implementing policies of economic recovery and
reform. Madagascar has formally requested non-project assistance from the World
Bank and discussions have been initiated to identify a program of structural
adjustment and policy reform which such assistance might appropriately support.
14.      With the shift in government policy to a greater reliance on foreign
financing, Madagascar's external public debt has increased substantially over
recent years. Total external debt (outstanding and disbursed) at end 1980
amounted to about $1,035 million, compared to about $245 million at end 1977.
There has been a greater diversification in sources of external financing but
average terms have hardened significantly. Consequently, the debt service ratio
has risen from around 4 per cent in 1977 to about 12 per cent in 1980 and was
around 30 per cent in 1981. Madagascar now faces a rising debt servicing burden
in the next few years. A Paris Club meeting took place between April 29-30,
1981, as a result of which Madagascar obtained debt rescheduling of about $36
million covering the period January 1, 1981 to June 30, 1982. In July 1982 the
Paris Club approved a further rescheduling of maturities falling due in the
period to end June 1983. Approximately $115 million (of which $24 million
short-term) of maturities were rescheduled.



-6-
15.      The World Bank group provided about 45 percent of the concessionary
assistance which Madagascar received between 1975 and 1979. Over the same
period, lhowever, around 40 percent of external public borrowing has been from
non-concessionary sources. Increased external financing on a concessionary
basis will be required to support the Government's economic restructuring and
development efforts and to ensure a continued capacity to service external
debt. Given Madagascar's poverty and current resource constraints, IDA should
continue to contribute to local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
16.      IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$325.21 million, and Bank loans
total US$32.58 million. Since 1975, about 50 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport, 12 percent for electric power, 21 percent for agriculture,
10 percent for industry, technical assistance, water and petroleum, and 7
percent for education. IFC's first investment was in 1977 for the expansion of
a textile mill. In 1980 IFC made a $1.25 million loan for the Bata shoe
manufacturing company in Antananarivo; other projects are under preparation.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of November 30, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
17.      Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated on the key
areas of infrastructure (including urban and social infrastructure), agriculture
and energy. In infrastructure, four projects have provided for the construction
of all-weather highway links between the island's different regions and one
project for road maintenance. There have been projects to improve Madagascar's
main port of Toamasina, and to support the railway's modernization efforts.
Urban infrastructure development has benefitted from a water supply and
sanitation project for the capital city of Antananarivo for which a $20.5
million credit was signed in May 1980. In the social sectors, education has
been the major recipient of Bank assistance with two credits totaling $18.8
million. In addition, studies for urban development financed by the UNDP with
the Bank as Executing Agency have led to preparation of a project for urban
development. We have begun to lend to the industrial sector with a first
$5 million DFC credit to the Industrial Development Bank of Madagascar (BNI).
In addition, a credit of SDR 9.4 million for an accounting and audit project was
signed in June 1981.
18.      Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of three livestock
development projects, three irrigation projects, two forestry projects and an
agricultural credit project. A $2.3 million technical assistance credit to
prepare projects in the Plain of Antananarivo area was signed in January, 1981,
and a $5.7 million technical assistance credit for an Agriculture Institutions
project was signed in June 1982. We expect agriculture to continue to absorb a
large share of Bank Group lending, in line with Government strategy to expand
agricultural production. Further rural development and crop production
projects, incluiding one for cotton, are being prepared.



-7-
19.       Energy projects have also received growing Bank Group attention;  IDA
participated with several co-lenders in the financing of the cost of the large
Andekaleka hydroelectric project, which was successfully completed in June
1982. A $12.5 million credit for petroleum exploration promotion is supporting
the Government's efforts to develop a domestic supply of hydrocarbons and to
improve planning in the energy sector. The Tsimiroro heavy oil exploration
project was approved by the Executive Directors on November 16, 1982.
20.       In the past, problems have arisen in the execution of several
projects. The main problems encountered included delays, cost overruns,
deficiencies in management and inadequate financial performance of project
agencies. The first Village Livestock project was delayed by institutional
problems. The credit was renegotiated in 1977, and since then implementation
has been reasonably satisfactory. The road construction component and
maintenance studies of the Fourth Highway project is nearly completed.
Construction under the Fifth Highway project has begun. Disbursements under the
Second Railway Project are almost completed. However, disbursement of the
railway credit was suspended on June 25, 1982 pending government action to
correct major deficiencies affecting the railway's operations. They were
resumed in November 1982, after the Goverment had implemented a satisfactory
financial and recovery program.
21.       Since the start of our program in Madagascar, four projects, all of
which included technical assistance, have been completed and audited by the
Operations Evaluation Department.   The Audit Report No. 1622 of December 1976
on the first Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was generally
successful. However, the Impact Evaluation Report No. 3600 of August 1981
concluded that earlier assessments of project performance had been
overoptimistic, and that the actual economic rate of return was probably
negative. The Audit Report No. 1559 of April 1977 on the Beef Cattle
Development Project concluded that the Project had contributed little to
Madagascar. The Audit Report No. 2143 of July 1978 concluded that the Third
Highway project was well justified and had a good rate of return despite
substantial cost overruns. Report No. 2299 of December 1978 concluded that the
physical objectives of the Tamatave Port Project were satisfactorily achieved
but pointed out that the institutional objective was not accomplished during
project implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the port
authority. With the exception of the port project, the technical assistance
components of all four projects were executed satisfactorily.
22.       In fiscal years 1980-82, disbursements for Madagascar totalled about
US$70 million compared to new commitments of US$96.5 million. In the same
period, the average annual disbursement rate (rate of disbursement to
undisbursed balance) was 20 percent. This is about average for countries of the
East Africa Region. Disbursement performance in general is satisfactory.



-8-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN MADAGASCAR
General
23.       About 85 percent of Madagascar's roughly 8.7 million inhabitants live
in rural areas, half of them below the poverty level. Agriculture, contributing
about 35 percent of GDP, and about 80 percent of export earnings, directly
supports over 80 percent of the population. Rice is the major food crop while
coffee accounts for almost half of Madagascar's exports. Cloves, pepper and
vanilla are the other major export crops.
24.       The Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA) is
responsible for rural development programs and for secondary level training of
agricultural staff. About 35 parastatal agencies operate under MPARA, including
the Development Agency for Lac Alaotra (SOMALAC) which was established in 1962
to develop and manage irrigation works in the Lac Alaotra area. Agricultural
credit is provided by the government owned Agriculture Credit Bank (BTM). The
Center for Agricultural and Rural Development Research (FOFIFA) is responsible
for all agricultural research, including rice research; FOFIFA reports to MPARA.
Government Policy for Agriculture
25.       Faced with mediocre production performance, mounting food import bills
and widespread disorganization in the provision of basic agricultural services,
the Government has recently set about defining its priorities and working out
means to improve the present situation.  According to current policy statements,
the priorities are: (a) self-sufficiency in food supply (particularly rice);
(b) increased production of cash crops and beef for export; (c) expansion of
basic agro-industries to process local raw materials; and (d) increasing rural
employment. The proposed project would fit into the process by focusing on the
institutional and technical constraints to rice production in Madagascar's major
surplus region and by lending impetus to major policy reforms currently being
carried through.
Irrigation
26.       Much of Madagascar's agricultural potential is due to the skills and
long tradition of the Malagasy people in irrigation. Of the cultivable land in
Madagascar, nearly a third, around one million hectares, possesses some form of
water control system. Improvement of irrigated rice systems is now a central
feature of government policy. Irrigation or water control systems fall into
three types. Official systems are developed and managed by the Government.
There are about 150 of these, ranging in size from 300 to 10,000 hectares. Many
systems, however, do not function well as water management and discipline have
deteriorated in recent years. Haphazard cost recovery and weak management have
led to neglect of maintenance. Government has given high priority to



-9--
rehabilitation of these systems and of the institutions responsible for them,
and has strengthened the framework for discipline and cost recovery through a
recent law now being put into practice. Small irrigation schemes, developed
largely with local funds, number about 900 with an average area of about 125
hectares. Here too operation and maintenance are weak but Government is
pursuing means of reinforcing management by local communities. Family rice
fields,developed and maintained by farmers themselves, cover up to 500,000
hectares and range in size from one are to perhaps five hectares. They involve
some water control measures, from basic terracing of valley bottoms to simple
storage dams.
Production and Demand
27.       After rapid expansion in the 1960s, paddy production has stagnated in
recent years at around two million tons a year. The reasons for this are
complex. New land that could easily be brought into economical rice cultivation
required expensive investment. Even the management and maintenance of existing
systems deteriorated and productivity dropped. Great scope for production
increases lies in reinforcement of the institutional framework for irrigation
and in rehabilitation of existing schemes, accompanied by the diffusion of
improved cultivation techniques. There is scope too for intensification of
smallholder production, particularly in valley floor cultivation.    Increased
output is essential if Madagascar is going to keep pace with expanding local
demand which has already turned a small export trade into a sizable import
requirement. In 1980, Madagascar imported 177,000 tons of rice at a cost of
$42.5 million, over 10 percent of the value of Madagascar's total exports. As
rice is the Malagasy staple, with consumption among the highest in the world,
demand is likely to increase in line with population growth and production would
have to increase at almost 4 percent a year just to keep imports at their
present level.
Government Policy for Rice and Issues for Development
28.       Government policy emphasis on rice production is not new - 40 percent
of the agricultural investment budget has in recent years gone to rice.
However, the productivity of this investment has been low as concentration was
in ill-conceived and poorly managed programs for development of rice cultivation
under rainfed conditions, and in the development of irrigation schemes
(including three IDA-assisted schemes) which have run into serious management
and financial problems. The recent policy dialogue between IDA and Government
has focussed on the need for eliminating weak or costly projects and an
orientation toward low cost ways of increasing production, particularly
rehabilitation and improvement of management and infrastructure on existing
irrigation schemes, as under the proposed project, and input supply. Government
has adopted this strategy and is currently employing IDA-financed consultants to
carry out a major house-cleaning of the investment portfolio in order to
concentrate on fewer, less costly projects yielding high returns. However, this
change of investment strategy will not be quick to result in significant
production increases and must, at the same time, be accompanied by action to
remove the numerous constraints which have contributed to the mediocre



-10-
performance of the sub-sector over the past decade. Over the last year,
Government has taken significant steps towards defining and implementing actions
to remove these constraints. The main elements are discussed in the following
paragraphs. Government will consult IDA annually on issues relating to price,
marketing and institutional policies for rice and irrigation in general, and
pricing arrangements for rice and paddy in the project area (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.04(b)(iv)).
29.       Pricing.  In areas where official marketing channels exercise a major
monopoly, producer price levels probably distorted production incentives while
the low consumer price entailed a huge cost in subsidies. The financial
viability of the marketing parastatals was constantly eroded by losses. The
bold round of price increases in early 1982 brought the producer price of paddy
equal to the import parity price and virtually eliminated the consumer subsidy
on rice. The Government has indicated that this represents the first step
toward the introduction of a more flexible pricing system.
30.       Marketing policy has been dominated by the attempt to establish a
Government monopoly. The inadequate resources and capacity of the marketing
parastatals, combined with inappropriate pricing policy, has led to failure to
provide sufficient marketing services through official channels and to very
heavy losses in the marketing parastatals. The impact of the system is
currently being studied as part of a systematic review of practices and future
options for marketing with technical assistance under the Agricultural
Institutions Project. This review is aimed at defining a clearer and probably
more limited role for the state in marketing and pricing. In order to ensure
that marketing of production from the present project is satisfactorily carried
out, Government will develop a plan by June 30, 1984 providing for
transportation of extra production from the project area (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.07).
31.       Input supply has been beset by the inadequacy of transport, weak
institutional arrangements for supply and lack of subsidy funds and foreign
exchange. As a result, input usage has dwindled and farmers have reverted to
lower-yielding traditional production systems. Production of selected seeds is
negligible, and little research has been done on new varieties. Government has
begun to act on these constraints, input subsidies have largely been removed,
except for minor subsidies on a few items which are to be phased out by 1984.
This move has been given impetus by the recent increase in producer prices.
Priority is now given to the transport of essential inputs on the railways.
Arrangements for seed production nationwide are being reorganized and research
is being strengthened with help under the Agricultural Institutions Project.
These actions represent important first steps toward improving input supply.
32.       Institutional credit has become increasingly hard to get due to poor
repayment rates and farmers have had to revert to traditional, often costly
lenders.  BTM, the Agricultural Credit Bank being assisted by the Agricultural
Agricultural Credit Project (Credit No. 1064 MAG), has now worked out a new
formula with MPARA on future agricultural credit directed largely to individuals
on the recommendation of the extension service. It is expected that actions



-11-
taken to improve productivity in the rice sub-sector as a whole will gradually
strengthen agricultural programs and allow the extension of this form of credit
throughout the country.
33.       Sub-sector parastatal performance has become a critical problem, with
almost universally poor management and abysmal financial performance.
Supervision of and support to parastatals by Government ministries has been weak
and erratic. Government has recognized these problems and is reviewing the role
of parastatals. The ongoing study of marketing will highlight options, probably
including reduction of parastatal interventions and support for a private sector
role in marketing. At the same time Government is taking action both to
reinforce its capacity to supervise existing parastatals and to develop a
recovery program for certain key parastatals. With assistance under the
Agricultural Institutions Project, rehabilitation plans are being worked out and
implemented. The Agricultural Institutions Project provides support for
strengthening training programs and reinforcing also MPARA's supervision of
these agencies. The problem of poor cost recovery which has plagued the
irrigation management parastatals should be resolved by measures Government is
currently implementing under new legislation.
34.       The First Lac Alaotra Project (Credit 216 MAG), aimed at increasing
rice production and crop diversification in the Lac Alaotra area, was supported
by an IDA credit of $5.0 million which was approved in 1970. The credit closed
fully disbursed in 1975. The project consisted of the rehabilitation of 4,000
ha of existing irrigation networks and the development of a further 8,000 ha.
Essentially an irrigation development project in a predominantly peat soils area
of the lake, the Project focussed on physical works and took no account of the
broader development aspects of the region. The main civil works were completed
on schedule but on-farm development works were delayed by financial
difficulties. Paddy yields were substantially lower than estimated at appraisal
and the development of off-season crop production was not achieved. Cost
recovery was very low. Audit Report No. 1622 of June 1977 draws a number of
valuable lessons: there was a need to broaden the project agency's
responsibility as a regional development agency and to make it financially
independent; management and institution building were critical to success of
such projects; IDA supervision had an important role to play in the management
process; and there was a need to pay more attention to the motivation of
beneficiaries.
35.       Subsequent to its completion, important developments in Madagascar and
in the region led to serious deterioration of the socio-economic enviroment.
Changes in Government policies, including increasing Government intervention in
economic activities, decentralization and the greater role of local
institutions, produced conditions with which project management proved unable to
cope. Cost recovery plummeted and rice yields and production fell. Impact
Evaluation Report No. 3600 of August 1981 describes this greatly deteriorated
situation. Physical developments had accomplished little as construction
faults, poor management and technical problems led to increases in production
only one tenth of appraisal estimates. Design assumptions about adoption of



-12-
double cropping proved unrealisable and for a time a labor shortage hindered
moves toward the adoption of more intensive production systems.
36.       Apart from the problem of labor shortage, which has been corrected by
natural immigration so that adequate farm labor is available, the weaknesses
highlighted by the report have been taken into account in the design of the
proposed project. Technical assistance would be provided to ensure high
standards of technical management; although improved water availability and
management combined with research on appropriate technical packages should
increase the potential for double and secondary cropping, no assumption has been
made about its adoption. Moreover, thoroughgoing rehabilitation of the SOMALAC
organization, which is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed project
(draft Development Credit Agreement, section 6.01 (e) and (f) ), should ensure
that SOMALAC becomes an effective and financially viable institution. Certain
specific recommendations of the report have been taken into account in project
design. The complex phenomenon of tenancy and share cropping in the area has
been accepted as a fact of life; measures have, however, been designed to remedy
the shortages of physical inputs and of credit which have tended to accentuate
inequalities in these arrangements. Most importantly, perhaps, as the report
recommends, the social setting has been taken into account and an emphasis
placed on individual and community responsibility in credit, in water
nanagement, and in the production systems being promoted under the proposed
project.
PART IV  -  THE PROJECT
Background
37.       The proposed project is based on preparation work by consultants under
the supervision of MPARA. Preparation of irrigation components was carried out
between 1978 and 1981, and the institutional rehabilitation program was prepared
over the 12 months to September 1982. The project was appraised in September
1981. Negotiations were held in Washington from December 13-17, 1982; the
1Malagasy delegation was headed by Mr. Randriatavy, Director in the MPARA, and
included the Directors-General of SOMALAC and FOFIFA, and the Chief of
International Cooperation of the Planning Directorate. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Madagascar: Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project" No. 3980-MAG is
being distributed separately. Maps showing project location and area are
attached.
The Project Area
38.       The project area comprises the flat region surrounding Lac Alaotra, a
sizable lake 150 km north-east of Antananarivo. The shallow lake is surrounded
by peat marshes, alluvial river valleys and plains, and by hills subject to
severe erosion. The alluvial soils are very suited to rice cultivation. The
climate is tropical with a long dry winter season and a rainy season influenced



-13-
by cyclones. The population is very diverse as immigration has been continuous
since the nineteenth century and development of irrigation schemes after the
second world war brought an influx of newcomers.  The Lac  Alaotra region is the
largest rice producing area in the country, producing about a third of the
country's total marketed production. The vast majority of people cultivate rice
with some secondary crops, and herd a few cattle. Recent pressure on land in
Madagascar has brought landless laborers to the area, and seasonal migrant labor
is an important element for the rice cropping season. From 1961 to 1977 the
Government practiced a policy of redistributing land on the newly-developed
irrigation schemes in the area to the former tenants and to landless farmers.
The typical Lac Alaotra family farms about 4 ha.
Project Objectives and Description
39.       The proposed project would aim at increasing rice production in the
Lac Alaotra basin by 51,000 tons annually at full production,thereby increasing
the marketed surpluses of the project area and reducing Government's foreign
exchange expenditures on rice imports. This would be achieved mainly through
the rehabilitation of existing irrigation infrastructure, the supply of farm
inputs, and assistance to existing institutions.  In addition the project would
provide for the production of improved rice seeds for the whole country.  The
rehabilitation of the main project agency would also provide a model for future
managment in the agricultural prarastatal sector. The Project would be
implemented over a five-year period (1983-87) and would include the following
components:
(a)   The rehabilitation of existing "modern" irrigation
networks on about 25,000 hectares; and the improvement of
water availability on traditional schemes, on about 3,000
hectares;
(b)   the production of improved seeds and provision of
agricultural equipment and inputs to the whole Lac Alaotra
basin (about 68,000 hectares);
(c)   the reinforcement of SOMALAC, the regional development
company responsible for agricultural development in the
project area through material support, technical assistance
and training;
(d)   assistance to the agriculture extension services (CVA) of the
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA)
including the provision of vehicles and equipment, training
and construction of a central warehouse;
(e)   the establishment of a network of gauging stations;
(f)   pilot activities aimed at increasing agricultural
production;



-14-
(g)   the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation unit; and
(h)   studies related to the proposed project and for the
preparation of agricultural projects in Madagascar.
40.       Rehabilitation of Irrigation Networks.  Rehabilitation of modern
irrigation networks would be financed under the project, including: (i)
rehabilitation of canals and drains; (ii) repair of irrigation and drainage
structures; (iii) repair of the small dams serving the modern perimeters; (iv)
construction of small pumping stations and the provision of small pumps; and (v)
repair and upgrading of service roads within the main perimeters.
The cost of the rehabilitation work is estimated at about $380/hectare.
41.       Improvement of Traditional Schemes.  This would include the
construction of small dams and supply canals, improvement of canals and drains,
and land levelling. SOMALAC prepared an inventory of about 60 possible small
projects ranging in size from 30 to 500 hectares. The project would assist
groups of farmers in constructing the required works by providing engineering
expertise, civil works equipment, and materials which are not available
locally,such as cement and structural steel. The beneficiaries would provide
labor and locally available materials such as stones and concrete aggregates.
Experience indicates that significant improvements can be achieved at a cost of
about $300/hectare.
42.       Seed Production.  Pure paddy seeds of the variety Makalioka 34 would
be produced under the project for sale to farmers. Foundation seed production
facilities would be rehabilitated and reorganized with the help of the services,
provided under the project, of a rice geneticist, whose terms of reference and
curriculum vitae would be subject to the Association's prior approval (draft
FOFIFA Project Agreement, Section 2.02). Seed multiplication by smallholders
would be supported by investments in transport facilities. Prices paid to
smallholders for pure paddy seed would be reviewed annually and would be set at
levels that provide adequate incentives to small seed producers (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(a)).
43.       Agricultural Equipment and Inputs.  Farm equipment suplied would
include sprayers, ploughs, rotary hoes, and, on a limited experimental basis,
mechanical threshers. Besides improved seeds, inputs would include fertilizers,
insecticides, herbicides and farm implements. Farmers are already familiar with
the use of these inputs, but their adoption is at present limited by the small
quantities available. Fertilizer use is proposed only for nurseries and
fertilizer quantities to be provided under the project would be small. The use
of herbicides would also be limited in order to prevent possible pollution of
the lake. SOMALAC would purchase all inputs for sale to farmers. All equipment
and inputs would be sold on a full cost recovery basis except for fertilizers
and some farm implements, on which subsidies will be phased out over the next
three years (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 5 (D2), draft SOMALAC
Project Agreement, Section 2.06(a)). Proceeds of sale would be placed in a
revolving fund maintained by SOMALAC, and the Government would make available
foreign exchange equal to the balance in the fund for the purchase of the next



-15-
year's inputs (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.06, draft SOMALAC
Project Agreement, Section 2.06(b)- (d)). Input requirements would be
identified in SOMALAC's annual work program which would be approved by the
Association (draft SOMALAC Project Agreement, Section 2.07). MPARA and FOFIFA
work programs would likewise be approved by the Association (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.05 (b), draft FOFIFA Project Agreement, Section
2.07).
44.       Reinforcement of SOMALAC.  Technical assistance, of which the base
cost is estimated at $3.7 million, would be provided under the French bilaterial
aid program. The assistants would include a senior financial manager to act as
Financial Director, a chief agronomist specializing in irrigated rice production
techniques, who would be in charge of the rice intensification unit; a chief
engineer, specializing in rural engineering, who would head the irrigation and
infrastructure maintenance unit; an agronomist who would be responsible for rice
intensificaton packages, extension themes and training progams; an irrigation
engineer responsible for water management training programs for extension
agents; a rural development specialist responsible for monitoring and
evaluation; four agronomists, specializing in irrigated rice production
techniques, to head perimeters; a hydraulic engineer to prepare aspects of
irrigation rehabilitation and improvement; and a maintenance engineer to
supervise plant maintenance. The first experts are expected to take up their
posts in early 1983 and the full team will be in the field in mid-1983.
45.       The technical assistance personnel would be progressively succeeded by
local staff. An agronomist specializing in rice genetics would also be
recruited to supervise the seed production activities of FOFIFA. Funds would be
provided for short-term consultancy services on technical matters. Essential
irrigation maintenance equipment would be provided under the project, including
mechanical shovels, bulldozers, graders, trucks and trailers and miscellaneous
equipment to assist in seed production and transport of inputs. Office
equipment and furniture would be provided for SOMALAC's headquarters. Some
buildings would be rehabilitated under the project and eight houses would be
constructed to accomodate the staff provided under technical assistance and,
subsequently, the local staff who would replace them.
46.       Training of SOMALAC and Other Project Staff.  Project staff are on the
whole poorly trained for the jobs they do. To complement the reorganization of
SOMALAC and project assistance to CVA and FOFIFA, a major training program would
be set up under the project. SOMALAC would have responsibility for training of
all agricultural staff in the project area, except for specialist training in
seed production, which would be handled by FOFIFA. With the help of the two
specialist technical assistants, SOMALAC's training unit would identify training
needs, plan and supervise courses and supervise on-the-job training. The main
areas for training would be : (i) management for extension personnel; (ii)
agriculture and irrigation for farmers; (iii) vehicle and equipment maintenance;
(iv) irrigation maintenance; (v) building and construction maintenance; (vi)
administration, including accounting; and (vii) management training. The final
training program will be drawn up and presented for comments and approval of the
Association by December 31, 1983 (draft SOMALAC Project Agreement,
Section 2.11).



-16-
47.       Assistance to CVA-Ambatondrazaka.  The CVA-Ambatondrazaka of the
MPARA, which has about 90 extension staff working mainly with rice farmers
on traditional schemes, is severely constrained in its operations by lack
of transport. Essential vehicles, mopeds and bicycles would be provided
under the project for extension staff in the project area and a central
warehouse would be built in Ambatondrazaka for farm inputs to be procured
under the project.
48.       Rainfall and Stream Gauging Network.  To improve the data base
for planning the future development of the Lac Alaotra basin, the existing
gauging network would be upgraded under the project by rehabilitating
existing installations and installing additional rainfall and stream
gauging stations where needed, in particular to measure the irrigation
efficiency of downstream irrigation networks. A professional research
organization will be retained to provide specialized guidance. The
proposed program and draft contracts for this component (Part F of Schedule
2, draft Development Credit Agreement) would be presented to the
Association for review by December 1983 (draft SOMALAC Project Agreement,
Section 2.10).
49.       Pilot Activities.  Pilot schemes would test on a small-scale the
feasibility of development programs for which clear technical packages have
not been developed thus far. Each of the pilot activities would be
proposed by MPARA and discussed with IDA in the context of the review of
the Annual Work Programs. Pilots might include: (a) testing and
demonstration of cultivation techniques on peat soils; (b) improvement of
animal power techniques and implements; (c) testing mechanized production
techniques; and (d) improving cattle nutrition (Part J. of Schedule 2,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  To assist management in the
implementation of the project a monitoring unit would be established by
SOMALAC, to provide management information for decision making, to
establish benchmarks on the present agricultural and socio-economic
situation and to follow the evolution of these parameters during project
implementation. The information should help the preparation of more
appropriate extension packages for different production systems. Staff,
office equipment and furniture for the operation of the unit and the cost
of special consultant surveys would be financed under the project.
Detailed proposals for the component would be presented for the
Association's approval by December 31, 1983 (draft SOMALAC Project
Agreement, Section 2.09).
51.       Studies.  Funds would be provided under the project to finance
studies including: (i) analysis of the Lac Alaotra water resources system;
(ii) study of production possibilities on peat soils; (iii) preparation for
the irrigation rehabilitation component; and (iv) preparation of
agricultural projects in Madagascar (Part I, Schedule 2, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Cost
52.       Total project costs are estimated at about US $38.0 million, of
which about $28.6 million or 75 percent represents foreign exchange costs.



-17-
As the goods required under the project would be imported free of taxes and
duties, these cost estimates include only negligible amounts of taxes
corresponding to sales taxes on locally procured goods. A detailed cost table
for the project is given in the Credit and Project Summary (page ii).
53.       Only incremental operating costs have been included in the cost
estimates. A physical contingency of 10 percent was applied to the cost of
agricultural inputs, at rates varying between 10 and 30 percent on the cost of
construction works and irrigation rehabilitation; and at 5 percent on the cost
of plant, vehicles and equipment. No physical contingency was provided on
technical assistance, studies and operating costs. Price contingencies were
calculated on a cumulative basis at 12 percent for domestic inflation and for
international inflation at 8 percent in 1982 and 1983, declining to 6.0 percent
by 1986. Consultants costs were estimated on the basis of currently applied
rates for Madagascar for comparable tasks, at $10,700 per man-month base cost.
Financing Plan
54.       The project would be financed by the Government of Madagascar (15
percent), IDA (47 percent), CCCE (26 percent) and FAC (12 percent). The
Government contribution would be allocated each year in the investment budget.
The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 16.7 million ($18.0 million equivalent) would be
on standard terms to the Government. The $10.0 million equivalent CCCE loan,
which would finance the major part of the irrigation rehabilitation works and
provision of equipment to SOMALAC farmers, would be repayable over 15 years
including a five year grace period, at an annual interest rate of 4.5 percent.
The $4.5 million equivalent FAC contribution would be in the form of services of
experts provided under the French bilateral assistance program and would be a
grant. The effectiveness of the CCCE loan and FAC grant agreements would be a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit (Draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01(c)). Financing provided to SOMALAC under the IDA Credit
would be transferred as equity, in the case of capital expenditures, and as a
grant, in the case of recurrent expenditures. FOFIFA would receive IDA funds as
a grant from the Government. The transfers to SOMALAC and FOFIFA would be made
under subsidiary agreements between the Government and SOMALAC, and the
Government and FOFIFA. Signature of these subsidiary agreements approved by the
Association would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(a), (b)).
Implementation
55.       The proposed project would be implemented by SOMALAC and FOFIFA under
the authority of MPARA and by the services of MPARA itself, largely the local
CVA-Ambatondrazaka. An advance under the Project Preparation Facility of $1.0
million was approved in August 1982. This advance is financing key actions for
project start-up, including reinforcement of seed production capacity to provide
essential, high-quality seed in the early years of the proposed project.



-18-
Consulting services are being financed to finalize the program for institutional
rehabilitation of SOMALAC and to prepare detailed designs for the initial
irrigation rehabilitation. This component is well underway with a detailed
rehabilitation program discussed and agreed with the Government and tender
documents for the first year's irrigation rehabilitation prepared. The advance
will also finance construction of accommodations for technical assistance
personnel and a training needs assessment.
56.       SOMALAC.  SOMALAC was established in 1962 as a mixed capital company
to develop the project area. Government now owns 95 percent of SOMALAC's
equity. The MPARA is responsible within the Government for supervising
SOMALAC's performance. For most purposes, this responsibility has been
delegated within the Ministry to CVA-Ambatondrazaka. Since it was set up,
SOMALAC activities have included: (i) land consolidation and distribution to
farmers under a lease-purchase agreement; (ii) on-farm development works; (iii)
extension services; (iv) paddy purchasing and processing; and (v) sundry
activities such as direct farming of paddy, pig rearing, and providing tractor
services to farmers. SOMALAC carried out these roles with some success until
the late 1970s when a number of factors combined to erode its effectiveness:
weak management and poor profitability of the marketing operation, high
overheads and lower subsidies to the extension and irrigation maintenance
services; Government policies and political interference.
57.       Management was not capable of dealing with these problems and SOMALAC
declined in a vicious spiral of lack of maintenance of the irrigation system,
deteriorating water management and increasing farmer indiscipline. By 1981
financial losses had brought the company to the verge of bankruptcy.
Consultants financed under the IDA-assisted Agricultural Institutions Technical
Assistance Project and the'Project Preparation Facility Advance for the present
project have made a detailed review of SOMALAC and prepared a rescue plan. The
studies focussed on possibilities of rescuing what was valid in SOMALAC. The
size and complexity of the task of managing irrigation schemes of 35,000 ha put
it beyond the capacity of the Government administration, which suffers from
severe financial and administrative constraints in implementing projects.
Likewise the public service nature of the task ruled out a private sector
institution at the management level, although the productive potential of the
schemes depends entirely on the vigor of the smallholder producers, and private
sector involvement remains vital to the processing of Lac Alaotra production.
As a result a four part program has been agreed for its restructuring and
rehabilitation.
58.       Rehabilitation of SOMALAC.  Under the parts of the plan which deal
with SOMALAC's legal status, SOMALAC has been transformed into a Socialist
Enterprise. Its Board meets frequently, taking responsibility for policy
decisions, while management is responsible for day-to-day decisions under
clearly defined terms of reference.  The Board, from which politicians are by
law excluded, comprises a chairman and six members - the General Manager



-19-
ex officio, a representative of the central government, a representative of the
local government, two representatives of the staff and one representative of the
minority shareholders.
59.       The organization of SOMALAC will be revised by the creation of three
separate operating units under a central direction. These units will cover
respectively (i) irrigation operation, extension and input supply; (ii)
marketing; and (iii) maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure and
buildings. It is a condition of effectiveness that an organisation chart be
prepared which would be acceptable to IDA, and that the financial and management
responsibilities of SOMALAC's Director General be clearly defined (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(c)). The qualifications and
experience of the directors of SOMALAC's three operating departments must be
acceptable to IDA, and their powers adequate for SOMALAC to operate efficiently
(draft SOMALAC Project Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
60.       Under the third part of the plan, a major restructuring of SOMALAC's
personnel is being carried out. The plan calls for a major personnel
reassignment and retraining exercise to fit appropriate candidates to posts
throughout the structure. The first stage for the management posts has already
been carried out, and has identified 22 posts for which suitable in-house
candidates are available. Of the remaining posts, four will be filled by
external recruitment and 11 by technical assistants. As the technical team will
be crucial to the reinforcement of the management structure, SOMALAC was
undertaken to employ suitably qualified people in these posts (draft SOMALAC
Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (a)). They will be employed for periods of
between three and five years in key management positions. The first of these
experts are expected to take up their posts in early 1983 and the full team will
be in the field in mid-1983.
61.       The fourth and final part of the plan puts SOMALAC's finances back on
a sound footing by a financial rescue plan involving the injection of new
capital and the guarantee of adequate future revenues from marketing profits,
payment for services and negotiated payments from Government. Government has
made the necessary initial financial transfers and has agreed to implement a
financial program for SOMALAC (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 5
C). As a condition of Credit effectiveness, Government will confirm to the
Association that SOMALAC has at least the minimum level of working capital
recommended by consultants (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01
(f)). The Government will provide SOMALAC funds needed for its operations, and
ensure that it operates under appropriate financial arrangements (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)(ii)).
62.       Mid-Term Review.  Due to the difficulties presented by this project,
project agencies will prepare regular reports on their activities (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04(b)(iii)), draft SOMALAC Project
Agreement, Section 2.05(b) (iii)). However, as a fairly lengthy implementation
period (five years) is essential to allow the rehabilitation of SOMALAC to be
completed, a full review ("Mid-Term Review") of all aspects of the Project will
be carried out at the end of two years by the Government, the colenders, and the



-20-
Association to assess progress against appraisal targets. This review will
cover all aspects of progress in both the project and its sub-sectoral
environment and is expected to result in agreement between the Government and
the Association on redefined conditions, as necessary, for satisfactory further
implementation, for revisions to project scope or concept, or for accelerated
completion or termination of some or all of project activities (draft
Development Credit Agreement,Section 3.04 (b) (v)). The Government will also
prepare a Completion Report (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.04(d)).
63.       Credit.  Credit for the farmers' purchase of inputs under the Project
would be provided by BTM under its own credit program. This involves short-term
credit for land preparation and other field operations and for purchase of small
implements, fertilizers, insecticides and herbicides, and medium-term credit for
the purchase of draught animals, tractors, ploughs and other major implements.
The BTM has two branch offices in the Lac Alaotra region, one in Ambatondrazaka
and one, recently opened, in Amparafaravola. The extension service would be
actively involved in identifying credit needs and helping to prepare and process
applications. Credit would be in kind through a voucher redeemable at a local
input supply center. Credit would be available at standard BTM rates for
agricultural lending, currently around 15 percent, which rate is acceptable to
the Association. Repayment of medium-term loans for equipment purchases would
be over a three to five year period. Draft agreements between MPARA, BTM and
SOMALAC would provide for the conduct of lending operations on the basis
outlined above and credit targets have been established. Even though this
project would not fund BTM it has been agreed that signature of these agreements
acceptable to the Association would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01 (d)).
Procurement and Disbursements
64.       Rehabilitation of irrigation works and building construction to be
financed by IDA and costing $8.3 million would be carried out by contractors
selected according to local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA.
International contractors are represented in Madagascar and are active in many
projects. Others not already involved in the country would be eligible to
participate but are not likely to be interested by these works, as they will be
in small quantities. Works for the improvement of traditional schemes (about
$1.2 million) would be carried out by local contractors, selected following
local competitive bidding. Equipment and vehicles financed by IDA and valued at
$9.2 million would be procured under international competitive bidding
procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines. Other contracts over US $100,000,
largely for agricultural inputs and totalling about $1.1 million, would be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Contracts for civil works and goods not exceeding $0.1 million
would be placed under local bidding procedures, which are acceptable.
Consultants, whose cost is estimated at $2.4 million, would be recruited in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Procurement for the components financed
by CCCE ($10.0 million) and by FAC ($4.5 million) will be in accordance with the
guidelines of those organizations.



-21-
65.       The IDA Credit would be disbursed over a six-year period against 100
percent of foreign expenditures or 60 percent of local expenditures on civil
works and on inputs and equipment for farmers; 100 percent of foreign
expenditures or 80 percent of total expenditures for plant, vehicles and
equipment, training, monitoring and evaluation, and studies; and 100 percent of
total expenditures for technical assistance. All disbursements would be fully
documented. Of the Credit, $1.0 million has been allocated to reimburse the
advance under the Project Preparation Facility Advance.
Accounts and Audit
66.       SOMALAC's accounting would be reinforced with consultant assistance
and material support under the project. With this assistance it is expected
that accounting for project expenditures would be satisfactory. SOMALAC's
accounts are at present subject to an independent review by an accounting firm,
and have recently been audited by another firm. Either of these firms would be
acceptable auditors of SOMALAC accounts. FOFIFA's accounting is adequate to
record project expenditures on the seed component. MPARA's accounting
(including CVA) follows the public accounting system and is satisfactory. MPARA
project accounts (including CVA accounts), and SOMALAC and FOFIFA accounts,
including their project accounts, would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA.
Cost Recovery
67.       Under recently enacted legislation, water charges will be levied on a
full operating cost recovery basis from the time when full services become
available in each part of the project area. No additional capital costs for
irrigation rehabilitation would be recovered as farmers are already paying for
the original works.
Benefits and Risks
68.       Benefits resulting directly from Project investments would consist of
increased production of rice. The value of annual incremental production at
full development of 51,500 tons of paddy is estimated at $15.8 million. These
benefits would accrue to about 35,000 farm families in the project area. Four
out of five of these families presently receive an income only marginally above
the critical consumption level. Some additional benefits would result from
project investments which have not been quantified. Seed production would
benefit the rice sub-sector throughout Madagascar. The investment in gauging
stations and in pilot schemes would eventually result in higher productivity and
new productive potential. Investments in training courses and study tours would
improve dissemination of new cultivation techniques. Moreover, long-term
benefits would result from funds spent for technical assistance for general
project preparation.



-22-
69.       The economic rate of return from directly productive elements of the
project is estimated at about 24 percent over 25 years. The rate of return to
the SOMALAC components is estimated at 21 percent reflecting the major share of
physical investments directed to these components. The 57 percent rate of
return of the CVA components reflects the high potential for comparatively low
cost intensification techniques on the small plots in the area. Sensitivity
tests showed that if costs were increased by 20 percent, the rate of return
would be reduced by 8 to 16 percent; if benefits were lagged by one year, the
rate of return would be about 17 percent.
70.       The success of project implementation will depend on the adequate
implementation of the organizational and financial rehabilitation of SOMALAC.
This in turn requires a high degree of commitment on the part of the Government
to ensure that provisions regarding the financial viability of SOMALAC are
observed. Offsetting these risks are the very evident commitment of the
Government to the project and to improving productivity in the sub-sector, and
the encouraging progress made so far. Covenants in the context of the project
are designed to ensure that adequate measures are taken for both SOMALAC and
the rice sub-sector as a whole to allow the project to succeed. Careful
supervision will be necessary to ensure that these covenants are observed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic Republic
of Madagascar and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and SOMALAC, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
FOFIFA, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the
credit are listed in Section III of Annex III to this Report.
72.       Special Conditions of effectiveness are:  (i) SOMALAC has to furnish
(a) its new organization chart for IDA's acceptance and (b) evidence of
sufficient working capital; (ii) conditions for effectiveness of co-financing
agreements must be met and employment of the technical assistance team financed
by FAC; (iii) agreements have to be signed between the Government and BTM, and
between BTM and SOMALAC, acceptable to IDA, defining BTM's operations in the
project area; and (iv) issuance of land titles to those farmers who by December
31, 1981 had paid all amounts due for their land allocations in the Project
area; and issuance of attestations to all farmers who by December 31, 1982 had
paid all amounts due.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.



-23-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 28, 1983
r



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Pag e 1
TABLE 3A
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                          REFERENCE GROUS (WEIGHTED AVER.AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)--
TOTAL             587.0                                       MOST RECENT              LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      370.0                    1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        150.0        220.0      350.0                   250.8                    1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)            38.5          68.7       89.1                   66.5                      610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        5474.0        6785.0    8714.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    10.6             14.8       17.7                   17.8                       28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                               16.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                 51.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                          2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                              9.3          11.6       14.4                   27.7                       54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND            14.9         18.7       22.9                   86.7                      129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                               41.6          42.8       43.7                   44.8                       46.0
15-64 YRS.                               55.2          53.9       53.0                   52.3                       51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                          3.2          3.3        3.3                    2.9                        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     1.8          2.1        2.5/c                  2.7                        2.8
URBAN                                    4.9           5.4        4.3                    6.2                        5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           46.7          45.2       46.7                   47.3                       47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           26.6          21.9       17.9                   19.5                       15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     3.0          3.0        3.2                    3.2                        3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..            ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)                89.0         102.0       94.0                   88.7                       90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        100.5        105.8       110.8/d                 90.2                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                57.4          58.6       58.6/d                 53.1                      54.8
OF WEICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             17.3         16.7        15.3/i                 18.4                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE            21.1         15.7       11.1                   26.7                      23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          37.2          42.2       47.1                   45.6                      51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 108.9         89.2       71.3                  129.9                     118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..         11.0       25.0/e                 23.9
URBAN                                      ..         67.0       76.0/i                 54.9
RURAL                                      ..          1.0       14.0/e                 18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..           ..         ..                   25.8
URBAN                                      ..         88.0         . .                  63.1
RURAL                                      ..           ..        9.0/e                 20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                8900.8      10172.4   10242.3/d                32097.3                  14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           3105.1/f    3353.9    2298.9/d                  3264.6                   2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  423.9         354.4      402.3/d               1225.0                   1036.4
URBAN                                  150.5/f      214.8       239.4/d                249.5                    430.8
RURAL                                  760.2/f      475.3       517.9/d               1712.1                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                  ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                      ..          5.8        4.7/e
URBAN                                      ..          5.3        5.0/i
RURAL                                      *-          5.9        4.7/e
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                      ..           ..
URBAN                                      ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                      ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                      ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                      ..           ..         ..                     ..
RURAL                                      ..           ..         ..



- 25 -
ANNEX I
WL-9-34 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ :p4
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER.AGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  52.0         88.0     100.0                   63.2                    83.3
MALE                  58.0         95.0         ..                  72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                45.0         81.0         ..                  50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   4.0         11.0      12.0/e                 10.2                    15.3
MALE                   5.0         13.0       14.0/e                13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 3.0          9.0       10.0/e                 6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   9.1            8.7        ..                    7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             69.9         65.0      54.8                   47.4                    38.6
*                       SECONDARY                           24.2         19.8         ..                  26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..         39.0       50.0/d                34.0                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.0          6.8       7.1/d                  3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          15.0         79.7     135.6                   34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            . .         0.5       1.5/d                  1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    7.7          7.8       9.0/g                  2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5/f          0.7       0.4/g                  1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3046.0       3619.9    4423.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    46.9        46.1       44.6                   34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               93.0         90.0      90.0                   78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   Z.0          3.0       3.0                    9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 55.6         53.4       50.8                  41.4                     37.0
MALE                                  60.7         58.8      56.4                   53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                                50.9         48.2      45.2                   29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9       0.9                    1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.1/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.2/h           .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     150.0/d                134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      86.0/d                 82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     135.0/d                 96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      86.0/i                 60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      50.0/d                 39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      50.0/i                 69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Recent population growth estimate is 2.8X for 1975-79; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f 1962; Ig 1974; /h Population.
May, 1982



-26-                                                                                                VEL i
DOLtS TIONS Of UXSOCIA ISCAXMI
Mote;  iohooa  S  Sal  0. dr    fot-  -..tr. got-rolY IoaD"  the WOoa aotbeottCte. .04  i4t                 .to akood a.1. be taCit Cht they -r  o  So. ir--
oa=.eliy Co.ae-ii. hitoas   of t   teed of   -6daed -od rattte                        -pttt. uad  by dtff-.oo       -rcorte  to  -1o -1.9I lh. daI..  lbs  ao0.   rt
Tut rforte. S-.P. e-             Ch l. ac   r.cnr  snap of fbi sehi.Ct  _cYm eM  12) 0 001t"7  groto  Nutb .e                      iShat ae.S.g ta-o  tha  lbe t           tr  aoo
of lIl  seiot o.or,y  (-.ooP  f. 00         1100 l0000    Oil garo.             -PSOe  W.-  'StlAdi  1oo     Sooh *fetoa  ut KIddle Lb.0  1.. rhee   booaoo  of -10060
-0 to-cu1ltua  offtoti..i.  1a tto  rfese .goW  d.10 0h0  -o w e.    poOlotta  attsb,ad  -rth-in.a   mOo. for each tndi.Cato   ea  bha   oly ceo
-aJ.orty of ft  coea-t,i.  i. a goow  h.. due, for to   lodlator.  Stor  tOe cocec. of co.tra-                       a* tir  ihet....r- depend,        LM the  iotlobtco   of late
.41. ntton            ete     be .         rla   orcfe    nae  of on W.4i.d.eco   to  -9eber.  1h7.5                  -.. aeog ..ar  oy  oaf,i L. -oW-iogte  00000i  of
oU. ttbo.eoat  pq.    .i.)                                                                   Pye-utottb.e tar -0,111St-tol,rba  00* rote)                     f mcoot'. boo(oa.
Totl        =  Ttalaifa , o ..  IC.tto 1.0 . oo  od  tlodote         1919 dAt.                     i!a.sdrrl    ttetb   bt   epcIeevtro   optlld
f-   -Pltota  P tt -m    o         gttl tots   co-d-aaed   teupraIL.  or peeoelpaolbt I                          10 prbt   d   001   oGe   a   rco                    . Crttly  eadto
GM?0 MO  CAPITA (ISO) - G0O  per -*tapr   olee   tco.tnoa o. -i-l-dal1 t-rt ara  -r  larldd.  Roa   e.ta.. I                                                                         I..  oroo  ell
boeo    y e    covetLo  naIad c. W01-         oo   ot   1590   at)  £96.                          tR= mtt.  ceetara co    reotl    tffti Oyapb.lo                     (bot
1970, aod 190te.xdc) mti:.r_..   o.f.ae)   eI    fe   opo  atati.
EN00GY CltrOtoToOM PER  Call!, - O--It        -.l co Zaao   o       -o . oooae.rgC  total                totl P-rpoa or. t.         opc)  CcoaOeprota,e.r;coOa
o-d livilot.perlt.  car-ro  tea  -ad hoydr-.  -aO  .0 0    etem R                  - t-               ant rota).  hospitl,. 1-01 or to-     ropioa   n   ticladoOOOt
Or:Ito,) Le.10paao  coal aqeteale..ptcpt:1. P,1910. aed  191                                         cer.  Specto11a    oe tteVlal  AIra  fo         &4da   loy mo   oe
C..t                                                 .....abo.  Ca ortlgd-Tta   oe    faooie    to  r O                                                                           -orrga
Ore.,lspta.  0P101.   bynbaeuSh-  of bed..
POPULATION .AND Vf1.AL STATISTICS                                                                       :
Total ytilaco. d-Y-.r (th.oc            d.)Oo  -  o  f Joly 1; 1960, 1971. ona 190NG)99
dlf Co ali..       fot.ae,C    fa  tarhlt    fda 19ed  thtr eat.  -I.t.  A b-rd-r orlde  m    rm                                                             ttt   Obdo  10
aeetoooot ie;199. 170. _0d 1960 dote.                                                          h*b. bocabod for aul.oti-tce    aP.     a...
Pcultioleyer2000 -Curn    olOoeprofecti.a art beat o  1960                                    bto    ee.   e   o.I   I   fa.cJttlocpe   oooiro
total pop iato  by  v4  ad   ..  "  that    otlo   atfrtta   rt.                              d..lttog.,  -oP-tutley.  Sotlg    oooato--P- RtCo    atCtooe   ant
PrjcttoP-yamrt   toy = to tp  rar. _aw-pt  of rho.  I.e.). a..-                            oe _to d Per..
L16 lif. ttacecya  bitCh torreealg  itth  onr'  e  caIt  freOcoto lctofyorcoof owoliogt-  oa. ...a*roa
lace). oat ft          .          . ...eecc   RtobIltlag at 77.5 C pot.   b.  Ia.                  cteteid .&.cg   atl  aatrctyt1Ioe   qoort_t  Asarota
tell  _oCot   1d. cI.   egnad er  of ct.. otot  -obitoretn   of norteLry                    fOtzATItdd
and f.rItillty  toth. f-opoeto   purpoa-..                                                     odoted torol1-t MeClI
Stooiuary  oroitlor     Co     etaloearypoouatioetonr  to no arootl e                Prier  echol - rota, eel. aod fata. - rs   oa fip  c-  foenle
Li. .oh   aei  e.oo  co lb. d.tth  -a.. aoted a  t- h. .ge strocar.  a-1-                   -5 it  of allS. ag , a  toe poicar   Itoo  aspyeoat  0)rtptt
La.   octn.Thln ie uchiavd .ely afo.C foclllla  rat-  dalton  ro                                   pointy  -h-oo-.gtp.      plaiaa  areolololoa   obtloa  agd b-fl
telce    n  I  ct.  ofIthe projecte E.ro tatto    f thep pori -cc                            .1.   --P pupLC.ar  b.toecraoc b  o-fficial  rb-oI  Ne.
Lb th  yo  'O0, tad    littl   of dalLe  of  tftillcy reato relc-Ctoeyela     ttl   a.adftl      oeeo    .atv;toOr
Poet staniacar, loce LA 1raC.-d - Th. yoo  ohm  otaiaeoy popolctio.                                   prodtoerl   ootel   r-olo    rtoglorc)e    o  tart).
tta   il  be ytb.                                                                                 olyOf 12 to  17 Yea.  If ago;  or.oneccoenoacor.
P.0 d.. ko..             1t-icrl  a     -C.osp... o   bc   o A f r-  ueaolet cyora  deporteta  of aatCeay totrtct
yelp; 1960. 1970 0.41979 dac.                                                                   -.olt.br  it       rmy.ade.eay     0.   etrO    aoidI
AcoaOo   00Srotr  toecc-          o C) ild-11 0..tOI  yar)  (etoa            L 1-               prfyedocoaybe)   iit   yo..o  t-ho  .o  c
y-.or). , ad raeired  19  taava ad  ortc    rctee of  Id-Yt.,  -00-oor.rodteg lovei..
(atn.  160  175   "d 196  dona.                                                             Addl Iftrr   eetocat- L.CI. lttt    d.lte   ~ t l    t  tod 104 tyite
L=uettIoatSl   oatot-ttl-bne  gteebt.-Io   ot)  ta                                              oehr -etag  of ttal  dult PoPola-io  aged  10 1100  aI  000
.oot  .....at.. fo C91-1 L        967._  tad 1970O-60.
Iati... for 19500. 90-60          c04190-0.leoea.  Cr 1                                                          10. Cbooe   ocato0Ptmottr   oe  0 ro
Col.etr  eO 9(a   -l..iad) -  -nco  tie. btrrhe tar tr.o.o  of .-10-fa                      c;at ;. atfl  I... rb.  LohI    o.o:srt.aeart    00. 
Poploc ; 160. 170 . and 1960 data.                                                                  olitar-e" cla
Dr00 Sot  Wac  torp-    oeel  - Aaaol daott. p.r tbouaad  of atd-yo-r                           tdtoOcerre e  toth.c-  P..lAtion) - A11 rypa   ofr-.ivor  fr ro
opoPlatlon; 1910. 1970. .04 1990 dit.-                                                              broo  tIt   o  a e  Poblto  p.r  h10.-.0          f poaain   eoodt.c
lircr..-    -ar-dunLca   peIo  If ah. ooeioc . prata .ag-aPtft   fr.-                             etaoa   oafot  d.t. f-r retet Y.-t  Oilto  be  -oew-bla   tc
til fyrtt;t.)ly          tie-e1       ceya  .tdlos to 1960.L1970, .00 1960.                         ee    oareaotbdIIoeo
Fantly plaaotnS-OCAot--. 040.01 (1fbhrioade- Jan.01Oa    f  ceor                                    TV-  ooatCerl.C   rer thar-oad  Ouett-TVafr   ltro otc
ofllth__PCrrl.  lele YI.       o - uatre   of..   coot lfamly pleato gproatam.                    ,eeara  poblio  "ar nttouad popalatIce   aaLua    sltloea   TV  aeor
Family  tatoin  - latr  loaooon of trrlod   tm.)  -Peretg    fere                      in  _cutti. ant L.yea.O_    rag- eroi,P  of IV aeo.              n   . o.on
eroo   dll-oeigiO(04   nn    e.teStn-ott    octeoSoerr  ioloo    et  toaadttualr       tl  0.oot.cr
lodt. of Food frodoclotar Capita (1692-71s16 -o ..'d-., of             "rCPiaeai                     toa.-  Oct0    Attt.ao. pEr Capita r,Pe     Sedatcinutro
caio. a  ot    Pg trd-.  pot_  atigoto; i961-65. 1970. ad 1990 latb.                             Total Lb-r F0... )Craootddt  - E...."-oaly atireprre   oldo
Par -vapI   acooly ofolrr      (OC.trtlorolr tt- conced  Pr.an    ooaao   o.ae    a   trclgboet0. tdce    t.
0000   aq.itl-  tof-   i f od auppt 100aalubl   -.toor  Par capita                                               J"ere   ppoato    f allIag..  lofiotit   noraoc0tttr
Par dy.   anllolepyltoa cotr. 1-                 tt   rouci- .      tLrPoo  -o.                      oo       -obtoo  1960, 1970 a-d 1960ar.
a   ddan -t.t    dibo tf O pooltie  and aiXY ating1- II  ad     for nato  atl                     endih   . atrt lcty  -a.ted  0  a.bp etgaa ..1                1 6, 060190 f drca
boCe__eba1- ld ltn.; I961      I,17  at - 1977 lao-                                                    1960. 1970.0   ot9  dle.
coo ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ~~ 7 -oyloY0.  prdy    olupl   ffr   o  elc   oaov  o  ciiy rate. or. Coue.d oe  .otal, ca., aod falolao  frc
qatmt   e  ll-ll      .    . toot Iae   at hlea  by USDA prootla for tta.a                   port-tao   of  -oto. CIa  eat faClo  ~popatt. of all ottq taotcc.
ellaatr.-   of '60 gra   of corI pCoroo  per day -ed 20 Ige   of aciNcl .0                          1960. 1970..ot  1936 dat..  rSt.-..  r  batad  -n tLL. p-riclipt=o   -rte
ard  00  Lo_t  hIa  10. of 75 gre.  of tota  proteI. aId 23 Sa    f                                 fe   siio    r   t.   atnltocn
S.1 cd  ocy   19519C90.417   doaMoot   ot)lbrfr.
Percotl  erreo  aety  ro  aCo.l  ndOotefrttiL, oooply tt roo  de
tloo  rosaetat 00   olrettogrma   .Ito; 1961465, 197000  1977 date.                 NCM 1  DI0f OISTK UOTIO
Clild  ag.1-el D.t  gale  (P.r Changed) - Onaott leotbe per  hboosad ;o                             Paooe.o  7to.bo                   boIc  I cooh ceo aud) - Ultettd tO  zlhloo
anC001-   or. to  hldldee   L0 th10 .Oc ZC-u,  fo _ ort daIPtioptt100                       Por.   t  yoon1peCt. co--e  11 ptcta   .4   o                              --tattor
or,data de-ira    rot 1if. -labi.; 1960. 1970 and 1980 date,                                    of  o.bd.
t1E9LTO                                                                                             P0VERTY TCrOl ItIOUPS
atlrc   91. 17   0   19-_1   Adat..                 ~f                                     ondecldbe-Itta.prF    0cottcietLecoP                   o
of ao  700  to,oOOd 10. lItle;   960.190  -4  196  dat.                                 dtltyaeyico                 lo)  ahu bLoC;  leve  lob   ;;cooM                lot
lose  0  cfedoor(00000oftoaltln   - total, h             lOr 0d      ua      ct                Aotti- oc -Ly aaat  diet pC           I eetalCLofo   090  ot                0  O
0t-  of people (totl.  b..te, 00   oe)otroeeadc.ao.t                                                 fodbo
e  .t-oh aclot fot.toacdnrcla    pig.  a .tt    ol)a                                             oa   ttaCcotoe. .y 100...-           t  t  on-rhirO_ ofL:a-Ko  oat  ct00
pocstcoo    001  LepcLreppltoO               0ectnaraytl                                    eoclOtm             Ott ooatry.  Itbn  Io1 1.1 catodtrtCO.to,
foocatto orraoodpar loatad  ct ear  Oton20I  hlor   trot 0~ 0cc.. -ao O               lO-e  01 .1 - oJo-O   foY:ta    cto    olsc   re   r
ocoaata e.  .    al. gotoll    aaool-  h. oe h .. t-  tha  1dm.   Co coral ora i                  etdatnd   Ptooic    oo  00rc.  ott(ot  00.
p  doalotaenadiaplyp--cl               -       h    .      .cteroo0amthrt  'Klo .alcdoooe-tccoopltoltai.ttloor                                                    to
do  ot  ane0001.4 adtprcoeoicntePIt  0   Iacoy10ict;"     oepc
h10.1100  octet1 O nda..I                                            ~.d
toeofP.,l   rt)    ta.an    ca)era   .  tohacadi pooal osi.   D
letoetogocftleter. po. Oc  poplmn oot.Octrce dilfooal  y  lO-.t-
CItooialttdt 00  ttPecl    i   o        .c   coo-ott.= 01-d.,b   lia  e-nc-rooa
t0coc-ertnatrC          oeotearoe   copCtttrl  -c,t0bAi



-27-                               Annex I
Page 4
MADAGASCAR - EmOQNCIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT LN 1979                             ANNUAL RATE OF GR(IMJS 1/
US$ MIn.         %               1975-79
GNP at Market Prices               2,768.0          100.00             1.5
Gross Domestic Investment            619.1           22.4              4.6
Gross Domstic Saving                 281.6           10.2            -17.5
Current Account Balance             -434.8          -15.7              -
Exports of Goods, NFS                482.3           17.4             -7.3
Imports of Goods, NFS                819.9           29.6              5.4
OUTPUT IABOUR FORCE AND
9                         PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value added 2/            Labour Force 3/        VA Per Worker
US$ Mln.        %         US$ Mln       Z          US$ Mln      %
Agriculture                          961.4           34.2       3.79       88.8        253.7      38.5
Industry                             551.0           19.6       0.19       4.4       2,900.0     440.2
Services                           1,134.8           40.3       0.29        6.8      3,913.1     594.0
Unallocated                          165.9 4/         5.9      _____                ________
Total                              2,813.1          100.0       4.27      100.0        658.8     100.0
GOVERN'4ENT FINANCE
Central Government
FMG Bln          % of GDP
1979     1980           1979    1977-79
Current Receipts            114.1    126.3           19.1      20.1
Current Expenditures        131.8    148.8           21.6      20.5
Current Deficit             -17.7    -22.5           -2.5      -0.4
Capital Expenditures         55.0    105.7            9.6       6.1
Foreign financing (net)      30.9     42.3            5.2       2.8
M)NEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1976         1977           1978           1979          1980
(Million FYG Outstanding at the End of the Period)
Mbney and Quasi Money                100.2         122.0        143.0            180.6        207.8
Bank Credit to public sector          19.5          29.0         49.9            100.5        186.0
Bank Credit to state enterprises
and private sector                  82.2         95.8         100.7            120.6        139.2
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Mbney and Quasi Mnbey as % of GDP    23.7           26.5         29.8.            30.1          -
GDP Price Deflator (1978 = 100)       88.1          93.7        100.0.8          112.9          -
Annual percentage changes in
GDP Price Deflator                    11.4           6.4          6.7             12.9          -
Bank Credit to public sectort         58.5          48.7         72.1            100.4         85.1
Bank Credit to State enterprises
and private sector                 4.8         16.5           5.1             19.8         15.4
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing durirn  the
period covered.
1/ Based on 1978 prices seeries
2/ At market prices
3/ Total labour force
4/ Import duties
February 4, 1982



-28-                                               Annex I
Page 5
MADAGASCAR - TRADE PAYMENT AND CAPITAL FLCW4S
BALANCE OF PAYMENIS                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-79)
1978   1979   1980 1/                                 US$ mln.      %
(US$ Million)
Coffee                           156.1      44.8
Vanilla                           27.1       7.8
Cloves                           46.2       13.2
Meat and meat products             9.8       2.8
Exports of Goods, f.o.b.      405.5  411.8  420.7    Fish and shellfish                  15.6       4.5
Imports of Goods, f.o.b.      404.2  674.1  723.1    Sugar                               7.3        2.1
Resource Balance                 1.3 -262.3  302.4    Petroleum products                11.2        3.2
Chroaite                          10.7       3.1
Services (net)               -144.4 -248.2 -286.8    Other comadities                  64.7       18.5
Freight and insurance         -81.1 -137.7 -144.3            Total                     348.7      100.0
Others                        -54.4  -87.9 -102.7
Investment income              -8.9  -22.6  -39.8    EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Transfers (net)                60.7   70.0   72.9                                     US$ Mln.
Private                         8.4    7.0    7.1
Public                         52.3   63.0   65.8    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    1.035
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt       -
Current accoant balance       -82.4 -440.5 -516.3    Total Outstanding & Disbursed    1.035
Direct foreign investment      -6.2   -6.6   -6.6    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 4/
Net MLT borrowing:             22.6  145.2  199.2
Disbursemnts                 27.5  154.2    -
Annrtization                 -4.9   -9.0    -       Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   12.4
Other capital (net)2/          59.0   95.9  100.3    Non-&uaranteed Private Debt         -
Change in reserves              7.1  206.0  223.4    Total outstanding & Disbursed   12.4
(increase = -)
IBRD/IDA LENDING, November 30, 1982
MEMO ITEMS                                                                     US$ million
SDR allocation                  -       4.7    4.7                            TBRD    IDA
Foreign assets (net)3/         64.0    -       -
Outstanding &
Disbursed            30.92 167.01.
RATE OF EXCHANGE      1978        1979      1980      Undisbursed                   143.39.
Outstanding incl.
US$1.00 = FMG        225.64     212.72    211.30         Undisbursed          30.92 310.40
FMG   1 = US$          0.OQ44     0.0047      .0047
1/ Provisional estimates from the Central Bank of
Madagascar.
2/ Includes SDR allocations, state and private
short-term capital, and errors and omissions.
3/ Net foreign assets of the banking system.
4/ Debt service payments as % of exports of goods
and services.
February 4, 1983



-29-
ANNEX II
Page I of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of November 30, 1982) 1/
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower    Purpose                    Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
-(US$ Million)…
Eight Credits and Five Loans
have been fujlly disbursed                              32.58   79.55        --
9           CR  506-MAG  1974   Madagascar  Village Livestock                    9.60       1.48
CR  641-MAG  1976   MIadagascar  Highways IV                        22.00       5.28
CR  663-MAG  1976   Madagascar  Edtucation II                       14.00 2/   4.21
CR  817-MAG   1978   Madagascar  Andekaleka
Hydroelectric                  43.00 3/   6.97
CR  881-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Mangoky - Agriculture               12.00       3.63
CR  903-MAG  L979   Madagascar  Railways II                         13.00       0.94
CR  938-MAC  1979   Madagascar  Highways V                          24.00      21.13
CR  977-NAG  1980   Madagascar  Industrial Bank - BNI                5.00       4.03
CR 1002-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Water/Sanitation                    20.50      19.51
CR 1016-,NAG  1980   Madagascar  Petroleum Exploration              12.50       6.42
CR 1064-NAG  1981   Madagascar  Agriculture Bank - BTM               9.39 5/   8.28
CR 1086-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Plain of Antananarivo T.&.           1.94 5/   1.86
CR 1155-xNAG  1981   Madagascar  Accounting and Audit               10.15 5/   9.09
CR 1161-MAG  1931   Madagascar  Forestry II                         17.60 5/  16.39
CR 1211-MAC,  1982   Madagascar  Village Livestock II 4/            13.82 5/  13.82
CR 1249-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Agriculture Institutions             5.61 5/   5.61
CR 1298-MAG  1982   Mladagascar  Tsimiroro Heavy Oil
Exploration                    11.55 5/  10.55
TOTAL                                32.58  325.21      140.20
of which has been repaid            2.02    5.90
TOTAL now outstanding                30.56  3i9.31
Amount sold
of which has been repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA    30.56  319.31
TOTAL undisbursed                            140.20      140.20
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of November 30, 1982)
Loan     Equity    Total
(US$ Million)
1977   Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga         11.00      0.29       11.29
1980   Bata - Shoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                           1.25        -         1.25
12.54
1/ Prior to exchlange adjustments.
2/  Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
3/ Includ(ing a supplemental credit of US$10.0 million of 1980.
4/  Not yet effective.
5/  Comptuted at the November 30, 1982 exchange rate.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF JANUARY 31, 1983 1/
Credit No 506-MAG:      Village Livestock and Rural Development Project:  US$9.6
million credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
June 17, 1975; Closing date: December 31, 1982
The project encountered serious problems in the initial years and,
principally because of legal and organizational difficulties, little progress
was made. Following significant changes in institutional and management
arrangements, the credit agreement was extensively amended; the Amended
Agreement became effective September 1, 1977, and project implementation began
in earnest. FAFIFAMA, the principal project implementing agency, is
well-established, fully staffed and operational. Implementation of the
project's most important component - veterinary and livestock services for
village producers - developed rapidly and, in general, performance has been
good. However since 1981 FAFIFAMA has been afflicted by a serious cash
shortage, largely due to the present budgetary crisis. Management deteriorated
during a hiatus between Directors-General, and accounting and reporting fell
into arrears. The animal health component reached a plateau after initial
expansion and has been constrained by lack of products and equipment and by lack
of an adequate training program. With the appointment of a new Director-General
in mid-1982 management control has been re-established and actions are being
taken to address key problems. The project was closed on December 31, 1982, but
the Government has been given the opportunity to submit before March 31, 1983
any withdrawal requests regarding commitments signed before December 31, 1982.
A second phase livestock project was approved by the Board in February 1982.
Credit No 641-MAG:       Fourth Highway Project; US$22.0 million credit of
June 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project assisted the Government in the construction of two major
roads with a view to reducing transport costs and providing access to areas with
a high agricultural potential. It also includes training and strengthening of
the country's road maintenance administration. The start of the training
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors about the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
program for personnel in the Ministry of Public Works on highway maintenance has
been delayed due to lack of training facilities. Bids for construction of these
facilities were received and the contract has been awarded to the lowest bidder,
SARD, a local firm. Construaction has begun and consultants Louis Berger have
started training 39 local instructors, utilizing some of the existing facilities
and equipment.
As of December 1982, about 80 percent of the project had been completed;
it is expected to be totally completed by June 30, 1984 or four years behind
schedule. This delay was induced by the then prevailing inefficiency of the
project management team prior to the appointment of the new Minister in January
1982. The Minister has put in place a new management team, and the project
performance has started to improve. Disbursements which were very slow have
also started to imp-ove following the shortening of administrative procedures.
Despite the delay in implementation, the project is still within estimated costs
and available financing.
Credit No 663-MAG:       Second Education Project; US$14.0 million of December 10,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project is designed to assist the Government in decentralizing the
educational system and to improve the quality of basic education. It comprises
construction, furnishing and equipping of five Regional Education Centers (RECs)
including vehicles for the inspectorate, and a Teaching Materials Production
Center, including related technical assistance. Norway took 50 percent
participation in the project under an agreement signed on December 16, 1977.
Construction work on three of the RECs has been completed and on the
remaining two will be completed shortly. Most of the furniture and equipment
has been delivered and in three of the centers the administrative facilities are
already in use. The Teaching Materials Production Center is completed and is at
present producing educational material at a limited level, awaiting the
installation of supplementary equipment and appointment of additional staff.
Technical specialists provided under contract with the Organization for
Rehabilitation through Training (ORT) who started work in 1977 have trained the
technical local staff which is operating the Center. Tenders for equipment to
be financed under the project, for a printshop to be added to the Center have
been approved. Because of delays in the construction of the printshop building,
which is to be entirely financed by the Government, it has been proposed that
the equipment be temporarily installed in rented premises. In order to allow
for the completion of all project components, including the training programs,
the Bank Group has agreed to postpone the Closing Date first, from December 31,
1981 to December 31, 1982 and subsequently to June 30, 1983.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Credit No 817-MAG:      Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project; US$43.0 million credit
of June 19, 1978 (including a Supplementary Credit of
US$10 million of May 8, 1980); Date of Effectiveness:
May 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will meet the growth in electricity demand until about 1992
in the Antananarivo area and provides for the strengthening of JIRAMA. It
consists of a concrete diversion dam and an intake structure; a 4-km tunnel,
underground power house, tailrace and access tunnels; two turbines and two
generators; electrical and mechanical equipment; a transmission line to
Antananarivo; engineering services; preliminary investigation and design for a
storage reservoir; and technical assistance and training for JIRAMA staff.
The project has operated successfully since it was placed into commercial
service on May 29, 1982.
Credit No 881-MAG:       Mangoky Agricultural Development Project; US$12.0 million
credit of May 17, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: March 11,
1980; Closing Date: August 31, 1984
The project supports the development of about 3,700 ha for production
of rice and cotton, to be farmed by about 3,200 families. It will complete an
irrigation system serving about 10,000 ha in the Lower Mangoky Valley which has
been under development since the early 1960s. These investments are based on a
long-term master plan for the region which aims ultimately to bring about
100,000 ha of land into production. The project will be implemented over a
five-year period amd will comprise: development of irrigation and drainage
networks for 3,300 ha of rice and cotton production; consultant services for
design and supervision; applied agricultural research; social infrastructure;
training and project preparation for agriculture and rural development
projects. IFAD is financing about 25 percent of the total project cost.
Project implementation has been seriously delayed due to foreign
exchange shortage for the procurement of equipment and spare parts, to the
financial, managerial and technical problems of SAMANGOKY and to the overall
difficult socio-political and economic environment in Madagascar. Civil works
have been stopped due to cost overruns and agricultural production has slumped.
As a result, SAMANGOKY is virtually bankrupt and has to be bailed out by
Government. As Project objectives cannot be attained, the Government and IDA
are discussing to scale down the Project from 3300 to about 2000 ha of
irrigation development, as well as other appropriate measures.



-33-
ANNEX II
Credit No 938-MAG:       Fifth Highway Project; US$24.0 million credit of July 30,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is intended to arrest the deterioration of the paved highway
network in order to reduce transport costs and, where possible, avoid costly
reconstruction works. It also includes construction of bridges on the
Antsohihy-Ambanja road and provision to increase the maintenance capacity of the
Ministry of Public Works. Co-financing is provided by a European Economic
Community Special Action Account credit of US$10 million.
As of May 1982, the project was 20 percent completed and is scheduled to
be totally completed by June 1984, or about 1 1/2 years behind schedule. The
delay was induced by the then prevailing inefficiency of the project management
team prior to the appointment of the new Minister in January 1982. The Minister
has put in place a new management team, and the project's performance has
started to improve. Disbursement also has improved following the shortening of
administrative procedures. As a result of this delay and further deterioration
of the paved roads, the cost of the project has increased by about 27 percent.
AfDB has agreed to consider the Government's request to finance part of the
resurfacing works, and the Public Works Department is reviewing the equipment
list to adjust it to available financing.
Credit No 903-MAG:       Second Railway Project; US$13.0 million credit of June
25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 7, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The objectives of the project are to help the Malagasy railway company
renew and modernize its facilities, improve the reliability and efficiency of
its operations and improve its financial management and accounting methods. The
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique provided US$20.5 million in
co-financing.
Following the major difficulties experienced by the Railway in early 1981
(increased derailments, maintenance, procurement and operations planning
problems, resulting in a substantial decrease in carrying capacity) a recovery
program was adopted in May 1981 jointly with the French CCCE that included
short-term technical assistance and credit reallocation.
However, due to the critical financial situation of the railways and
non-compliance with major financial covenants, and although the project was
almost fully disbursed (about $850,000 undisbursed balance), the Association
suspended disbursement in June 1982. Since then a satisfactory financial
recovery program has been approved by the Government, the the Railways have
been transformed into a State Enterprise with financial autonomy, new statutes
have been decreed and a financial director has been appointed. Disbursements
were subsequently resumed in November 1982.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Credit No 977-MAG:       Bankin'ny Indostria (BNI) Project; US$5.0 million credit
of May 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: February 24,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project supports Madagascar's industrial sector and BNI's crucial
development role by providing BNI with part of its foreign exchange requirements
to finance projects in the small- and medium-scale enterprise sectors. At end
of January 1983 about US$3.3 million of the credit has been committed for
medium- and large-scale enterprises. However, the pace of commitment of funds
for small scale enterprises is slower, owing to the difficulties BNI encounters
in identifying bankable SSE projects.
Credit No 1002-MAG:    Antananarivo Water and Sanitation Project; US$20.5
million Credit of May 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project will increase access to treated water for the Antananarivo
urban population and improve sanitation conditions. The main contracts for
the water supply works have been awarded and construction is about 40 percent
completed. Implementation of the Drainage and Sewerage component by the
;.n; S-rv or euoiic Works has scarcely progressed and the delay is now three
years beyond the appraisal schedule.
Credit No 1016-MAG:    Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; US$12.5 million
Credit of May 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project supports the Government's efforts to develop a domestic
supply of hydrocarbons and improve planning of the energy sector. Implementa-
tion of the project is progressing satisfactorily. Geological and legal consul-
tants were employed to assist the Government in preparing data with a view to
promoting exploration by interested oil companies and in negotiating exploration
agreements. Four exploration contracts have been signed with Mobil, Occidental
Petroleum, Agip and Amoco. Other studies, technical assistance, a seismic
survey and training provided in the project are proceeding satisfactorily,
including a second round of bidding for exploration acreage.
Credit No 1065-MAG:    National Bank for Rural Development (BTM) Project;
US$11.5 million Credit of January 7, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: August 17, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The project supports the extension of seasonal, medium-term, and
long-term credit to smallholders through the National Bank for Rural Development
(BTh) for the purchase of improved seeds, pesticides, insecticides, fertilizers,



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
and small farm equipment. Due to poor repayment records on many loans extended
under the collective guarantee credit scheme, BTM has suspended these scheme in
many regions. This action has resulted in a significant drop in lending
activity. Consequently, BTM has been able to use only a small amount of Project
funds as it has only marginally exceeded the base period level necessary to
qualify for reimbursement from the IDA Credit. In addition, due to the scarcity
of foreign exchange, few inputs are available in Madagascar. To help remedy the
current situation, BTM has agreed with the Association that part of the Credit
be used to finance fertilizer imports destined for smallholders in selected rice
growing areas. These fertilizers will provide farmers with inputs and will
support lending operations directed to individuals rather than through
cooperatives.
Credit No 1086-MAG:    Plain of Antananarivo (Technical Assistance) Project;
US$2.3 million Credit of January 30, 1981; Date of Effec-
tiveness: October 16, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
The project supports the Government's efforts to institute a
multisectoral approach to an integrated flood control and development program
for the Plain of Antananarivo area; it provides for strengthening the
coordinating role of the Directorate General of Planning of the Ministry of
Finance in the development of the Plain of Antananarivo. This would be achieved
through pre-investment studies to define options for flood control programs and
to provide Government with elements for decision-making. The contract for the
major pre-investment studies was awarded in late 1981 and work began in early
1982. Problems in obtaining aerial photographs have delayed completion of phase
one of this phase four study and the contract period has had to be extended.
Credit No 1155-MAG:    Audit and Accounting Project; US$11.5 million Credit of
June 11, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: May 6, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The project includes measures to develop a suitable legislative
framework for the accounting and auditing sector, to increse the level of
expertise in these professions through training, to strengthen the national
audit company RINDRA and to provide foreign expertise to local accounting firms
in dealing with their clients. Consultants have been retained to start the
design of the training programs and to help RINDRA carry out its audit missions.
Credit No 1161-MAG:    Second Mangoro Forestry Project, US$20.0 million Credit
of October 29, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: July 1,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will continue the reforestation program begun under the first
project, and will assist the Government's efforts to establish a forest industry
complex in the Mangoro Valley. Recent studies have shown that forest yields
will be lower than previously estimated.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
The project unit has requested consultant assistance to verify these
disappointing results and determine their causes. The plantation programs have
also been scaled down. Studies are currently under way to determine the most
appropriate industrial development for the wood resources available. They have
already shown that, due to high investment costs and the depressed world market
situation for wood products, most export oriented industrial options show poor
financial and economic returns. The Secretary-General of Planning recently
requested the consultants carrying out the industrial studies to proceed with
detailed feasibility studies of two options:  a wood pelletizing plant, which
would substitute in part for imported oil, and a particle board plant. In
addition, consultants are preparing a prospectus for a small kraftmill (75,000
TPA).
Credit No 1211-MAG:   Second Village Livestock Project; US$15.0 million credit
of April 15, 1982; Expected Date of Effectiveness:
February 26, 1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The Project would support the Government's efforts to increase beef
production and to improve the productivity of the sector through animal health
programs, the provision of veterinary inputs, technical assistance and
research. In Mahajanga province, basic animal health programs would be
continued and extended, and a pilot animal production program, supported by
rural road and water supply components, would be implemented. Veterinary
supplies and equipment for producing vaccines would be imported; and management
assistance and training for key institutions in the livestock sector would be
included.  Anticipating effectiveness shortly, recruitmenL and trainill6 of
personnel, construction and procurement of equipment have been initiated under
the ongoing project.
Credit No 1249-MAG:       Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance
Project; US$5.7 million credit of May 28, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: December 16, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project aims to assist the Government through technical assistance in
identifying action programs to rehabilitate specific aspects of the agricultural
sector and to foster institution building in the sector and improve investment
planning and policies. To that end, a series of special studies would be
undertaken covering, inter alia, the rice sector and management audits would be
carried out for selected major parastatals in the sector.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Credit No 1298-MAG:   Tsimiroro Heavy Oil Exploration Project;
US$11.5 million credit of December 3, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: January 21, 1983
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project would support the Government's efforts to evaluate the
country's hydrocarbon potential with the objective of realizing domestic oil
production in the future.   It consists of a 10-well exploratory drilling
program to determine the characteristics of the Tsimiroro heavy oil deposit,
additional studies and training. Implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
A contract with a drilling company was signed in December 1982 and actual
drilling is planned to take place in Summer 1983.
J



-38-
ANNEX III
MADAGASCAR
LAC ALAOTRA RICE INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:                   12 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                             Government and IDA
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA:                     May 1980
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:                  August 1981
(e)  Negotiations completed:                          December 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                   July 1983
Section II - Special IDA implementation action:
Mid-term Review after 2 years (para 62).
Section III - Special Conditions:
(a) Effectiveness (para. 72)
(i)  Conditions for effectiveness of co-financing agreements;
(ii)  Employment of technical assistance team;
(iii) SOMALAC: organization chart to be approved by IDA, and to have
sufficient working capital (paras. 59 and 61);
(iv)  Signature of agreements on BTM operations (para. 63); and
(v)  Issuance of land titles or attestations in project area.
(b)  Other Conditions:
(i)  Consultation on policy issues related to rice and irrigation
subsector, including pricing and marketing arrangements
(para. 28).
(ii)  Producer prices of paddy seed under the project would be set at
an incentive level (para. 42).
(iii) Equipment and inputs in the project area would be sold to
farmers at a full cost recovery price (para. 43).
(iv)  SOMALAC's operating direction would have qualifications
acceptable to IDA, and adequate powers (para. 59).
(v)  Government would provide funds needed for SOMALAC operations
and ensure it operate under appropriate financial arrangements
(para. 61).



I B RD  1365s  '!
424                                                                                                                48'                                    5             JUNE   1982r
12-                                                                                                                                                                              12
Anto m boka
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                                          i
AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
NOSSI -BE                   AOOBi> r
Mo or  BRD Prolects                      Posed Re d                                          Helh-ville3                           '* P
MAJOR  CROPS                             A l Weother Roods                                                 drrboo
Von.llo                 ~                  ~~ Nor-peornoneelt Rsods                            -       ot                                       
14°                Pepper                                   Roilcoods
Cloves                          4w       Airports                                                /_Sron bo
Sopor            R                       Bers                                                                  E e'snono
Cotton L -                               sohyets tcr per yeor .,Anololo,i
Aet-h           -                         rdy
Pois Du Cap                             Fenitany Roundar,es                         -t cha
NOTE  Rice od C.ftle ore d str bted                    51i'ooe L                                                      Re onorOeo                       \           
o-roughout the cyunt.
Proiecls  Nab      ng                 Fr, er    - 
C      50      Too     150      200      250           'U     1/-
KILOMETERS                                         -.or ,c                                                                 \ ,
0            50           100           150                   W\
MILES                              Soooc          ' "5- dorovoon                                                          (Mcoo,.
j              >      oZ              ,           AmB ~~~~~~~~~~~                                         ~       ~~bole~ < ,    
b.oe
RFso.oob1                                    KM -3800270    looSen    Ts r2torooc         <coreroo  torqn
N                                                                                                                    1000
MAiddie 9ytffW.,e,.-s.'ArDorovortzn o                                             f         aniczoroe Fenendrr a                e
Ranchi.-rz, Project                  Ar+    o    s-+t                                         (\                       1  
id Iy~~~~~~~~~y'd
-20 C                                                   {           :      ~-         =   ~   \ ~'-o                                                                           202
St.                                                     Reese. \+ ,X  
Middle    Wes!'  cr,0OOOOrOOO _--ozor                                                ~ _ _an onjdry
Marjgoky  Projech                       ----e- , -                      .                                         8rice a
McrombeIomondidn'ran s                                                                                                 I 00-oet
-22-                                                                                                                                                                             2 F r    ont \  2`2>
g                         r~~~1  Fnkomo hroo b e~  ~~j   jSch pecMednmetosue  n 
(    ,  -r°J              M           --   -           r~~~~~~~~~Farofangana                   Idmnataerlrtmd 
Tolaran           0_        cr. --_y                    -'        Sno                                    V                    5OO                        |
-24 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~eN    Be02ck                                                Eooto                                  24onl!o_
IsnbEo                              000010,  
aolanao    |
1 4,20                                4',  .An4rb. ''                                                              48'..,,
42-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~,OOnoc                                                                                     dye dm04  4



I



TANZANIA
MADAGASCAR
O COMOROD                           LAKE ALAOTRA AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
fmAI)sAiWI  sn &'    i'  i -; j                                           PROJET D'/NTENSIF/CAT/ON AGR/COZE
DU MAC ALAOrRA
53'           /              Ant~oonor/vo   _715'              f                                                                                            /715'
/ MADAGASCAR
_-   C   f   =.  J   1   <_:                I  _  ,   g      g              :   i    /~~~~~~-         A. 
'-            A/VD7A~OBf  .Z,,f  s       AMEOAVOR                         V
\   48'15   _           >                         X~~~~~~~~~~~",ORFENO                       g,     
V<Go     -                                    ( J  ,  W Aniolavondro      VO,HIMENAKELY
ANDROMBA
IMERIMANDROSO          /
*~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            . -G A>/O   f
_ - 5=hg~~~Strmamy/< A    ~   hdoron.
IVAKAKA       |      X j e-    =     5, \        '    -    t       '9    <m        Andranomana
b,.]a                                                                              era ...... d ov thf  ...... t ,  c  , , tv y(ANDRANGORONA  -
Arpanihik p     M.,.Do                                                              N
AMPARAFARAVOLA
,,.S   {.2    4!HOLM   PRO/&Cr   )       -'                                        r~~~~~~~~~-' 
,' AX   J  AS'SE. RJ _         _ -  I   . D  -  ,1                              A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/I  .
/X N_  '           /rK<Z9r srriAMBATOSORATRA
E  =Andraba           TRADITIONAL  RIGHTION SCHEMES
AmprnsikelTA \ %>Ambn9:bvo --      ~~~ t-°f-7  G o4 och*  i   S--  i   i -JvTSUPERV ISED  By  SDR
3000                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PER/METRES D/RR,9SA T/OS'
IA\ {MMdQl AR,§k! _ \ . ~   '-_OOGO                                                                 > /~ v = L   Df ,@ , TRAD/T/OMNNEL SIJPER VISES PAR SOR
Ambodlf<nly>< cri pIa                                ---                                         AG
/OP  M     EOD,SAE7/hV;- -  #*5C> 2                                                   ,    1T<.F FX PE \.111               MODERN IRRIGATION SCHER/ES
L'Amgnll'All  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~SA                                                          pMA/SOLO By SDMASLAG
Mahanidaza    (g\                            __aAi/                                                                     ' >37 t .-- = X STArloN An PER/PRMETRES A/ENAGES S3ERFS
M.h.,id..                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAR SOMALAC
IRRIGATION CANALS
MI       ambohatnins1rMo MAIN DRAINAGE CANALS
Aorbohitr,asa           PMDMIFSAL/M D0455AINI /5~-4555/V/
'J-2Su x  l    1  il    . -   . MorNo/E    tAmbo/ni3os1ka  _ PRCTECTION DIKES
-Mo%ARiB  l  . _  ........ - [|    S    FL>g i                                        0 t>w@; rL   -    L i ¢ < ' \.:  XK§f  ~  t7/CUES ItSM .MPG0SV./TO C17°45'A
3          (4/                                           MA NA NA S/CS/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OITA VA
TaArrrboEr7iiny                I                     / V  S   .   __   l_<>t |   tAhrC~TA~Ag                             j    LAKES
-As) _^_8_1\ \ 4 - AnairJnienakselp-lLtXt P Ct                     -- , _- RIVERS
5IAHSAMP                                                                                     nraarr
Annbarihtr:mt                                                /|8d omog Abprrf >4J)  DAfAS
w   J   | A n d i b r o m   MANGALA   ~A  -X  R  SYA  P S
W °/ ;todan:n  :~ ~~~~~<                         j      y    \R_NDhVG>ZG~~MAM Al4__                BRZ /RAGIS hi   
--SWAMP
,                               AMBATONDRA   A                          MARI/S
/0;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADt/S/Aa /    (744 ADDAL                                                                       'I 455
MasAT /~1 :7AC-ES
ROADS AND TEACA,S
PUt,/CS R/TLS/K P5-PITT TES
PA LWAYS
AON/MAA /Nsi A
ANO fiLANAPO'Vf  Pi/rar,naora X                                                                                E r3\)   C < t  KILOMETERS
ANDEANATO                                                  <AN/ N/TOT/IL                         VNt/t,hta n          N-at                  _
\                    X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P APtA't 0-IN /t'Lre ain/'&/iJ
a   a, i/a ILaa/ OIaIAA A/48°30'                      /5 f1



