Document of                          $ILL ( ORy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3980-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MADAGASCAR
LAC ALAOTRA RICE INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
February 25, 1983
Central Agriculture Division
Eastern Africa Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =       Malagasy Francs (FMG)
US $1.00              =       FMG 375 1/
FMG 100               =       US $0.27
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (Metric System)
Metric                                   British/US Equivalents
1 hectare (ha)                  =        2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                =        0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)        =        0.39 square mile
1 kilogram (kg)                 =        2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                     =        0.26 US gallon
=       0.22 Imperial gallon
1 metric (tonne)                -        2,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
BTM            Agricultural Credit Bank
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(French development fund)
CVA            Circonscription de la Vulgarisation Agricole
(Agricultural Extension Division)
DDR            Directorate for Rural Development
DEP            Directorate of Studies and Programming, MPARA
EDF            European Development Fund
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French technical
assistance agency)
FOFIFA         Center for Agricultural and Rural Development Research
MPARA          Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere de la Production Agricole et de la Reforme
Agraire)
SOMALAC        Development Agency for the Lac Alaotra region
GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATION (Fokonolona Territorial Divisions,
see para. 1.08)
Fokontany               =  group of villages
Firaisam-pokontany      =  group of fokontany (former canton)
(or Firaisana)
Fivondronam-pokontany  =  group of Firaisana (former sub-prefecture)
(or Fivondronana)
Faritany                =  group of Fivondronana (former province)
FISCAL YEAR
Government and SOMALAC             January 1 - December 31
PADDY: RICE CONVERSION
One ton of paddy gives about 670 kg rice. One ton of rice is made from
about 1.5 tons of paddy.
1/ The exchange rate between the US dollar and the Malagasy franc used in
this report is based on an average of the rates obtaining during the
second half of 1982.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND
A.  Project Background  ...... ............................                   1
B.  The Agricultural Sector  ......             ......................        1
C.  Government Services  .*.. ... ....... .. .. ........ ...                  3
D.   Irrigation in Madagascar  .....           ....................           5
E.  Government Agricultural Strategy  ...................                     6
F.  Bank/IDA Projects in Agriculture and Irrigation                           7
II.  THE RICE SUB-SECTOR  ....................................                      8
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A.  Location and Physical Characteristics                  ..............    12
B.  Population and Labor Supply  .......... ..              ............     13
C.  Land Tenure  ........           ................................         14
D.  Agriculture and Irrigation  .....             ....................       15
E.   Development Programs  in the Lac Alaotra Area               .......     17
F.  The Lac Alaotra Irrigation Project  (Cr. 214 MAG)                        18
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description  ......         ..........................          21
B.  Detailed Features  ..................... ............                    22
C.   Project Costs  ........ ..............................                  28
D.   Financing            ..........................................         30
E.  Procurement  ...................................                         31
F.  Disbursements                ...................................         31
G.  Accounts and Audits  ..            ........................      .       32
H.   Project Completion Report .....             ..................          33
I.  Environment and Health  ......            .......................        33
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    General  ...................... .....................  34
B.    SOMALAC   ...... .......*...                         34
C.  CVA-Ambatondrazaka .............. .. ................    39
D.  Credit and Input Supply .............   * .............    39
E.  Annual Work Programs and Reports ..     ................    40
F. Mid-Term Review .................................    42
VI.  TECHNICAL ASPECTS .....................................    42
VII. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Background    ......  46
B.  Financial Rehabilitation of SOMALAC ...............    47
C.  Government and SOMALAC Cash Flow ..................    49
D.   Cost  Recovery  ................... ..................  49
VIII.    MARKETING  .............              # .............   50
IX.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....    ...............    51
X.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........    53
SUPPORTING TABLES, ANNEXES, CHARTS AND MAP
Table  1 - Project Cost Summary (by Project Component)
Table  2 -  Project Cost Summary (by Procurement Category)
Table  3 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table  4 - Adoption Rates and Incremental Crop Production
Table  5 - Farm Budgets - SOMALAC Schemes
Table  6 - Farm Budgets - SDR Schemes
Table  7 - Farm Inputs Requirements
Table  8 - SOMALAC - Summary Historical Financial Statements
Table  9 -  SOMALAC - Projected Financial Statements
Table 10 - Government Cash Flow
Table 11 - Economic Analysis - Cost and Benefit Streams
Table 12  - Economic Analysis - Economic Price of Rice
Table 13 - Economic Analysis - Sensitivity Analysis
Table 14  - Draft First Annual Work Program
Table 15 - Rent and Cost Recovery Percentages



- iii -
Annex 1  -  The Rice Sub-sector
Chart 1   -  Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
Chart 2   -  SOMALAC 1981
Chart 3   -  SOMALAC, Revised Organigram
Chart 4   -  Implementation Schedule
Maps      -  IBRD 13654RI
-  IBRD 15665R



MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The preparation of projects to intensify agricultural production
in the Lac Alaotra region was first discussed between Government and IDA in
1978 in the context of the Lac Alaotra Master Plan prepared in 1976
(para. 3.19). Pre-investment studies on an intensification project were
financed by French bilateral assistance (FAC) and carried out by the
consulting firms SCET-International in 1978 and SOGREAH-SOMEAH in 1979-81,
under the supervision of the Ministry of Agricultural Production. An
accounting and management audit of SOMALAC, development parastatal in the
Project area, was carried out in 1981 by the consulting firm ICTAD under
IDA financing. An IDA appraisal mission, composed of Frangois-Marie
Patorni, Christopher Ward, Yves Wong You Cheong (IDA) and Jean-Aime
Rakotoarisoa (Consultant) visited Madagascar in September 1981. A
post-appraisal mission comprising Yves Wong You Cheong and Ulrich Kiuffner
visited Madagascar in December 1981 to review the irrigation rehabilitation
components. In August 1982, a Project Preparation Facility advance of
US$1.0 million was made to finance key preparation and start-up activities,
including: consultant services, training, rehabilitation of seed
production facilities and construction of training for technical assistance
personnel. Financed under this PPF, ICTAD assisted Government in preparing
the detailed proposals for rehabilitation of SOMALAC and these were
discussed with IDA in Madagascar during September 1982. Negotiations were
held in Washington in December of 1982.
1.02      The main objective of the proposed Project would to be increase
rice production for the domestic market in order to reduce Government
expenditures on rice imports. To meet this objective, the proposed Project
would provide for: (i) rehabilitation of existing modern and traditional
irrigation schemes; (ii) reinforcement of agricultural development
institutions and extension services in the Project area; and (iii) the
supply of farm inputs. In addition pilot actions under the Project would
lay the ground for further development of the Project area.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.03      General:  Madagascar's total land area is about 592,000 km2;
about 5% of land is under cultivation and 60% is natural pasture.
Agriculture dominates the economy, contributing about 40% of total GNP and



- 2 -
over 80% of export earnings, and supporting directly over 80% of the
population, which numbers around nine million. The rural economy of
Madagascar is as varied as the climate, topography and soils of the
different geographic regions; the country produces a wide range of
agricultural produce, and, although traditional small-scale agriculture is
predominant, production systems range right up to large-sca'le mechanized
farming. The country is sparseiy populated (averaging 16 inhabitants per
km2) but there is great pressure on cultivable land in some regions.
1.04      Major Crops:  The most important crop, rice, is described in
Chapter II. After rice, manioc, mostly consumed on the farm, is the most
important food crop. The most important cash and export crops are coffee,
cloves, and vanilla. In 1980 coffee exports contributed almost half of
Madagascar's total export earnings, and cloves and vanilla earned another
20%. Other important cash crops include sugar, cotton and tobacco.
Madagascar also produces a wide range of minor commodities, including wine,
tung oil, medicinal plants, ylang ylang, raffia and aleurites.
1.05      Livestock.  Cattle raising is a traditional activity in
Madagascar, and much of the population is heavily dependent on livestock
production. The cattle herd, estimated at around 10 million head, is
almost entirely owned by traditional herders employing extensive husbandry
systems. As a result, productivity and offtake are low, while the export
trade has declined in the face of increasing domestic demand. Nonetheless
there is excellent potential for augmenting production through
intensification, and for increasing output of other forms of livestock,
notably pigs and poultry.
1.06      Farming Systems.  Most of Madagascar's estimated 1.5 million farm
families are smallholders engaged in subsistence farming. Traditional land
rights prevail in most of Madagascar; these recognize individual, heritable
rights to cultivated land and collective rights to pasture. Smallholder
farming techniques range from relatively sophisticated rice cultivation
techniques involving elaborate terracing and partial water control systems
to slash and burn cultivation and semi-nomadic cattle husbandry. During
the 1970s, the Government's role expanded substantially; most noteworthy
were the nationalization of the sugar industry in 1976, and takeover of
input supply, foodcrop marketing and meat processing and export. However
the mediocre financial and management records of the institutions
concerned, together with poor productivity have led the Government to
question this policy and the size of the nationalized sector has not been
increased significantly in recent years. The Government has also
encouraged cooperative production by farmers, but with little success.
1.07      The growth of Madagascar's agricultural production over the past
15 years has been disappointing, with the average rate of increase somewhat
less than the population growth rate of 2.8% per annum. This largely
reflects the poor performance of the two most important agricultural
products, rice and cattle. Madagascar has virtually ceased exporting rice,
and in 1980 imported 175,000 tons. Meat production has grown only slowly
and exports are stagnating. For the key export crops, production is below



- 3 -
the levels of the mid-1970's. Among the complex reasons for this mediocre
performance are serious marketing problems for many crops, agricultural
pricing policies, lack of foreign exchange for essential imports, poor
communications and a profusion of weak development institutions.
Nonetheless, potential is substantial. Intensification of production in
virtually all parts of Madagascar and rehabilitation of existing production
infrastructure, particularly in irrigation, could significantly increase
output, as could extension of the cultivated area, particularly on the west
coast where there are large areas of undeveloped yet fertile land.
C. Government Services
Local Government
1.08      Since 1972 the Government has carried out a major reorganization
of local administration. The new "fokonolona" system reflects an effort to
associate traditional institutions and practices with a more representative
and responsive local government. The reform has been implemented
gradually, and many details are still being worked out by the Government.
However, the new entities have assumed some economic responsibilities,
notably in marketing of rice and other agricultural products, and for
planning and implementation of small-scale development projects. The
hierarchy of fokonolona institutions comprises the fokontany, which
coincides roughly with the traditional village (about 11,400 in
Madagascar), the firaisana, at the former canton level (about 1,250), the
fivondronan, at the former subprefecture level (about 110), and six
faritanys, which have replaced the former provinces. Government has in
recent months been reviewing the impact of the whole decentralization
process with a view to possible modifications.
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA)
1.09      The Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform is
the central institution in the agricultural sector. Its jurisdiction
covers basic farmer extension services, rural infrastructure, input supply,
plant protection, veterinary services, fisheries, forestry and soil
conservation. It is also responsible for agricultural planning,
supervision of many parastatals and a number of semi-autonomous
agricultural agencies, and for land reform. Over the past ten years, the
ministry has operated under both centralized and decentralized structures,
but there has been relative continuity in basic functions and a strong
tendency for services to be organized along functional lines. Prior to
1979, authority was centralized at Antananarivo, and ministry services were
organized by functional discipline (agriculture, rural engineering,
livestock, and waters and forests) down to the sector and cell level. In
1979, a far-reaching reorganization was introduced which decentralized
MPARA staff and services along the lines established by the fokonolona
reforms. This reorganization sought to bring about better coordination
among field staff, to shift the focus of management and planning to the



- 4 -
faritany and below, and to promote close cooperation with local
governments. However, the reorganization was undertaken with virtually no
planning or preparation of staff and without thinking through how to
maintain technical discipline and authority within the new decentralized
structure. Consequently, the reorganization resulted in a serious
deterioration in the ministry's services. As a result of the many problems
associated with the decentralized system, the ministry was again
reorganized in September 1982. The new structure is centralized, and staff
are organized into line departments representing the major functional
disciplines: agricultural/crop activities, rural works (irrigation systems
and mechanization), fisheries and forests, and livestock. A central
finance and administration department has also been established. In the
field, staff are organized into their separate functional disciplines and
are responsible to their respective department headquarters at
Antananarivo. Extension, rural works, livestock, and fishery and forestry
staff are organized into services at the faritany and ex-pr6fecture (group
of fivondronana) levels. The ex-prefecture level is known as either a
"circumscriptlon" or "decentralized division", depending on the functional
discipline, and they total 21 for the whole country. The current structure
of MPARA is shown in Chart 1.  It is the Government's intention to
implement a training program to support the institutional changes outlined
above. Technical assistance for these activities would be provided under
the IDA-financed Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project
(Credit No. 1249 MAG).
Agricultural Research
1.10      The National Center for Applied Research on Rural Development
(FOFIFA) was established in 1974 to bring together research activities
previously conducted by a number of research institutes. FOFIFA was under
the supervision of the Ministry of Higher Education 1977-81 which severely
weakened the relationship between research and field applications. As a
first step towards correcting the situation, Government transferred the
research function back to MPARA in January 1982. Due to severe shortages
of qualified staff, equipment and funds, FOFIFA has been forced to limit
its research program to the principal food and cash crops. Constraints to
FOFIFA's effectiveness are being addressed under the Agricultural
Institutions Project (para. 1.15), which provides for organizational
studies, development of a production-oriented research program, and
implementation of staff training programs; it would also support
collaborative efforts with international agricultural research
organizations.
Agricultural Credit
1.11      The BTM (Agricultural Credit Bank), which is being assisted under
the Agricultural Credit Project (Credit No. 1064-MAG), is the principal
source of credit for agriculture. For some years the BTM operated largely
in cooperation with the fokonolona institutions in a program designed to
reach the maximum number of small farmers. However, recovery rates have
dropped in recent years and BTM has suspended the scheme in many areas,



-5-
resulting in a significant drop in lending activity. In addition, due to
the scarcity of foreign exchange, few inputs are available in Madagascar.
To help remedy the current situation, BTM has proposed with IDA approval
that part of the IDA Credit be used to finance fertilizer imports destined
for smallholders in selected rice growing areas. These fertilizers would
be provided to farmers under lending operations directed to individuals, a
program that BTM is developing in conjunction with extension services in
those areas where it is convinced of the soundness of institutions and the
value of the extension package.
D. Irrigation in Madagascar
1.12      Madagascar, with Sudan, is one of two countries in Africa south
of the Sahara where irrigated agriculture is practised on an extensive
scale. In fact much of Madagascar's agricultural potential is due largely
to the skills and long tradition of the Malagasy people in irrigation. Of
the cultivable land in Madagascar, nearly a third, around 1 million ha,
possesses some form of water control system. Rice is by far the most
important irrigated crop, although there are small areas of irrigated
cotton and sugar cane. In recent years, and especially since
decentralization (para. 1.08), information on these systems has not been
updated and management and services have been poorly coordinated by the
Government. However, the Government has now reemphasized the paramount
importance of irrigation to Malagasy agriculture and is actively studying
ways of improving irrigation management and maintenance. Irrigation
rehabilitation figures largely in investment plans.
1.13      Irrigation or water control systems can be broadly classified
into three types: official systems, small irrigation schemes, and family
rice fields. Official systems are developed and managed by the
Government. There are about 150 of these systems, ranging in size from
about 300 to 10,000 ha, and totalling about 260,000 ha. The largest
irrigation schemes are managed by parastatals, in the Lac Alaotra basin
(SOMALAC) and in the Betsiboka valley around Marovoay (FIFABE); an
IDA-assisted project is under way in the Mangoky delta (SAMANGOKY) and IDA
assistance to another project in the Morondava area (SODEMO) has recently
finished. The effectiveness of many of these schemes has been seriously
eroded by poor management and inadequate maintenance, resulting from
inadequate financial allocations compounded by low cost recovery and from
absence of a political will to enforce discipline. Government is now aware
of the production consequences of this deterioration and is taking active
steps to find remedies,  The legal and administrative framework for
management and cost recovery is being reshaped (para. 1.14), and a review
is being carried out of a number of schemes where low-cost rehabilitation
would pay high returns. An ongoing IDA-supported study is aimed at
preparing a number of rehabilitation projects for smaller schemes, which
may be included in a possible Irrigation Rehabilitation Project proposed
for IDA appraisal in 1983. Rehabilitation programs for larger schemes are
also in preparation or underway (para. 2.10). Government policy and



- 6 -
actions in the irrigation sub-sector are c'.osely tied to ihe high priority
now placed on inrireasing rice output and to the substantive policy changes
made recently to achieve this (para. 2,05 ff).  Small irrigation schemes
developed with local fu-nds with varying degrees of support by Government,
number about 900.  The average area is about 125 ha, but they range in size
from about 5 ha. .;p to 1 000 ha. In. many cases t,hese systems are maintained
and operated by local communities. Government is current Ly carrying out a
review of the condition of these schemes a-nJ Of arrangerments for their
operation and ma,intenance. and an ongoing project, "`00ration
Microhydraulque', financed with assistance from EDF. is aimed at
rehabilitating aad expanding a number of these schemes.  Family rice
fields, developed and mairtained tv farmers themselves, c ver up to 500,000
ha and range in size from one are tG, perhaps 5 ha.  Thtey inv3lve some water
control measures, from basic terracing of vallev bottoms to simple storage
dams.
1.14      Cost RFecovery.  For some years existing legal provisions for
management and cost recovery on official schemes have been inoperative,
largely due to a decline in political will to enforce sanctions and to a
deterioration in MPA"A's management capacity. As a first step towards
reasserting discipline and providing a workable management framework, the
Government enacted new legislation (Law 81-026) in December 1981 providing
for a system of cbtarges to recover the costs of land development and of
management and maintenance of irrigation schemes.  The legislation also
provides for the creation of local water user committees and for a
disciplinary code. Government i's currently working out steps necessary to
implement the law and to set the level of charges for each scheme. A
number of pilot water users committees are being set up. Successful action
on the law is critical for the future of t1he irrigation sub-sector and for
the proposed Project and the possible Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(para. 1.13).
E. Government Agricultural Strategy
1.15      Faced with mediocre production performance, nmounting food import
bills and widespread disorganization i-n the provrision of basic agricultural
services, the Government has recently set about defining its priorities and
working out means to improve the present situation,  The priorities are:
(a) self-sufficiency in food supply (particularly rice); ,h) irncreased
production of cash crops and beef for export; (c) expansion of basic
agro-industries to process local raw materials; and (d) irncreasing rural
employment.  To work towards tI ese priorities, G-overlnment oCfficials are
focussing on key institutional and techn1ical  problems, including:
(i)   reorganization of MPARA and streigthening its ability to
Provide servi.ces fpara. 1.09);
(ii)   reviving FOFIFA and strengthenLing links betrween its
activities and M4PA-RA's extension worxK (,para.  1.10);



-7 -
(iii)   monitoring and coordination of agricultural parastatal
activities;
(iv)   improving implementation and increasing productivity of
existing investments; and
(v)   development of a realistic three year rolling investment
program for agriculture (para. 2.05).
The Government is also addressing broader policy issues (such as pricing,
marketing arrangements, input subsidies, and cost recovery from
beneficiaries), and is taking concrete steps to revitalize priority
services to farmers, notably veterinary services, irrigation network
management and input supply. The IDA-assisted Agricultural Institutions
Technical Assistance Project is designed to assist with this process of
change. The major components of the project include technical assistance
in preparation of an agriculture investment program and of a short-term
action plan for the rice sub-sector; support to a central rice coordination
unit; financial and management audits for key parastatals; studies of
marketing and input distribution systems; a review of MPARA's organization;
and management and operational support for FOFIFA (para. 1.10). Assistance
to the key investment programming effort (para. 2.05), the first studies
for parastatal rehabilitation and a major study addressing critical
marketing issues are already underway. The Technical Assistance Project
thus contributes to the momentum of change and will help to sustain it.
The present Project would fit into the process in focusing on the
institutional and technical constraints to rice production in Madagascar's
major surplus region and lend impetus to major policy reforms currently
being carried through. The rice subsector and related policy issues,
including new orientations in Government investment policy, are discussed
in detail in Chapter II.
F. Bank/IDA Projects in Agriculture and Irrigation
1.16      To date, the Bank Group has supported nine agricultural
development projects in Madagascar. Four projects have closed: The Lac
Alaotra Irrigation Project (US $5.0 million), the Morondava Irrigation
Project (US $15.3 million), the Beef Cattle Development Project (US $2.8
million) and the First Forestry Project (US $13.0 million). Five other
projects are under implementation: the First Village Livestock and Rural
Development Project (US $9.6 million); the Mangoky Agricultural Development
Project (US $12.0 million); the Agricultural Credit Project (US $10.0
million); a Technical Assistance Project to identify means of developing
the Plain of Antananarivo (US $2.3 million); and a Second Forestry Project
(US $20.0 million). A Second Village Livestock Project and an Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance Project have recently been signed but are
not yet effective.
1.17      Experience with project implementation has been mixed.  The



choice of institutional structure, relations with existing Government
services, staffing policies, financial management, and management
accountability have either delayed project start-up or complicated project
implementation. The Morondava Irrigation Project is a particularly
striking example. In addition to substantial cost overruns which
necessitated a reduction in project scope, project performance was
adversely affected by the unclear role assigned to the implementing agency
(SODEMO), weak management, overstaffing, and lack of accounts and audits.
Controlled prices and lack of a clear cost recovery policy compounded these
problems and led to serious financial losses. By contrast, after initial
delays, the executing agency for the First Village Livestock Project,
FAFIFAMA, developed into a satisfactory institution with technically
competent and dedicated management. Similarly, the project agency for the
First Mangoro Forestry project, FANALAMANGA, has established a strong
record, with execution of components ahead of schedule and in line with
appraisal cost estimates. In general, most projects are now being
adversely affected by the worsening economic conditions and particularly by
shortages of foreign exchange.
1.18      Two agriculture projects financed by the Bank Group have been
completed and audited by the Operation Evaluation Department. The Audit
Report on the first Lac Alaotra Project, which was also the subject of an
Impact Evaluation Report, is discussed in detail in Chapter III (para.
3.27). The Audit Report No. 1559 of April 11, 1977, on the Beef Cattle
Development Project concluded that the project had encountered a host of
problems, the most important of which included: (a) project design poorly
suited to local conditions; (b) neglect of land tenure and socio-economic
issues; and (c) differences of approach between Bank and Government. While
these deficiencies substantially reduced the project's anticipated impact,
the experience made a positive contribution to a rethinking of cattle
deveopment projects in Madagascar and a reorientation of Bank Group
sub-sector lending to focus on the traditional extensive system.
II. THE RICE SUB-SECTOR 1/
2.01      Production Systems.  Rice production is the most important
economic activity in Madagascar. It is estimated that 70% of the
population is involved in paddy cultivation, which occupies about 50% of
cultivated land. Paddy is cultivated throughout Madagascar except in the
south, where the rainfall is insufficient. Traditional rice cultivation in
the coastal areas, where farmers also grow cash crops is largely for home
consumption.   Farmers typically produce a single crop a year, with yields
averaging 1.2 tons/ha. In the central highlands, plots are very
small (averaging 0.6 ha per family) but lack of alternative cash crops has
1/ The rice sub-sector is treated in greater detail in Annex 1. Paddy:
rice conversion factor used in this report is one ton of paddy = 0.67
tons of rice.



9 
led to higher cultivation standards. Yields with water control average
about 1.5 tons/ha, but reach 3.5 tons/ha or more with use of inputs. On
the organized irrigation schemes (para. 1.13), which account for about 20%
of land under rice, improved production techniques have been accepted,
particularly transplanting and mechanization. However, a combination of
inefficient management and a shortage of inputs has impaired
effectiveness. As a result yields, which can exceed 4 tons/ha, average
little more than 2 tons/ha.
2.02      Supply and Demand.  During the 1960s paddy production expanded
dramatically, nearly doubling in the decade. Since 1970, however, new land
has not been so readily available and intensification measures became
increasingly costly. Even the productivity of existing paddy lands dropped
and production stagnated at around 2 million tons. At the same time demand
has continued to increase. Rice is the Malagasy staple and consumption is
among the highest in the world. Since 1970 production increases have
failed to keep pace with population growth and the country has become a net
importer, 177,000 tons in 1980, at a foreign exchange cost of FMG 11.7
billion (US $42.5 million), representing over 10% of the value of
Madagascar's total exports. Demand will continue to increase and just to
contain imports at their present level, paddy production would have to go
up by 60,000 tons a year.
Markets and Prices
2.03      Marketing.  Paddy and rice marketing, processing and distribution
are in theory subject to a Government-controlled monopoly throughout
Madagascar. However, in many parts of the country official marketing is
inoperative, and Government offically eased the marketing monopoly in
mid-1982 largely to recognize this fact (para. 2.07). In general, the
official marketing system draws paddy from the major surplus areas,
particularly the irrigation schemes, and supplies the major towns with rice
from this and imported sources. Most responsibility for official marketing
operations lies with a dozen parastatals, and with the Fokonolona
institutions (para 1.08). All of Madagascar's rice mills are either
controlled by the parastatals or operate under contract with them. Rice
from the major surplus area of Lac Alaotra and imported rice from the port
of Toamasina are usually transported by rail. Elsewhere rice transport is
usually by road. The extent to which rice is actually available through
these official distribution channels varies enormously between seasons and
regions. In recent years officially traded volumes of rice have been
around 165,000 tons or about 13% of total consumption. In many areas
official networks are virtually non-existent and a vigorous private
marketing network exists, probably handling more rice than the official
market.'
2.04      Prices.  Official producer and consumer prices are fixed annually
by the Government. Until 1981, official producer prices for paddy moved
upwards only slowly, failing to keep pace with inflation. In 1981 the
Government set up an interministerial pricing committee to examine
technical bases for establishing an official producer price.  This



- 10 -
committee recommended a move to the import parity price as the basic
reference price. As a result Government raised the paddy price to FMG
60/kg in May 1982.  Similarly, the official consumer price of rice was for
years kept below the cost both of local production and of imports in order
to favor low income urban dwellers. This resulted in huge subsidies, in
1980 around FMG 9.6 million (US$25.6 million), equal to the total
investment budget of MPAhRA.  Indications are that 1981 figures were around
the same level.  In May 1982, the Government acted to eliminate the subsidy
by virtually doubling the official price of rice to FMG 140/kg. Prices on
the unofficial market are highly variable, depending on season and
locality.
Government Policy and Issues for Development
2.05      Government policy emphasis on rice production (para. 1.15) is not
new--40% of the agricultural investment budget has in recent years gone to
rice. However, the productivity of this investment has been low as
concentration was in ill-conceived and poorly managed programs for
development of rice cultivation under rainfed conditions.  The recent
policy dialogue between IDA and Government has focussed on the need for
elimination of weak or over-costly projects and an orientation toward low
cost ways of increasing production, particularly rehabilitation and
improvement of existing irrigation schemes, as proposed under the present
Project, and input supply, as proposed under the Highlands Rice Project,
recently appraised by IDA for IFAD. Government has adopted this strategy
and is currently employing IDA-financed consultants to carry out a major
house-cleaning of the investment portfolio in order to concentrate on
fewer, less costly projects yielding high returns. However this change of
investment strategy will be slow to work through to significant production
increases and must at the same time be accompanied by action to remove the
numerous constraints which have contributed to the mediocre performance of
the sub-sector over the past decade.  These constraints were identified at
appraisal as critical to performance of the sub-sector and have been
discussed extensively with Government in the context of this Project, the
Agricultural Institutions Project and the Highlands Rice Project. As a
result, essential conditions for future growth in the sub-sector have been
highlighted and Government has defined and begun to implement a series of
necessary actions. The main elements are discussed in the following
paragraphs.
2.06      Pricing.  In areas where official marketing channels exercise a
monopoly, producer price levels probably distorted production incentives
while the low consumer price entailed a huge cost in subsidies. The
financial viability of the marketing parastatals was constantly eroded by
losses. The bold round of price increases in early 1982 (para. 2.04 f)
brought the producer price to a level equivalent to about 90% of the
estimated import parity price and virtually eliminated the consumer
subsidy. The Government has indicated that this represents the first step
toward the introduction of a more flexible pricing system and this process
will be supported by action on:



- 11 -
2.07      Marketing policy has been dominated by the attempt to establish
Government monopoly. The inadequate resources and capacity of the
marketing parastatals, combined with inappropriate pricing policy, led to
failure to provide sufficient marketing services through official channels
and to very heavy losses in the marketing parastatals. In mid-1982
Government eased the marketing monopoly by allowing private traders to take
over marketing from parastatals, although price controls remain. A
systematic review of current practice and future options for marketing
being undertaken with technical assistance under the Agricultural
Institutions Project is aimed at defining a clearer and more limited role
for the state in marketing and pricing.
2.08      Input supply has been beset by the inadequacy of transport, weak
institutional arrangements for supply and lack of subsidy funds and foreign
exchange. As a result, input usage has dwindled and farmers have reverted
to lower-yielding traditional production systems. Production of selected
seeds is negligible, and little research has been done on new varieties.
Government has begun to act on these constraints, input subsidies have been
removed, except for minor subsidies on a few items which are to be phased
out by 1984. This move has been given impetus by the recent increase in
producer prices (para. 2.04).  Priority is now given to the transport of
essential inputs on the railways. Arrangements for seed production
nationwide are being reorganized and research is being strengthened with
help under the Agricultural Insitutions Project. These actions represent
important first steps toward improving input supply.
2.09      Institutional credit has become increasingly hard to get due to
poor repayment rates (para. 1.11) and farmers have had to revert to
traditional, often costly lenders. BTM and MPARA have now worked out a new
formula on future agricultural credit directed largely to individuals on
the recommendation of the extension service. It is expected that actions
taken to improve productivity in the rice sub-sector as a whole will
gradually strengthen agricultural programs and allow the extension of this
form of credit throughout the country.
2.10      Sub-sector parastatal performance has become a critical problem,
with almost universally poor management and abysmal financial performance.
Supervision of and support to parastatals by Government ministries is very
weak and erratic. Government has recognized these problems and is
reviewing the role of the parastatals. The ongoing IDA-supported study of
paddy and rice marketing will highlight options, which are expected to
include a scaling down of parastatal interventions and support for a r6le
for the private sector in marketing. Government policy is still evolving
but indications are that it does not rule out the possibility of reducing
parastatal involvement. At the same time Government is taking action both
to reinforce its capacity to supervise existing parastatals and to develop
a recovery program for certain key parastatals, notably the irrigation
management parastatals, for which no viable private sector alternative
exists. With assistance under the Agricultural Insitutions Project,
rehabilitation plans are being worked out and implemented. The
Agricultural Institutions Project also provides support for strengthening



- 12 -
training programs and reinforcing MPARA's supervision of these agencies.
The problem of poor cost recovery which has plagued the irrigation
management parastatals should be resolved by the measures Government is
currently implementing under the Irrigation Law (para. 1.14).
2.11      Action on these key constraints is clearly not in itself a
sufficient condition to increase paddy output. However these actions taken
together with the reorientation of the Government investment policy provide
the necessary preconditions for the restoration of growth in the sub-sector
and provide an adequate context for investments such as that under the
proposed Project to be productive. The major vehicle for further action on
policy issues is the Agricultural Institutions Project, which also provides
a continuing forum for exchange of views. Dated covenants under this
project set a timetable for submission of results of studies on marketing,
input distribution and sub-sector institutions and for preparation of an
action plan for the sub-sector. These covenants are being closely
monitored.  In order to ensure that the constructive dialogue between IDA
and Government continues, assurances were received at negotiations that
Government would continue to consult annually with IDA during the Project
implementation period on issues relating to the rice and irrigation
sub-sectors.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Physical Characteristics
3.01      The Lake Area.  The Project area comprises the flat region, total
area about 7,000 kmin, surrounding Lac Alaotra, which is a major lake
situated 150 km north-east of Antananarivo in the faritany of Toamasina in
the central highlands of Madagascar. Broadly covering the fivondronan of
Ambatondrazaka and Amparafaravola, the project area is shown in Map IBRD
15665. The lake, at an elevation of 750 m above sea level, is shallow,
(1.2 m deep) and is surrounded by peats which are frequently flooded; the
open water surface covers about 22,000 ha, and the surrounding marshes,
mostly overgrown by Cyperaceae species, about 55,000 ha. The surrounding
hills are characterised by eroded summits and slopes. The only outlet for
the lake being a rocky threshold situated at 755 m, heavy stormflows cause
the flooding of large areas of low-lying land. The lake is an important
source of fish for the local population. The annual catch was around 4,000
tons in 1970 but present production is unknown.
3.02      Soils.  Erosion from the hills influences soil composition in the
low-lying areas. The alluvial soils in the upper floodplains are silty
clays low in humus. On the valley floors and the wider plains that stretch
to the lake the predominant alluvial soils are highly suitable for rice
cultivation and practically all developed for that purpose. Poor drainage
of these soils nearer the lake has produced marshlands and peat, about a
meter thick. About 7,500 ha of these marshlands were reclaimed under the



- 13 -
IDA supported Lac Alaotra Irrigation Project (para. 3.20). Further
marshland is continually being reclaimed by landless farmers. The
surrounding hills are covered by eroded lateritic soils low in organic
matter and incapable of supporting sustained crop production. The main
agricultural activity on these soils is cattle grazing during the rainy
season, with limited cropping of cassava and groundnuts.
3.03      Climate.  The climate is tropical with a long dry winter season.
The rainy season, from November through March, is much influenced by the
cyclone system coming from the east. Annual rainfall ranges between 1,000
and 1,330 mm over the Project area, with about 90% falling during the rainy
season. Variations in annual rainfall are high, depending upon the
frequency and intensity of the cyclonic rains which can amount to several
hundred millimeters per day. The mean annual temperature is about 210 C,
with a low monthly mean of 17° C in July and a high monthly mean of 240 C
in January. Minimum temperatures do not affect year-round rice
cultivation. The annual total potential evapotranspiration averages 1,395
mm, with about 755 mm in the dry season and 640 mm in the rainy season.
B. Population and Labor Supply
3.04      Background.  The original Sihanaka inhabitants of the Project
area lived in the marshes around the lake by a traditional subsistence
economy based on fishing, herding and extensive rainfed cultivation. The
area was very sparsely populated until the turn of this century when the
railway was constructed and migrants from the south, particularly the
Merina and Betsileo ethnic groups, began to arrive. The first Merina
migrants settled on the surrounding hills and became herders and rice
cultivators. At the same time, European settlers started to colonize the
area. After the Second World War when development of large irrigation
schemes began, spontaneous immigration and the introduction of workers for
the French concessions brought large numbers of other ethnic groups who
eventually prospered and became land-owners. The immigrants brought with
them superior skills in rice cultivation. As a result of this immigration,
population grew rapidly and is now estimated at around 185,000, of whom
some 85% are engaged in agricultural activities. Ambatondrazaka, the
second largest town in the faritany of Toamasina, is the main urban center
of the region with a population of over 20,000.
3.05      Labor Supply.  Although there has been no distribution of plots
on irrigation schemes since 1977, migrants, impelled by the shortage of
cultivable land elsewhere, still come to the Lac Alaotra seeking jobs and
land. Many of these migrants enter into rental or sharecropping
arrangements. Others hire out their services as laborers. This increase
in labor availability has given an impetus to more intensive cultivation
practices, particularly to transplanting of paddy for which seasonal labor
is not generally available. The other seasonal labor peak occurs at
harvest and much of the labor for this activity is seasonal migrant labor
from the central highlands. As the rice calendar is generally earlier in



- 14 -
southern Imerina where most seasortal labor originates, nigrants harvest
their own plots before travelling to Lac Alaotra fcr the harvest in May and
June.  The combination of permanent and seasonal agrants has led to a
general labor equilibrium, although labor remains a constraint early in the
paddy cycle.
C.  Land Tenure
3.06      Throughout Madagascar, land tenure is a ^omplex issue influenced
by such factors as customary rights and existing occupatlon of land.  In
Lac Alaotra, the rapid development of irrigation led to a concentration of
cultivated lands in a few hands. In 1961, the Government authorized land
redistribution on the modern irrigation schemes. SOMALAC (para, 5.02) was
created to implement this reform, which involved the compulsory puirchase of
lands, further irrigation development, and redistribution.  Plots
distributed averaged 4 ha. As a result, the number of landless farmers and
of large landowners was reduced and an important core of medium farmers was
established.  Of the 7,500 families thnat have benefited, 66% have been
allocated plots between 3 and 5 ha (represQnting 63% oL the total area),
while 15% received plots smaller than 3 ha (7% of the total area)
Variations in production potential and recognition of customary land rights
led in the early stage to larger plots being awarded to some families. The
largest plot allocated was 18 ha. Increasing demand led to smaller plot
sizes in successive allocations, with average plot size allocated per
family falling from 5.4 ha in 1961 to 1.4 ha in 1977. Land development
costs were to be recovered from farmers by SOMALAC.  The charge paid by
farmers was designed to cover the lease purchase of the improved land over
12 years together with a contribution towards operating costs,  Fowever.
SOMALAC has had increasing difficulty in recovering the lease purchase dues
(para. 7.04). At the same time, although a number of farmers have
completed payments, freehold titles have not been issued (para. 5.12).
3.07      As family labor alone is insufficient for the cultivation of some
plots, numerous different forms of tenancy and sharecropping have arisen.
This process of informal subdivision of large plots is complex and
difficult to monitor. It is estimated that between 15% and 30% of the
total modern irrigation area is let out by the official holders under some
form of tenancy or sharecropping arrangement but any estimate is uncertain
as arrangements often fall within the complex web of relations in the
Malagasy extended family system.  Although this subdivision is officially
discouraged, it is gradually leading to the adoption of more intensive
production systems. Many tenants farm adequate plots, and others
supplement their incomes by working as wage laborers or through hiring out
draught animals and equipment. The official holders of land often supply
various services to tenants and sharecroppers under a variety of
arrangements and, although abuses of this reciprocal relationship may
occur, there is no indication that it is on the whole inequitable.
Possible adverse effects of some landlord-tenant arrangements would be
lessened by improved access to credit and to farm inputs under the Project
(para. 5.14 f).



- 15 -
D. Agriculture and Irrigation
3.08      Agriculture in the Project area is dominated by irrigated rice
production (para. 3.09); however, there is some hillcropping during the wet
season involving such crops as cassava, maize, beans and groundnuts and
covering a total area of about 8,000 ha. These activities can compete with
rice cropping in terms of labor as they overlap. Some farmers without
irrigated land farm the hills and keep cattle for hire to rice farmers. As
fertilizers or manure are not used on these lateritic soils, yields are
very low. Low official producer prices and inadequate marketing facilities
for these minor crops have led to a dwindling volume marketed through
official channels in recent years. Lac Alaotra is also an important
livestock area. Cattle are widely use for draught, and pig rearing is
growing in importance.
Rice Cropping
3.09      The Lac Alaotra region is the largest rice producing area in the
country with an annual paddy production of 125,000 - 150,000 tons.
Marketed production of between 75,000 and 100,000 tons represents around a
third of the country's total marketed production. Rice cropping activities
begin around December at the start of the rainy season and end around July
with the harvest. For a long time, traditional cultural techniques
persisted alongside improved techniques like transplanting introduced by
migrants. From 1959, however, seeds of a new rice variety, Makalioka 34,
were successfully introduced and improved techniques became more
widespread. In 1965, the "Op6ration Lac Alaotra" was launched, with
external support, to promote the use of mechanized land preparation and
improved cultural techniques - observing an optimum cropping calendar,
transplanting in rows, improved nursery and weeding. However, only the use
of mechanical implements (ploughs and harrows) and the technique of
transplanting at random were readily adopted by farmers. In practice, the
best managed perimeter yields over 3 tons/ha, but overall average yields
for the modern and traditional schemes are only 2.1 and 1.8 tons/ha,
respectively.
3.10      Cultural techniques.  Almost all farmers use draught animals for
land preparation. Broadcast planting is more prevalent on modern schemes
(60% of total area) than on traditional schemes (43X of total area). Other
areas are transplanted at random; transplanting in rows is being taken up
only slowly on account of the additional labor requirement (para. 3.07).
Weeding is thus very difficult and is hardly practised. Little fertilizer
is used (about 200 tons in the area in 1980) but farmers do apply
herbicides and insecticides, when available, particularly on nurseries
where special care is an important extension theme. The scant availability
of inputs, particularly farm implements, improved seeds, herbicides and
insecticides, is a major constraint.
3.11      Variety.  Makalioka 34, a translucent Indica variety, is
cultivated over 90% of the total Project area and is consistently the



- 16 -
highest-yielding variety in field trials.  It is a high quality rice and
was exported in the past. While it is well-adapted to the region and is
high-yielding under low fertility conditions, it has a long cycle (160-180
days) and is photo-periodically sensitive. Consequently, the optimum
planting date has to be scrupulously observed to obtain high yields and
every month's delay results in a drop in yield of one ton/ha. As pure
seeds have been in short supply, unidentified "red rice" varieties which
shed easily have spread, causing yield reductions of up to one ton/ha.
Makalioka 34 appears resistant to common rice diseases but insect (Hispa,
Trichispa spp) damage can be severe. Trials are being conducted in Lac
Alaotra under a FAC-financed research program to identify short cycle
varieties able to match Makalioka 34 in yield (para. 3.17). These research
efforts are likely to identify higher yielding varieties for ultimate
adoption; however their adoption would need careful planning in view of the
increased need for imported inputs for these varieties - Makalioka 34
requires nitrogen only on nurseries - and in view of present local custom
which does not favor double cropping (para. 3.12).
3.12      Double Cropping.  Only very limited double-cropping of market
garden crops such as beans or onions following rice is practiced where
irrigation water is available. Double cropping requires a level of
management and physical resources not presently available to the average
farmer; irrigation water during the dry season is limited, and the cycle of
the main season rice variety (Makalioka 34) is too long, while suitable
short cycle varieties of rice and other foodcrops are not yet available.
In addition, the local custom of grazing cattle on the paddy stubbles is
likely to slow up adoption of double cropping. Thus although double
cropping is likely to increase as technical packages are developed, it is
not currently practicable on a large scale. No assumption about double
cropping has been made in calculating Project benefits (para. 3.24).
Irrigation
3.13      The catchment area of Lac Alaotra is drained by numerous rivers
(Map IBRD 15665), which have given their names to the many irrigation
schemes in the region. Irrigation water is supplied by run-of-the-river
systems (Sahabe and Sahamilahy Rivers for the PC 23 perimeter), diversion
weirs (on Anony River for the Anony perimeter) or by dams (on Sahamaloto
River for the Sahamaloto perimeter). Small retention structures on other
rivers supply the smaller modern schemes and traditional schemes. All the
irrigation schemes together cover a total area of about 68,000 ha.  The
modern irrigation schemes comprise some 35,000 ha largely developed in the
post-World War II period. Between 1950 and 1970, major schemes (PC 23,
Sahamaloto, PC 15, Anony, Andranobe-Morafeno and Imamba-Ivakaka) with a
gross area of about 28,000 ha were constructed, financed by external aid
agencies such as FIDES, FAC, EDF and CCCE. The irrigated area in PC 23 was
extended between 1971 and 1976 under a project financed by IDA (para. 3.27
ff). There are about 33,000 ha of traditional schemes in the area. Seven
of these, totalling 3,300 ha were improved under the EDF-financed Operation
Riz Alaotra between 1966 and 1972, Some 20,000 ha of traditional schemes
are suitable for further development and a Government program (operation
microhydraulique") has been launched to improve these.



- 17 -
3.14      Water Demand and Quality.  Since rainfall at the start of the
rice season (October to December) is insufficient to meet demand, diversion
structures and reservoirs have been built to serve the major irrigation
schemes. There is still a deficit, mainly at the beginning of the season.
However, the supply situation is not critical and demand on most perimeters
can be satisfied from January on, with good water management and system
maintenance. No negative effects on rice cultivation from water quality
have been reported. The back flow from the irrigation schemes to Lac
Alaotra contains salts and agro-chemicals which could affect the water
quality of the lake and its fish and plant life. These effects would be
monitored under the Project by the engineering department of SOMALAC
(para. 4.17).
3.15      Operation and Maintenance.  On the modern schemes, responsibility
for operation and maintenance down to tertiary canal level is presently
divided between SOMALAC, which is responsible for PC 23, and CVA, the local
service of MPARA (para. 5.18), which is responsible for other modern
schemes. Neither institution presently has the equipment or funds
necessary to do the job, and this, combined with poor management, has
resulted in a significant deterioration in the schemes. Silt accumulation
is deep in many canals and drains. There are numerous breaches in canal
banks. Irrigation structures are generally in poor condition and dams
require extensive repair. In several areas, there is a surplus of
irrigation water while adjacent areas are short. The measures included in
the Project to improve operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems
are described below (para. 4.02 ff and 5.10 f). On the traditional schemes
and at field level on modern schemes, maintenance operations are carried
out by farmers, who may group themselves to hire equipment.
3.16      Extension.  SOMALAC is responsible for extension work on all the
modern schemes and CVA on the traditional schemes. SOMALAC also provides
services to the spontaneous irrigation development that has occurred around
modern schemes. These extension services are described in Chapter V
(paras. 5.10 ff).
E. Development Programs in the Lac Alaotra Area
3.17      Agricultural Research,  FOFIFA (para. 1.10) has its main field
station at Lac Alaotra. This station, with extensive physical
infrastructure but inadequately trained research staff and insufficient
operating funds, has only a very modest research program but plays a vital
role as the repository of Madagascar's rice germplasm collection. This
collection of rice varieties is not being adequately maintained.
Development of new varieties by FOFIFA in the country has stopped and the
introduction of foreign varieties is slowed down by stringent quarantine
regulations and inadequate quarantine facilities. Thus, the existence of
possibly superior foreign genetic material is not being exploited. The
organization and management of all FOFIFA's activities are being examined
in the context of the Agricultural Institutions Project and actions



- 18 -
resulting from tais examination should help improve FOFIFA's performance in
the Lac Alaotra area. In addition to FOFIFA's efforts, an applied research
project financed by FAC, aimed at identifying and resolving constraints to
rice production in the Lac Alaotra area has been under way since 1980.
Field trials have been laid down with rice, wheat and barley to study
varieties, cultural techniques and double cropping systems; preliminary
results show thac Makalioka 34 (Para. 3.11) is still the best rice variety
for the region under both high and low fertility conditions. However
intensive effort3 are continuing to identify appropriate high-yielding
varieties for the area. Results are not yet available for other crops.
3.18      Seed Production     J Up until 1982 arrangements for seed production
in the Project area have been complex. The FOFIFA Research Station
supplied foundation seed to the autonomous MPARA Multiplication Center,
which then produced stock seed for sale to SOMALAC and to small seed
producers managei by CVA for the final multiplication.  SOMALAC's program
was aimed at farmers on the modern schemes, CVA's at farmers on traditional
schemes. Financial, management and institutional problems beset the
various programs and Government has had to take concrete steps to revive
seed production. This involves placing all seed production to stock seed
level under FOFIFA; reinforcing general management and technical standards
at the Lac Alaotra complex; rehabilitation of facilities and technical
assistance to seed production activities (provided under the Project,
paras. 4.06 and 6.07); rehabilitation of the Seed Multiplication Center at
SOMALAC (being financed by French bilateral aid); and reinforcement of the
small seed producers scheme (under the Project, para. 4.06).
3.19      Lac Alaotra Master Plan,  In 1976, Government, assisted by the
consulting firm SOGREAH, prepared an ambitious Master Plan for further
irrigation development in Lac Alaotra. The Plan calls for investments of
up to US $1 billion in over 20 separate projects. The conclusion guiding
the plan was that significant increases in rice production could be
achieved in the short run by improving existing irrigation systems. In the
long run major improvements could be expected only from double cropping on
existing land or from development of marshland. Marshland development, on
the other hand, calls for major works: a main canal linking Didy (Map IBRD
15665R) to dams constructed on the Anony and Sahabe Rivers in order to
secure year-round irrigation water for double cropping, and major works for
the control of the lake level and flood protection for reclamation. Thus
for the moment only improvements to existing systems fit Madagascar's
current policy and resources (para. 1.15) and Government has proposed the
present Project to exploit the "short-term" potential foreseen under the
Plan.
F. The Lac Alaotra Irrigation Project (Cr. 214 MAG)
3.20      The Lac Alaotra Irrigation Project, aimed at increasing rice
production and crop diversification in the Lac Alaotra area, was appraised
in October 1969, became effective in November 1970 and was closed in June



- 19 -
1975.  IDA financing amounted to US $5.0 million out of a total project
cost of US $8.2 million. The project works, which covered one SOMALAC
scheme (PC 23), consisted of the rehabilitation of existing irrigation and
drainage networks on 4,000 ha, the construction of irrigation and drainage
networks on 6,000 ha of peat marshlands and the construction of drainage
works only on 2,000 ha of peat marshlands. Essentially an irrigation
development project in a small predominantly peat area of the lake, the
Project focussed on physical works and took no account of the broader
development aspects of the region. While it also included setting-up of an
organizational framework for extension, farm input supply and marketing
services and establishment of an agricultural experiment station, the
predominant emphasis was on the physical works, and the institution
building possibilities and needs of SOMALAC were largely ignored.   A
Project Completion Report was issued in December 1976, a Project
Performance Audit Report in June 1977 and an Impact Evaluation Report in
August 1981.
3.21      The Project Completion Report (PCR) reported satisfactory
completion of the main civil works under the project on schedule. However,
on-farm development works were delayed by about a year due to financial
difficulties. Paddy yields were substantially lower than estimated at
appraisal and the development of off-season crop production was not
achieved. Cost recovery was very low. The report pointed out that
typically production from peat soils starts low but, under good management,
improves in time; at completion it was still too early to predict the
effects of this evolution. Thus the economic rate of return was thought
likely to be around 22%, compared to 11% expected at appraisal (mainly due
to sharp increases in the world rice price) but with a high likelihood of
variation. The report criticized the appraisal mission for not paying
attention to the social aspects of the project and for not analyzing in
sufficient detail the financial and managerial capabilities of SOMALAC.
The report considered the performance of Government, SOMALAC and
consultants satisfactory but faulted Bank supervision for lack of intensity
and continuity. The report emphasized points to be considered in any
future project: the need to build SOMALAC into an efficient and
financially viable regional development agency; the need to improve water
management standards; the need to pay more attention to social aspects and
the motivations of beneficiaries; and more intensive Bank supervision.
3.22      The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) basically agreed with
the analysis and conclusions of the completion mission. However, it also
highlighted some points of special interest including the adverse effect of
insufficient revenues on the project agency's services to farmers and the
difficulty of managing the peat soils. After project completion and
preparation and discussion of these reports, important developments in
Madagascar and in the region led to serious deterioration of the
socio-economic environment. Changes in Government policies, including
increasing Government intervention in economic activities, decentralization
and the greater role of the fokonolona institutions, produced conditions
for which SOMALAC was ill-prepared. Performance of SOMALAC deteriorated
substantially. By 1981, SOMALAC was unable to deliver the necessary



- 20 -
services and inputs to farmers. Beset by financial, management and
socio-political problems, it proved incapable of managing and maintaining
the irrigation network (PC 23) under its responsibility. Distribution of
irrigation water had become erratic and damage to the irrigation network
was widespread. Cost recovery plummeted and rice yields and production
fell.
3e23      The Impact Evaluation Report (IER) describes a situation which
had deteriorated beyond the most pessimistic prognosis of the PCR. Even
the final tally of new and rehabilitated land effectively irrigated under
the project turned out to be only 75% of the project's goals.  Much of the
1,800 ha of peat scheduled for dryland farming had been damaged through
excessive drainage owing to poor management. The IER estimated the
incremental annual paddy production over the without-project situation at
2,000 tons instead of the 26,000 tons estimated at appraisal, while
farmers' income had barely increased, instead of tripling. The IER
highlights four major reasons for project failure. First there were
technical problems with the hydraulic system which were attributable to
poor supervision of works and to the fact that the special care required by
peat soils was not available. Second, the design assumption that double
cropping would be readily adopted proved unfounded in the light of local
customs and the lack of the necessary technical package and tight
management. Third, for a time a labor shortage hindered moves toward the
adoption of more intensive production systems. Finally, the project agency
suffered critical financial and management problems, and the assumption
that SOMALAC could be self-sufficient financially proved illusory in view
of the political and social climate in which cost recovery had to be
effected.
3.24      Apart from the problem of labor shortage, which has been
corrected by natural immigration so that adequate farm labor is available,
the weaknesses highlighted by the IER have been taken into account in the
design of the present Project. Technical assistance would be provided to
ensure high standards of technical management; although improved water
availability and management combined with research on appropriate technical
packages should increase the potential for double and secondary cropping,
no assumption has been made about its adoption; and the thoroughgoing
rehabilitation of SOMALAC, which is a condition of effectiveness of the
present Project, should ensure that SOMALAC becomes an effective and
financially viable institution. Certain specific recommendations of the
IER have been taken into account in Project design. The complex phenomenon
of tenancy and share cropping in the area (para. 3.07) has been accepted as
a fact of life; measures have however been designed to remedy the shortages
of physical inputs and of credit which have tended to accentuate
inequalities in these arrangements. Most importantly, perhaps, as the IER
recommends, the social setting has been taken into account and an emphasis
placed on individual and community responsibility in credit, in water
management, and in the production systems being promoted under the Project.



- 21 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The proposed Project would aim at increasing rice production and
the marketed surplus in the Lac Alaotra basin, thereby saving foreign
exchange expenditures on rice imports. This would be achieved mainly
through the rehabilitation of existing irrigation infrastructure, the
supply of farm inputs and assistance to existing institutions. The Project
would be implemented over a five-year period (1983-87) and would include
the following components:
(a) the rehabilitation of existing modern irrigation networks on
about 25,000 hectares; and the improvement of water
availability on traditional schemes, on about 3,000
hectares;
(b) the production of improved seeds and provision of
agricultural inputs to the whole Lac Alaotra basin on about
68,000 ha;
(c) the reinforcement of SOMALAC, the regional development
company responsible for agricultural development in the
Project area (para. 5.02), including the provision of
vehicles and equipment, construction of workshops and
housing, technical assistance and training;
(d) assistance to the regional services (CVA) of the Ministry of
Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform (MPARA) (para.
5.15) including the provision of vehicles and equipment,
training and construction of a central warehouse;
(e) the establishment of a network of gauging stations;
(f) training programs;
(g) pilot activities aimed at increasing agricultural
production;
(h) the establishment within SOMALAC of a monitoring and
evaluation unit; and
(i) studies related to the proposed Project and for the
preparation of agricultural projects in Madagascar.



- 2 22
B. Detailed Features
Rehabilitation cf Irrigation Networks
4.02      The modern irrigation networks in the Project area cover a gross
area of about 35,000 ha, of which about 20,000 ha are presently irrigated
in some fashion and about 25,000 ha would be effectively irrigated with
rehabilitation.  The networks fall into four man perimeters:  Anony,
Sahamaloto, PC 15 and PC 23 (Map IBRD 15665). Rehabilitation of these
networks, which have deteriorated considerably in recent years (para.
3.15), would be financed under the Project, including: (i) rehabilitation
of small dams, and irrigation and drainage structures; (ii) construction of
small pumping stations and the provision of small pumps; and (iii) repair
and upgrading of service roads. The first year's rehabilitation works
would be carriec out on PC 15. Subsequent works would be planned in annual
work programs (para. 5.17).  Rehabilitation works would include the areas
of PC 23 that were developed in the early 1970s under the IDA-supported Lac
Alaotra Irrigation Project (para. 3.20). These works are required not only
because the network has deteriorated considerably due to poor management
and maintenance, but also to correct technical problems with the hydraulic
system as originally constructed.
4.03      The rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage structures would
include silt clearance, repairs of breaches in canal banks and raising the
beds of tertiary and quarternary canals that have been built too low,
Repairs would include replacement of gates and outlet pipes, and, on small
dams, repairs to structures, rip-rap covers and embankments. These dams
are not sufficiently large to require safety panels but routine maintenance
and regular inspection by SOMALAC's irrigation maintenance service will be
carried out in order to ensure security. To lift surplus water to areas
with water deficits in the PC 23 and PC 15 networks, the Project would
provide for the construction of small pumping stations with a capacity of
up to about 1.5 m3/sec. On the PC 23 scheme, surplus water from one main
canal (Canal Bas Service), would be pumped to the other (Canal Haut
Service).   In addition, the project would finance about 150 small pumps
(25 1/sec) to pump from drains in low-lying water deficit areas to
supplement early season rice irrigation. Within the modern schemes,
SOMALAC would operate the pumps as part of routine services covered by the
water charge. Outside these schemes, farmers would pay the full costs.
The pumps may also be used during the rainy season to ease localized water
shortages and facilitate drainage where needed.
4.04      SOMALAC will carry out rehabilitation works through private
contractors (para. 4.25). Technical assistance would be financed under the
project for the preparation of detailed design and tender documents.
Documents for the PC 15 rehabilitation, which have been prepared under PPF
financing (para. 4.26), will be ready for tender by the last quarter of
1982.   The base cost of rehabilitation is estimated at about US$380/ha,
based on detailed studies by SOMALAC (PC23), SDR (other modern schemes) and
by consultants.



- 23 -
Improvement of Traditional Schemes
4.05      Works to improve traditional irrigation on schemes in the Project
area (para. 3.13) would include the construction of small dams and supply
canals, improvement of canals and drains, and land levelling. SOMALAC,
which will implement the component, has already prepared an inventory of
about 60 possible small projects ranging in size from 30 ha to 500 ha. The
Project would help farmer groups in construction by providing engineering
expertise, civil works equipment, and materials not available locally such
as cement and structural steel. The beneficiaries would provide labor and
local materials. The program is similar to the successful "Operation
Microhydraulique" being implemented in the central highlands under EDF
financing (para. 1.13). Each sub-project would be appraised separately by
SOMALAC and submitted to IDA for review and approval in the context of the
Annual Work Programs (para. 5.17). IDA review will cover, inter alia: (i)
the economic viability of the sub-project, which should demonstrate a rate
of return of at least 12%; (ii) its technical feasibility, especially
whether the proposed sub-project lies in a peat soil area or not; (iii)
replicability; (iv) cost comparative to other sub-project proposals; (v)
financial viability; (vi) legal ownership situation of both unimproved and
improved land; (vii) arrangements for capital and operating cost recovery;
and (viii) provision for operation and maintenance. The schemes are
presently in the area supervised by CVA (para. 3.17) but will be
transferred to SOMALAC, which will carry out the projects and be
responsible thereafter for their supevision. Experience under "Operation
Microhydraulique" indicates that significant improvements can be achieved
at a total cost of about US $300/ha. In calculating Project costs, it was
assumed that about 3,000 ha out of an identified possible total of about
10,000 ha could be improved during the Project implementation period. The
value of beneficiaries' contribution in kind, estimated at about half the
total cost of the component, has been excluded from Project costs.
Seed Production
4.06      Pure paddy seeds of the variety Makalioka 34 would be produced
under the Project for sale to farmers. The recently reorganized Lac
Alaotra seed production complex run by FOFIFA (para. 3.18) would be
rehabilitated and an agronomist specializing in rice genetics would be
recruited internationally to head the complex. As production of high
quality seed is essential to the Project and adequate production to M2
level will take several years, the rehabilitation and initial employment
cost of the agronomist are being financed under the PPF. In addition to
this sub-component implemented by FOFIFA, the present CVA final
multiplication program (para. 3.18) would be reinforced by the acquisition
of transport facilities, including trucks and pick-ups. Rehabilitation of
SOMALAC's final multiplication program (para. 3.18) is already being
carried out under bilateral assistance.
Agricultural Inputs and Equipment
4.07      Agricultural inputs and equipment would be provided under the



- 24-
Project, for sale at cost to farmers in line with the extension package
(paras. 5.16 and 6.03). Besides improved seeds, inputs would include
fertilizers, insecticides, herbicides and equipment.   Quantities of
chemical inputs required are limited, as fertilizers is proposed only for
nurseries and rotary hoes would generally be used for weeding rather than
herbicides. Farm equipment supplied (para. 6.08) would include sprayers,
ploughs, rotary hoes and, on a limited experimental asis, mechanical
threshers.
Reinforcement of SOMALAC
4.08      Technical assistance under the Project to turnish skills not
available locally would be provided to SOMALAC in line with the
rehabilitation program being implemented (para. 5.05i. Twelve experts
would be provided: (i) a senior financial manager to act as Finance
Director (Chart 3); (ii) a senior production engineer to head the Technical
Division of the Marketing Department; (iii) a senior agronomist specialized
in irrigated rice production to head the Agriculturai Intensification
Division of the Production Department: (iv) a senior engineer, specialized
in rural engineering, to head the Maintenance Department Irrigation
Maintenance Unit; (v) an agronomist experienced in agricultural training,
who would join the Training Unit in the General Manager's office to develop
extension packages and to design and run training programs, particularly
for extension staff and farmers; (vi) an irrigation engineer, specialized
in water management of irrigated rice, would join the Training Unit with
responsibility for training in water management; (vii) a rural development
specialist with a background in economics, who would head up the Studies
and Projects Unit in the General Manager's office and would be responsible
for monitoring and evaluation (para. 4.17); (viii) three agronomists,
specialized in irrigated rice production techniques, to be heads of
perimeters in the Agricultural Intensification Division; (ix) a hydraulic
engineer to head the Studies Unit in the Maintenance Department, to work on
preparation of irrigation rehabilitation and improvement; and (x) a
maintenance engineer to head the Maintenance Unit. The technical
assistance personnel, who would hold line positions, would be progressively
phased out as local candidates for the job are trained up (para. 4.14).
Funds would also be provided for short-term consultancy services when
needed on technical matters. SOMALAC would present proposals for these
services for IDA's approval, either in the context of the Annual Work
Program (para. 5.17) or as need arises.
4.09      Equipment and Vehicles.  All of SOMALAC's irrigation maintenance
equipment is in very poor condition and is well beyond its normal life
expectancy. Essential equipment and spare parts would therefore be
provided under the Project, including mechanical shovels, bulldozers,
graders, trucks, trailers and miscellaneous equipment. Essential transport
(cars, pick-ups, motorcycles and bicycles) would also be provided for the
Maintenance and Production Departments, and tractors, trailers, trucks and
miscellaneous equipment for transport of inputs. Improvement of SOMALAC's
present inadequate arrangements for equipment maintenance and repair would
be assisted by rehabilitation of workshop buildings, by purchase of



- 25 -
workshop equipment and of mobile workshops and by recruitment and the
upgrading of staff through training (para. 4.11 ff).   A
radio-communication system would be set up to assist irrigation
management. Office equipment and furniture would be provided for SOMALAC's
headquarters.
4.10      Buildinas.  SOMVALAC's buildings have deteriorated because of lack
of maintenance. These buildings, including the central office, houses,
warehouses and workshops, would be rehabilitated under the Project. An
additional eight houses would be constructed to accommodate the staff
provided under technical assistance, and subsequently the staff who would
replace them, together with guest facilities for visitors during Project
implementation. The building maintenance team would be reinforced with
tools and equipment and given thorough practical training (para. 4.11 ff).
Training
4.11      Staff of Project implementing agencies (SOMALAC, CVA, FOFIFA) are
on the whole poorly trained for the jobs they do. To complement the
reorganization of SOMALAC (para. 5W05) and Project assistance to CVA and
FOFIFA, a major training program would be set up) under the Project.
Responsibility for training of all agricultural staff in the Project area,
except for specialist training in seed production, would rest with the head
of the Training Unit attached to SOMALAC's Central Direction (Chart 3).
This would be a senior post, for which terms of reference and candidates
would be presented for IDA's prior approval (para. 5.07).   The post would
be filled by an experienced training specialist, whose major job would be
to identify training needs, to plan and supervise courses and to
superintend on the job training. In this he would be assisted by the two
technical assistants responsible for training (para. 4.08) who would
prepare and run specialized subject matter courses in their own
disciplines. If no suitable candidate to head the Training Unit is
forthcoming, a less experienced candidate would be trained up under the
interim management of the agronomist technical assistant. Specialist
training in seed production would be the responsibility of a specialist
FOFIFA officer,
4.12      The main areas for training would be:  (i) extension and water
management for extension personnel; (ii) agriculture and irrigation
techniques for farmers; (iii) vehicle and equipment maintenance; (iv)
irrigation maintenance; (v) building and construction maintenance; (vi)
administration, including accounting; and (vii) management training. On
the basis of the personnel review carried out at SOMALAC (para. 5.08), a
major reassignment exercise to fit staff to jobs is currently being carried
out, A draft training program was discussed at negotiations and will be
completed by a training needs assessment for all Project agency staff
carried out by SOMALAC Training Unit staff. On the basis of this
assessment the final training program will be drawn up and presented for
IDA comments and approval by December 31, 1983.   Assurances to this effect
were received at negotiations.



- 26 -
4.13      The keynotes in training would be short practical courses and on
the job training. In each area specififc officers would have responsibility
for training, e.g. one foreman in each workshop. For some training,
however, accounting for example, specialist subject matter trainers would
be retained to run the short courses. In management training, the keynote
would be on the job training bv the technical assistance team. As part of
his terms of reference, the head of the Training Uniit in SOMALAC would draw
up and regularly review irndividual programs for each member of the team and
his M4alagasy counterparts and assistants. In order to overcome the
problems of trained staff turnover, the number of senior Malagasy staff
trained would be in excess of requirements. Courses would be held either
at SOMALAC or at the local agricultural training center (run by MPARA),
which is at present little used and whose facilities would be improved
under the Project. Teaching materials and equipment would be provided
under the Project, in addition to:  the training specialist to head the
Training Unit, t.ie cost of running short courses; short term specialist
services; scholarships and study tours; and vehicles. The component would
be implemented by SOMALAC, except for the rehabilitation of the training
center -which would be implemented by MPARA, and specialist training in seed
production which would be implemented by FOFIFA.
Assistance to CVA-Ambatondrazaka
4.14      The Circonscription de la Vulgarisation Agricole at
Ambatondrazaka (CVA-Ambatondrazaka) 2/, which  has about 90 extension
staff working mainly with rice farmers on traditional schemes, is severeliy
constrained in its operations by lack of transport. Essential vehicles,
mopeds and bicycles would be provided under the Project for extension
staff in the Project area.
Rainfall and Stream Gauging Network
4.15      To improve the data base for planning the future development of
the Lac Alaotra basin, the existing gauging network would be upgraded under
the Project by: (i) rehabilitating existing installations; and (ii)
installing additional gauging stationis where needed, in particular
downstream of irrigation networks to measure irrigation efficiency.
SOMALAC will carry out the component but will retain, on a contract basis,
the "Office de Recherche Scientifique et Technique d'Outre Mer" (ORSTOM - a
French research organization responsible for hydrological surveys in
Madagascar) to provide specialized professional guidance. A proposed
program for this component and a draft contract between SOMALAC and ORSTOM
would be presented for IDA's prior review by December 31, 1983. Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
2/ The organization of the MPARA and its regional services is described in
para. 1.09.  The CVA-Ambatondrazaka provides agricultural extension
services in the Project area.



- 27 -
Pilot Activities
4.16      An indicative sum of $0.5 million has been provided under the
Project for pilot activities which would be undertaken to test on a
small-scale the feasibility of development programs for which clear
technical packages have not so far been developed. Preliminary indications
are that there are many activities which look promising but whose
feasibility has not been demonstrated, including: (a) testing and
demonstration of cultivation techniques on peat soils, based on the results
of a study to be carried out under the Project (para. 4.19); (b)
improvement of animal power techniques and implements to ease labor
demands; (c) an experimental program for mechanical land preparation,
direct seeding and threshing services; and (d) fodder and pasture trials,
aimed at integration of rice cropping and livestock production activities.
Each of the pilot activities would be proposed by MPARA and discussed with
and approved by IDA in the context of the review of the annual work
programs (para. 5.17).
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17      SOMALAC's Studies and Projects Unit, under the rural development
specialist in the technical assistance team (para. 4.08), will be
responsible for monitoring Project activities including those undertaken by
SDR. The leading function of the unit would be to provide management
information for decision taking. The format would be regular quarterly
reports on key parameters, major annual reports synthesizing data and
conclusions over the year, and ad hoc reports on special studies. The unit
would also prepare information necessary for inclusion in the annual work
programs. The quarterly and annual reports would be submitted on a regular
basis to IDA for comment as an integral part of SOMALAC's quarterly and
annual reports (para. 5.19).
4.18      An agroeconomic production survey is currently being carried out
to establish holding patterns, production systems and labor availability.
This survey will provide an input into the shaping of extension themes and
input requirements for the first annual work program. Follow-up surveys
will monitor the evolution of these parameters over the Project period, and
provide inputs to subsequent work programs. Under the Project, baseline
and follow-up surveys would monitor the evolution of the following broad
crop yields and production practices; (ii) socio-economic indicators for
farms and farm households, including household composition, labor
availability and labor use, inventory of household resources, off-farm
employment and sources of income, agricultural and other work experience,
literacy, schooling, nutritional and health situation, physical mobility
and relationship to community and family of origin; and (iii) work and
organizational relationships between farmers, the community and the project
authorities as these relate to agricultural and irrigation management
practices. The unit will also monitor water quality in the lake. Detailed
proposals will be worked out by the unit head and will be presented by
SOMALAC for IDA's approval by December 31, 1983. Thereafter the work
program of the unit would be discussed each year with IDA in the context of



- 28 -
the annual wo-rk program (para. 5.17).  Assurances to this effect were
received at negotiations.  An indicative sum of $250,000 has been provided
under the Project for staff, office equipment and furniture and for the
cost of consultant services for special surveys.
Studies
4.19      A total of US $1.0 million would be provided under the Project
for studies. Of tnis, US $500,000 would be provided for studies in the
Project area to be carried out by SOMALAC, including: (i) the analysis the
Lac Alaotra water resources system; (ii) a study of production
possibilities on peat soils; and (iii) detailed preparation work for the
irrigation rehabilitation component of the Project (para. 4.02) and for the
pilot component (para. 4.16). US $500,000 would be provided for MPARA to
prepare future agricultural projects in Madagascar.  Assurances were
received at negotiations that for all studies and project preparation work,
the selection procedures of the consultants, their terms of reference and
proposed contracts would be acceptable to IDA.
C. Project Costs
4.20      Total Project costs are estimated at about FMG 14.3 billion (US
$38.0 million), of which about FMG 10.7 billion (US $28.6 million) or 75Z
represent foreign exchange costs.  As it is expected that the Project would
be exempt from import taxes and duties, these cost estimates include only
negligible amounts of taxes corresponding to sales taxes on locally
procured goods. The following table is a summary of these costs, with a
more detailed breakdown appearing in Table 1:



- 29 -
Total
F.   base
Local  Foreign   Total Local Foreign Total  Exch. costs
FMG million -US$ milion---- (%)    ()
A. Plant, vehicles
and equipment
(SOMALAC)       373.6  1,927.8  2,301.5  1.0    5.1    6.1    84    21
B. Buildings
(SOMALAC)       109.6    109.6    219.2  0.3    0.3    0.6    50         2
C. Technical
Assistance
(SOMALAC)       137.5  1,237.5  1,375.0  0.4    3.3    3,7    90    13
D. Assistance to
CVA              50.3      99.9    150.2  0.1    0.3    0.4    66         1
E. Seed
production      116.9    385.0    501.9  0.3    1.0    1.3    77          5
F. Agricultural
equipment       189.3    537.1    726.4  0.5    1.4    1.9    74          7
G. Agricultural
inputs           74.2    420.8    495.0  0.2    1.1    1.3    85          5
H. Irrigation
rehab.        1,272.3  2,631.7  3,904.0  3.4    7.0   10.4    76    36
I. Water gauging
network          81.0      72.8    153.8  0.2    0.2    0.4    47         1
J. Training
program          92.3    156.0    248.3  0.2    0.4    0.7    63          2
K. Pilot
activities       75.0    112.5    187.5  0.2    0.3    0.5    60          2
L.  Monitoring and
evaluation       23.4      70.3      93.8  0.1    0.2    0.3    75        1
M.  Studies          37.5    337.5    375.0  0.1    0.9    1.0    90          3
Total baseline
costs          2,632.9  8,098.5 10,731.5  7.0   21.6   28.6    79   100
Physical
contingencies   239.9    848.6  1,088.5  0.6    2.3    2.9    79    10
Price
contingencies   650.8  1,785.4  2,436.2  1.8    4.7    6.5    74    23
Total Project
costs          3,523.6 10,732.5 14,256.1  9.4   28.6   38.0    75   133
4.21      Only incremental operating costs have been included in the cost
estimates.  Project costs are estimated as of the second half of 1982, on
the basis of prices prevailing in September 1981 adjusted for inflation.  A
physical contingency of 10% was applied to the cost of agricultural inputs,
at rates varying between 10% and 30% on the cost of construction works and
irrigation rehabilitation; and at 5% on the cost of plant, vehicles and
equipment.  No physical contingency was provided on technical assistance,
studies and operating costs. Price contingencies were calculated on a



- 30 -
cumulative basis, at 12% for domestic inflation, and for international
inflation at 8% in 1982, declining to 6% by 1986.  Consultant costs were
estimated on the basis of currently applied rates for Madagascar for
comparable tasks, at US $10,700 per man month base costs.
D. Financing
4.22      The financing plan for the Project is shown in detail in Table
2. The sources of funds to finance the Project are summarized below:
------- (US$ millions) -
Components implemented by:
SOMALAC   MPARA   FOFIFA   Total    %
IDA            14.90     1.45    1.65    18.00    47
CCCE            8.01      1.99    -        10.00    26
FAC             4.47         -    -         4.47    12
Government      4.63      0.59    0.31      5.53    15
Total          32.01      4.03    1.96    38.00   100
4.23      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 16.7 million (US $18.0 million
equivalent) would be on standard terms to Government. The Credit would
finance mainly specific sub components of the irrigation rehabilitation
component, the provision of plant, vehicles and equipment, construction and
building rehabilitation, agricultural equipment and inputs, and consultant
and technical assistance costs.  It is expected that the CCCE loan would be
repayable over ten years after a five year grace period, at an interest
rate of 42%, and would finance separate major sub components of the
irrigation rehabilitation component, the provision of agricultural
equipment and vehicles, inputs for the first year of the Project, and the
pilot activities. The FAC contribution would be in the form of the
services of experts provided under the French bilateral assistance program
and would be on a grant basis. The effectiveness of the CCCE and FAC
agreements would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit and
assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. Financing
provided to SOMALAC under the Project for capital expenditures, would, at
completion of the Project, be accounted for as equity.  Funds transferred
to SOMALAC for recurrent expenditures would be accounted for as a grant.
Project finance would be provided to FOFIFA in the form of a grant.  The
transfers to SOMALAC and to FOFIFA would be made under subsidiary financing
agreements between the Government and those institutions.  Signature of
these subsidiary agreements approved by IDA would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. Assurances on these procedures were obtained at
negotiations.



- 31 -
E.  Procurement
4.24      Rehabilitation of major irrigation worrks and b:il-ings
construction financed by IDA (US $8.  niflion) would be cnarrioee oUwl  2y
contractors selected according to local competitive bidding procedudres
satisfactory to IDA. International contractors are repr3se-nm,ed lln
Madagascar and are active in many projects.  Others not already  nvol-vea in
the country would be eligible to participate btut are not likely to be
interested by these works, as they will be in small contracts of maximum
size about US $3.0 million and will be scattered over the whole Lac Alaotra
basin.  It is expected that SOMALAC's irrigation maintenaie ce unit woald
have acquired through intensive training (para. 4.11 f) the necessary
skills to carry out part of the works itself withir a year of Project
start-up. However this capacity would be onitored close y in the conLext
of the annual work program review (para. 5.17 f). ard a decision on the
appropriate means of implementing each part of the works Twould be taken in
the light of the review.  Procurement for the rehabilitati n works f-inanced
by CCCE costing US $4.6 million will be In accordance with GCCE guidelines
and will be restricted to French and Malagasy coL.tractors.  It 1s expected
that the price of works procured in this way will be within the range
normally obtained by competitive bidding procedures. Works for the
improvement of traditional schemes (US $1.2 miilion) would be carried out
with the assistance of farmer beneficiaries, by -Local contractors, selected
following local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Equipment and vehicles financed by IDA would be procured by international
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to ITDA (US $9.2 million).
Other contracts over US $1]00,000 financed by IDA, largely for agricultural
inputs, would be awarded after international com-etltive biddi -ng in
accordance with IDA guidelines.  Such contracts are expected to total about
US $1.1 million.  Below this ceiling, contracts (total -alue US $0.3
million) would be placed under local bidding procedures satisractory to
IDA.  Cars for SOMALAC, ploughs for smallholders, inputs for the -first year
of the Project and purchases for the pilot programs will bue financed on a
parallel basis by CCCE and would be procured in accordance with its
guidelines. Prices of goods so acquired are expected to be within the
range normally obtained under competitive bidding procedures. Consultants
(about US $2.4 million) would be recruited in accordance with Bankl Group
guidelines on the uses of consultants.  The technical assistance team will
be recruited in accordance with the guidelines of FAC, rhich i8 financing
the component (US $4.47), Invitations to bid and proposed awiards and fEinal
contracts would be subject to IDA's prior review for all con--tracts financed
by IDA over US $100,000.  Assurances on these procedures ne-. obtai edat
negotiations.
F. Disbursements
4.25      Funds from the Credit account would be dis ursed over six yeers
in line with experience for similar projects in East Africa  cn. the
following basis:



- 32 -
------- Amounts allocated (US$ million) -------
% of
--- MPARA --                 expenditures
SOMALAC  SDR   Other FOFIFA Total Foreign Local
(1) Plant and vehicles         4.45   0.08  0.05   0.30   4.88   100        80
(2) Building construction
and rehabilitation        0.20   0.09  0.03   0.15   0.47   100         60
(3) Irrigation
rehabilitation            6.30                  0.02   6.32   100       60
(4) Inputs and equip-
ment for farmers          0.75   0.53                   1.28   100      60
(5) Technical assistance       0.40                 0.50   0.90   100    100
(6) Training                   0.25                 0.25   0.50   100       80
(7) Monitoring and
evaluation                0.25                         0.25   100       80
(8) Studies                    0.30          0.53           0.83   100      80
(9) Reimbursement of PPF       0.65                 0.35   1.00      -       -
(10) Unallocated                1.35   0.08  0.06   0.08   1.57       -       _
Total                          14.90   0.78  0.67   1.65  18.00
4.26      An advance of US $1.0 million on the Credit under the Project
Preparation Facility was approved in August 1982 to finance rehabilitation
and technical assistance for the FOFIFA seed production facilities,
consultant services for preparation of detailed irrigation designs and the
implementation of SOMALAC's organizational and financial reforms, the
construction of lodgings for technical assistance staff, and start-up of
the training program. This advance would be refunded out of the proceeds
of the proposed Credit. All disbursements would be fully documented. An
estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 3.
G. Accounts and Audits
4.27      Consultants have designed new accounting systems for SOMALAC and
are currently supervising their installation. In addition, training
(para. 4.11 f) and material support under the Project would reinforce the
accounting function. With this assistance it is expected that accounting
for Project expenditures would be satisfactory. SOMALAC's accounts are at
present subject to an independent review by an accounting firm, and in 1980
were audited by RINDRA, a parastatal audit firm receiving support under an
IDA Credit. SOMALAC proposes to retain RINDRA as auditor, which is
acceptable to IDA. FOFIFA's accounting is adequate to record Project
expenditures on the seed component. MPARA's accounting (including CVA)
follows the public accounting system and is satisfactory. FOFIFA and MPARA
project accounts (including CVA accounts) would be audited by the
Government auditor, which is acceptable to IDA.
4.28      Assurances were received at negotiations that SOMALAC, FOFIFA and



- 33 -
MPARA (including CVA) would: (i) keep separate accounts for the Project;
(ii) have these accounts audited each year by auditors acceptable to IDA;
and (iii) submit these accounts to IDA no later than six months after the
close of the financial year. Assurances were further received at
negotiations that SOMALAC and FOFIFA would maintain accounts which
adequately reflect their operations and resources, in SOMALAC's case on a
departmental basis (para. 7X05 ff), and have them audited; and that SOMALAC
would submit its audited accounts for 1982 to IDA by June 30, 1983.
H. Project Completion Report
4,29      MPARA would prepare a Project Completion Report no later than six
months after the Project closing date. The Report would summarize Project
performance, evaluate its successes and problems and underline lessons to
be taken into account in the future design and implementation of similar
projects. Assurances on this were obtained at negotiations.
I. Environment and Health
4+.3'J    The proposed Project is not expected to have a significant impact
on tne environment, largely because it would not extend the present
irrigated areas. The environmental consequences of the use of
agro-chemicals would be negligible, because of the small quantities
involved, and protective clothing, including gloves, would be provided to
those handling pesticides. Strict supervision of storage, handling and use
of these chemicals would be maintained. It will be necessary to monitor
the build-up of harmful chemicals in the food chain, in particular in the
lake's fish population (para. 3.01). As part of the monitoring and
evaluation exercise (para. 4.17), SOMALAC's Studies and Projects Unit would
carry out a baseline survey of water quality and fish population in the
lake. The evolution of these parameters will be monitored closely. Should
there be evidence that the lake is becoming eutrophic, a comparative
cost-benefit analysis of the loss of these benefits will be made, and
preserited for discussion and decision-taking as part of the regular
reporting and programming exercise (para. 5.17 f). The Project would not
har-m public health in the area. Exposure to water-borne diseases would not
increase, and thtere would be no significant migration of people to the
Project area. Government services routinely monitor malaria which is
eidemic in the Project area and is the object of a priority Government
eradicizatlon campaign. Only isolated cases of bilharzia in immigrants to
the area have been reported and the disease has not entered a reproductive
cycle. Public health services would continue to monitor bilharzia, and, if
the disease begins to establish itself, the possibility of SOMALAC and SDR
participating in a vector control campaign would be considered.



- 34 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. General
5.01      The Project would be implemented by SOMALAC and FOFIFA under the
supervision of MPARA, and by the servi-ces of MPARA itself, largely the
local regional branch CVA at Ambatondrazaka. SOMALAC's zone of action
consists of the modern perimeters of PC 15, PC 23 and PC Nord together with
traditional irrigation schemes immediately adjacent. SOMALAC would
implement the irrigation rehabilitation component, including the
rehabilitation of traditional schemes outside its present zone of action
(para 4.05). SOMALAC, which is being reinforced under a major Project
component, would also establish and operate the rainfall and steam gauging
network under the Project and would carry out the monitoring and
evaluation. FOFIFA (para. 1.10), SOMALAC and CVA will implement the seed
production component.  CVA will be reinforced under the Project and will,
with SOMALAC, carry out the input supply component. MPARA services and
SOMALAC will carry out the training program. MPARA services will implement
the pilot activities and studies components.
B. SOMALAC
Ownership and History
5c02      The "Societe Malagasy d'Am6nagement du Lac Alaotra" (SOMALAC) was
established in 1962 as a mixed capital company to develop the Project
area. Government owns 95% of SOMALAC's equity of FMG 200 million, 85%
directly and 10% through the Chamber of Commerce in Toamasina and BTM. The
remaining shares are held by CCCE and the consulting firm SCET-Madagascar.
MPARA is responsible, within the Government, for supervising SOMALAC's
performance on a regular basis.
5.03      Over the years SOMALAC's role of irrigation development and land
redistribution has expanded to include extension work, paddy marketing and
processing, direct farming of paddy, and pig rearing. SOMALAC carried out
these r8les with some success until the mid 1970s when a number of factors
combined to erode its effectiveness: declining marketing profits, high
overheads and lower subsidies to the extension and irrigation maintenance
services, Government policies and political interference. Management was
not capable of dealing with these problems and SOMALAC declined in a
vicious spiral of lack of maintenance of the irrigation system,
deteriorating water management and increasing farmer indiscipline.
5.04      By mid-1981, SOMALAC's effectiveness was drastically reduced.
Several senior posts including two of the three directors' jobs, were
vacant. Management remained very weak, and information and control
procedures were almost non-existent. Few staff were sufficiently



- 35 -
qualified, many were ill-suited to their posts and morale was low.
Organizational arrangements for extension work, water management and
irrigation systems maintenance were chaotic.   The marketing and processing
department was better organized but required substantial restructuring and
the introduction of information and control procedures. Mounting financial
losses had destroyed the company's capital base (para. 7.01 ff).
Rehabilitation Measures
5.05      Recognizing that the restoration of efficient management of the
modern irrigation schemes, combined with rehabilitation of the physical
infrastructure, was the key to exploiting the potential and resources of
the Lac Alaotra area, the Government requested IDA assistance under the
Agricultural Institutions Project (para. 1.15) to finance studies to
identify solutions to the problem. The studies focussed on possibilities
of rescuing what was valid in SOMALAC. The size and complexity of the task
of managing irrigation schemes of 35,000 ha put it beyond the capacity of
the Government administration, which suffers from severe financial and
administrative constraints in implementing projects. Likewise the public
service nature of the task ruled out a private sector institution at the
management level, although the productive potential of the schemes depends
entirely on the vigor of the smallholder producers, and private sector
involvement remains vital to the processing of Lac Alaotra production.
Thus IDA assistance was used to fund consultant services to make a detailed
review of all SOMALAC's activities, procedures and resources and to prepare
a rescue plan. Consultants completed a detailed review in early 1982 and
an outline rescue plan was discussed between Government and IDA in March
1982. Further consultant work to assist Government in refining the plan
and making detailed preparation for implementation, was carried out in
mid-1982, financed under the PPF for the proposed Project. The detailed
proposals were discussed between Government and IDA in September 1982 and
Government adopted a four part rescue plan for SOMALAC. The first three
parts, covering legal status, organization and management, and personnel,
are described below; finances are dealt with in Chapter VII (para. 7.01
ff).
5.06      Legal Status.  Government has taken the steps necessary to turn
SOMALAC into a Socialist Enterprise. This provides a more responsive
structure, with a Board that meets frequently taking responsibility for
policy discussions, and management responsible for day-to-day decisions on
clearly defined terms of reference. The Board, from which politicians are
by law excluded, comprises a chairman and six members - the General Manager
ex officio, a representative of central government, a representative of
local government, two representatives of the staff and one representative
of the minority shareholders. Board members are paid and the Board is
obliged to meet at least monthly. This has advantages over the previous
arrangement whereby the board never met and the General Manager was
over-burdened with ill-defined powers and responsibilities. The new Board
is expected to be appointed in early 1983. Assurances were received at
negotiations that SOMALAC's legal status would not be changed without prior
consultation with IDA.



- 36 -
5.07      Organization and Management.  The Board's first task will be to
approve and implement the new organization chart (Chart 3), which
provides for three functionally defined departments covering production
(water management, extension and input supply); marketing; and maintenance
(irrigation infrastructure and buildings); together with a General
Manager's office which would provide financial management, procurement,
training, liaison and planning services. Government has agreed to retain a
central feature of consultants' recommendations, the delegation of a high
degree of operational and financial autonomy to the department level,
including separate bank accounts and accounting services. Work programs
and budgets will be agreed with Government and IDA (para 5.17 ff) on a
department by department basis and monitored on the same basis. Any
financing agreed with Government will be reserved for a particular
department and financial transfers between departments will only be made
under specific procedures. In mid-1982, an experienced senior MPARA
official became SOMALAC's new General Manager. Other senior management
appointments under these arrangements will clearly be crucial and SOMALAC
will have to pay above civil service scales to attract qualified
candidates. For these reasons assurances were obtained at negotiations
that:  (i) the management and financial responsibilities of the management
team will be clearly defined by the Board in order to provide the team with
adequate powers and authority to manage the affairs of SOMALAC; (ii)
SOMALAC pay scales will not be limited to civil service scales; and (iii)
that proposed appointments for the key posts of General Manager, the
managers of the three operating departments and the head of the Training
Unit will be acceptable to IDA. It would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Credit that these managers had taken office, that an organization
chart acceptable to IDA had been approved by the Board and implemented, and
that SOMALAC had clearly defined the managerial and financial
responsibilities of its General Manager in a manner acceptable to IDA.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the organizational structure
of SOMALAC would not thereafter be changed without IDA being consulted.
5,08      Personnel.  Government has agreed to a detailed personnel
proposal which sets the personnel establishment at 832, including 37
management posts. SOMALAC has reduced its permanent staff from 1981 levels
of over 1,200 to around 850, so no further redundancies will be required.
The proposal calls for a major personnel reassignment and retraining
exercise to fit appropriate candidates to posts throughout the structure.
The first stage has already been carried out, for the management posts, and
has identified 22 posts for which suitable in-house candidates are
available. Of the remaining posts, four will be filled by external
recruitment and 11 by technical assistants. As the technical assistance
team will be crucial to the reinforcement of the management structure,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that their qualifications,
experience and terms of reference will be acceptable to IDA. They will be
employed for periods of between three and five years in key management
positions. The first of these experts are expected to take up their posts
in early 1983 and the full team will be in the field in mid-1983. Lower
down the structure, an exercise is now underway, to match staff to posts
and to identify training needs. A draft training discussion paper was



- 37 -
discussed at negotiations.  The exercise, including the preparation of a
detai:ed training needs analysis and training program, is expected to be
complete during the third quarter of 1983, after the arrival of the
te_hnical assistance team. Assurances were received at negotiations that a
training program acceptable to IDA would be finalized and in IDA's hands by
December 31, 1983. Conf4rmation that the technical assistance team is in
place is a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
Project implementation
5.09      With dav-to-day management and financial autonomy, the three
departments will report to the General Manager. The Production Department
will cover operation of the irrigation networks, input supply, extension,
seed production and agricultural research. The Marketing Department will
handle paddy marketing, and rice milling and distribution. The Maintenance
Department will handle maintenance of irrigation infrastructure and
buildings.
5.10      For the Production Department the schemes would be divided into
four basic management units, called "perimetres-:  Anony, Sahamaloto, PC 23
and PC 15e These perimetres, each under a manager, would be sub-divided
differently for different functions. Extension activities would be
organized by production units called "zones"; 13 zone chiefs at
"adjoint-technique" level would supervise the 143 extension agents, who
would each cover about 200 ha (about 50 farmers) and supervise both rice
prod"uction and field level water management. Extension agents would mainly
be irn-volved in rice production. In addition to advising farmers on water
management and improved agronomic practices, they would help with planning
agricultural activities, identifying input and credit requirements and
coordinating distribution. Extension workers would be trained both in
their own jobs and in how to train farmers. The keynotes of the advice
transmitted through the extension service would be simplicity and
timeliness. The main extension themes proposed (para. 6.03 ff) are already
being extended by both SOMALAC and CVA but extension will be intensified.
The "training and visit" system will be tested on a pilot scale. The
extension system will aim at reaching the maximum number of farmers through
saort farmer training courses while focussing on a number of contact
farmers selected for their potential influence on other farmers'
receptivity to improved techniques and willingness to collaborate with
externsion agents. Water management down to field level would be organized
into seven "networks" corresponding to the upstream command structures, and
iLnto 26 "sectors", each a discrete irrigation management unit. Network and
sector chiefs at "adjoint-technique" level would manage water at these
levels, and would supervise water guards who would be posted to monitor and
onerate large irrigation structures such as dams and intake gates (gardiens
d&cuvrages). Operating rules and the operation and maintenance manuals for
eac1c perimeter would be prepared with the assistance of the Maintenance
Department. Each perimeter manager would be provided with a pick-up truck,
a set of tools and a small team of workers to carry out light emergency
mainttenance work.  Radio communication facilities would be provided for key
personnel in the field and at headquarters.



- 38 -
5.11      Irrigation maintenance from head works down to and including
secondary level would be carried out by the Maintenance Department,
reinforced with equipment and technical assistance (para. 4.08) provided
under the Project.  Water user committees, which have been tested on the PC
23 scheme and appear to function satisfactorily, would be expanded; they
would be established at two levels: the smallest and most important
operational unit organized at the 'maille' (tertiary canal) level and a
broader unit organized at the network level. The committees at the
"maille" level would have responsibility for organizing the maintenance of
the tertiary and quaternary canals and drains within their area. Although
the work would be the responsibility of the farmers, training would be
provided (para. 4.11 f) and extension agents would provide support and
supervision. Each committee, covering about 100 users, w-ill consist of
elected representatives of the users and the extension agent, and will be
responsible for water distribution, policing and monitoring of maintenance
works to be carried out by users. At the network level, a committee
consisting of the president of the firaisana, representatives of the
"maille" committees and network staff, will deal with general problems
affecting the network such as irrigation programming, observance of the
cropping calendar, water policing and, eventually, the establishment of
collective nurseries.
5.12      Land Titles.  Some 550 SOMALAC-scheme farmers have completed
payments under their lease-purchase obligations (para. 3.06) but
arrangements for issue of titles have been held up by SOMALAC's inability
to pay a fee of FMG 7,500 (US $20) per hectare of this land. The fee,
which represents the value of the land before improvement, has to be paid
to the Government's Land Registry before title can be registered.
Government has now formally agreed to waive the charge and SOMALAC and
Government have already taken steps up to and including the issue of
declarations of title for these farmers. SOMALAC and the Land Registry are
now carrying out the surveys necessary before issue of final titles.
Government has also instructed the Land Registry to prepare land titles for
transfer to farmers who have not yet completed their payments, as it has
been decided to terminate the lease purchase system, to transfer title to
farmers and to arrange mortgages on those titles against mortgage loans
from BTM. This change will have several advantages: (i) farmers will be
motivated as proprietors; (ii) sanctions for non-payment will be more
straightforward; and (iii) BTM, not SOMALAC, will be responsible for
recovery of payments - BTM as the agricultural credit bank has extensive
experience in managing loans to smallholders and has readily accepted the
scheme. The preparation of titles, both for those who have completed
payments and for those who are to receive mortgaged titles, will take some
time. However, as this issue is central to farmer motivation, assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the issue of titles will be completed by
June 30, 1985. As a condition of Credit effectiveness Government will
confirm to IDA in a letter that titles have been issued to those who had
completed payments by December 31, 1981, and that declarations of title
have been issued for all those who had completed payments by December 31,
1982.



- 39 -
C. CVA-Ambatondrazaka
5.13      CVA would be responsible for extending improved water management
and cultivation techniques in the traditional schemes of the Lac Alaotra
area. Vehicles and bicycles will be provided under the Project to help in
this task. In addition, the CVA extension force of about 90 would
participate in training schemes run by SOMALAC (para. 4.11 f) and inputs
would be supplied through CVA to the traditional schemes in line with
extension recommendations. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
IDA would be able to comment in advance on any appointment to the key
position of head of CVA.
D. Credit and Input Supply
Credit
5.14      Credit for the farmers' purchase of inputs under the Project
would be provided by BTM under its individual credit program (para. 1.11)
This involves short-term credit for land preparation and other field
operations and for purchase of small implements, fertilizers, insecticides
and herbicides, and medium-term credit for the purchase of draught animals,
tractors, ploughs and other major implements. The BTM has two branch
offices in the Lac Alaotra region, one in Ambatondrazaka and one, recently
opened, in Amparafaravola. The extension service would be actively
involved in identifying credit needs and helping to prepare and process
applications. Credit would be in kind through a voucher redeemable at a
local input supply center. Credit would be available at standard BTM rates
for agricultural lending, curently around 15%, and repayment of medium term
loans for equipment purchases would be over a three to five year period.
Draft agreements between MPARA, BTM and SOMALAC providing for the conduct
of lending operations on the basis outlined above and setting credit
targets were discussed at negotiations. Signature of agreements acceptable
to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness.
Seed Production
5.15      Seed production under the Project would be handled by the FOFIFA
complex (para. 3.18) up to M2, and by SOMALAC (with bilateral assistance),
and SDR (through small seed producers) at M3 level. The rice geneticist
provided under the Project to FOFIFA (para. 4.07) would reorganize the rice
seed collections and take charge of all FOFIFA's seed production
activities. As this job is critical, the terms of reference and curriculum
vitae of the rice geneticist would be subject to IDA's prior approval.
FOFIFA's organization and management are currently under review (para.
1.10) but are not expected to be a constraint to Project implementation.
Regarding the CVA multiplication scheme, in order to ensure adequate
incentives to producers, the price paid by CVA to seed producers would be
reviewed annually and would be at least 25% above the prevailing official



- 40 -
price of paddy. The retail price of paddy seed would be uniform throughout
the region, by agreement between SOMALAC and CVA, and would be
unsubsidized.  Assurances on these points were obtained at negotiations.
Input Supply
5.16      The Supplies Unit in SOMALAC General Manager's office (Chart 3)
would handle all aspects of procurement. Input requirements would be
submitted for IDA's review as part of the annual work program exercise
(para. 5.17). The Unit would coordinate requirements for inputs for both
SOMALAC and the CVA schemes; would handle bulk orders and arrange import,
port clearance and transport to the Project area of all imported
agricultural equipment, materials and inputs for both SOMALAC and CVA.
SOMALAC would also be responsible for the purchase and transport to the
Project area of locally available goods. These are expected to include
locally manufactured implements and equipment either from parastatal
manufacturers or from artisan's cooperatives. If local supplies prove to
be competitive, consideration would be given to signing supply contracts
providing for fabrication to be done locally using raw materials to be
imported by SOMALAC. Adequate storage is available both on SOMALAC and CVA
schemes, but a main store would be constructed in Ambatondrazaka to hold
stocks for dispatching to area stores. Four trucks for local transport
would be provided under the Project. The supply of inputs to farm level
would be handled by SOMALAC and CVA in their respective areas. SDR would
pay to SOMALAC the full cost of goods delivered to SDR stores, less any
subsidy which would be reimbursed to SOMALAC direct by the Government.
Inputs would be sold to farmers either for cash or against vouchers issued
to farmers under the BTM credit scheme (para. 5.14). Prices would be fixed
annually prior to the beginning of the cropping season in order to ensure
stability, and, except in the case of subsidized goods, would be adequate
to cover at least the full cost including internal transport, storage costs
and losses, operating costs, a proportion of administrative overhead and a
return of 15% on capital employed in input distribution. Prices would be
fixed by agreement between SOMALAC and MPARA at the same level for both
SOMALAC and CVA areas. All payments received by SOMALAC either direct from
farmers, from BTM under the credit scheme or from CVA in payment for inputs
would be placed in a revolving fund to finance purchase of the next year's
inputs. Government would make available foreign exchange equivalent to the
balance on the revolving fund each year, as IDA finance would cover only
incremental quantities of inputs. Government would also pay to SOMALAC any
subsidy which it requires SOMALAC to apply on inputs which it sells. This
subsidy is currently minimal, applying only to fertilizers and some
implements, and Government has indicated that it will be phased out by the
end of 1984. Assurances on all these procedures were obtained at
negotiations.
E,. Annual Work Programs and Reports
5.17      Annual work programs would be prepared by SOMALAC, FOFIFA and



- 41 -
MPARA (including CVA). The main objectives of these programs would be:
(i) to facilitate a full annual review of Project progress by both
Government and IDA; (ii) to make adjustments possible as experience is
gained; and (iii) to serve as a planning, implementation and monitoring
tool. SOMALAC programs would be submitted to SOMALAC's Board and to MPARA
for discussion and review. FOFIFA programs would be submitted to MPARA for
review. Assurances were received at negotiations that the annual work
programs would be submitted to IDA for its review and comments no later
than June 15 of the year preceding the year of the program, and for its
approval promptly after finalization but in any case no later than December
15 preceding the year covered by the programs. IDA's approval of the
annual work programs by each implementing agency would be a condition of
disbursement for the activities undertaken by each implementing agency
during that year.
5.18      The annual work program would include a statement, by project
component, of the specific objectives to be accomplished during the coming
year, a description of the resources (human, financial and physical)
available or to be acquired to achieve those objectives, a description of
how the objectives would be achieved and an annual budget presenting all
these elements in financial terms. Programs would include a discussion of
achievements over recent periods and draw links between past performance
and proposals for the future. In addition the program should include the
following specific items, where relevant:
(i) the proposed capital expenditures (e.g. on civil works, vehicle
and equipment) for all Project components;
(ii) the proposed expenditures on salaries, materials, fuel, repairs
and maintenance;
(iii) proposals for purchase of inputs;
(iv) a list of the personnel whose salaries would be financed under
the Project, including technical assistance;
(v) detailed financial projections for the year under consideration,
including an estimate of the financing requirements and foreign
exchange allocation required, which will be equal to the balance
on the revolving fund from the previous year;
(vi) proposed terms of reference for new staff or any changes in
agreed terms of reference;
(vii) a detailed and costed training program;
(viii) a list of expenditures eligible for reimbursement by IDA and
proposed allocation of funds by categories;
(ix) procurement proposals; and



- 42 -
(x)  a list of proposed short-term consultancies including
justification and proposed method of procurement.
SOMALAC's program would be prepared on a departmental basis, to show
clearly the objectives, budget and financial plan for each department and
would include a statement of the financing requirements for the Production
and Maintenance Departments (para. 7.05 f) and tables showing the quarterly
transfers to be made by Government to these departments.  It would, in
addition, contain a presentation on proposed rehabilitation of traditional
irrigation schemes (para. 4.05), a draft program for the gauging network
component (para. 4.15), and the proposed program for the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (para. 4.17). The MPARA program would include proposals
for pilot projects (para. 4.16) and for studies under the Project.
5.19      Reports.  Every quarter and at the end of each year of the
Project, SOMALAC, FOFIFA and MPARA would prepare reports summarizing
progress against work program targets and explaining variations and
proposed changes to the program. These reports would include a comparison
of actual costs against budget. The reports of SOMALAC would also contain
the reports prepared by the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
Assurances on these procedures were received at negotiations.
F. Mid-Term Review
5.20      This is a difficult and risky Project (para. 9.03).  A fairly
lengthy implementation period (five years) is essential to allow the
rehabilitation of SOMALAC to be completed. However at the end of two years
a full review ("Mid-Term Review") of all aspects of the Project will be
carried out by Government and IDA to assess progress against appraisal
targets. This review will cover all aspects of progress in both the
Project and the sub-sectoral context and will result in recommendations on
redefined conditions for satisfactory further implementation; for revisions
to Project scope or concept; or for accelerated completion or termination
of some or all of Project activities. Assurances were received at
negotiations that Government would participate in the review and would
implement its conclusions.
VI. TECHNICAL ASPECTS
Constraints to Production
6.01      The main constraints to increasing rice production are currently:
(i) irregularity of irrigation water supply; (ii) inappropriate cultural
techniques; and (iii) lack of inputs. The impact of these constraints on
production is considerable; irregular water leads to delays in planting
date and drops in yield of one ton/ha for every month of postponement
(para. 3.11); inappropriate cultural techniques stem partly from the water



- 43 -
and input constraints but also from a diffuse and poorly focussed extension
effort (paras. 3.09 and 3.10); and lack of inputs in recent years has led
to reversion to less extensive production systems, and to drops in yield of
one ton/ha from lack of pure seed alone (para. 3.11). Production increases
under the Project would come from the removal of these constraints as
described below (paras. 6.02 to 6.11). At the same time the present
research program would be continued in an effort to identify appropriate
higher yielding varieties (para. 3.17) and to develop viable possibilities
for double cropping (para. 3.12), although no assumption has been made
about either of these developments in calculating Project benefits.
6.02      Irrigation Water Supply.  Water deficits occur mainly in November
and December and the supply situation is generally adequate on most
perimeters from January on (para. 3.14). The reinforcement of discipline
and good water management (para. 5.10) combined with rehabilitation works
under the Project should ensure optimum availability of water. Pumping
facilities will alleviate some seasonal and localized shortages. With
these measures the supply of irrigation water throughout the season is
expected to be generally adequate.
6.03      Cultural Techniques.  Production patterns and practices vary
between and within networks on the modern schemes, according to the
effective family plot size, tenure, soil type and the remoteness of the
area but the differences are most marked between networks, with average
yields (1962-81) on PC 23 around 1.9 tons/ha, on PC 15 around 3.3 tons/ha.
Traditional systems have a lower production potential than modern schemes
due to lower water availability but, because the family holding is smaller,
tend to have a higher level of husbandry and involve relatively more
labor-intensive systems. Yields average less than 2 tons/ha. Such
variations call for suppleness in the design of extension programs. A
preliminary agro-economic survey financed under the PPF for the Project is
underway to define the appropriate mix of themes for the first annual work
program. Themes will be reviewed every year in the context of the annual
work program exercise using data from the monitoring and evaluation
effort. The main emphasis is likely to be on: adequate and early land
preparation (mainly with animal power), and early planting; row planting
either by direct seeding or by transplanting; insect pest and weed control;
improvement of nurseries for transplanted seedlings; and use of improved
inputs.
6.04      Land Preparation and Planting Date.  Timely planting is critical
to yields (para. 3.11). The provision of farm equipment and medium-term
credit under the Project will support this theme and also help to reduce
the inequity of some sharecropping arrangements where land preparation
services are "sold" in return for a large share of the subsequent crop.
6.05      Row Planting and Manual Weed Control.  Specialists agree that
there is a yield difference of at least 0.8 tons/ha between paddy planted
broadcast and paddy transplanted at random under average conditions in Lac
Alaotra. Paddy transplanted in rows outyields broadcast planting even
more, by about 1.5 tons/ha, due to higher plant density and ease of weed



- 44 -
control. However, as transplanting in rows requires more labor and is
therefore more costly, it is expected that it would be adopted only on a
restricted scale under the Project. Transplanting at random is expected to
remain at the same level. However, mechanical direct seeding in rows that
would allow weed control by hand-pushed rotary hoes could easily replace
broadcast seeding and give higher yields; it is expected that it would be
readily adopted by farmers if seed drills and hoes were made available.
Mechanical seed drills and rotary hoes would be provided under the project
(para. 6.08).
6.06      Improved Nursery.  An improved nursery produces healthy and
vigorous seedlings that can be transplanted at about four to five weeks;
earlier planting can thus be carried out and the growth cycle reduced and
concentrated over the period of maximum water availability. Fertilizer
treatment, particularly a complex fertilizer high in phosphate, yields
vigorous plants while the application of a residual insecticide such as
carbofuran in two doses would protect the seedlings in the nursery from
rice bug attacks, and would yield continued protection after
transplanting. The technique is readily accepted by farmers but has been
limited by poor input supply. This would be corrected under the Project
(para. 6.07).
Provision of Inputs
6.07      Selected Seeds.  Seed production and multiplication is critical
for the Project (para. 3.11). Present annual production of M3 by SOMALAC
(190 tons) and CVA (70 tons) is well below demand, estimated at about 1,000
tons (replacement every four years).  In addition recent SOMALAC production
has been of poor quality, and CVA's production has suffered from variations
in stock seed (M2) quality. The FOFIFA Center holds the national rice
germplasm collection; it would produce foundation paddy seed (Mo and Ml) of
guaranteed purity for multiplication to produce stock seed (M2) for sale to
client seed producers from all over the country. The CVA small seed
producers scheme and the SOMALAC Seed Multiplication Center would have
priority access to M2 from the FOFIFA Center and would be responsible, with
Project and bilateral support (paras. 3.18 and 4.06), for producing
adequate M3 for traditional (CVA) and modern (SOMALAC) schemes.
6.08      Implements and Tools.  Light ploughs for animal traction
manufactured locally by SIDEMA (an engineering parastatal) are available in
the Project area at a subsidized price, but the more popular heavier
ploughs (French-made Bajac) are no longer imported and are not manufactured
locally. Even though these ploughs have not been subsidized in the past,
it appears that farmers are still willing to purchase them; under the
Project, Bajac or similar type ploughs would be imported to fulfill
farmers' immediate needs and the possibility of manufacturing these ploughs
and their replacement parts locally would be explored if there is a
significant demand. Rotary hoes, specially adapted for weeding between
rice rows, are manufactured locally but have never been distributed in the
Lac Alaotra area. These would be provided under the Project. Mechanical
threshers would be made available on a trial basis to see if demand exists.



- 45 -
6.09      Fertilizers, Herbicides, Insecticides.  Makalioka 34, which is at
present the best-yielding variety identified, is not very responsive to
nitrogen. Fertilizer (about 4,000 tons) would therefore be limited to
nurseries and to other varieties grown in the region that are responsive to
fertilizers. All fertilizers would be provided in the granular form
preferred by farmers. The identification of nitrogen responsive varieties
that can outyield Makalioka 34 is likely in the future, at which time the
input package would be reviewed. Widespread adoption of new varieties is,
however, unlikely during the Project implementation period.  In addition to
the application of carbofuran (235 tons) or equivalent in nurseries,
insecticide treatment is necessary in the fields to control outbreaks of
rice bugs which can reduce yields by as much as 500 kg/ha. Farmers readily
carry out insecticide treatment. While it is difficult to predict the
extent of future outbreaks, organo-phosphate insecticides (250 tons) and
liquid sprayers would be provided under the Project at unsubsidized
prices. Although not subsidized, herbicides are also in demand among
farmers. The common mixture recommended for the Project area contains
propanil for the control of gramineae species and 2-4-D for the control of
broad-leaf weeds. Butachlor herbicides could be used in granular form at
pre-emergence or at post-emergence in combination with propanil in
transplanted rice; 400 tons of herbicide would be provided under the
Project.
Farm Models
6.10      Although actual areas cropped by each family on modern schemes in
the Project area are variable (para. 3.06), the typical plot is around 4
ha. On traditional schemes, individual plots vary in size between less
than I ha to over 5 ha, with the most common farm size between 1 and 2 ha.
Average farm sizes of 4 ha and 1.30 ha are therefore used to demonstrate
typical SOMALAC and CVA farm models but models have also been prepared for
6 ha farms in SOMALAC areas (Tables 5 and 6). Non-rice activities, such as
hill-cropping, livestock raising and wage employment have not been
considered in the models as it is assumed that they will not be influenced
by the Project. These activities contribute about 20% of all income to
farm families. The models show the without-project situation. This
without-project situation is assumed to be the same as the before-project
situation although it is likely that lack of maintenance would lead to
further production decrease,  In both models, a family size of six has been
assumed. Adoption rates and production increases are presented in Table
4. The Project will generate more wage employment during the peak periods
of transplanting and weeding. All other extra labor requirements will be
satisfied by family labor.
6.11      Yields and Production.  Present average yields of 2.1 and 1.8
tons/ha of paddy on SOMALAC and CVA areas, respectively, are expected to
increase to 3.4 and 2.4 tons/ha at full development after eight years.
These projections are realistic considering the yields of over 3.5 tons/ha
obtained under present conditions by some farmers in the area. Net output
for rice activities per family will increase from FMG 289,000 and FMG
99,000 for SOMALAC and CVA farmers, respectively, to FMG 485,000 and FMG



- 46 -
159,000 over the same period. The incremental paddy production of the
Project will reach its maximum of 51,100 tons by year 8.
VII. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Background
7.01      The financial basis of SOMALAC's operations was laid in 1973 when
the company took over responsibilities for paddy marketing and processing
in the Lac Alaotra region.  The key to SOMALAC's financial self-sufficiency
was sought in the potential profitability of the marketing operation which
was intended to make a substantial contribution toward the cost of
non-profit making operations and to general overhead.  The direct costs of
irrigation operation and maintenance, and of the extension service were to
be covered by annual subsidies from MPARA.
7.02      For a number of years it appeared that this plan for
cross-subsidy of operations was sound and that SOMALAC could be financially
autonomous on the basis of the profitability of its marketing operations.
Up to and including 1977, SOMALAC recorded satisfactory profits and built
up reserves. Thereafter a number of factors combined to cause
deterioration in SOMALAC's financial situation.  The major cause of the
decline is probably to be traced to poor management, although specific
external factors played a r6le too.  SOMALAC's irrigation development work
came to an end with the completion of the PC 23 network (para. 3.20 ff) but
no serious attempt was made to reduce personnel. As a result costs were
not covered by the MPARA subsidy, which was related to the value of
maintenance works to be carried out. Government also reduced the extension
subsidy so that it no longer covered the cost of the work. The most
decisive factor however was the decline in profitability of the commercial
operation; net margins on sales dropped from 5% in the 1976-78 period to 3%
in 1980; and the contribution of the commercial operation dropped from FMG
167 million in 1977 to FMG 127 million in 1980. As a result SOMALAC as a
whole incurred losses from 1978 onwards. This slump in profitability arose
only in part from SOMALAC inefficiency - marketing was always the best
managed of SOMALAC's operations. The main reason is to be found in the
level at which Government pegged the effective price paid for the output of
rice marketing parastatals during a period when Government policy was to
maintain low consumer prices and to use output prices to try to promote
efficiency in the marketing parastatals.  The effect was to plunge all
these parastatals into financial crisis, SOMALAC among them. In the case
of SOMALAC, the role of the marketing operation profits in subsidizing the
non-revenue earning activities entailed that dwindling profits had a
serious effect on SOMALAC's ability to fund its services and led to a rapid
decline of its effectiveness in extension, irrigation management and
maintenance.
7.03      In 1981 SOMALAC's situation became critical, as production



- 47 -
slumped due to the poor state of the irrigation system; there was a drastic
drop in paddy collection, MPARA's subsidy was cut to a minimum, and the
general economic crisis led to a serious cash flow problem through shortage
of bank credit aind problems in collecting receivables. Losses for the
year, at FMG 169 million (US $0.5 million), were almost double those of
1980 and further eroded SOMALAC's shaky financial base. Forecasts made in
September 1982 put SOMALAC's losses for the current year at a staggering
FMG 724 million (US$ 1.9 million). In addition, the company was obliged in
1981 to make provision against receivables not considered recoverable by
the auditors to a level of FMG 1.8 billion (US$4.8 million). The
combination of trading losses and write-down of assets has wiped out
SOMALAC's net worth and bankrupted the company.
B. Financial Rehabilitation of SOMALAC
7.04      Consultants retained to prepare measures for SOMALAC's
rehabilitation (para. 5.05) defined a two part financial rescue plan for
the company which has been discussed extensively with the Government. The
plan, which has been agreed by the Government, provides for measures which,
taken together with other measures to reinforce SOMALAC, will restore
SOMALAC's financial viability. The first part of the plan provides in
three stages for the cleaning up of SOMALAC's balance sheet and injection
of fresh capital: (i) book entries consolidating as equity amounts due to
Government; (ii) book entries to write the value of land improvements and
lease purchase dues out of the balance sheet 3/, and injection by
Government of funds to bring net worth up to zero (about FMG 760 million,
or US$2.0 million); and (iii) injection by Government of fresh capital (FMG
700 million, US$1.9 million). Government has formally agreed this plan and
made the necessary transfers in late 1982. The detailed entries and
transfers involved are shown in Table 9. As the transfers were made on the
basis of budget rather than actual results for 1982, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that Government would make a further transfer to
SOMALAC if the 1982 audited accounts showed that the year end working
capital had dropped below FMG 600 million (US $1.6 million), the minimum
level recommended by consultants.
7.05      The second part of consultants' proposals concerns the
restoration of financial equilibrium to SOMALAC's operations. A
combination of cost recovery, subsidy and profits would assure a flow of
funds adequate to continue the operations of SOMALAC without recourse to
sources of finance external to the company. The Production Department's
3/   Recovery of the value of these improvements from farmers has proved
difficult for SOMALAC due to lack of effective means of enforcing
payment. Under the proposal, title to the land and improvements would
be transferred to farmers together with a mortgage in respect of the
improvements in favor of BTM, which would then effect recovery (para.
5.12).



- 48 -
costs will be recovered in part through the margin on sales from the input
supply service (para. 5.16). Each year SOMALAC will negotiate with MPARA a
subsidy to cover the unrecovered portion of the department's cost,
including depreciation.  In addition the Department will need to generate a
positive cash flow to provide for increases in working capital requirements
as operations expand and to maintain the real value of existing working
capital under inflationary conditions.  Therefore a charge equivalent to 5%
on net assets employed would be added to cost for the purpose of
calculating subsidy requirements. The subsidy would pay for extension
services which SOMALAC is obliged to provide without charge to farmers, in
accordance with Government policy on extension. The Maintenance
Department's costs will not be recovered direct by SOMALAC as the
Irrigation Law (paras. 1.14 and 7.09) provides for the recovery of water
charges by the Government tax collection service. Under Malagasy tax law
the proceeds of these charges may not be applied to a specific
expenditure.  Government, through MPARA, will therefore cover the costs of
the Maintenance Department under annual contracts. The calculation of cost
will be made in the same way as for the Production Department, and a charge
of 5% on net assets employed will be added in the same way.  In both cases
the payments due will be agreed on the basis of the Annual Work Program
(para 5.17); payment will be made in quarterly tranches in advance; and
total payments will be adjusted retrospectively in line with audited actual
costs. Government will retain on SOMALAC's account an amount equal to the
depreciation change each year and release these funds to finance
replacement of SOMALAC's assets according to the investment budget agreed
in each annual work program (para. 5.17 f). The costs of the Marketing
Department will be covered by sales revenues, which should in addition
provide adequate profits to maintain the value of permanent and working
capital. The costs of the central direction will be reallocated as
appropriate to the operating departments and form a part of their costs for
the purpose of calculating total cost.
7.06      The virtue of the separate budget and financial plan for each
department is that each unit is responsible for its own financial
management. This avoids the problems of cross subsidy which plagued
SOMALLAC in the past, and allows objective performance indicators to be set
and monitored for each activity. However, although the plan provides a
mechanism to preserve SOMALAC's financial viability, the mechanism will be
dependent on two annually variable factors; on the profits derived from the
marketing operation and on the payments negotiated with MPARA. At present
the margin between paddy and rice prices is adequate at the current volume
traded to allow adequate reserves for the Marketing Department to be
accumulated. However the future profitability of marketing will be
dependent on the maintenance of satisfactory prices and volumes.
Government policy is to maintain prices that will give marketing
parastatals net margins on sales adequate, for those companies operating
efficiently at a reasonable rate of activity, to maintain the value of
capital and expand operations in line with production increases. This
approach provides incentives to firms to achieve high levels of activity
and is appropriate to revenue earning operations. The Annual Work Program
review (parae 5.19) will provide an opportunity to review development of



- 49 -
both prices and volumes and of the transfers agreed for the two
non-profitmaking departments on a regular basis. In addition and in order
to ensure that these factors continue to contribute satisfactorily to
SOMALAC's performance throughout the Project period and thereafter,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that marketing arrangements in the
Lac Alaotra area would be discussed each year as part of the exchange of
views between Government and IDA on the rice sub-sector (para. 2.11); that
paddy and rice prices would be maintained at a level sufficient to allow a
net margin on sales of the Marketing Department, operating efficiently, of
at least 5%; that water charges would be maintained at a level equal to the
costs of the Maintenance Department  (para. 7.09); that payment of the
agreed amounts, calculated in the manner described in para 7.05, for the
Production and Maintenance Departments, would be in quarterly tranches in
advance; that payment of the adjusted balances due in line with the audited
statements would be made no later than six months after the end of the
financial year; and that no distribution of profits would be made until
reserves equalled subscribed share capital.
C. Government and SOMALAC Cash Flow
7.07      Government contributions to the capital and operating costs of
the Project are shown in Table 10. Receipts include water charges
recovered from farmers and the net revenues accruing to SOMALAC (para.
7.05), but exclude the recovery of capital charges effected by BTM which
nominally do not relate to Project investments.  On this basis the annual
cash flow of the Government and SOMALAC in respect of the Project would
become positive after three years, at which point Government investment
would peak at FMG 5,0 billion (US $13.3 million). The pay back period of
the Project would be about 15 years.
D. Cost Recovery
7.08      Under the successive phases of development of the Lac Alaotra
modern irrigation schemes, Government applied a consistent principle for
cost recovery, under which farmers paid a single charge designed to cover
the lease purchase of the improved land and a contribution towards
operating costs. Payment schedules are currently being revised to reflect
a new system under which lands will be mortgaged with BTM and interest and
amortization charges paid by farmers direct to BTM (para. 5.12).
7.09      The recently enacted Irrigation Law (para. 1.14) contains
provisions for recovery of costs by Government for system operation and
maintenance. On the basis of the recovery of the full projected costs of
irrigation operation and maintenance, these annual water charges would
amount to about FMAG 10,500/ha (US $28/ha) in 1982 terms, equivalent to 175
kg of paddy/ha. Fees would be collected in each area from the time that
adequate water, extension and input supply services become available.



- 50 -
These changes will be levied throughout the Project area on a full cost
recovery basis by Project completion date; assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations. Costs of extension service would not be
recovered from farmers as it is Government policy to provide these services
free of charge. No additional capital costs for irrigation rehabilitation
would be recovered from farmers on modern schemes as the purpose of the
works is to restore the schemes to their original state.  Farmers will
already be paying for those original works under the mortgage agreement
with BTM (para. 7.08).
7.10      A cost recovery index was calculated (Table 14) as the ratio of
present worth of incremental project charges paid by farmers to present
worth of incremental project investment in irrigation rehabilitation and
maintenance plant and equipment, and of operating and maintenance costs,
All charges and costs were measured at present values discounted at a 12%
annual rate of interest over the 25-year evaluation period. Charges taken
into account include water charges and the incremental marketing surplus
accruing to SOMALAC's marketing arm from project production, which is
equivalent to a benefit tax. In addition a portion of the capital
repayments made by farmers has been assumed to be induced by, and therefore
attributable to, the rehabilitation works. On these assumptions the cost
recovery index for the Project as a whole is 69%. It should also be noted
that many beneficiaries fall within the lowest income categories of the
population. The rent recovery index is the ratio of present worth of
incremental project charges paid by farmers to the present worth of
incremental "project rent" accruing to farmers before paying project
charges.   Project rent" was defined as incremental farm income less value
of family labor, returns to management, allowances for uncertainty,
depreciation of farm assets and returns to investment, Under these
assumptions the rent recoverv indices were calculated for two farm models.
For the SDR scheme farmers, whose holdings average only 1.3 ha, and whose
income at full development is only marginally above the critical
consumption level, the rent recovery index is 31%.  For the SOMALAC scheme
farms, whose income is well above the critical consumption level, some 69%
of the rent would be recovered. For the highest earning farmers the index
would be substantially higher.
VIII. MARKETING
8.01      The supply and demand picture for rice in Madagascar is described
in detail in Annex I,  Into the long term the country is likely to remain a
net importer of rice, and production under the Project will therefore go
for domestic consumption. Lac Alaotra is the major surplus area of
Madagascar.  The predominant destination for this surplus is the capital,
to which Lac Alaotra is connected by railway.
8.02      Under the national marketing system (para. 2.03), SOMALAC is
responsible through its Marketing Department for paddy collection and
storage for the whole Lac Alaotra region; it shares with SINFA (the major



- 51 -
rice marketing parastatal) responsibility for milling and local rice
distribution. In recent years SOMALAC has milled around 35,000 tons of
paddy annually either in its own three rice mills or under contract. For
collection SOMALAC uses a network of 200 fokontany buying posts; transport
is largely arranged under contract with private hauliers.
8.03      Although some reorganization of marketing nationwide is likely in
the future (para. 2.07), SOMALAC will continue to play a key role in
marketing in the Lac Alaotra region; institutional and financial
arrangements for marketing form an integral part of Project design (paras.
5.05 and 7.05). Present milling capacity in the Lac Alaotra area is around
180,000 tons, sufficient to handle maximum increases in production under
the Project, which are likely to bring marketed paddy production to around
165,000 tons by 1992. Storage capacity at fokontany stores and in SOMALAC
warehouses is adequate for increased production.
8.04      Two possible constraints to SOMALAC's rice marketing operation
exist. First, seasonal credit to finance the marketing campaign has
hitherto been provided by BTM; however SOMALAC's financial problems (para.
7.02) led BTM to suspend further credit during 1981 and SOMALAC had
recourse to a combination of Treasury advances and informal measures to
finance the campaign. Assurances were therefore obtained at negotiations
that adequate and timely funding would be made available for SOMALAC's
marketing activities. Second, rice distribution in Madagascar has suffered
from transport constraints, due to low official tariffs for private
hauliers and to the lack of adequate engines and rolling stock for the
railway. Assurances were therefore obtained at negotiations that a plan
providing appropriate measures to ensure the efficient transportation from
the Project area of incremental production under the Project would be
prepared and submitted to IDA for its review and comments by June 30, 1984.
IX. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
9.01      Benefits resulting directly from Project investments would
consist of increased production of rice. The value of annual incremental
production of 51,100 tons of paddy is estimated at FMG 4.7 billion at 1982
prices, equal to about US $15.8 million, at full development (year 11).
These benefits would accrue to about 35,000 farm families in the Project
area. Some additional benefits would result from Project investments which
have not been quantified. Seed production would benefit the rice
sub-sector throughout Madagascar. The investment in gauging stations and
in pilot schemes would eventually result in higher productivity and new
productive potential.  Investments in training courses and study tours
would improve dissemination of new cultivation techniques. Moreover,
long-term benefits would result from funds spent for technical assistance
for general project preparation.
9.02      The economic rate of return from directly productive elements of
the Project is estimated at about 24% over 25 years. The rate of return to



- 52 -
the SOMALAC components is estimated at 21%, reflecting the major share of
physical investments directed to these components. The rate of return
would be higher if major uncertainties about the possibility of double
cropping had been resolved, justifying assumptions about the likely future
spread of the practice. The rate of return to the SDR components at 49%
reflects the high potential for comparatively low cost intensification
techniques on the small plots in the area. All Project investment costs
were included in the analysis, with the exception of costs for gauging
stations, pilot activities, monitoring and evaluation and studies whose
benefits are not quantifiable in the context of the present Project. Costs
of farm labor were included in the analysis. The cost of unskilled labor
was valued at a premium of 50% above present actual cost as it is likely
that seasonal peaks in labor requirements under the Project will push the
average supply price of labor above present levels. Foreign exchange costs
and benefits were valued at US $1 = FMG 375, the rate employed for the
purpose of this report. This rate is roughly equal to the exchange rate
prevailing following the devaluation of early 1982. World market prices,
projected in mid 1982 and adjusted for quality and location differences,
were used as the economic price for rice. The world market price for paddy
at the farmgate was estimated to be about 25% above the current official
producer price while the economic consumer price in the capital was
estimated to be slightly below the existing official retail price. The
development of the economic price of rice over the Project lifetime was
calculated in accordance with the Bank's most recent commodity price
projections. However the international rice market is very thin and
substantial variations around the mean price may be anticipated. It was
assumed that Project benefits would result in foreign exchange savings
since rice would substitute for imports. The rate of return was tested for
sensitivity. If costs were increased by 20%, the rate of return would be
reduced by 7% to 20%; if benefits were lagged by one year, the rate of
return would be about 20%. If supply and demand for labor remain in
equilibrium, the rate of return would rise to 29%. Economic rate of return
calculations are shown in Tables 11 - 13.
Risk
9.03      This Project carries risks, largely due to the mediocre
performance of SOMALAC in the past (para. 5.02 ff) and to the indifferent
record of both the rice and the irrigation sub-sectors in recent years
(Chapters I and II passim). The success of Project implementation will
depend greatly on the success of the rehabilitation of SOMALAC. The
financial rehabilitation which has been initiated will require a continuing
Government commitment throughout the Project period and thereafter.
Inevitably for a company that provides services that do not cover all of
their costs through direct cost recovery there is a risk that the measures
designed to compensate for the deficits on these operations - here payments
negotiated with Government - will not be adequate to ensure the financial
viability of the operation. In addition the viability of the marketing
operation is dependent on prices fixed annually by Government, a factor
beyond SOMALAC's control. Covenants have been designed to protect SOMALAC
from this risk but in the final analysis what is required is Government



- 53 -
observation of these covenants.  Careful supervision and a thoroughgoing
assessment of performance at mid-term will be essential. SOMALAC's recent
performance as an institution highlights the risks to the Project should
the organizational rehabilitation fail. Here the keynotes are the revised
structure, the transfer of skills from the technical assistance team and
the important training component. Again progress will need careful
monitoring and Government will have to commit adequate human resources and
ensure that they are retained within the Project long enough to be
effective. Just as important are the risks at the sectoral level.
Government is undertaking a series of actions designed to address the
difficult situation of the rice sub-sector and their successful
implementation is necessary for the Project to have its full effect.
Offsetting these risks are the very evident commitment of the Government to
the Project and to improving productivity in the sub-sector, and the
encouraging progress made so far. One crucial factor here will be the
implementation of the management and cost recovery provision of the
Irrigation Law, which is a very high priority for Government but which will
require skillful management and unremitting political commitment. Here too
close supervisioni will be necessary and a continuous dialogue with
Government; the mid-term review will provide an occasion to review progress
in this and all other aspects of the Project, to redefine conditions for
satisfactory further implementation or to revise or abandon the Project in
Lhe event that Project or sectoral conditions are unlikely to allow
successful completion.
Target Population
9.04      About 35,000 families or 210,000 persons would benefit directly
from Project investments. The farm income of typical beneficiary families
on SOMALAC schemes would increase to about US $1,490 (US $250 per head),
from a without-project level of US $960 (US $160 per head). Farmers on the
traditional SDR schemes would benefit from a rise in their incomes per
family from US $330 (US $55 per head) to around US $495 (US $82 per head),
bringing them above the relative poverty level for the first time.
X. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01     Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the following:
(a)   Annual consultations on the rice sub-sector (paras. 2.11
and 7.06).
(b)   Contracts between ORSTOM and SOMALAC to be approved by IDA
(para. 4.15).
(c)   Detailed monitoring and evaluation proposals to be
submitted by December 31, 1983 (para. 4.18).
(d)   Employment of consultants (para. 4.19).



- 54 -
(e)   Onlending arrangements (para. 4.23).
(f)   Procurement, disbursement, accounting and audit
arrangements (paras. 4.24 to 4.28).
(g)   Government to prepare a Completion Report (para. 4.29).
(h)   Specific proposals on management and personnel to be
implemented, and senior management to be acceptable to
IDA. Legal status and organization not to change without
IDA being consulted (paras. 5.06 and 5.07).
(i)   Technical assistance personnel to be acceptable to IDA.
(para. 5.08).
(j)   Training program to be submitted by December 31, 1983
(para. 5.08).
(k)   Issue of land titles to be completed by June 30, 1985
(para. 5.12).
(1)   CVA management (para. 5.13).
(m)   Seed pricing arrangements, and rice geneticist to be
acceptable to IDA (para. 5.15).
(n)   Input supply arrangements (para. 5.16).
(o)   Annual work programs (para. 5.17),
(p)   Quarterly and annual reports from Project agencies (para.
5.19).
(q)   Mid-term review (para. 5.20).
(r)   Financial arrangements for SOMALAC (paras. 7.04 and 7.06),
(s)   That Government would ensure that seasonal funds were
available for SOMALAC's marketing operation (para. 8,04),
(t)   That Government would prepare by June 30, 1984, a plan for
handling distribution of incremental rice production from
the Project area (para. 8.04).
10.02     The following are conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a)   Signature of the subsidiary financing agreements between
Government and SOMALAC and Government and FOFIFA, and
effectiveness of co-financing agreements (para. 4,23).



- 55 -
(b)   Senior management appointments acceptable to IDA to have
been made and organigram acceptable to IDA to have been
adopted (para. 5.07).
(c)   Technical assistance team acceptable to IDA to be in place
(para. 5.08).
(d)   Land titles to be issued to farmers who had completed
payments by December 31, 1981, and declarations of title
for farmers who had completed payments by December 31, 1982
(para. 5.12).
(e)   Signature of agreements on credit operations in the Project
area (para. 5.14).
10.03     The following is a condition of disbursement:
(a)   Against components implemented by SOMALAC, FOFIFA and
MPARA, IDA's prior approval of the respective annual work
program (para. 5.17).
10.04     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of SDR 16.7 million (US $18.0 million).



- 56 -
Table 1
MADAGASCAR
LAC ALAOTRA RICE INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Project Component by Time
(FMG Million)
Total
Base Costs                                 (US$
1983      1984      1985      1986   1987       FMG    Million)
A.  Plant, vehicles
and equipment
(SOMALAC)            1,291.3    959.2       21.0      21.0    9.0   2,301.5        6.1
B.  Buildings
(SOMALAC)              192.0      27.2         -         -       -      219.2      0.6
C.  Technical
Assistance
(SOMALAC)              348.0    348.0    348.0    198.0  133.0   1,375.0           3.7
D.  Assistance to
CVA                     76.5      30.3      14.5      14.5   14.5       150.2      0.4
E.  Seed
production             313.4      76.0      37.5      37.5   37.5       501.9      1.3
F.  Agricultural
equipment              127.3    141.5    155.6    153.1  148.9          726.4      1.9
G.  Agricultural
inputs                 220.2      29.8    111.3       63.5   70.2       495.0      1.3
H.  Irrigation
rehab.               1,219.1    850.9    947.9    886.2          -   3,904.0    10.4
I.  Water gauging
network                 54.1      43.2      25.1      15.7   15.7       153.8      0.4
J.  Training
program                 80.1      51.8      48.2      38.8   29.4       248.3      0.7
K.  Pilot
activities                 -      37.5      50.0      50.0   50.0       187.5      0.5
L.  Monitoring and
evaluation              13.8      20.0      20.0      20.0   20.0        93.8      0.3
M.  Studies                     -      93.8      93.8      93.8   93.8      375.0       1.0
Total baseline
costs                 3,935.7  2,709.0  1,872.8  1,592.0  622.0  10,731.5    28.6
Physical
contingencies           347.5    251.7    231.5    216.0   23.8   1,070.5           2.9
Price
contingencies           276.5    547.5    612.9    705.1  311.9   2,454.1           6.5
Total Project
costs                 4,559.7  3,508.3  2,717.2  2,513.1  957.8  14,256.1    38.0



5 7 -                           Table 2
MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensificati.on Project
Project Cost Summary (by Procurement Category and Financing Source)
(US$ millions)
Financing Basis
Foreign   Percentage of
IDA    CCCE   FAC  Government  Total  exchange  Foreign   Local
SOMALAC
Plant and vehic]es
- for SOfALAC                   4.86   1.12             1.22      7.20    5.98        100        80 (CCC£ 100)
- for water gauging             0.06                    0.01      0.07    0.06        100        80
Construction and building
rehabilitation                  0.45                   0.25       0.70    0.34        100        60
Irrigation rehabilitation
- headworks                     1.08                    0.58       1.66    1.08       100        60
- PC 15 and Andranabe                  4.64                -      4.64    3.13        100       100
- other schemes                 4.77                    1.85      6.62    4.47        100        60
- pumping facilities            1.28   0.94             0.26       2.48    2.22       100        60
Equipment for farmers              0.29   0.99             0.13       1.41    0.98        100       60 (CCCE 100)
Technical assistance
- for SOMALAC                                 4.47                4.47    3.98        100       100
- for water gauging             0.45                              0.45    0.17        100       100
Agricultural inputs                0.51   0.32             0.13       0.96    0.80       100        60 (CCCE 100)
Training                           0.30                    0.08       0.38    0.16       100        80
Monitoring and evaluation          0.26                    0.06       0.32    0.23        100       80
Studies                            0.59                    0.06       0.65    0.58       100        80
Total SOMALAC                     14.90   8.01  4.47       4.63      32.01   24.18
MPARA/CVA
Vehicles and equipment             0.09                    0.02       0.11    0.08       100        80
Construction and building
rehabilitation                  0.10                   0.07       0.17    0.08        100        60
Equipment for farmers              0.26   0.99             0.10       1.35    0.98       100        60 (CCCE 100)
Agricultural inputs                0.33   0.31             0.09       0.73    0.60       100        60 (CCCE 100)
Incremental operating costs           -       -            0.24       0.24    0.17         -         -
Total MPARA/CVA                    0.78   1.30             0.52       2.60    1.91
MPARA/Other Services
Vehicles and equipment
(training program)              0.05                   0.01       0.06    0.04        100       80
Building conversion
(training program)              0.03                       -      0.03    0.02        100       60
Pilot activities                      -   0.69                        0.69    0.39       100       100
Studies                            0.59                    0.06       0.65    0.58       100        80
Total MPAPA/Other Services         0.67   0.69             0.07       1.43    1.03
FOFIFA
Vehicles and equipment             0.49                    0.12       0.61    0.47       100        80
Construction and building
rehabilitation                  0.15                   0.09       0.24    0.12        100       60
Irrigation rehabilitation          0.07                    0.05       0.12    0.07       100        60
Technical assistance               0.63                       -       0.63    0.56       100       100
Training                           0.31                    0.05       0.36    0.28       100        80
Total FOFIFA                       1.65                    0.31       1.96    1.50
Total Project                     18.00  10.00  4.47       5.53      38.00   28.62



5 5)
tADAASQ CAR
Ieac Alaurru Rice  lntenalflrere              Projet G, ;nter1          ci     tlzicose
Project                                    al.c Ak-m' Lr -.
Estimated Schedule                              aIe-dEe -""fi rri   des
Disbersemeriets  ,,.8.    --"'s  ;/
C-u"-_El-l,T e"  QiSbu-rseme--
IDA fiscuK. ye2r verc c"-ter'ADecatsc:
anci Q.iarter                         aItfs                                LA
'CO
1982/83
Malrch 31, 1'983 2/              5r0              500           tl  ar s  983 3
June 30, 1383 1
1983/34
Septemdber 30, 1983            11                              3G            e 1933
December 31, 1383              2 200            2,303       . .      c   ceibre 1983
March .1, 1984                 3 OOe            2.800                      3
iune 30.1 9                    34 4  C .3       3 3                        9
1984/85
Serter'ver ' 1 9 e  -. 30, 3984  3'; se                           t '-  e 4S&9
December 31,  1984                '0  7f'                      ,5!
M4arch 3i, 1'85                ,  o r-OC,                       '      s
June 30, 1985                    .0 3             rto          J'°       n i')S
1985/86
September  30, 1985           /76`0             91300          '.     t ;--  1985
December 31,  19S85            Q /00            10 6 0         _ ' ,r n        IS
MKarch 31, r  98 6            lC,200            9  0           lt.--s
June 3G, 1536                 11,3  )             400          3- -    "K
1996,8/ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ i ;.SN/t __
Septeiabe-    30,  1Q36       I 2C'                                          c 2 P O  l98Q
De-cernher 3!, 19£'-              0 i G'n ie---    '425
Flarch 3,i                   1':, C 31 9   a, - I2y,
June    93    v 7              t, QOi,         i
:987/1.
S e p t±91,',                              '4 /
Decearer  7!, '3 U             -'u                   4         ,               1 
Ma.r"h 31   I£ -fi, Q'i                       1595Qs3 :''S,3
June 30; 138                 '-7. 3                                ;-
3"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
Dec i                                           '., r 3 i  -     7 '
I/  Dii-b;:rs2ier.ets- '".s'r w,   es. ;l.-         h    ;si.rfo     :,.e.-vTA}
pec-uoJ. vf five
SrF  .s d2a.,viens3- .:  est s.  s>    .  .se-'-      ,o!
2J  Exp2cted Dja':e of Efe{>-ret-Jn=-                        J,  a,    -'. -      c
ee.tree er. -vigueur -- e'  a-eii  3



MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project          Projet d'Intensification Rizicole du Lac Alaotra
Adoption Rates of Improved Cultural                   Taux de P6ndtration des Techniques
Techniques and Rice Production                  Culturales Aadllor6es at Augmentations
Increases (SOMALAC Irrigation Schemes)            de Production de Paddy (P6rimftres SOMALAC3
Percentage of Total Irrlgated Area (25,000 ha)
Pourcentage de Superficie Total Irrigude (25,0OO ha)
Year     0        1        2        3       4        5       6        7        8        9   Annee
Water management                   - a/    -        + b/   ++ b/  +++ b/  +++        +++     +++      +++      +4+        Gestion de l'eau
Broadcast planting               43       43       42       40      38       36       34      32       31       30        Semis direct
Transplanting at random          57       57       56       55      54       53       52      51       50       50        Repiquage en foule
Transplanting in rows              0       0        2        5       8       11       14      17       19       20        Repiquage en ligne
Selected seeds                   21       21       30      40       45       50      55       60       60       60        Semences se'lectionne'es
Improved nursery                 10 c/   20        30      40       50       60      63       64       65       65        Pepiniere amelioree
(X of total nursery area)                                                                                                 (X de superficie totale pepiniere)
Fertilizer application            2        3        3        4       5        6        7       8        8                 Apport d'engrais
Weed control                      10 c/   15       20       25      30       35       38      39       40       40        De'sherbage
Average  yield                    2.1      2.1      2.3      2.6     2.9      3.2      3.3     3.3      3.4      3.4      Rendement moyen                        v
(tons paddy/ha)                                                                                                           (tonnes paddy/ha)                     a
Increased production              -        -        5,000  12,500  20,000  27,500  30,000  30,000  32,500  32,500   Augmentation de la production
(tons paddy)                                                                                                              (tonnes paddy)
a/ No water management.                                                        a/ Pas de gestion de l'eau.
b/ Improving standards of water management.                                    b/ Amelioration progressive di la gestion de l'eau.
c/ Areas effectively treated.                                                  c/ Superficies effectivement traitees.
June 1, 1982                                                                    La ler juin 1982



iADAGASCAR
1o Alantra Rice Intenaifict tion   P ojuc-           ?rojet d'1 tanegretion  Risicole du Lae  Alaonr-n
Maopt ten Races of l"proved Cultural                      T'antk d  Pdna611 retar lon den Techa1qoLag
Techniques and Rice Production                      Culturalea  &sttor Eo   et Augosea
Increases {C A latse)                             de Pts:wSlz.tfu;  de @froddL(Zc0 _
Percenrtag  of Total Irrij5ted Area (31,000 ha)
PSourcenta  ,d8~ iciae Totol Ir is
Year       i:l       1        2        3         4        5                  7        8         9   mona
Water Nrniece                 4               -             4    4  4     4+    4A 4       +-1      44-        R<,     44-t   cestiov de VPAeAu
Farly    n larpd peprar;tion        66       67        68       69       70        71       72       73        74       74   Labour ;.rncnco
lroa.dca  7t: ansting               60       58        54      5K        4x6       42       37Z      32        3iO      30   Seesi d:trect
TransplantiLng, ot rand&tm          40       40        39       38        37       36       35       3c5                35   Rapk quss  o  boule
3Tyanepl.ntla.1Lng in Wts            t         2        7       I.'       17       22       28        33       3i5        5   Len.ag  en I ipnea
Salactod .3 azee                     ,6       6        15       25       40        50       55       55        55       55   SemencF£ a:lctionnCee.                  KI
improved nursery                    10 Cs   20        30        40       50       60        70       75        75       75   PepinflA4:e anelioreeI
(% of rotal nursery area)                                                                                                     (% da snzperficie totale pepiualera)
Fertilizer application               1        2         3        5         6        7        0         9       iO       10   Apport d'angxais
deed control                        10 e/   15         20       25       30        35       40       45        45       45   Desherhage
AvsrB3ejLe1d                         1.0      1,9       2.0      2.1      2,2       2.2      2.3      2.3       2.4      2.4 Renderenent -moven
(tons paddy/ha)                                                                                                               (tonnes naddy/ha)
Increased production                 -        3,100   6,200   9,300  12,400  12,400  15%500  15,500  Idi600  1-86600  Auo5!nntf.tQi-  de oL_rduc tio
(tons paddy)                                                                                                                      (tones paddyY
a/ No water management,                                                                       a/ Pas de gestion de l'eau.
bl Improving standards of water management.                                                   hI Amglioration progressive de la gestion. de 1'eau.
c/ Areas effectively treated.                                                                 e/ Superficies effectivement traitres,
Juse 1, 1982                                                                                   Loe lr juile  1982



MAI,A, A (,Ar
LAC ALAOI'Tk  RICE INTFNSIFICATION PROJECr                                              PROJET D' INTENSIFTCATION RIZICOLE AU LAC ALAOTRA
arm Model. I: Forecast of Net Income fr-on Production and Net Cash Flow for a 4.0 ha                Modele de FemeF  pro   tion  de Revenu Net de Production et Flux Finasmier
Rice Farn on SOMALAC Irrigati- Schemes                                         done Em2loitation Rizicol_e   40 ha dea_Perimatres SCMALAC
Net area coder irrigation = 4.0 ha, animal draught.                                                                                  SRrface nette irrig-6e    4,0 ha, aiture attellee.
One  rice crop par year.                                                                                                              Une recolte de riz par an.
W_thout Pro ee   01.72 ha planted broadcast, 2.28 ha                                                                                San _proJt:  1,72 ha en 9emis direct, 2,28 ha
transplanted at random                                                                                                          repique en foule
With Project        1.20 ha planted broadcast, 2.0 ha                                                                               Avec Projet-  1,20 ha en semis direct, 2,0 ha
tranplanted at .assdoc, 0.8 ha                                                                                                 repique en foule, 0,8 ha
transplanted in, rows                                                                                                          repique en ligne
Without Project'
Sans projet                      With Pr-je-t/AveL Projt
Year        5                   1        2        3        4        5        tO   Anne
A.  Income from Production                                                                                                                     A.  Revenus de la Production
paddy production (tons)                                 8.4                9.2    10.4    11.6    12,8    14,6    14.6                          Production de paddy (ton.ea)
Gross valse (FMP'000) a/                              504                552      624      696      768      876      876                      Valeur brute (FMC '000) */
On-farnm .o.smption (tons) b/                           1.3                 1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3                    Auto-cona.so. ation (tonoe;) b/
Sales (tan)                                            7.1                7.9      9.1    10,       li.5    13.3    13.3                      Vent.s  (tonne-)_
Sales (8MG '550) a/                                  426                474      546      618      690      798      798                      Ventes (FMG '000) ai
B.  Costs of Production                                                                                                                         B.  Costs de Productian
Investment (1MG '000)                                                                                                                           Investisfeasent (FMG '000)
Plough  c/                                              -                 50       50        50      50       50        50                     Charrue c/
Tools and equipment                                    10                 20       20       20       20       20        20                     Outils et materiel
Operating (FMG '000)                                                                                                                            Fonctionanente   (FMG '000)
Seeds  d/                                              22                 22       22       22       22        22       22                     Sssences d/
Fertilizers a/                                          1                   5      10        15      20        25       25                    ERgrais a7
Pesticides fl                                           2                   2        3        4        5        5        5                     Pesticid;s f/                                          v
erbicidea h/                                          180 186                     208      22        4 2s8   25       256                       Hserbicioes  h/
Family labor (m.d.)                                   135                140      145       150     160      160      160                      Main d'oeuvre familiale (h.j.)
Water charge i/                                         -                   -        -        -       57       57       57                      Taxe de litrage i!
Total Costs of Production (F1M  '000)                 215                231      261      289      374      391       391                     Couts Totaux de Production (- FG '000)
(excluding family labor)                                                                                                                      (nets de 1 m.o. familiale)
Net value of Production (FMG '000)                    289                321       363      407      394      485      485                     Valeur Nette de la Production (FMG'000)
Nat Income from Prodution (01G '000)                  211                243       285      329      316      407      407                     Revenus Nets de la Production (YMG 000)             t5
C.  Financing                                                                                                                                  C.  Financing
Debt Servicing (medium term) j/                          -                  -       80       74      68        62       62                     Service de la Dette (moyen terme) 4/                a
Debt Servicing (short tern) k/                           -                  8        8        8        8        8        8                     Service de la Dette (court terse) k/
Lease-purchase of plot 1/                              32                  27       27       27      27        27       27                     Location-veote de 1  parelle 1/
Net Cash Flow                                         179                208       170      220     203       310      310                     Flum  Financier
Return to family labor (P14/md.)                     2141               2292    2503    2713    2462    3031    3031                           Valorisation de la m.o. familiale (fMG/h.j.)
*/  FMG 60/kg.                                                                                       I/  14MG 60/kg.
b/  1300 kg for a family of 6.                                                                      b/  1300 kg ps-r fine Camille de 6.
c/  Heavy plough at F914  250,000, reewed every 5 years; sot included in total costs of  c/  Charrue lourde a FMG 250.000. renouvelte tous lea 5 ass; pa. incluge dns co-ts d
production an it provides i-fcome from tira.                   a                                                                                drodctiom car cOle dO  a pour oat r  60/kg 
dl  At 150 kg/ha for broadcast and 50 hg/ha for transplantin,g  at 1140 60/kg for                   d/  150 kg/ha pour le semis diracat   35g              pusAdelosiio."'viag    l   6kgp.          
unselected seed and FPG 70/kh  for selected seed.                                           e            11,6 kg/ha at FMG 10/kg at n   la sit-tior 07,0/kg p,our lea semences s lectionnees.
a6 k/ha at FMG 100/kg in the "Without Project" situatios anld 30 kg per 5 area                                                                                    e            u        s
F1  11.6                                                                                              pOc"WthiPssi,tre dams la sit-atiun  -A-  Projet".-
of -orsrm isn  With Proiect" sitoutioc.                                                      f/  1,5 kg de carbofuran  (3/A) 'a FMG 1000/lg en des-a fois sur pmpinier.
fl  1.5 kg of carbofuran (37.) at FPG 1000/kg twice on the nursery area.                            &/  3 1/ha en moyenne i FMG 1000/1.
R/  3 1/ha on average at FMG 1000/1.                                                                h'  Primclp.asent por le r-piqug.e av la recolte; ins traau  de labour seront
hi  Mainly for transplanting aed buvetss    ad preparation wll he caries  a-t by                           ofcusprI   o    oiil   vri   omlecare
family labor with newly-acquired plosghs.                                                   i        fa..sprl    ..f.l;                     -1        -1    h-
i/  At FMG 14 269/ha after fol1rehahiliratlon.                                                     i/  A PMG 14.269/ha apres achevement den traaun de r                 dhabilitation.
4/Remboures,ment sor 5 ann de 1'.mp-snt pour l'acquiition de I.acharru- a 12%4 d'iteret/n.,
./Repayment over 5 years of loana  for p.mrhase of plough and anulInterest at 12%.    k/y               t~~   u-c cr6dit de campagne de P14G 30.000/ha pendent 7 moi  a  7  a   os
K/  Interest on; 01  30,000/ha of seasonal credit ove  7 mths                . er month.                   C 9  000 redsit 'a PGi0 8.0/ba, Pab   pedapnt 12 as.S
J/ une     96,000 reduce2 d to 114  80,000/ha, payable over 12 years.
June 1, 1982                                                                                        I.e lnc Jssin 1982



MADAG..SCAR
LAC AIAOTFA RICE INTENSIFTCATION PROJECT                                                               PROJET D'INTENSIFTCATTON RIZTCOLE AU TAC ALAOTRA
Farm Model II: Forecast  of Net Income frcm  Production and Net Ca.sh Flow  for a 6.0 ha                         Modele de Ferme II: Projection de Revenu Net de Production et Flux Financier
Rice Pnem on SOMALAC Irrigation_  chemes                                                      d'une  Exploitatino  Rizioole do 6,0 ha des P.rim tres SOMALAC
Net area  under irrigatioo = 6.0 ha, tractor power entirely.                                                   Superficie nette irriguee = 6,0 ha, colture  rntorisSe.
One rice crop per year.                                                                                        Une recolte de riz par an.
Without Prolact:  2.0 ha planted broadcast by farmer, 4.0 ha rooted out or share cropped.                      Saos Projet:  2,0 ha en semis direct par proprietaire, 4,0 ha en location
With Project   :  6.0 ha mechanically seeded in rows; 3.0 ha cultivated by farmer and                                          on metayage.
3.0 ha rented osit or share-cropped.                                                     Avoc Projet:  6,0 ha en semis direct en ligne avec seaoir; 3,0 he exploite
pa propriStaire; 3,0 ha en location no metayage.
Without Project/
_ans FrojPt Withot,'AvcPTje/vt
Ye.,       O                     1        2        3        4        5        10    Annee
A.  Revenus de la Production
A. inlcome iron Production
Production de paddy (tonnes)
paddy production (toes)                                                                                                                              )prp.rear
(a) by farmer a/                                         3.0                   4.0      5.0      6.6      7.0      8.7      8.7                    (a) par propriatairo a/
(b)  fron ranting or share-cropping b/                   4.0                   4.0      4.2      4.4      4.6      4.8      4,8                    (b) en location ou metayage h/
Total                                               7.0                   8.0      9.2    11.0    12.4    13.5    13.5                            Total
Tott 1  420 °   480  552  66G  744'4    i3,5  13.5          Valeur brute (FMG  000) s/
Cros. value (P5M0 '000) ~/420                                                480      52       660      744      810      810                      Auto-consomasation (tonnes)
On-farm consumption (tons)                                1.3                  1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3
Sales (tons)                                             5.7                   6.7      7.9      9.7    11.1    12.2    12.2                       Vontos (tones)
Sales (FMG '000) c/                                    342                   402      474      582      666      732      732                      Ventes (FMG '000) c/
B.  Costs of Production                                                                                                                            B.  Cets do Production
Investment (FMG '000)                                                                                                                             _nvestissement (FMG '000)
Tools and equipment d/                                  20                    20       25       30       30       30       30                      Outils et matgriels d/
Qpertinf (MG510'000)                                                                                                                               FonctiFonnement (FPMG '000)
Seeds e/                                                18                    30       45       63       63       63       63                      Setences e/
Fertilizers                                              2                     8       15       30       38       38       38                     Engrais
Pesticides                                                3                    3        6        7        8       10       10                      Pesticides
Hlerbicides                                               -                    5       13       15       18       20       20                      Her'bicides
Services f/                                            120                   130      140      150      160      170      170                      prestatoeus  f/
Family labour (m.d.)                                    24                    24       26       28       30       30       30                     main-d'oeuvre failiale (h.j.)
Water charge B/ '                                                              -        -        -       86       86       86                      Taxe do lit rage aj
Total Costs of Production  (.FMG '000)                                                                                                             Cou      taux de Produ tion (FMG '000)
_f Rr ~~~~~~~~~~~~16(nets do Ian..familiale)
(excluding family labor)                             163                  196      244      295      403      417      417                      Valeur Nette de Production  (PG  '000)
Nat Value of Productiom.n         00)2 57                                    284      308      365      341      393      393Re msNtdePouin
Net Income from Production (FG1 '000)                  179                   206      230      287      263      315      315                      Revons  Nato do Prodction  (FMG  '00)
C.  Finance.ent (FMG '000)                                 "
.  financing  (FMG '000)                                                                                                                          Ct
Debt Servicing ( short term) h/                             -                   13       13       13       13       13       13                    Service do Ia Dette (court-terma) hi/
LeOse-purchase of plot i/                                  48                   40       40       40       40       40       40                   Location-vente de la pareolle i/                       f
Not Gash Flow                                             131                  153      177      234      210      262      262                    Flux Financier
R80-mm  to family labor (FMG/m.d.)                     10708                 11833   11847   13036   11367   13100   13100                        Valerisation de la m.o. familiale (FMG/h.t.)
a!  Yield of 1,5 tons/ha increasisig to 2.9 tons/ha.                                                  a/  Rendemont de 1,5 tonnes/ha, accroissant_)uaqu'a 2,9 irnnes/ha.
6/' Production of share-crrpper shared equally hotween proprietor and share-cropper;                  b/  Moitie de la production du metayer versee a" propriietaire;
yield increasing fr,as 2 tons/ha to 3.7 ions/ha.                                                     rendement accrsissant de 2 '^ 3,2 tonnes/hb.
c!  FMG 60/kg,                                                                                        c/  FMG 60,'kg.
d/  Sprayers, rotary hoes, spades.                                                                    6/  Pulv9ristorurs, houea  rotatives, heches,
e/  150 kg/he at FMC 60/kg for unselerted seeds and FMG 70/kg for selected seeds.                     e/  150 kg/ha a F'5G 60/kg pour des smesces non-selertionn-ee  et FMG 70/kg pour iles
f/  Plooghieg, hairrowing, threshing and transport.                                                        someoees sclecti-nnr/s.
/   At FlOG 1,269/ha aster full rehabilitatlon.                                                       f/  labour,  pulverls  ge, battage et transport.
h/  Istercst o, 51MG 30,000/ho of seasonal credit over 7 months at 17. per ottnth,                   a/  A FMG 14.269/ha aprbs ach6voment do la rghabllirarirn.
i/  EMiG 96,000 reduced to FMC 80,000, payable over 12 years.                                        h"  Cnt-ret sur rr-dit do crmpagne de EMG 30.000/ha pendant 7 mois a 17, par misa
t/  F0MG 96.000 redolit a I0MG 80.000/hai, psyoble pendant 12 sos,
lJne 1, 1982                                                                                         I.e leor jin 1942



MADAGAS(AA
LAC ALAOTRA RICE INTENSIFICATION PROJECT                                                    PROJET D'INTENSIFICATIO5I RIZIOLE AU IAC ALAOTRA
Farm Model III: Forecast of Net Incoe from Production ard Net Cash Flow for                  Modele de Ferme 111: Projection de Revenu Net de Production at rluF                 ier
1.30 ha Rice Farm on  M  Irrigation Schemes                                                d'une Exploitation Rizicole de 1.30 ha des Perimbtr-a
Net area under irrigation = 1.30 ha, animal draught                                                                          Surface nette irriguee - 1,30 ha, culture *tteltee
One rice cr p per year                                                                                                       Dne recolte dA rim par an
Without Project:  0.78 ha planted broadcast, 0,52 ha                                                                         Sans Projet:  0,78 ha en semis direct, 0,52 ha
transplanted at random                                                                                                   repique  en foule
With Prolect   : 0.39 ha planted broadcast  0 455 ha                                                                         Avec Projet:  0,39 ha en semis direct, 0,455 ha
transplanted at random and                                                                                               repique en foule et 0,455 ha
0.455 ha transplanted in rows                                                                                            repique en ligne
Without Project/
laos Projet                    With Prolect/Avec Projet
Year             0             1        2        3        4        5        10     Annee
A.  Income from Production                                                                                                                    A.  Revenus  de 1a Production
Paddy production (tons)                                  2.3             2.4      2.8       3.2      3.6      3.8      3.8                    Production de paddy (tonnes)
Gross value (PMG '000) A/                              138             144     168        192      216      228      228                      Valeur brute (FtiG '000) a/
On-farm consumption (tons) b/                            1.3             1.3      1.3       1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3                    Auto-consomesation (tonne;) b/
Sales (tons)                                             1.0             1.1      1.5       1.9      2.3      2.5      2.5                    Ventes (tonnes)
Sales (FMG '000)                                        60             66       90       114      138      150       150                      Ventes (MCIG '000) b/
B.  Costs of Production                                                                                                                       B.  Coats de Production
Investment (FMG '000)                                                                                                                         Investissement (FPMG '000)
Tools and equipment c/                                    2             4        8         8        8        8         8                      outils et materiel
Operating (FMG '000)                                                                                                                          Fonctionnement (FMG '000)                               W
Seeds d/                                                  9             9        8         7        6        6        6                       Semences d/
Fertilizers                                               1             2        3         5        6        8        8                       Engrais
Pesticides                                                -             1        2         2        2        2        2                       Pesticides
Services e/                                              27            30       31        32       35       45        45                      Prestations e/
Family labor (m.d.)                                     100           105      110       115      119      119      119                      M9O.  familiale (h.j.)
Total Cuts of Production (FMG '000)                                                                                                           Couts totaux de production (WRG '000)
(excluding family labor)                                39            46       52        54       57      69        69                       (net de Ia m.o. familial.)
Net Value of Production (FMG '000)                       99             98      116       138      159    159        159                      Valeur Nette de Is Production (FMI '000)
Net Income from Production (FMG '000)                     21            20       48        60       81      81        8t                      Revenus tiet de l  Production (FMG '000)
C.   Financing (FMG '000)                                                                                                                     C.  Financement (PM  '000)
Debt Servicing (short term) f/                            -            2        2         2        2        2        2                       Service de Is Dette (court terme) f/
Net Cash Flow                                           21            18       46        58       79        79       79                      Flux Financier
Return to family l1b,r (FNC/m.d.)                      990           933    1055       1200    1336    1336       1336                       Valorisation de la M9O.  fauiliale  (FMG /h.j.)
*/  FMG 60/kg.                                                                                       a/  FMG 60/kg.
b/  1300 kg for a family of 6.                                                                       b/  1300 kg pour une famille de 6.
c/  Sprayers, spades, rotary hoes.                                                                   c/  Pulverisateurs, beches et houss rotatives.
d/  At 150 kg/ha for broadcast and 50 kg/ha for transplanting at Ft4G 60/kg                          d/  A 150 kg/ha pour le samis direct et 50 kg/ha pour 1e repiquage
for unselected seeds and FMG 70/kg for selected seeds.                                       F-IG 60/kg pour le  samences non-selectionnees et FMG 70/kg pour
e/  Seasonal labor for transplanting and harvest,                                                          Ies semences se1ectionnfes.
f/  Interest (7 months) on seasonal credit of FMG 30,000 at 17 per month.                            e/  Main-d'oeuvre saisonniere pour 1e repiquage et la recolte
f'  Interet (7 mois) sur le credit de campagne d'un montant de FPtG 30,000 a
17. par mots.
June 1, 1982                                                                                          Le 1er juin 1982



MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project         Projet d'Intensification Rizicole du Lac Alaotra
input Requirements in SOMALAC Irrigation Schemes         Besoins en Intrants dans P6rimatres SOMALAC
Requirements (tons)
Besoins (tonnes
Present sales/ a/                  Year/Ann4'e
Ventes actuelles
(tons/tonnes)         1       2      3       4      5        Total
Selected seeds b/               190               190    280    380    430    480          1,760      Semences selectionnees b/
Fertilizers c/                                                                                        Engrais c/
(i)  NPK                     152                150    150    225    250    300          1,075        (i)  NPK
(ii) Urea                     96                100    100    175    200    250            825        (ii) Uree
Insecticides                                                                                          Insecticides
(i) &ursery d/                  9                10      15     20      25     30          100        (i)  Pepiniere d/
(ii)Field e/                  25                 25     25      25      25     25          125        (ii) Riziere e/
Herbicides f/                    10                35      50     60      75      90          310     Herbicides f/
Sprayers (units)                  0               250 / 250    250    250    250           1,250      Pulverisateurs (unites)
Ploughs (units)                   0               100   I l00    100    100    100           500      Charrues (unite's)
Rotary hoes (units)               0               200    500    800  1,000  1,200          3,700      Houes rotatives (unites)
Threshers (units)                 0                 0       5      5      0       0           10      Decortiqueuses (unites)
a/ Crop year 1980-81.                                               a/ Campagne 1980--8i.
b/ Renewal of seeds every 3 years; average requirement of           b/ Reniouvellement des semences tous les 3 ans; taux moyen
100 kg/ha (50% area broadcast at 150 kg/ha and 50%                  de 100 kg/ha (50% superficie semis direct a 150 kg/ha
transolanted at 50 kg/ha).                                          et 50% repique a 50 kg/ha).
c/ 11-22-16 or 15-15-15 at 6 kg/are  in nursery and                 c/ l1-22-16 ou 15-15-15 'a 6 kg/are dans pepiniere et
200 kg/ha with 70 kg/ha of urea in field.                           200 kg/ha avec 70 kg/ha d'uree dans riziere.
d/ 3 kg carbofuran for 5 ares of nursery.                           d/ 3 kg carbofuran pour 5 ares  de pepinilre.
e/ Organo-phosphate as contact insecticide                           e/ Organo-phospore coinme insecticide de contact pour
for unexpected  rice bug attacks.                                   attaques impre-vues de pou de riz.
f/ Propanil and 2-4 D at 10 1/ha.                                   f/ Propanil et 2-4 D "a 10 1/ha.
Orders received for 1981-82.                                     &/ Co,mandes reVues pour 1981-82.
June 1, 1982                                                         Le ler juin 1982



MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project    Projet d'Intensification Rizicole du Lac Alaotra
In ut Requirements in CVA Irrigation Schemes           Besoins en Intrants dans Pgrimetres CVA
Requirements (tons)
Besoins tonnes)
Present sales/ a/                   Year/Ann6e
Ventes actuelles
(tons/tonnes)          1       2      3       4      5        Total
Selected seeds b/                65               100    200    270    350    400           1,320      Semences selectionnees
Fertilizers d!                                                                                         Engrais d/
(i)  NPK                       20                75 c/  75    325    425    525          1,425         (i)  NPK
(ii) Urea                       9                50 c/  50    125    150    200            575         (ii) Uree
Insecticides                                                                                           Insecticides
(i)  Nursery e/                20                15      20     25      35     40          135         (i)  Pepiniere e/
(ii) Field f/                                    25      25     25      25     25          125         (ii) Rizi'ere f/ 
Herbicides /                      1                  5 c/  10      20     25      30           90      Herbicides g/
Sprayers (units)                 50               200 c/ 150    150    150    150             800      Pulverisateurs (unites)
Ploughs (units)                  50               100 c/ 100    100    100    100             500      Charrues (unite's)
Rotary hoes (unriits)             0               200 c/ 700  l1200  1,600  1,800           5,500      Houes rotatives (unites)
Threshers (units)                 0                -       -       5       5      -            10     Decortiqueuses (Unites)
a/ Crop year 1980-81.                                                a/ Campagne 1980-81.
b/ Renewal of seeds every3 years; average requirement of             b/ Renouvellement des semences tous les 3 ans; taux moyen    m
100 kg/ha (50% area broadcast at 100 kg/ha and 50%                   de 100 kg/ha (50% superficie en semis direct a 150 kg/ha  a
area transplanted at 50 kg/ha).                                      et 50% repique a 50 kg/ha).
c/ Orders received for 1981-82.                                      c/ Commandos regues pour 1981-82.                                  a
d/ 11-22-16 or 15-15-15 at 6 kg/are in nursery and                   d/ 11-22-16 ou 15-155-15 a 6 kg/are pour pepiniere et
200 kg/lha with 70 kg/ha of urea in field.                           200 kg/ha avec 70 kg/ha d'uree pour rizi're.
e/ 3 kg carbofuran for 5 ares of nursery.                            e/ 3 kg carbofuran pour 5 ares de pepiniere.
f/ Organo-phosphate as contact insecticide for                       fl/ Organo-phospore comme insecticide de contact pour attaques
unexpected rice bug attacks.                                         imprevues de pou de riz.
j/ Propanil and 2-4 D at 10 1/ha.                                    / Propanil et 2-4 D 'a 10 1/ha.
June 1, 1982                                                         Le ler juin 1982



-66 -Tbl8
MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification  roaect
SOKALAC - Summary Historical Financial Statements and Rehabilitation Plan
1978    1979    1980    1981 1/  1982 3/                      Rehabilitation 5/
- -----------000 tons -----------                                                  i982 after
Phase I   Phase II   Phase III   rehabilitation
--------------- (FMG million) ---------
IZcom Statements
Paddy collected                         71      9i      105       5i        85
Paddy milled                            32      37       36       41        51
------------ FMG million -
Paddy and rice sales                3,363   3,130   4,659   3,735    4,673
Subsidies received 2/                   30     183       82       54       171
Net profit/(loss):
gxtension                           (78)    (43)    (15)    n.e.    (238)
Irrigation management              (84)    (82)   (122)    n.a.    (156)
Cooercial operations                176     133      127      n.a.    (329)
Services and overhead              (80)    (62)    (86)    n.a.         (1)
Operating profit/(loss)                (71)    (54)    (96)    169        (724)
Speclal provisions 4/                    -       -        -  (1,801)
Total net profitl(loss)                (71)    (54)    (96) (1,970)
lalauca Sheets
Net fixed assets                    1,071      891      738      568      409             -        210 CR          -           19
Long and medium term loans              56      52       45        -         -            -           -            -             -
Nat current assets:
Current assets                   2,606   3,349   4,744   2,104    2,609             325 CR      760 DR       700 DR      3,804
Current liabilities              1,564   2,130   3,515   3,122    4,282           1,061 DR         -            -        3 221
1,o42   1,219   1,229  (1,018)  (1,613)            736 DR      760 DR       700 DR     _____
2,169   2,162   2,012    (450)  (1,204)            736 DR      550 DR       700 DR        782
Financed by.
Equity                             701      758      660  fl,332)  (2,066)        1,553 CR      550 CR       700 CR         737
Long term loans and advances   1,468   1,404   1,352         882       862          817 DR        -            -             45
2,169   2,162   2,012    (450)  (1,204)            736 CR      550 CR       700 CR        782
Ratios
Margin on sales                         5%      4%       3%    n.a.        (1%)        n.a.        n.a.         n.a.          a.L.
Current ratio                         1.7      1.6      1.3     0.7       0.6         n.a.        n.a.         n.a.            1.2
Debt/equity ratio                   68:32   65:35   68:32        -        -           n.a.        n.a.          n.e.          6:94
1/  Preliminary unaudited figures.  income figures for year to December 31, balance sheet as at July 31.
2/  Subventions d'iquilibre and subventions d'ertretien reseau; excluding subsidies on paddy marketing and processing.
3/  ICTAD forecast figures.  Balance sheet before financial restructuring.
4/  Provisions largely for writing down assets, including smallholders lease purchase dues (FMG 700 million) and marketing
support payments (perdquation) overstated (FMG 1.150 million),
5/  Phase I book entries consolidating as equity amounts due to and from the state; Phase II writing value of land
improvements and lease purchase dues out of the balance sheet and Government injecting FMC 760 million in cash;
Phase III Government injecting FMG 700 million in fresh working capital.



MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project
Projected Operating Statements for SOMALAC
Marketing Department 1/
(FMG millions)
1983     1984       1985      1986      1987
Costs
Paddy purchases                   5,437    6,621    8,330   10,546   13,174
Other production costs              859    1,076    1,355       1,716    2,144
Financial charges                   288       351       442       560        699
Total costs                          6,584    8,048   10,127   12,822   16,017
Sales revenue                        6,950    8,445   10,587   13,405   16,745
Net profit before depreciation          366       397       460       583       728
Depreciation                             34        29        22        22        22
Net profit after depreciation           332       368       438       561       706
(D
Pady purchases (in tons)            90,000  100,000  115,000  130,000  145,000
1/  Based on ICTAD projections 1983-85, extended through 1987, adjusted for
expected inflation.



- 68 -
Table 9 b
MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project
SOMALAC Projected Cash Flow and Income Statement 1/
(FMG millions)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Net operating deficit
Maintenance                           267      319      370      414      464
Production                            216      237      212      237      265
Central Direction                     118      149      155      174      195
601     705      737      825      924
Project investments                     2,586   2,540   1,847   1,833        500
Total payments                          3,187   3,245   2,584   2,658   1,424
Sources of finance
Marketing profits                      366     397      460      583      728
Maintenance contract 2/               411      565      637      687      744
Extension subsidy 2/                  362      515      560      590      626
Capital subscriptions               2,586   2,540   1,847   1,833         500
Total receipts                          3,725   4,017   3,504   3,693   2,598
Net cash flow                             538      772      920   1,035   1,174
Depreciation                              242      456     524      524      524
Net profit                                296      316     396      511      650
1/ Based on ICTAD projections 1983-85, extended through 1987, adjusted for
expected inflation.
2/ Full recovery of costs including depreciation plus one third of net
cost of Central Direction plus a 5% return on assets employed.



MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project
Projected Balance Sheets for SOMALAC Group
(FMG millions)
 1983 ------
January   December    1984       1985      1986      1987
Fixed assets                       199       2,543    4,627    5,950    7,259    7,235
Net current assets                 583       1,116    1,883    2,798    3,828    4,997
Net assets employed                782       3,659    6,510    8,748   11,087   12,232
Financed by:
Fixed capital and grants        737       3,323    5,863    7,710    9,543   10,043
Reserves                          -         296       612    1,008    1,519    2,169
Long term loans and
advances                      45          40        35        30        25       20
Capital employed                   782       3,659    6,510    8,748   11,087   12,232



MADAGASCAR
Lec Alsotra RIce Intensification Project
Indicative SOMALAC/Government Projected Cash Flow 1/
(FMG millions)
__Payments                                                                              Receipts
Government                                                                                                                                                 Annual   Cumulative
Project    Project         support           IDA          CCCE         Total      Water              IDA               CCCE             FAC          SOMALAC net          Total       cash         cash
year       costs       payMents 3/   repayments   repayme'nts   payments   charges 4/   disburserents   disbursements   disbursements    cash flow  5/   receipts                   flow         flow
0          7C ) 2/         -             -               -           700           -              200                -                -                -                200       -500         -500
1       4,! 1 C          773            28              22        5,233           82              625              362              167              538              1,774    -3,459        -3,959
2        3,508         1.080            30              87         4,705         226            1,075            1,085              500              772              3,658    -1,047        -5,006
3        2,7i7         1,197            33             152         4,099         382            1,525            1')85              500              920              4,412        313       -4,693
4        2,513         t,277            37             195         4,022         549            1,425              724              334            1,035              4,067         45       -4,648
5          958         1,370            40             217         2,585         744            1,200              362              167            1,174              3,647      1,062       -3,586
6                      1,534            42             362         1,938         835              675                                              1,315              2,825        887       -2,699
7                      1,718            42             562         2,322         935                                                               1,475              2,410         88       -2,611   -'.
8                      1,925            42             555         2,502       1,050                                                               1,650              2,700        198       -2,413    0
9                      2,156            42             514         2,712       1,180                                                               1,850              3,030        318       -2.095
10                      2,414            98             492         2,948       1,300                                                              2,075               3,375        427       -1,668
11                     2,704             98            471         3,273        1,450                                                              2,075              3,525         252       -1,416
12                     2,704             98            449         3,251        1,450                                                              2,075              3,525         274       -1,142
13                     2,704             98            427         3,229        1,450                                                              2,075              3,525         296         -846
14                      2,704            98             405         3,207       1,450                                                              2,075               3,525        318         -528
15                     2,704             98            384         3,186        1,450                                                              2,075              3,525         339         -189
16                      2,704            98               -         2,802       1,450                                                              2,075              3,525         723          534    *
17                      2,704            98               -         2,802       1,450                                                              2 075              3,525         723        1,257
1/  Excludes recovery of capital charges by BTM.
2/  Initial new capital of SOMALAC aubscribed by Governmneat.
3/  Payments to SOMALAC for maintenance and extension work.
4/ At 25% of notional full rate in PY I rising to 100I by PY 5.
5/  SONALAC cash flow, net of depreciation as a proxy of investmnt expenditures.



- 71 -
Table 11
MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(FMG millions - constant 1982 prices)
Plant,
vehicles                                              Total
Froject    Project       Irrigation                       and       Operating                   On-farm   economic        Net
_ear    benefits   rehabilitation   Buildings   equipment           costs   1/  Sub-total    costs         costs    stream
1. SOKALAC Schemes
1           -           726             213         1,273         794            3,006           -       3,006    -3,006
2         378            921             29           946          294           2,190         203       2,393    -2,015
3       1,152            980                            22        294            1,296         464       1,760       -608
4       1,843            919                            22         264           1,205         696       1,901         -58
5       2,534                                           22         220             242         754          996     1,538
6       2,765                                           -           50              50         754         804      1,961
7       2,765                                           -           50              50         754         804      1,961
* - 25      2,995                                         187          50             237          754         991      2,004
MM - 20.8Z
2. CVA Schemes
1         235             69             41            38            4             152         215         367       -132
2         469             69             16                         14              99         410         509        -40
3         857            139                                        14             153         668         821          36
4       1,143            139                                        14             153         811         964         179
5       1,143                                                       14              14       1,263       1,277         134
6       1,428                                                       14              14       1,263       1,277         151
7       1,428                                                       14              14       1,263       1,277         151
- - 25      1,714                                                      14               14      1,263        1,277        437
LU - 49.0%
3. Total Project
1         235                                                                                              2,873  -2,638
2         847                                                                                              2,902  -2,055
3       2,009                                                                                              2,581    -572
4       2,986                                                                                               2,865      121
5       3,677                                                                                              2,273   1,404
6       4,193                                                                                              2,081   2,112
7       4,193                                                                                              2,081   2,112
a - 25     4,709                                                                                               2,268   2,441
ERR - 24.1%
1/  Excluding inputs, which are included in on-farm costs.  PY 1 for SOMALAC includes portion of initial working
capital attributable to Project operations.



- 72 -                     Table 12
MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project
Calculation of the Economic Price of Rice
(Import parity price, 1982 prices)
1985
onward
1983/84   1985/89
Price f.o.b. Bangkok (US$/ton) 1/                                368        470
Quality difference (-30%) 2/                                    (110)      (141)
Freight and insurance                                             60         60
Price c.i.f. Tamatave                                            318        389
Equivalent in FMG/ton 3/                                     111,300   136,150
Financial charges                                              4,000      4,000
Port handling                                                 11,500    11,500
Transport to Antananarivo                                      5,000      5,000
Storage, selling costs and margin                              6,000      6,000
Economic retail price at Antananarivo                        137,800   162,650
Transport Antananarivo/Ambatondrazaka                         (3,600)   (3,600)
Loading/unloading                                               (400)      (400)
Milling costs                                                 (6,500)   (6,500)
Economic price at entry to mill                              127,300   152,150
Equivalent paddy price (67%)                                  85,300   101,950
By-products                                                    1,000      1,000
Storage losses (2%)                                           (1,600)   (1,800)
Marketing cost                                                (5,000)   (5,000)
Transport cost                                                (2,000)   (2,000)
Fokontany commission                                          (2,000)   (2,000)
Economic paddy price at farmgate                              75,700    92,150
1/ EPDCE forecasts.
2/ To account for larger quantity of "brokens".
3/ FMG 375 = US$.



ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
l. SOMALAC Schemes
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NFT STREAMS
B.TOTAL       UP 10%       UP 20%       UF' 50%    DOWN 10%    DOWN 20%    DOWN 50%  LAG 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
C.TOTAL           20.769       23,556       26.238       33.826       17.845        14.736        2.880       16.433       13.481        11,252
UP 107            1B.118       20.769       23.307       30.450       15.319       12.313         0.203       14.367       11.738         9.713
UP' 20%           15,797       18.344       20.769       27. 546      13,088       10,1519       -2.58S       12.514       10.152         8.297
UP 507            10.145       12.521       14.736       20.769        7.538        4.573      -21,144         7.819        6.026         4.547
DOWN 10%          23.859       26.822       29.684       37.819       20,769       17.510         5.613       18,780       15.427        12.950
DtOWN 20%         27.546       30.735       33.826       42,640       24,236       20.769         8.549       21.498       17.641        14.857
tiOWN 50%         45.456       49.858       54.146       66,463       40,9?4       36.238        20.769       33.704       27.124        22.760
LAG 1 YFAR             -            -             -                         -            -                    20.705       16.329        t3.334
LAG 2 YEARS            -                                                                 -            -             -      20.6?7        16.203
IAG 3 YEARS            --                               -                                -            --                                 20.530
2. CVA Schemes
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STPEAMS
8.TOTAL       UP 10%       UP' 20%      UF 50%    DOWN 10%    DiOWN 20%    DOWN 50%  LAG 1 YFAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS   w
C.TOTAL           49.014       91.225      157.814    1467.673        22,922         3.435         NONE       15.298        8.165         4?76
UF 10%            24.853       49.014       86.525      392. 816       7,113          NONE         NONE        8.360        3,139 -.19789E-01
UF' 20%           10.005       26.513       49.014      205,387      -14,917          NONF         NONE        12?57       -2,58o        -5,161
UP 50%              NONE         NONE        3.435       49.014          NONE         NONE         NONE         NONE         NONE          NONF
DOWN 10%          97.234      177.405      325.831         NONE       49.0i4       20.641          NONE       23.080       13.208         8.366
DOWN 20%         205.387      423.255    1467.673          NONE      105,174       49,014          NONE       32.561       18.699        12.580
DOWN 50%            NONE         NONE         NONE         NONE         NONE          NONE       49,014       84,138       42.821        29.023
LAG 1 YEAR             _                                                                              -       49.010       15,152         7.887
LAG 2 YEORS            --                                                                                                  49.003        14.976
LAG 3 YEARS             -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -       48.993
3. Total Project 
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN OF NET STREAMS
~-m°-c=-==-t==== =t==,==-r=w
w
B.TOTAL       UF 107       UF 20%       UF' 50%    DOWN 10%    DOWI 20%    DOWN 50%  LAG 1 YEAR LOG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
C.TOTAL           24.105       28,518       32.840       45.562       19,543        14.714      -10.407       17.132        13,030       10.162
UF' 10%           19.966       24.105       28.121       39.806       15.620        10.899         NONE       14.194       10.638         8.077
lUF 20%           16.364       20,317       24.105       34.979       12,129         7.363         NONE       11.522        8,406         6.099
UF 50%             7.363       11,231       14.714       24.105        2.739        -3.939         NONE        4,318         2,118        0.356
DOWN 10%          29.001       33,792       38.523       52.583       24.105        19.022       -1.283       20.444        15,656       12.409
DOWN 20%          34.979       40.287       45.562       61.392       29,605       24.105         4.605       24.277       18.608        14,888
DOWN 50%          66.715       75.321       84.066      111.435       58.213       49*774        24.105       41.782       31.152        24.935
LAG 1 YEAR                    -            -            -            -            -                   -       24.05B       17.029        12.869
LAG 2 YEARS            _            _             _            _            _            _            _             -      23.979        16#905
LAG 3 YEARS            -             -                                    _ -                                                            23.925



Table 14
- 74 -
MADAGASCAR
Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project
Rent and Cost Recovery Percentages
(FMG millions)
CVA       SOMALAC
Schemes    Schemes    Project
-- FMG millions -------
Discounted Value of Stream 1/
Gross value of production 2/                   14,787       9,676      24,463
Less production cost 2/                        (5,774)    (4,306)   (10,080)
Net income                                      9,013       5,370      14,383
Less depreciation 3/                              (605)      (465)    (1,070)
Less imputed value of management
services 4/                                   (577)       (428)    (1,005)
Less imputed own capital 5/                       (692)      (514)    (1,206)
Less risk 4/                                      (577)      (428)    (1,005)
Rent or surplus                                 6,562       3,535      10,097
Rent as percentage of net income                72.8Z       65.8%       70.2%
Government revenues 6/                          2,010       2,434       4,444
Rent recovery percentage                        30.6%       68.9%       44.0%
Public sector outlays
Capital 7/                                     271       4,460       4,731
Operation and maintenance                      240       1,457       1,697
Total public sector outlays                        511      5,917       6,428
Cost recovery percentage                       393.3%       41.1%       69.1%
Actual Values (FMG)
Farmer family income at full development 2/ 152,100    432,000
Estimated critical consumption level 8/        22,600      22,600
Estimated GNP per capita                      101,500    101,500
1/  Figures are in constant 1982 prices and represent incremental
discounted values at 12% over a 25 year period.
2/ Derived from farm cash flow models.
3/  Represents long-term on-farm investment.
4/ Calculated as 10% of production cost.
5/ At 12%.
6/ Government revenues include water charges, the incremental marketing
surplus accruing to SOthALAC on project production (equivalent to a
benefit tax) and a portion, estimated at 50%, of the capital repayments
made by SOMALAC farmers and attributable to the rehabilitation works.
7/ Capital outlays include irrigation rehabilitation and investment in
maintenance plant and equipment.
8/ Corresponds to 75% of estimated relative poverty level.



- 75 -
Annex 1
Page 1
THE RICE SUB-SECTOR
A. Production and Demand
1.        Production Systems.  Rice production is the most important
economic activity in Madagascar. It is estimated that 70% of the
population is involved in paddy cultivation, which occupies about 50% of
cultivated land. Paddy is cultivated throughout Madagascar except in the
south, where the rainfall is insufficient. Traditional rice cultivation in
the coastal areas, where farmers also grow cash crops is largely for home
consumption. Farming largely on valley floors using traditional
techniques most farmers produce a single crop a year, with yields
averaging 1.2 tons/ha. In the central highlands, plots are very small
(averaging 0.6 ha per family) but each of alternative cash crops has led to
higher cultivation standards. Yields with water control average about 1.5
tons/ha, but reach 3.5 tons/ha or more with use of inputs. On the
organized irrigation schemes (para. 1.13), which account for about 20% of
land under rice, improved production techniques have been introduced and
are indispersed, particularly transplanting and mechanization. However, a
combination of inefficient management and incoherent policy framework has
impaired effectiveness. As a result yields which in areas exceed 4
tons/the average little more than 2 tons/ha.
2.        Outlook.  Production increased steadily during the 1960s at an
average of 5% per annum, rising from 1.2 million tons of paddy in 1960 to
almost 2 million tons in 1970. During the 1970s production grew only
slowly, and between 1977 and 1980 actually declined. Production in 1980
was around 1.9 million tons. The reasons for this stagnation in production
are complex. New land that could easily be brought into economical rice
cultivation was no longer so readily available and was increasingly
marginal. Also, further intensification required large-scale investment in
imported inputs or in costly irrigation infrastructure for which adequate
funds were not available. Even the management and maintenance of existing
systems deteriorated and their productivity dropped. The greatest scope
for production increases thus lies in improving institutions and existing
schemes and in spreading improved cultivation techniques. There is scope
too for intensification of smallholder production, particularly in valley
floor cultivation.
1/ References are to the text of the Appraisal Report. Paddy: rice
conversion factor used in this report is one ton of paddy = 0.67 tons
of rice.



- 76 -                Annex 1
Page 2
3.        Supply and Demand.  Rice consumption in Madagascar is among the
highest in the world, with annual per capita consumption estimated at 146
kg of rice for urban consumers, and 110 kg for rural dwellers. In recent
years production increases have failed to keep pace with population growth
and the country, which used to export 10,000-20,000 tons of luxury rice
annually up to 1972, has become a net importer (177,000 tons in 1980),
although a small volume of exports of luxury rice is still maintained. The
foreign exchange cost of these imports was FMG 11.7 billion (US $42.5
million) in 1980, representing over 10% of the value of Madagascar's total
exports. At present there is evidence of an unfulfilled demand for rice,
with some substitution of maize and manioc for rice. Under these
circumstances demand can be expected to increase from present consumption
levels of 1.4 million tons annually. If demand increased roughly in line
with the population growth rate, it would reach 1.5 million tons by 1985
and 1.7 million tons by 2000. At this rate of growth in demand, paddy
production would have to go up by 60,000-70,000 tons every year,
representing an annual growth requirement of close to 4%, in order to
contain imports at their present level. To eliminate dependence on imports
by 1990 would require annual growth of around 6%.
B. Markets and Prices
4.        Marketing.  Paddy and rice marketing, processing and distribution
are in theory subject to a Government-controlled monopoly throughout
Madagascar.  However, in many parts of the country official marketing is
inoperative, while in a recent policy statement the Government has
indicated recognition of the principle of competition in marketing. In
general, the official marketing system draws paddy from the major surplus
areas, particularly the irrigation schemes, and supplies the major towns
with rice from this and imported sources. Most responsibility for official
marketing operations lies with a dozen parastatals. Each parastatal is
responsible for paddy collection, processing and distribution in a
particular area, including the distribution of rice brought in from outside
the area.
5.        At the farmgate level paddy collection is entrusted by the
parastatals to the fokontany (para. 1.08). The parastatal collects the
paddy from the fokontany and mills and distributes it according to a
Government program. All of Madagascar's rice mills are either controlled
by the parastatals or operate under contract with them. Total capacity of
about 1.3 million tons of paddy is more than adequate as most paddy
destined for on-farm consumption is hand pounded or milled in simple
hullers. Rice from the major surplus area of Lac Alaotra and imported rice
from the port of Toamasina are usually transported by rail.  The present



- 77 -
Annex 1
Page 3
capacity of these lines is limited, largely due to lack of adequate engine
and rolling stock. Elsewhere rice transport is usually by road. The
parastatals operate some trucks and there are numerous private contractors.
6.        Distribution at retail level of rice within the deficit areas is
the responsibility of the fokontany to which the parastatals deliver rice.
The extent to which rice is actually available through these official
distribution channels varies enormously between seasons and regions. In
recent years officially traded volumes of rice have been around 165,000
tons or about 13% of total consumption.
7.        In rural deficit areas and in the many regions which are self
sufficient or only marginally in surplus, such as the central highlands,
official marketing and distribution networks are virtually non-existent and
a vigorous private marketing network exists, trading, in general, quite
small quantities between surplus and deficit areas or simply buying at
harvest time and selling later in the year. No accurate estimates of the
volume of rice passing through the unofficial market exist, but it is
probable that it is larger than that on the official market.
8.        Prices.  Official producer and consumer prices are fixed annually
by the Government. Official producer prices for paddy moved upwards only
slowly in recent years, from FMG 35/kg in 1976 to FMG 47/kg in 1981. They
failed to keep pace with inflation and fell significantly below import
parity prices. In 1981 the Government set up an interministerial pricing
committee to examine technical bases for establishing an official producer
price. This committee recommended a move to the import parity price as the
basic reference price for setting the official paddy price. As a result
the Government raised the paddy price to FMG 60/kg in May 1982. The
producer price issue is discussed below (para. 14).
9.        The official consumer price of rice which was FMG 65/kg in 1975
was reduced to FMG 55/kg in 1976 and held at that level until mid 1980; in
1980/81 the price rose to FMG 64/kg and for the 1981/82 season the price
was raised again to FMG 75/kg. These consumer prices, which were well
below both local production costs based on the official paddy price and the
costs of importing rice, were maintained to favor low income urban dwellers
and resulted in substantial subsidies to consumers. In 1980 these
subsidies totalled FMG 9.6 billion (US$25.6 million), equal to the total
investment budget of MPARA. Indications are that 1981 figures were around
the same level. In May 1982, the Government acted to eliminate the subsidy
by virtually doubling the official price of rice to FMG 140/kg.
10.       No accurate data are available on unofficial market prices.  In
the central highlands during 1981/82, producer prices of paddy ranged from
FMG 50/kg to FMG 250/kg, depending on season and locality, with most



- 78 -
Annex 1
Page 4
transactions taking place at harvest time at FMG 60-70/kg. Consumer prices
for rice rose as high as FMG 500/kg in the months leading up to harvest.
C. Government Policy and Issues for Development
11.       Government policy statements have in recent years placed heavy
emphasis on the need to increase rice production to reduce Madagascar's
growing dependence on rice imports. These statements have been backed up
by a considerable investment effort; during the four years 1978-81, 40% of
the agricultural investment budget, totalling FMG 23.0 billion (US $83.6
million) was devoted to rice. However, the productivity of new investment
has been low as the Government, unwilling to invest further in large
irrigated schemes due to their high cost, embarked on programs for
development of rice cultivation throughout the country under rainfed
conditions. Performance of these programs has been mediocre. The
"Bataille du Riz" program, initiated in 1977 with the objective of putting
20 ha under rice in each of the 1,250 firaisana, has proved extremely
costly and shown poor production results. First results from the
"Operation 100,000 ha" being implemented with North Korean assistance and
involving mechanized cultivation of "tanety" 2/ soils by military units
have been likewise mediocre. To date this program has opened up only 2,500
ha of new land.
12.       The Government has shown recognition of the failure of its
investment policy by the emphasis it now places on low cost methods of
increasing production, particularly rehabilitation and improvement of
existing irrigation schemes, as proposed under the present Project, and
intensification of smallholder cultivation through improved extension and
input supply, as proposed under the Highlands Rice Project, recently
appraised by IDA for IFAD. However this change of investment strategy will
be slow to work through to significant production increases and must at the
same time be accompanied by action to remove the numerous constraints which
have contributed to the mediocre performance of the sub-sector over the
past decade. These constraints have included the pricing system, the
inadequate marketing network, the scant availability of inputs, the dearth
of institutional credit and the mediocre performance of the irrigation
management parastatals.
2/ "Tanety" are the gentler slopes of the innumerable hills which cover
the Malagasy central highlands and lend them their characteristic
aspect.



- 79 -
Annex I
Page 5
13.       These constraints were identified at appraisal as critical to
performance of the sub-sector and have been discussed extensively with
Government in the context of this Project and of the Highlands Rice
Project. As a result, essential conditions for future growth in the
sub-sector have been highlighted and Government has defined and begun to
implement a series of necessary actions. The main elements are discussed
in the following paragraphs.
14.       Pricing.  The producer price of paddy has been set in recent
years at levels significantly below import parity or market prices. There
was a widespread view in Government that price incentives were less
significant for farmers than other factors, and that the crucial problem
was excessive margins by intermediaries. The patchy coverage of the
official marketing networks and the existence in many regions of viable
parallel markets have blunted the impact of low official producer prices.
However, particularly on the modern irrigation networks such as Lac
Alaotra, where official marketing channels have exercised a near monopoly,
the price level has clearly depressed production incentives, making the use
of unsubsidized fertilizer uneconomic and inhibiting capital formation.
The low consumer price on the other hand entailed huge subsidies
(para. 9). Yet it was unclear that the Government was achieving its
welfare objective of providing rice to the poorest at affordable prices; it
was often the better off urban dweller who benefited. At the same time the
financial viability of the marketing parastatals was constantly eroded by
losses. The bold round of price increases in early 1982 (paras. 8 and 9)
brought the producer price within striking distance of the import parity
price and virtually eliminated the consumer subsidy. The Government has
indicated (para. 15) that this represents the first step toward the
introduction of a more flexible pricing and marketing system.
15.       Marketing policy has been dominated by the attempt to establish
Government monopoly. The inadequate resources and capacity of the
marketing parastatals, combined with inappropriate pricing policy, led to
failure to provide sufficient marketing services through official channels
and to very heavy losses in the marketing parastatals. Admitting these
shortcomings, the Government announced in June 1982 that the exclusive
marketing monopoly of the parastatals would be removed and the r6le of
competition recognized. Technical assistance has been provided under the
Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project (para. 1.15) to
provide a systematic review of current practice and future options for
marketing. It is likely that the options defined by this study, which will
be discussed with IDA in the context of the Agricultural Institutions
Technical Assistance Project, will include a more clearly defined and
probably more limited role for the state in marketing, and a move to a more
flexible pricing system.



- 80 
Annex 1
Page 6
16.       Input supply has been beset by the inadequacy of transport, weak
institutional arrangements for supply and lack of foreign exchange. As a
result, input usage has dwindled and farmers have reverted to
lower-yielding traditional production systems. The low paddy price has
been used to justify input subsidies, which have been erratically applied;
recently the shortage of subsidy funds has been a major constraint on input
supply. Production of selected seeds is negligible, and little research
has been done on new varieties. The Government has announced its intention
to provide inputs on a full cost recovery basis in those areas where
commercial marketing ensures adequate producer prices, and to phase out
input subsidies in those areas, such as Lac Alaotra, where farmers are
obliged to sell at lower, official, prices. This move has been given
impetus by the recent increase in producer prices. At the same time the
Government has moved to give priority to the transport of essential inputs
on the railways. Arrangements for seed production nationwide are being
reorganized with UNDP assistance, and the rehabilitation of the national
rice seed collection center is proposed under the present Project (para.
4,06). The institutional arrangements and programs for research will be
reviewed under the Agricultural Institutions Project. These actions
represent important first steps toward improving input supply.
17.       Due to poor repayment rates (para. 1.11), institutional credit
has become increasingly hard to get and farmers have had to revert to
traditional, often costly lenders. The impact of this on production has
been limited as inputs have been scarce, but the relaunch of credit pari
passu with the increasing availability of inputs is imperative. This issue
was examined during appraisal with BTM and MPARA, and agreement reached
that future agricultural credit operations would be directed largely to
individuals on the recommendation of the extension service. BTM has
drafted a protocol defining the form and extent of the program proposed for
the Project area (para. 5.14) and it is expected that actions taken to
improve productivity in the rice sub-sector as a whole will gradually
strengthen agricultural programs and allow the extension of this form of
credit throughout the country.
18.       The performance of the numerous parastatals responsible for
agricultural services notably regional development, extension and input
services has become a critical problem. The current patchwork system of
diverse institutions from almost universally poor management and abysmal
financial performance. Supervision of and support to parastatals by
Government ministries is very weak and erratic. In recent policy
statements the Government has stated its recognition of these critical
problems, and has initiated an action program supported under the
Agricultural Institutions Project. Rehabilitation plans are being
implemented for some key parastatals, involving restructuring of the
institutional framework, management reforms, firing of redundant personnel,



- 81 -
Annex 1
Page 7
injection of adequate capital and tailoring activities to make them
profitable. With further support from the Agricultural Institutions
Project, the Government will be reviewing other parastastals, strengthening
training programs and reinforcing MPARA's supervision of these agencies.
The problem of poor cost recovery which has plagued the irrigation
management parastatals should be resolved by the measures the Government is
currently implementing under the Irrigation Law (para. 1.14).
19.       Action on these key constraints is clearly not in itself a
sufficient condition to increase paddy output. However these actions taken
together with the reorientation of the Government investment policy provide
the necessary preconditions for the restoration of growth in the sub-sector
and provide an adequate context for investments such as that under the
proposed Project to be productive. In order to ensure that the
constructive dialogue between IDA and Government continues, Government
will be asked to consult annually with IDA during the Project
implementation period on issues relating to the rice and irrigation
sub-sectors (para. 2.11).



MADAGASCAa
LAC ALAOTRA RICE INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND AGRARIAN REFORM
Organization Chart
Advisors                                                   rvt  Secretary'a 
lgepectore                         l                               ffice      
Rice Sector                                      - cre ary                             Agric.Ed.,& Training Unit
Coor4inaktion Unit                                      Ger-                                 _
- External Relations Unit
Agrarian Reform and_
Cooperative Assistance                                                                     -  Parastatal Supervision
Agricultural    Agricultural    Rural Infra-           Input and                             GnrlDepartment of
Planning         Extension        Structure         Conditioning                        Administration                                 Livestock             Water, Forestry 6.
ept.                               Dunit.                                                                                                Dept.              Soil Conservation
Economic           Plant Pro-        _rrig. Unit       Marketing                         Financial Unit                             Prod. Studies and           Protection _
Studies Unit       tection Unit                        unit                                                                         Support Unit              -nervation Unit
Programuming    -Research            Management       -Seed & Plant Material                                                       -Vsteriniary Unit             orest Products
Unit               Support &         Unit               Production Unit                  Legal Unit                                                                  Unit
-Operations         Liio  Ui          E ural Worka       Agric. Machinery and              Logistic Unit                            -Livestock & Marine           Iland Fisheries 6
Evaluation,        Supervisory       Unit               on-farm equipsent Unit                                                      Fisheries Unit               Fish pond Unit
Monitoring         Unit                                                                                                                  
& control                                               Quality Control and                                                                                                   
Unieutua         A8rvicltual    Prol Inc tal           Iprocesang Unitr                                                             Pr_s                         Dparolnct      Uni           pio
Extension        Infrastructure                                                                                     Livestock                     for Water, Forestry 6
Unit             unit                 - ProvinU ial Input and                                                       Unit                          and Soil Conservation
L uAgricultural                                         CoUnditioning Unit
Statistics        I
Unit                                                    Provincial Conditioning
Provincial                              Controller
Plant Protection
Cont roller



- 83 -
Chart 2
MADAGASCAR
LAC ALAOTRA RICE INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
SOMALAC ORGANIZATION - 1981
General
Manager
Finance       1                                    Personnel and
and Accounts                                          Administration
[D     irection                    Direction       1           Direction
Infrastructure and      Agricultural Production         Processing and
Land D,evelopment            and Extension                 Marketing
Technical                  Cooperatives               Marketing
-{ Central Workshop |    J   Agricultural                Rice Mill I
CentraI  Workshop            Productioni
Equipment                   Animal                    Rice Mill 11
and Supplies               Production                  R     M _  
Supplies and
Training
World Bank-24002



- 84 -
LAC ALAOTRA RICE INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
GAILAC ORCANIZATION UNDER THE PROJECT
-1        f fi                        <~~~7-1-17.7
Si  LX ' ~~~~ X X    -  E
E|_    EL=             e ete



MADAGASCAR
LAC ALAOTRA RICE INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
PROJET D'INTENSIFICATION RIZICOLE AU LAC ALAOTRA
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE / CALENDRIER D'EXECUTION
1982          1983          1984          1985          1986          1987
ACTIVITES                                                                                         --               ACTIVITES
12 3  4  1  2 13 14   1  2  3 4   1  2  3  4  1  2 3   4  1  2  3- 4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                I|       M -  -         -      -m        m  -_ -  -. mm  ---             I    ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
PROCUREMENT AND DELIVERY                                                                                          ACHAT ET LIVRAISON
EQUIPMENT                               Wr                                                                        EQUIPEMENT
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION                        .  --         m  m  -  -  -  -  -  -  -                          REHABILITATION RESEAUX
IMPROVEMENT TRADITIONAL                                       I1,000 ha             2,000 ha ,            3.000 ha AMELIORATION RESEAUX            Un
SCHEMES                                             -      m      m  m  -  m        -  m      m  -  m _     -    TRADITIONNELS                     I
SEED PRODUCTION                                                                                   J      1 r_   _ -  . -  -  -  -  _ -  -  _ -  -  -  PRODUCTION SEMENCES
PROCUREMENT AND DELIVERY                                                                                          ACHAT ET LIVRAISON
FIRST FARM INPUTS                                                                                                 PREMIERS INTRANTS AGRICOLES
PILOT ACTIVITIE-S                                           m      -m        -      m-m-m-                    - ACTIVITES PILOTES
STUDIES                                          r-         -             -  -                   . m  m  -  m     ETUDES
r-t
Implementation / Ex6cution
Vt''A  Procurement and delivery / Achat et livzaison
World Bank - 23432



7?                              i~~~~~~~~44~                              4                                        4S                                                       JJNE
Antormbaku
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
NOSSI-BE 
Ooj.r IBRD pr.eecfn                         Poved R-ed,                                              Hell-vnle0
MAJOR  CRO.PS                               A!1 Weoate, Roads                                                         eon 
Ven;.Io                      Mon-qermarent ~~Roods                                     -
-14'                 P.Pepen--e                                   Ra[roods
Acoes                   e)e     ~~~~~~A,vp.ts                                                                                             i~nt
co"-0f                                        - - sontet  cmPe, near)                      0    0OAe
Pots D. Cop                                 Fort-ry Beonor
NOTE~ Rtoe ord C.tfle o,e d ntrioted                                                                                  m         Prtrn 
rhn-oph,,p the ~c,,,,ry
0  50       100      16       20C        5                          MaihaogPote 
Cl           SO             120            150                    _AOt"I
t6~~~~~ ~MIL ES                               .-            ec                     OtPetn                                                                  yrnr
-' ~~~~~-- ~~KM 360
n- .     er eve
-  'In ofenobe                                   /~~K A 1
e.                                                                         Fcnandrc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
TsrnOoncmcndidya                       t                        0oe
-20'                                                                                                                                                                                           2 0)"
-               fonndpno      Mo~~~~~noinjory
22'                                                                                                                                                                                             2
P2-
FaraaceangaPnn                                    r ,dg-n toaphntoaat
-n enmePmn  t        n
non 50ss'omOntt'o
nOrO~~~~~~~~~~~~~eaplnatOsotetttOa
-b-
1421                                      4,4'                                     46'                                      48'



TANZANIA                                    1                                                     MADAGASCAR
(\-N'8   ICOMOROS                                        LAKE ALAOTRA AGRICULTURAL INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
?MAaAW/ <Xv '              '  --Ax                                             PROJET D'/NTENSIF/CAT/ON AGR/COLE
DU LAC ALA0TRA
+  Antanaror/vo  17th5             :                                                                                                  17'55
MADAGASCAR
f 0 0                               A/9ORA4jAMEO~~~~~~~AMBAVORY                X
4eols~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C _ad toocano  ~~ 
, 0 '   0   t;   )t00             Anolovonduo      XV~OHIM^ENAKELY
J  Am__ Rrjonohory                                                                              ANDROMBA
|                ? ~~ tV     0 )      r  . 9X,  00 f0Amboroinpotsy                ~~~~IMERIMAr    DR     O ROS
SAFLA,,t4AtOro'
A  bohitrLar 'a, aortt, IC                                      / A A/NOVOCA
t'30. L5 /AroAtaMFra'otr
AM PA RAFAR AVG      RAVO    ; z                 0                 =         0V K K
f,, L.$3 AIRt  P                             :1,,                                         0                    /
AMBATOSORATRA
O-/paged Dv SiOM/ALAC
TRADNTONA. IRRGAT ON SCHEMES
SUPEHVRISEE BY SDE
Arip-kely                                                                                                                      PEttIMETRES  'I//RR GAT/Or,
Atnbopgolova     - R   .   j    0        X    y      :                  ;                                     TRAC/TlONNELS SLPERVISES PAR SDR
: A'-E                                                                                MOD       9GA,itSEMES
Arboi. N''1...for.i'y               '                                                            a \I a CaCa               SINEMhsinoR.S   NGA S,t  i.r'iR.4/A7OA
XFr55F22ARj,qyr--,                                                                               x         MANAGED BY SOMALAC
reD/Car  .aa        FFR,'/MSFTRL,5 AMEtFGALCES GENE~S
Mohoridoz                                                                                                                          P 7  FAR SGSAAoAC
I                    *.,/- i: I/fi7.t/F   \ / C/A\S ROADSN CANALS
VArNS DRAI/SAGE CANALS
R       ,F  AHWI                                                                                                             `A*  'Aff  X   =  S7.fAFCV7
I 37 SAABFN             . /                                                                  Arbl,trnn                         FOA LA LIX CA GS/N £35 4
PIRC'ECTGO\ DIKES
C NC/ES /1 SE )FLE71op/<        /7'OG
SARAMAC/[A  N/AA
LACS
SakaAaoaLara                                                      ... 0<  "/"0O  /    Amoorr _7                                 ASSNFiV  ,:reou e7csnft.j
Anrhohrtromby  \ -                                   YJ       /      0  rI~~~~~~~~AAAGALAZA               B/PLE
BAt                                              Y        f                                                   SWA1M P
-~'   AMBATONDRAZAKGA                           1N/LEAIS
BEJOFO  AoboFimeoo       BO/BCaRG4OA"g4                       ~~~~~~~~~~~AP/N01/GAVrFSCANA      CL/NI' S ll,AC  ES
ROSCADS ANr TRACKrS
'IA                                           ,                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA LWAaG
IALA                              <
C/os~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
Na-> \   t          t              g rb                                          N' aN o^ePlita/ r f'. a-sea8c; ar0
.ci ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~E J<aa Oat ca.r0 \raa to'30                                                                  D   



