Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqpt No. P-6121-UR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED US DOLLAR SINGLE CURRENCY LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$35.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 3, 1993
FILE C()PY
Report No: P-   6121 UR
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = peso
US$1.0        = 4.26 pesos
(as of 10/03/1993).
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ABS          =   Asset-backed Securities
ANCAP        =  Petroleum, Alcohol and Cement Entity
BCU          =  Central Bank of Uruguay
BHU          =  Uruguay's Mortgage Bank
BROU         =  Bank of the Reptiblica Oriental del Uruguay
CD           =  Certificates of Deposit
DINAMA       =  National Environmental Office
FIL          =  Financial Sector Loan
IDB          =  Inter American Development Bank
ICB          =  International Competitive Bidding
IMF          =  International Monetary Fund
LIBOR        =  London Interbank Offered Rate
MBS          =  Morttgage Backed Securities
MGAP         =  Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fishery
MIE          =   Mlinistry of Industry and Energy
OPP          =   Office of Budgeting and Planing
PCR          =  Project Completion Report
PFI          =  Participating Financial Institutions
PPAR         =   Project Performance Audit Report
PSA          =  Private Sector Assessment
SAR          =  Staff Appraisal Report
OSE          =   National Sanitation Authority
UTE          =   National Power Entity
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Uruguay
Beneficiaries:     Accredited Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) and
medium and large private enterprises with revenues
predominantly in US dollars.
Amount:            US$35.0 million equivalent.
Terms:             US dollar single currency loan, repayable over 15 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based
variable interest rate for US dollar single currency loans.
Onlending:         The Republic of Uruguay, using the Central Bank (BCU) as its
agent, would onlend the proposed loan resources to accredited
PFIs in US dollars. The interest rates charged to the PFIs
would be a market reference rate (the average interest rate on
180 days CDs in US dollars) plus a term premium, provided
such rate is not less than the cost of borrowed funds to the
Borrower through the BCU, plus a spread to cover BCU's
operative costs. PFIs would onlend these funds in US dollars to
enterprises at LIBOR-based variable interest rates. PFIs and
their customers would freely agree on the spreads on the LIBOR
based interest rates and terms for the subloans. hlaturities
would conform with the maturities of subloans made by the
PFIs. The maximum size of subloans would be US$5.0
million; they would have a maturity of 3 to 10 years for goods
and works; I to 3 years for technical assistance; 3 to 12 years
for leases; and a maximum grace period of 3 years. A technical
assistance component of US$600,000 would be used to prepare
legal and technical studies to facilitate the use of movable goods
as collateral and the securitization of mortgage loans.
Other Financing:  Parallel credit line from the Inter American Development Bank
(IDB) of US$90.0 million as a currency pool loan, repayable
over 20 years including 4 years of grace at IDB's standard
variable interest rate.
Financing Plan:   PFIs and subborrowers:  USS  55.0 million
IBRD                           35.0 million
IDB                            90.0 million
Total:        US$  180.0 million
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Proiect Catezorv: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal   In place of a SAR, the Bank is using IDB's Loan Proposal
Report:           PR-1877, approved by IDB's Board on November 30, 1992.
MIap:             IBRD 19541.



into compulsory rescheduling of debts. To avoid a repetition of the banking crisis,
the Government has embarked on a major financial sector reform with support from
the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). A SAL II, approved in
1989, supported strengthening of the framework for banking prudential regulation,
bringing it to international standards; improvement of BCU's structure and staff for
banking supervision; rationalization of the operations of the largest public bank-
Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU), which accounts for about half
of total commercial credit in Uruguay; and rehabilitation and privatization of three
of the intervened banks and liquidation of the fourth. An IDB Financial Sector
Adjustment loan, approved in 1991, supported further measures to strengthen
banking supervision and regulation and the reorganization of public banks. The
Financial Intermediation Law was amended in late 1992 to strengthen the regulatory
powers of the BCU, and extend the regulatory framework to public banks.
5.            The financial sector reforms have not yet extended significantly the
maturity of bank loans and the capital market remains underdeveloped. Although
Uruguay has attracted financial capital from neighboring countries to its banking
system, most of this inflow is short-term and is invested abroad. Credit to the
domestic private sector concentrates on consumer loans and short-term trade
financing. Lack of term financing could slow the investment drive for export
production that should accompany a trade liberalization program.
6.            Proiect Obiectives. The general objectives of the project would be
both to help increase production of goods and services that generate foreign
exchange revenues and enhance the efficiency of the productive and financial
sectors. Increased production and allocative efficiency would be achieved by timely
provision of term financing to enable the private sector to take advantage of the
liberalized trade regime. Increased efficiency of the financial sector would be
achieved through the development by the BCU of norms to regulate and supervise
medium and long-term credit operations and through the project's technical
assistance that would address some of the regulatory constraints to credit access in
Uruguay.
7.            Proiect Description. The proposed operation would be a US dollar
single currency loan to the Republic of Uruguay. The Bank has determined that the
borrower meets the eligibility criteria for single currency loans, as described in
Annex I. The operation would have two components: (a) a Line of Credit of
US$34.4 million to finance private investment, associated permanent working capital
and leasing operations--excluding purchase of land and housing--of viable enterprises
that have revenues predominantly in US dollars; and (b) a Technical Assistance
(TA) component of US$0.6 million to finance studies aimed at improving
regulations on the use of movable assets as collateral, computerization of the cattle
registry; and the securitization of mortgage loans as described in Annex 11.
8.           This US$35.0 million loan would parallel finance a US$90 million
loan from the IDB approved in November 1992. IDB's loan is a global line of
credit that is open to a broader universe of enterprises than the Bank's proposed
loan, which would be restricted to enterprises meeting the eligibility criteria for
single currency loans. Enterprises eligible to participate in the Bank's loan could be



MEMORANDUM AND RECONIMIENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
FOR A PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.           The following memorandum and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Uruguay for US$35.0 million is submitted for your approval.
This loan would be a US dollar single currency loan under the pilot program
approved by the Executive Directors on February 9, 1993. The loan would be
repayable in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard LIBOR-
based interest rate for US dollar single currency loans.
2.            Countrv/Background. After a period of stagnation during the second
part of the 1980's, Uruguay's economy has begun to grow; real GDP grew 2
percent in 1991 and 7 percent in 1992. This new growth has been the result of the
Government's efforts in balancing public finances and the increased aggregate
demand originating from Argentina. The stabilization measures have been supported
by two IMF stand-by programs since December 1990. A "Brady" deal, transacted
in February 1991, substantially reduced the external debt burden. The
Government's program, together with lower external and domestic interest rates,
succeeded in bringing the public sector budget to equilibrium in 1992. Despite the
fiscal tightening, inflation remains high (about 59 percent in 1992, down from 81
percent in 1991), due to large capital inflows from Argentina. The Government also
has carried out some structural reforms, including trade liberalization and financial
reform, and has embarked on a modest program to reduce the size of the state,
including plans to privatize some public enterprises.
3.            Advances in trade liberalization have been significant. In successive
stages, tariff rates were reduced from a range of 10 to 40 percent to a schedule of 6
to 20 percent by January 1993. Tariffs vis-a-vis its MERCOSUR partners have
been reduced according to the schedule agreed under the Asuncion Treaty of March
1991, expected to lead to a common market at the end of 1994--or to a free trade
zone, which seems more likely at this stage. The system of reference prices on
which tariff rates are applied has also been significantly liberalized.
4.            During the mid-1970's, the financial sector underwent
comprehensive deregulation that eliminated restrictions on capital movements,
exchange transactions, and interest rates. Also, restrictions were lifted on entry into
the banking business and on exposure to foreign exchange risks. This liberalization
was not supplemented with prudential regulations, which contributed to a debt and
banking crisis at the beginning of the eighties. In response to the crisis, the Central
Bank of Uruguay1' (BCU) acquired the bad loans of banks with solvency problems
and intervened four commercial banks. Also, laws were enacted that forced banks
I/Banco Central del Uruguay



the subloans, subject to the following parameters: maximum size of subloans would
be US$5.0 million; they would have a maturity of 3 to 10 years for goods and
works, 1 to 3 years for technical assistance, and 3 to 12 years for leases; they would
have a maximum grace period of 3 years for subloans. It is expected that once the
credit line begins to revolve, new loans would also be made to enterprises that earn
predominantly US dollar revenues. Subloans would be a maximum of 70 percent of
the investment project cost; the remaining 30 percent would be covered by the
subborrower and the PFIs. Each PFI's first two subloans and leases would be
reviewed and approved by the Bank. The Bank loan would use the mechanisms and
channels already established by the IDB loan, with minor changes to accommodate
for differences in procurement and disbursement practices of both institutions (as
described in Annex IV). A Special Account of US$2.5 million would be established
in BCU to facilitate disbursements. A project account would also be set up in the
BCU for the repayments and interest earned on the intermediary loans. The
Borrower would be allowed to relend funds to PFIs from the project account
substantially on the same terms and conditions and for the same purposes as the
Bank loan. The Office of Budgeting and Planning (OPP), which handles other Bank
technical assistance loans, would handle the administrative aspects of the TA
component. However, the BCU would handle the technical aspects including
writing terms of reference, selection of consultants and supervision of the studies.
12.               Schedule A provides details of project costs and financing plan;
Schedule B provides the breakdown of the project by procurement methods and
disbursement categories, and the disbursement profile; Schedule C provides the
timetable of the project;and Schedule D provided the Status of Bank Group
operations in Uruguay. Given the advanced status of IDB's loan, we propose to use
IDB's loan documentation, which we found satisfactory, instead of an appraisal
report.
13.               Project Sustainabilitv. The project's design contributes to its
policy and financial sustainability. First, to prevent the continuation of the loan in
case of policy reversals or deterioration of the investment climate, the Loan
Agreement has a review clause described in para. 9. Second, the fact that PFIs take
the credit risk, carry out the appraisal of the projects, and are free to determine the
terms of the subloans, within the stated parameters, ensures the likelihood of the
project's financial viability. Third, there would be periodic reports and supervision
to assess the status of the loan.
14.               Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement. The design
of this loan reflects lessons learned from financial intermediation loans (FILs) in
Uruguay (Loan 1176-UR and Loan 1930-UR) and other countries in the last ten
years. The most important elements for the success of these loans are a stable
macroeconomic environment, a free financial sector with market-determined interest
rates, and a strong regulatory framework and institutions that ensure the solvency of
financial institutions. Successful FILs also establish the second-tier function in
institutions that do not have direct lending activities; eliminate the project appraisal
role of the second-tier bank, but strengthen its ex-post supervision; provide for
project appraisals to be carried out by the intermediary banks which carry the



cofinanced by the IDB's loan. The BCU would be the executing agency of the
Borrower acting as a second-tier bank. The Borrower, through BCU, would lend
and disburse the resources--in US dollars--to participating financial institutions
(PFIs)--banks, finance and leasing companies and savings cooperatives--that meet
agreed eligibility criteria. PFIs, in turn, would onlend the resources to private firms
in the same currency. PFIs would assume the credit risks and be responsible for the
selection and evaluation of subprojects.
9.            To ensure no retrogression in recent efforts to improve the
.nvestment climate, the Loan Agreement includes a review clause: after one half of
the loan has been committed or after a year of effectiveness--whichever comes first--
new commitments would continue subject to an IDB/Bank/Government positive
assessment of the Government's adherence to financial and trade policy reforms
supported by previous Bank and IDB sector operations. The principal indicators of
no retrogression in trade liberalization would be that the variations in the Borrower's
maximum import tariffs and in the level of QRs have not affected adversely the
private sector's relative prices. The principal indicator of no retrogression in
financial liberalization would be that there has been progress in regulation and
supervision of private commercial banks and financial institutions in Uruguay. In
addition, imposition of interest rate controls at any time during project
implementation would be cause for suspension. During the review, the Bank would
also assess the progress achieved in carrying out the objectives of the project and the
effectiveness of DINAMA in certifying that all investment projects financed by the
project comply with all the environmental norms and regulations in Uruguay (as
described in para. 17).
10.                Proiect Financing. The project financing would be as follows:
IBRD: US$35 million; IDB:.US$90 million; PFIs, other sources of credit and/or
project owners would contribute US$55 million to the financing package.
11.               Proiect Implementation. The loan is expected to take three
years to commit and four years to disburse. PFIs would be selected by the BCU
according to eligibility criteria consistent with Bank's guidelines about financial
sector operations. The eligibility criteria will include compliance with the technical
ratios--including net equity and provisioning levels--required by BCU's prudential
banking regulations, possession of adequate project appraisal capability, and
confirmation that a substantial number of its clients earn revenues in US dollars or
that their revenues are clearly linked to US dollar prices. Annex III shows the
equity position of Uruguay's commercial banks. The PFIs would bear the subloan
credit risk and be responsible for subproject appraisal and supervision. Subloans to
the PFIs would be in US dollars--IDB's loan will also be onlent in US dollars to the
PFIs. The interest rate charged to the PFIs would be a market rate based on the
higher of: (a) the average 180 day US dollar CD rate of the five financial institutions
that register the highest volume of deposits, plus a spread that will include a term
premium--calculated following a methodology agreed with the Bank, or (b) the cost
of borrowed funds to the Borrower through the BCU plus a spread to cover the
operative costs of the BCU. PFIs would onlend and disburse these funds in US
dollars to enterprises at LIBOR-based variable rates. PFIs and their customers
would freely agree on the spreads on the LIBOR-based interest rates and terms for



from the concerned agencies, or that the investment project does not require to
comply with any current environmental norms. This certification will be a
prerequisite for granting a subloan. DINAMA is preparing an Environmental
Manual describing the procedures that the investment enterprises have to follow to
obtain DINAMA's certification and establishing a fast track procedure for the
granting of this certification (as described in Annex VI). Preparation of the
Environmental Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. This Manual would be distributed to the PFIs. DINAMA, as part of
its general mandate, could advice the prospective subborrowers on the types of
permits required from other environmental agencies. The effectiveness of the
procedures followed by DINAMA to ensure that the subprojects comply with the
environmental norms in Uruguay would be reviewed jointly by the IDB and the
Bank, during the mid-term review and during supervision. DINAMA's capabilities
will be strengthened by a Technical Assistance Program currently awaiting IDB's
Board consideration.
19.               Agreed Actions. During negotiations, agreements were reached
with the Uruguayan authorities on the following: (i) on procurement, disbursement,
monitoring and supervision, auditing and reporting arrangements--including dates--
and procedures described in Annex IV; (ii) on a pause on commitments for a mid-
term review of the project and on the linking of further commitments to new
subloans under the project to a positive assessment of the Government's progress in
carrying out the project, in regulating and supervising private financial institutions,
in maintaining a free trade regime (para. 9), and in ensuring that DINANMA is
carrying out its obligation to certify that the subprojects comply with Uruguay's
environmental norms; (iii) that the BCU would handle the technical aspects of the
TA component and that the Office of Budgeting and Planning (OPP) would handle
the administrative aspects of this component; (iv) that DINAMA will have the
responsibility to certify that each investment project financed by Bank and IDB funds
has complied with all applicable environmental protective norms in Uruguay. Loan
effectiveness would be conditioned to: modification of the project's Credit
Regulation Manual--initially designed for the IDB loan--to accommodate the Bank's
procurement and disbursement procedures; preparation by DINAMA of an
Environmental Manual (para. 17); signing of an agreement between the Government
and the BCU regulating the implementation of the TA component; and signing of
participation agreements between BCU and three different PFIs. Given the close
collaboration between IDB and the Bank on this proposed loan, IDB staff attended
some of the negotiation sessions.
20.               Benefits. The major benefits of the proposed project would be
increased investment and production. The provision of term financing at the time
Uruguay is opening its trade regime to other MERCOSUR countries, should enable
the private sector to undertake the necessary investments for export production,
enterprise restructuring and modernization needed to make Uruguay's private sector
more competitive in the international and regional markets. The proposed loan
would also help commercial banks to gain experience in long term financing of
projects.



credit risk; and establish clear safeguards in the legal agreements against policy
reversals (see Annex V).
15.               Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank's assistance strategy
for Uruguay--to be discussed by the Board in January 11, 1993--is to provide
selective support to the government in: (i) the private sector's adjustment to
competition in an increasingly open economy, (ii) improving human capital
formation by enhancing the efficiency of public sector activities in health and
education; (iii) addressing some critical environmental issues; and (iv) modest efforts
at public sector reforms through ongoing and projected technical assistance work.
Concerning Bank assistance for private sector development, the main focus is to
support the private sector's ability to take advantage of an increasingly open
economy through: (i) financial sector deepening, (ii) agricultural diversification, and
(iii) infrastructure development. By providing timely availability of term financing,
this project would help ensure that the benefits of the ongoing reforms materialize
and that the reform agenda is maintained. The strategies of the Bank and IFC in
Uruguay are complementary. While the Bank uses its greater resources to help
overcome obstacles to credit access and other financial sector problems, IFC
concentrates in promoting new products such as leasing and strengthening individual
financial institutions.
16.               The opening of the economy will stimulate investment for new
projects and industrial and agricultural expansion and reconversion. A survey
conducted by the BCU among private banks indicates a possible demand for long-
term loans of about US$200 million in the next 3 to 4 years. BROU estimates that
financing requirements for expansion and reconversion of its clients alone could
amount to about US$350 million during that period. The combined financing of the
Bank and the IDB loans would amount to US$125 million, well below the estimated
credit demand. By providing additional long-term financing, the project would help
raise Uruguay's flagging investment levels.
17.               The project would also complement the Bank's work with the
Government on ways to ensure that effective demand for funds is strengthened. A
Private Sector Assessment (PSA) for Uruguay, has recently identified that lack of
availability of long-term financing is an obstacle to private sector investment and
growth. The PSA also identified a number of regulatory constraints to credit access.
In addition to increasing the availability of long-term funds, the loan, through its
technical assistance component, would address some of the regulatory obstacles to
credit access identified in the PSA.
18.               Environmental Aspects. This project has an environmental
category B rating. The Ministry of Housing, Territorial Ordinance and
Environment's National Environmental Office (DINAMA) has central responsibility
for the development of environmental norms and their enforcement. Several other
ministerial departments and government agencies also issue environmental norms
and review the environmental impact of investment projects in their respective
sectors. DINAMA will have the responsibility to certify that each investment
project financed by Bank and IDB funds has complied with all applicable
environmental protective norms in Uruguay and has obtained all the required permits



-8-
Schedule A
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs: 1/                            Local        Foreign       Total
US$ Million
Credit Component                                 55.0         123.4        178.4
Training and Technical Assistance                               0.6          0.6
Inspection and Vigilance                                        1.0          1.0
To-tgl                            55-,0        125.0        180.0
Financing Plan
PFIs and Subborrowers                            55.0           --          55.0
Proposed Loan:
IBRD                                            --           35.0         35.0
IDB                                                          90.0         90.0
Total Funds                                      55.0         125.0        180.0
1/ Net of taxes and duties



21.               The Borrower through BCU would lend and disburse the loan in
US dollars to PFIs, which, in turn would lend in the same currency to enterprises
with revenues predominantly in US dollars. Therefore, PFIs would not bear any
currency risk and business enterprises would bear minimal currency risk.
Borrowing on a US dollar single currency loan basis will eliminate the risk of
exchange rate movements in Japanese yen and Deutsche mark group currencies
relative to the US dollars that the Republic of Uruguay or the PFIs or the enterprises
could have borne with the Bank's currency pool loan.
22.               Risks. A major risk to the project would be a deterioration of
the Government's macro-management, which would dampen investment and
borrowing. The adoption of an enhanced surveillance program with the IMF,
currently under discussion, would help lower inflation expectations. Also, the loan's
mid-term review pause would ensure that commitments would continue subject to
satisfactory review of the conditions for private sector development. Another risk
could be low participation of private banks as financial intermediaries. Past forced
refinancings of problem loans have made private banks reluctant to lend long term to
local enterprises, particularly in agriculture. This risk is reduced by BCU's decision
to challenge the constitutionality of the last forced refinancing, recent changes in
judicial procedures, and ongoing Bank work to reduce constraints to private sector
development. A related risk could be the possibility that BROU could become the
main user of the credit line. To reduce this risk, BROU would not be able to
intermediate more than 50 percent of the credit line component. Finally, the success
of the project will depend on the financial strength of the PFIs. The financial
strength of Uruguay's commercial banks is ensured by the strengthening of BCU's
banking regulatory and supervisory function supported by IDB's Financial Sector
Loan, already disbursed.
23.               While the onlending arrangements of this loan protect the
Republic of Uruguay and the PFIs from interest rate risk, PFIs could face increased
credit risk if sharp increases in LIBOR rates caused subborrowers to be unable to
meet their debt obligations. However, the Government has determined that these
risks are less significant than the currency risks posed by a currency pool loan.
24.               Recommendations. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend the Executive
Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
December 3, 1993



- 10 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds and Disbursements
Category                   Amount         % of Expenditures to
US $ million     be Financed
(1) Subloans                                  34.4   in case of subloans 100% of
the amounts disbursed by
PFIs; in case of leases, 100%
of the amount disbursed by
PFIs.
(2) Technical Assistance including
Transp. and Equipment
(a) Consulting                               0.25   100%
(b) Equipment                                0.35   100% of foreign expenditures
and 60% of local expenditures
Total                          35.0   (ex-factory costs).
Estimated Bank Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year:        1994    1995   1996   1997
Annual                       5.0    13.0  12.0    5.0
Cumulative                   5.0    18.0  30.0   35.0



-9-
SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of 2
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Methods
(in US$ million)
Category              Other        N.B.F.        Total
Cost
(1) Subloans
Goods and Worksl/              49.40         130.0      179.40
(34.40)        (0.0)      (34.40)
Technical Assistance
Equipment/                         0.35                       0.35
installation2/                    (0.35)                     (0.35)
Studies3/                          0.25                       0.25
(0.25)                    (0.25)
Total                       50.0         130.0        180.0
(35.0)        (0.0)       (35.0)
Note:     Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the bank loan.
N.B.F.:    Not Bank Financed (IDB, PFIs, Subborrowers).
1/  Established commercial practices
2/  Limited International Bidding
3/  Bank's Guidelines of August 1981



- 12 -
Schedule D
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Operations in Uruguay
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of September 30. 1993
Loan      |  Fiscal                                                      US$ Million
Number       Year       Borrower             Purpose            Amounts (less cancellations)
Bank       Undisbursed
27 Loans fully disbursed                                               731.2           0.0
2622        1986     UTE a!         Power Sector Rehab.              45.2           36.0
2802        1987     ANCAP _/    Refinery Modernization              24.4            6.5
2921        1988     Uruguay       Water Supply Rehab.               22.3            9.2
3021        1989     Uruguay       Transport                         80.8           57.5
3082        1989     Uruguay       2nd Technical Assistance           6.5            3.5
3131        1990     Uruguay       2nd Agricultural Dev.             65.0            5.1
3221        1990     UTE           Power Modernization               62.5           27.7
3517        1993     Uruguay       Public Enterprise Reform           11.0           7.9
TOTAL                                                                1,048.9
of which has been repaid                                               401.5
TOTAL NOW OUTSTANDING                                                  647.4
AMOUNT SOLD                                                              4.6
of which has been repaid                                                 4.6
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK                                                 642.8
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                                     153.4
a/ National Power Company
b/ National Oil Company



- 11 -
Schedule C
Page 2 of 2
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:                  7 months
Prepared by:                            World Bank/IDB
First Bank Mission:                     April 21, 1993
Appraisal Mission Departure:            May 3, 1993
Post-Appraisal Mission Departure:       N/A
Negotiations:                           November 1-5, 1993
Planned Date of Effectiveness:          March 11, 1994
List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs:        Industrial Development and Export Expansion
Project (Loanl176-UR); PCR issued June 1982.
Second Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1930-UR);
PCR issued December 1990.



- 14 -
ANNEX I
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
ELIGIBILITY FOR SINGLE CURRENCY LOAN
1.         The Bank loan to Uruguay would be in US dollars under the Single
Currency Loan Program adopted by the Bank on February 9, 1993. The Bank has
determined that Uruguay meets the eligibility criteria for single currency loans, since
the prospective participating financial intermediaries present the following features:
* have a need for a single currency loan to match revenues earned in that
currency;
* are managed autonomously of the government and are expected to
service Bank debt from their own revenues; and
* manage the risks associated with the foreign currency composition of their
assets and liabilities.
2.         Need for dollar single currency loan to match revenues in dollars.
As agreed with the Government of Uruguay, the Bank loan would be onlent and
disbursed in US dollars to participating financial institutions (PFIs), which would
onlend the funds in the same currency to eligible subborrowers. Loan repayments
and interest payments by PFIs would be made in US dollars, as would be the
repayments from subborrowers1. The reason for lending the Bank funds in US
dollars is to allow the PFIs to pass through US dollars to clients who earn revenues
in US dollars, thereby allowing them to match their US dollar assets with their US
dollar liabilities. To qualify for dollar subloans, investment enterprises must have:
(i) revenues in dollars, (ii) prospective revenues in dollars; or (iii) revenues whose
pricing is linked to dollar prices.
3.         The Bank loan would finance predominantly export-oriented projects.
Uruguay is a major exporter of agricultural and agroindustrial products. The large
majority of these exports are traded in US dollars. About 54 percent of Uruguay's
exports go to the USA and to other Latin American countries which trade in US
dollars. Exports to other markets are also mostly in US dollars; according to the
BCU, about 97 percent of export proceeds in 1992 were in US dollars. For those
exports that are not, the standard practice among exporting enterprises is to
undertake foreign exchange transactions immediately upon receipt of non-US dollar
sales proceeds to convert them into US dollar revenues, in order to limit their
exposure to future exchange rate movements relative to the US dollar. The Bank
loan would finance not only direct exporters with revenues in US dollars, but also
indirect exporters producing intermediate goods or services for sale to exporters,
provided that the pricing of indirect exporters' revenues is clearly linked to US
dollar prices. In addition, part of the Bank loan could finance service industries



- 13 -
URUGUTAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Operations in Uruguay
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30. 1993
Fiscal Year                                                                          Original Gross Commitments           Held    Held by       Undisbursed
Committed                 Obligor                Type of Business                                                          by       Partici-     (includirg
IFC       IFC       Pantici-              IFC       pants      Participants)
Loun      Equity     pants      Total
1976          Fabrica Uruguaya de                Tire Manufacturing              3.80                             3.80                                        |
NeumAtiicos S.A. a/
1979          Acodike Supergas S.A. aJ            LPG Bottling                   0.95                             0.95
1979/83/86    Astra Pesquerias Umguayas SA.    Fish and Fish Processing          7.79       2.25       -         10.04    6.08
1980/89       Sur Invest Casa Bancaris SA.        Money & Capital Market        12.00       0.59      10.00      22.59    1.92
1985          Azucitrus SA.                       Food and Agribusiness         10.40       3.15                 13.55   13.31                          1.26
1990          Migranja SA.                        Food and Agribusiness          2.35       2.00                  4.35    4.35                          0.80
Granja Moro                        Food Manufacturing             3.80             -               3.80    3.75                          1.40
1993          Banco Comrnertcial                  Financial Services             5.00                             5.00    5.00                          4.00
Total Groas ComniimentS b/                                                      46.09       7.99      10.00      64.08
Less: Cancellations, terminations
repayments & sales                                                         19.63       0.04      10.00     29.67
Total Commitments Now Held c/                                                    26.46       7.94      0.00      34.40   34.40         0.00             7.45
Pendirne Commitments
Total Commitments Held and Unsigned Commitmenta                                 26.46        7.94       -        34.40
Total Undisbumsed Conumitments                                                    5.00      0.45        -         8.46
al Investments which have been fuly cancelled, terminated, wntten-otl, soad, rederen repa? or_p_a_d.
bi Gross Comntitments consist of approved and signed projects.
CI Held Commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investments.



- 16 -
ANNEX 11
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
1.          A Technical Assistance component of US$0.6 million would finance
studies and, if recommended by these studies, the drafting of laws aimed at
improving regulations concerning the use of movable goods as collateral and the
securitization of mortgage loans in Uruguay. This component would also finance
the purchase of computer equipment to modernize the registries to permit a more
accurate filing of security interests, but only if the first phase of technical assistance
were satisfactorily completed. The Bank would try to obtain non-reimbursable
funding to finance part of the studies. The Office of Budgeting and Planing (OPP),
which administers other Bank supported technical assistance operations, would
handle the administrative aspects of this component. However, the BCU would
handle the technical aspects of the TA component, including writing terms of
reference, selection of consultants and supervision of the studies. For such
purposes, the Borrower and the BCU would enter into an agreement. Signing of
such agreement would be a condition of effectiveness.
Access to Credit and the Use of Movable Goods as Collateral.
2.          A Bank mission has identified problems in the use of collateral in
Uruguay that restrict access to credit and reduce economic output and growth''. In
general, private lenders are unwilling to lend if the borrower offers as collateral only
movable goods, such as farm machinery, industrial equipment, cattle or inventories.
Private lenders are only willing to lend if the collateral offered is real estate. This
limits the access to credit of the forty-five percent of Uruguayan farmers who do not
own their own land and the many businesses that operate on rented premises. The
unwillingness to lend arises from collateral-related problems: slow and costly judicial
procedures, inadequate legal registries, and legal provisions that limit the type of
property that can be used as collateral. These problems have led the BCU, for
purposes of provisioning, to treat loans secured by movable goods in the same way
that they treat unsecured loans.
3.          The technical assistance component would help define the changes
required to expand the use of collateral. Expanding the use of movable collateral
would require changes in the law that would permit faster seizure and sale of
collateral securing loans in default. These changes might directly regulate such sale
and seizure, introduce court reforms that would speed up existing procedures, or
circumvent existing slow processes through new laws such as those for bonded
warehouses, or reform of the secured transactions law. Expanding the use of
movable collateral would also require modernization, especially computerization, of
1/ H. Fleisig (LACCE) Report of December 14, 1992.



- 15 -
earning revenues in US dollars, such as hotels or enterprises producing for the local
market, provided their products are priced in US dollars and their revenues are in
US dollars. These enterprises have a need for US dollar loans to match their US
dollar revenues. It is expected that once the global credit line begins to revolve,
new loans would be made to enterprises earning revenues predominantly in US
dollars.
4.          The project entities are managed autonomously and are expected to
service Bank debt from their own revenues. The borrower of the Bank loan
would be the Government, but the loan would be intermediated by commercial
banks, with the BCU acting only as a second-tier mechanism. Banco de la
Republica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU), the only public bank allowed to participate
as financial intermediary, would be subject to the same eligibility criteria as the
private banks. BROU is managed independently from the government and is
expected to service its debts from its own revenues. Subborrowers would only be
private enterprises.
5.          The project entities manage the risks associated with the foreign
currency composition of their assets and liabilities. Private commercial banks,
which would intermediate the loan, manage the risks associated with the currency
composition of their assets and liabilities, which are predominantly in US dollars.
In fact, most of these banks are active in off-shore banking for which they
customarily manage these risks. BROU also manages the risks associated with the
foreign currency composition of its assets and liabilities. Prospective subborrowers
are allowed to retain their foreign exchange earnings and manage their currency
risk. With a Bank loan in US dollars, participating financial institutions would not
bear currency risk, and enterprises' currency risk would also be substantially
reduced since the currency of their liabilities and revenues will be better matched.
However, financial institutions would face increased credit risk if sharp increases in
CD rates of LIBOR caused subborrowers to be unable to meet their debt obligations.
The Borrower has determined that these risks are more manageable than the
currency risks it would face with a currency pool loan.



- 18 -
7.          Several problems of housing sector generally, and housing finance
market particularly, have already been identified'. These include the fact that 70
percent of the population could not afford housing loans despite the virtual
monopoly role of the state and subsidizing of housing finance, financial difficulties
of state-owned Banco Hipotecario (BHU). Home owners interested in mortgage
financing face high costs, poor availability and short maturity. On the other hand,
financial intermediaries wanting to enter in the housing business face a number of
problems including: (i) fear of Congressional intervention against creditors; (ii) weak
enforcement through the judicial system; (iii) transfer restrictions and lack of
secondary markets; (iii) restrictive provisions of the Corporate Law; (iv) taxes on
financial transactions; and (v) restrictions on institutional investments.
8.          Besides the problems retarding the mortgage market, securitization of
mortgages also faces several problems. A prudential framework for issuance of
mortgage backed securities (MBS) specifying information disclosure, investor
protection standards, and so forth is missing. Banking supervisors would need to
analyze pass-through structures resulting from securitization, treatment of bank
subsidiaries/affiliates, guarantees or credit enhancements offered by originator banks
to the investors or issuing vehicles, residual risk of default retained, and capital
adequacy requirements for complex securitization transactions. These efforts to
establish a framework will be hampered by shortage of technical skills among
regulators.
9           MBS will also encounter significant problems of marketing and investor
education. Information available on issuers and securities tends to be scant. For
instance, corporations, including those listed on the exchange, do not have any
statutory audit requirement. Only the banks and financial companies subject to BCU
supervision are required to be audited. Professional association of accountants (as
well as of lawyers, doctors) function more like social clubs than professional self-
regulating and licensing bodies. There is no effective punishment for professional
misconduct (save that meted out by the central bank). All this retards a culture of
investment in financial securities and as with the handful of other non-Treasury
securities traded on the market, MBS will encounter substantial skepticism.
Possible Solutions in Developing Housing Mortgaige and MBS Markets
10.        The need to improve the housing stock, the potential for reducing the
high borrowing costs, the potential size of mortgage market, and the scope for
boosting capital markets through introduction of high grade long term securities, all
strongly argue in favor of intervention to improve mortgage market. In Uruguayan
context, MBS are also attractive for a very peculiar reason. The liquidity and safety
of MBS make them highly attractive for individual investment. Large individual
holdings of MBS would provide a political counterweight againstfuture interference
2/Hemant Shah (LATAD) Uruguay: Housing Mortgage Market and Securitization, June 23, 1993.
The Housing Sector Note, 1925-UR, September 1991, and Uruguay: Private Sector Assessment,
11648-UR, Yellow Cover Draft, February 9, 1993.



- 17 -
the registries to permit better and more accurate filing of security interests and the
integration of the cattle registry with the other Uruguayan legal registries. These
same registry improvements would help expand the use of immovable collateral like
real estate for securitized operations.
4.          In light of this background, the following are expected to be the key
elements of the technical assistance component with respect to the use of movable
goods as collateral:
(a)   legal and economic studies that precisely identify the legal, regulatory,
and institutional impediments to seizure and sale of movable collateral
that secures loans in default.
(b)   if recommended by the studies, drafting a revised law of secured
transactions as well as required regulations or procedural changes to
reflect the findings of the earlier legal and economic studies;
(c)   technical studies of the best ways to modernize and integrate the
Uruguayan legal registries and the cattle registry; and the acquisition of
computer equipment, if necessary, but only after the reform of the
environment in which the registries operate.
Housing Securitization.
5.          An important aspect of financial intermediation efficiency is the cost at
which capital is supplied. Among other things, the supply and cost of capital is a
function of the risk of underlying claims, marketability of the instrument, the legal
and regulatory infrastructure underlying the asset or the financial instrument,
collateral associated with the asset, the ease with which the collateral can be
enforced or realized, and the transactions costs of creating and perfecting the
instrument. Securitization improves liquidity and lowers risks, thereby significantly
reducing the rate at which financing is made available.
6.          The technical assistance component aims to examine the changes
required in enabling environment for, and feasibility of, securitization of financial
claims in Uruguay. While all possible applications of securitization--including
housing and commercial real state mortgages, mutual funds, credit cards and other
receivables, equipment and machinery purchases, auto and boat loans, leasing, etc.--
will be examined, primary emphasis will be on real estate mortgage financing. Real
estate and mutual funds typically constitute the most significant areas of
securitization techniques. Of these two, mutual funds are somewhat unimportant at
this stage of Uruguay's capital market.



- 20 -
The technical assistance geared to develop securitization of mortgage loans in
Uruguay would cover the areas described below.
(a)   Design enabling regulation/legislation for issuance of ABS generally,
and more particularly MBS; define type of originators and issuers;
limitations on issuers' activities other than related or incidental to
servicing and collection of mortgages and pass-through of payments to
the investors; prudential provisions necessary to ensure that the
investors would be substantially protected against the bankruptcy of the
vehicle; restrictions on dealings between the originators and the issuers;
specification of minimum credit rating, guarantee and liquidity
requirements.
(b)   Analysis of problems in current and accurate record-keeping of titles,
ownership, mortgages and encumbrances at real estate reeistries.
(c)   Examine investment and other euidelines on pension funds, mutual
funds, severance payments, mutual funds, and other investors affecting
their holding of MBS and ABS generally.
(d)   Analyze and recommend appropriate capital adequacy standards for
MBS originators, issuers and guarantors; and for sale of mortgages
without guarantees, with partial risk-sharing guarantees, with first loss
guarantees, with purchase of subordinated bonds by the originator, and
other forms of originator credit enhancement.
(e)   Examine the feasibility of redefining existing mortgages of BHU on a
market rate basis. Examine fixed and variable rate interest rate linked
to other domestic and international benchmark rates.
(f)    Determination of mortgage products suitable in Uruguay. Designing
prototype home equity loan (for repairs and expansions) and mortgage
instruments (for construction or purchase of homes) with standard loan
terms, requirements of loan:value ratio, payment ability ratio, maturity,
interest rate, original loan amount, qualification, home inspection,
insurance and other processes to standardize mortgages to be
securitized and reduce administrative costs of offering mortgages.
Design of relevant legal and other documentation.
(g)   Design of standardized MBS products, definition of qualifying
mortgages, pass-through and other investment structures, obligations
relating to foreclosure in case of defaults, structural credit
enhancements, liquidity reserve requirements, role of MBS-holders'
trustee, rating requirements, listing requirements, etc..
(h)   Analvsis of alternative options for credit enhancements consistent with
true sale of securities and reduction of originator's balance-sheet,
prevention of adverse selection of mortgages sold, and protection of



- 19 -
in creditors' contractual rights. Hence, the government may find supporting the
MBS market valuable both as a signal of its own policy intentions and a way to
prevent retrogression in this area.
11.         Resolution of the problems in the housing mortgage market would
require primarily several regulatory/legal reforms to reestablish confidence in
enforcement of financial contracts (which will prove the most difficult problem) and
to remove monopolistic privileges of the state-owned BHU, corporate law biases
against public debt issuance, biases in financial transaction taxes, and strictures
against investment in private securities by public institutional investors. Some of
these reforms are being sought as part of an ongoing IDB project. In addition, and
only after these reforms are assured, Uruguay also would need significant technical
assistance to provide the enabling and prudential regulatory framework for ABS,
standardization of mortgage and MBS products, and designing of prudential
regulation of MBS type products.
Enabling Environment
12.        Legal and Rezulatory Reforms. Several measures, most of which
would be implemented under an IDB Investment Finance Project, may be necessary
in this arena. First, BHU's monopoly on issuance of MBS should be removed
through legislative action. Second, through revision of the corporate law and
relevant central bank regulations, ABS should be exempted from the limit of 50% of
net worth of the issuer, be treated as liabilities for net worth tax purposes, and
interest thereon should be made fully tax-deductible. Three, VAT on financial
transactions needs to be unified so that banks do not incur a higher tax than non-
banks or individuals.
13.         Assurance of Non-Intervention in Debt Contracts. The congress and
the government must assure that they will not intervene in creditors' contractual
rights. As discussed, helping create the MBS market itself may be one way to
accomplish this. Another would be to declare that pre-1982 debts will not be
rescheduled again.
14.         Relaxation of Investment Guidelines for Institutional Investors. The
restrictions on investment in private securities by public institutions must be
removed to permit investment in MBS and other private securities. Again, removal
of these restrictions is desirable in a much wider context than development of
mortgage markets per se.
Technical Assistance For Developing ABS Market
15.         MBS products are technically complex. There is a shortage of
technical skills necessary to understand these products and design appropriate
prudential regulation. Thus a technical assistance program would be needed to
facilitate introduction of this segment of capital markets in Uruguay. The technical
assistance would involve provision of external legal or financial consultants/experts.



- 22 -
ANNEX III
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EOUITY POSITION OF URUGUAY'S COMMERCIAL BANKS
1.         Uruguay's commercial banks faced serious difficulties at the beginning
of the 1980's, as a result of the severe economic crisis of the country. The gradual
recovery of the financial system began with the support of the Bank's SAL I and
SAL II operations, which supported strengthening of banking supervision and helped
resolve the problem of the banks intervened by the Government. Consolidation of
the financial system continued under IDB's Financial Sector Adjustment Program,
and is now almost completed. Most of the commercial banks have succeeded in
significantly improving the quality of their portfolios and have affected the necessary
writeoffs and capitalization. Three institutions with shortcomings have been brought
under BCU's adjustment plans. Under these circumstances, the commercial banks in
general are administratively, institutionally and financially capable of fully
participating in the program.
2.         The BROU occupies a prominent place in the financial market, in part
as a result of the contraction in commercial bank lending in response to the
economic crisis. Under the IDB's Financial Sector Adjustment Loan some of
BROU's privileges have been abolished and its operations modernized. This
includes the adaptation of BROU's accounting system to the BCU's chart of
accounts; audits by the BCU, evaluation of the portfolio and implementation of loan
collection arrangements; compliance with BCU's regulations as to provisions and
reserve ratios; and setting of lending rates based on the marginal cost of funds. The
Government also agreed to recapitalize BROU to compensate it for losses incurred
because of bank bailouts and portfolio rescues mandated by the government.
Substantial progress also has been made on the restructuring and modernization of
the institution.
3.         To participate in the operation, each financial institution would have to
meet eligibility criteria that include:
-it must meet the technical ratio requirements of the BCU, which follow the
recommendations of the Basle Committee, or be strictly applying an
adjustment plan approved by the BCU;
-it must have no unresolved issues with the BCU's Banking Supervision
Department;
-it must present evidence that it has the capacity to promote, evaluate and
administer the subloans and their recovery, fulfill the goals of the program
and adhere to banking rules; and
-it must have adopted the BCU's accounting standards and chart of accounts
and have its accounts audited by independent external auditors.



- 21 -
non-professional investors. These may involve issuance of MBS with
put options to investors, replacement of defaulting mortgages up to a
specified period, retention of subordinated bonds, sharing the risks of
MBS through retention of a portion of the MBS by the issuer, external
guarantees against default, structural credit enhancement through
liquidity reserves, default risk reserves, prepayment reserves, etc.
(i)   Prudential regulations including prospectus, guarantee requirements,
liquidity reserves requirements, representations of originators
concerning credit analysis, past default and prepayment experience,
issuers'/originators' responsibility for mortgage defaults, shelf-
registration regulations, etc.
(j)    Examine the desirability of fixed versus variable rate mortgages, and
determination of appropriate variable rate index for mortgages.
16.         Based on experience in other countries, the work to cover the above
would require about US$350,000 in computers and technical work on registry
reform and about US$250,000 in studies.
Technical Assistance Component.
(US dollars)
Equipment and      350,000
Installation
Studies            250,000
Total              600,000



- 24 -
ANNEX IV
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
PROCUREMENT. DISBURSEMENT AND MONITORING PROCEDURES
Procurement.
1.         Procurement of goods, works and services would be done in
accordance with Bank guidelines, as described in Schedule B.
2.         For subprojects financed under the credit line program and executed by
subborrowers, procurement of goods, works and services would comply with those
customary for operations through financial intermediaries. Experience with similar
operations in Uruguay has been that private sector procurement practices are
adequate. Contracts costing less than US$5.0 million equivalent would be procured
following established commercial practices for the private sector satisfactory to the
Bank. In order to assure efficiency in contracting, beneficiaries would be required
to award contracts on the basis of quotations from at least two eligible suppliers,
except in those cases where direct contracting is permissible as per para. 3.5 of
Bank procurement guidelines. All subproject appraisals would include a discussion
of procurement procedures used and criteria for selection of suppliers of goods,
works and services, and indicate that these conform with the procurement provisions
specified in the Loan Agreement. These procurement principles would be
incorporated in BCU's Credit Regulation Manual. Evidence of the quotations
requested would be required for ex-post review during project supervision. The
Bank's Procurement guidelines for the Use of Consultants of August 1981 would be
applicable to contracting of consultants financed by subloans.
3.         The technical assistance component would finance consultants to
prepare legal, economic and technical studies concerning regulations on the use of
movable collateral and the securitization of mortgage loans and to modernize the
cattle registry. If recommended by the studies, this component would also finance
the purchase of computer hardware and software to modernize and integrate the
cattle registries with other legal registries. Procurement of computer hardware and
software for US$350,000, would be carried out through limited international bidding
among manufacturers who have established maintenance and technical assistance
services in Uruguay, and would be procured in packages of no less than
US$100,000. The Bank's Procurement guidelines for the Use of Consultants of
August 1981 would be applicable to contracting of consultants financed by the
technical assistance component. A number of special provisions would be included
in the loan agreement to ensure full compliance with the Bank's procurement
policies, such as:
(a) a foreign firm would not be obliged to enter into joint ventures with local
firms for carrying out civil works, supply, selection of equipment and
consulting services;



- 23 -
4.          In principle, the BROU, 22 commercial banks, 13 finance houses and 7
credit unions are consider to be eligible.  The adjusted net worth of the private
financial institutions as of December 31, 1992 was as following:
Bank's Capitalization Analysis as of April 30. 1993
(Million of US dollars)
Financial       Required      Net Capital   Surplus/Deficit
Institutions      Capital
BROU                    182.6          367.8            185.2
Private Banks           229.7          291.5             61.8
Cooperatives             13.0           18.5              5.5
Financial Houses         62.0           81.5             19.5
Source: Central Bank of Uruguay.
5.          By mid-1993, the capital surplus of Uruguay's financial institutions
amounted to US$272.0 million. Assuming a relationship of capital to risk assets of
10 percent, these institutions would be in a position to lend an additional US$2.7
billion, far higher than the total financing of the proposed operation.



- 26 -
BCU would ensure that all supporting documentation is being adequately maintained
and that it would be available for review at the Bank's request. Under the technical
assistance component, disbursements for all contracts would be made against full
documentation.
6.          These disbursement arrangements would be incorporated in BCU's
Credit Regulation Manual. During negotiations. agreement was reached with the
Borrower on the disbursement arrangements. The loan is expected to take three
years to commit and five years to disburse. The final date for submission of
subloans would be October 31, 1996, the expected Completion date would be May
31, 1997 and the Closing Date for the loan would be November 30, 1997.
Monitoring. Reporting and Auditing
7.          The Bank's monitoring of the project would be at two levels: (i)
implementation of the Project, and (ii) the maintenance of the trade and financial
policy reforms that justified the operation. The monitoring of project
implementation by the Bank during supervision would focus on: (i) the accreditation
and follow up of PFIs by BCU, (ii) the PFIs repayment of loans to BCU, and (iii)
the implementation of the TA components. Bank supervision missions would assess
all these aspects and carry out ex-post reviews of samples of subprojects presented
by the PFIs. In addition, BCU would prepare and submit to the Bank semiannual
progress reports on project implementation of both the credit line and the technical
assistance component of the loan, as well as a review of interest rates charged to
PFIs and subborrowers and of the environmental certification of subprojects issued
by DINAMA. After one half of the project funds have been committed or after a
year of effectiveness--whichever comes first, the Bank will carry out a major review
of the Government's adherence to the financial and trade policy reforms
implemented under previous Bank/IDB loans. The principal indicators of no
retrogression in trade liberalization would be that the variations in the Borrower's
maximum import tariffs and in the level of QRs have not affected the private
sector's relative prices. The principal indicators of no retrogression in financial
liberalization would be that there has been no imposition of interest rate controls and
that there has been progress in regulation and supervision of private commercial
banks and financial institutions in Uruguay. Imposition of interest rate controls at
any time during project implementation would be cause for suspension. During the
review, the Bank would also assess the progress achieved in carrying out the
objectives of the project and the effectiveness of DINAMA in certifying that all
investment projects financed by the project comply with all the environmental norms
and regulations in Uruguay. A Project Completion Report will be produced no later
than six months after closing the loan. BCU, on behalf of the Borrower, will be
responsible for preparing Part II of the Project Completion Report. During
negotiations, agreements were reached with the Borrower on these arrangzements for
monitoring and supervision.
8.          The accounts kept by the Borrower through BCU for the purpose of the
project and Statement of Expenditures would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports, including an opinion regarding



- 25 -
(b) the application of the "lowest evaluated bidder" criteria would be made for
bid evaluation;
(c) no prior registration of bidders would be required;
(d) price adjustments for equipment would be allowed even if these changes in
prices are lower than 15 percent;
(e) the selection of consultants would be done in accordance with Bank
guidelines, and would not be treated in the same manner as when contracting
civil works contractors;
(f) a minimum of three bids would not be required for evaluation of proposals
for ICB, or selection of consultants;
(g) bidders would not be required to legalize bid documents with consulates;
and
(h) the use of local personnel would not be imposed on forcing contractors,
except for unskilled labor.
During negotiations. agreement was reached with the Government of Uruguay on
these procurement principles.
4.          Review by the Bank of Procurement Documentation. Prior review by
the Bank of procurement documentation would be carried out for: (i) all contracts
procured under the TA component; (ii) the first contract procured by other methods
than ICB submitted by each PFI; and (iii) subprojects procured through ICB and
equipment through LIB. Ex-post review of procurement documentation by the Bank
would be carried out on a random basis during supervision of individual contracts
under the credit line component valued at below US$500,000. Individual contracts
valued between US$500,000 and US$5.0 million would be subject to ex-post review
in accordance to para. 3 and 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Disbursements
5.          The amount of each subloan to be financed with the proceeds of the
loan would not exceed 70 percent of the estimated cost of the investment project; or
US$5.0 million, whichever is the lowest. The other 30 percent should be financed
by the investment enterprise (at least 15 percent) by the PFI or other credit sources.
In case of the purchase of equipment for leasing, the PFI will finance with its own
funds at least 6 percent of the equipment cost. In all cases, Bank reimbursements
would be related to expenditures made not earlier than 180 days prior to submission
of the application or request by the PFI to the BCU. Expenditures for individual
contracts valued at under US$500,000 equivalent for goods and works financed by
subloans would be disbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by
BCU. Disbursements for individual contracts above the forementioned values would
be made against fully documented withdrawal applications. The Borrower through



- 28 -
ANNEX V
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
LESSONS LEARNED
1.          Lessons Learned. The design of this proposed loan reflects lessons
learned from financial intermediation loans in Uruguay and other countries in the
LAC region in the last ten years. The lessons learned come from PCRs, PPARs, as
well as from supervision reports of some ongoing operations. The most important
elements for the success of Financial Intermediation Loans (FILs) are: (i) a stable
macroeconomic environment; (ii) a free financial sector with market-determined
interest rates; and (iii) a strong prudential and regulatory framework that ensures the
solvency of financial institutions. Successful FIL operations also: (i) establish the
second-tier function in an institution that does not have direct lending activities; (ii)
eliminate the project appraisal role of the second-tier bank, but strengthen its ex-post
supervision; and (iii) establish clear safeguards in the legal agreements against the
reversal of policy measures.
2.          Macroeconomic Stability. Macroeconomic instability was one of the
main reasons for the failure of a previous industrial FIL in Uruguay. The Second
Industrial Credit Project became effective at the onset of Uruguay's deep recession.
The overvaluation of the peso from October 1979 to November 1982, decreased
competitiveness of export-oriented industrial firms, the core of the project's pipeline.
The 1982 devaluation restored the competitiveness of Uruguayan producers, but
affected financially those that had taken dollar loans. The commitment of the
current administration to achieve sustained stability is a major justification for the
resumption of credit operations in Uruguay.
3.          Financial Policies. Review of past FILs shows that interest rate ceilings
and directed credit combine to undermine these operations. Interest rates in
Uruguay are market-determined and directed credit lines for agriculture are being
phased out. In the past, BROU was able to charge interest rates below those of the
commercial banks as a result of enjoying special privileges as a public bank.
BROU's restructuring, initiated under the Bank's SAL II and continued under the
IDB's Financial Sector Adjustment Program, has eliminated these privileges and
brought BROU under the same regulatory norms and standards applicable to
commercial banks. Its lending rates are at market levels, based on the marginal cost
of its resources according to a formula agreed with IDB.
4.          Solvency and Profitability of Financial Institutions. Review of past
FILs also demonstrate the importance of operating through financially strong first-
tier institutions. The Uruguayan government has taken important steps to
rehabilitate and privatize the intervened banks and to liquidate others. Also, it has
taken important measures to improve banking supervision and regulation, bringing it
to international standards.



- 27 -
the supporting documentation for disbursements based on SOEs, would be submitted
within six months after the end of Borrower's fiscal year. The accounts of the PFIs
would also have to be audited annually by external auditors acceptable to BCU and
submitted to BCU within four months after the end of the fiscal year. These audits
would be available to Bank supervision missions. During negotiations. agreements
were be reached with the Borrower on these reporting and auditing arrangements.



- 30 -
ANNEX VI
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW OF SUBPROJECTS
1.         Institutions Responsible for Environmental Matters. In environmental
matters, the Ministry of Housing, Land Use Planning and the Environment
(MVOTMA) is charged with the formulation, execution, supervision and evaluation
of national plans for the protection of the environment and with ensuring that public
and private activities comply with the environmental protection norms. The
National Environmental Directorate (DINAMA) is one of three directorates in the
ministry. DINAMA, in turn, comprises the Division of Environmental Quality and
the Ecosystems Division. Several ministerial departments and government agencies
also issue environmental norms and review the environmental impact of investment
projects in their respective sectors, such as the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
in regard to soil and water, the OSE in matters relating to water supply and the
provision of sewerage services, and the UTE and ANCAP in the provision of
electric power and fuel.
2.          Evaluation of the Environmental Impact of Subprojects. All
subprojects financed by Bank and IDB resources will have to comply with all
applicable environmental protective norms in Uruguay. DINAMA will have the
responsibility to certify that each investment project has either complied with all
applicable environmental protective norms in Uruguay and has obtained all the
required permits from the concerned agencies; or that it does not require to comply
with any current environmental norm. This certification will be a prerequisite for
granting a subloan. DINAMA will prepare an Environmental Manual describing the
procedures that investment enterprises have to follow to obtain DINAMA's
certification and establishing a fast track procedure for the granting of this
certification. This manual will be a condition of loan effectiveness and will be
distributed to the PFIs, which will ensure that it is available to all enterprises
requesting financing. DINAMA, as part of its general mandate, could assess the
prospective subborrowers on the types of permits required from other environmental
agencies.
3.          DINAMA will dedicate a minimum of three environmental specialists
to work on granting the certification. They will work in coordination with the other
environmental agencies. Subprojects that have minimal or no environmental impact
and, and which therefore are not required to comply with environmental norms,
should be reviewed and be granted DINAMA's certification within a maximum of
five working days. DINAMA could require more time, but not more than one
month, to certify subprojects requiring permits from one or more environmental
agencies. In some cases, the granting of a permit will require the adoption by an
investment enterprise of measures to reduce or eliminate the adverse environmental
effects. DINAMA will carry out periodic supervisions of such projects to ensure



-29 -
5.          Policy Environment and Legal A2reements. A lesson learned from
both financial sector and credit line operations is the need to establish clear legal
safeguards against the reversal of policies. Most credit line operations are justified
on the basis of the recent adoption of more liberal policies in trade or finance.
However, when during implementation some of these policies are reversed the Bank
has no legal recourse to suspend commitments or disbursements. The justification
for this operation includes measures taken under other Bank and IDB loans to
liberalize the trade regime and the financial sector. To reduce the risk of policy
reversals, the legal agreements would have a review clause indicating that after one
half of the loan has been committed or after a year of effectiveness --whichever
comes first-- new commitments would continue subject to a positive assessment by
a joint Bank/IDB/Government review, of the Government's adherence to financial
and trade policy reforms implemented under previous Bank and IDB loans.
6.          Institutional Arrangements. A major lesson of previous operations in
the region is that the Bank should not lend through government banks that operate as
first-tier banks. In cases where the same government bank acted as both first and
second-tier lender, unavoidable conflicts of interest have seriously interfered with the
working of the operation. Also, for the most part, the Bank has failed to convert
these banks into effective financial institutions, independent from BCU funding and
free from political influence on their lending activities. This operation would avoid
these problems by requiring the Borrower through the BCU to act as a second-tier
agent and by applying the same eligibility criteria to both private and public banks.
An important lesson from the Second Industrial Credit Project in Uruguay is that
subproject appraisal and supervision should be the responsibility of the intermediary
banks which should assume the credit risk. In the mentioned operation, subproject
appraisal was the responsibility of a technical unit in the Ministry of Industry and
Energy and financial intermediaries were protected from subborrowers default by a
Guarantee Fund established by the BCU. Under this arrangement, financial
intermediaries had no strong incentives for prudent assessment of subprojects and
projects of low quality were financed under the line. Under this operation, the
financial intermediaries would apprise the subproject and assume the credit risk.
7.          Onlending Mechanism. An important lesson from past credit line
operations is the need to reduce or eliminate the project appraisal role of the second-
tier bank and to streamline the approval and disbursement procedures, shifting the
emphasis to ex-post evaluation. Most second-tier banks have tended to duplicate the
appraisal procedures of the first-tier banks, delaying by several months their
approval. Delays are even longer for subprojects above the free limit that require
Bank approval. This operation would avoid these delays emphasizing ex-post review
of subprojects by both the second-tier bank and, to a limited extent, by the Bank.
Another lesson concerning the onlending mechanism is that governments tend to
incur in substantial financial losses when loans to the PFIs are in local currency. In
this proposed operation loans to the PFIs would be made and disbursed in US
dollars. The terms of the subloans would be agreed between the PFls and their
clients, which would guarantee that the PFIs would ensure adequate covering of
their costs.



- 32 -
ANNEX VII
URUGUAY
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT LOAN
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.   The project's supervision plan is as follows:
FY Period  Place  Objectives:                       S/W
Staff/Consultants' Specialization
1994:
Q3   H/Q. - Preparations for effectiveness
Task manager                 2.0
Q4   M    - Launching Mission                  4.0
Task manager
- Review initiation of TA
Other staff (LATAD)          1.0
Other staff (PSD)            1.0
Total 8.0
1995:
Q1   M    - Follow up
- Review'TA component
Task manager                 2.0
Consultant (Banking Specialist)  1.0
Q2   H/Q  - Follow up
Task manager                 2.0
Other staff                  1.5
Q3   M    - Review loan utilization
Task manager                 1.5
Other Staff                  2.0
Q4   H    - Follow up
Task manager                 1.5
Total 11.5
1996:
QL   M    - Review TA component
Consultant                   2.0
Other Staff                  2.0



- 31 -
compliance with the corrective measures agreed with the concerned environmental
agency.
4.         The effectiveness of the procedures followed by DINAMA to ensure
that all the subprojects financed with Bank and IDB funds comply with the
environmental norms in Uruguay would be reviewed during the mid-term review.
The Bank, at its discretion, could rely for this review on the periodic assessments of
DINAMA carried out by IDB under a Technical Cooperation Program currently in
IDB's Board (para.5). However, sustained failure of DINAMA to comply with this
task would be cause for suspension of new commitments, and for suspension of
disbursements if the default occurs after such review, under the credit line
component.
5.          DINAMA's Institutional Capacity to Review Subloans. DINAMA
would require institutional strengthening and more resources to be able to carry out
its task of controlling the compliance of public and private activities with Uruguay's
environmental norms. As part of project preparation, IDB has conducted an analysis
of the administrative, institutional and legal capacity of DINAMA. The study's
recommendations to strengthen DINAMA are the basis for a proposed Technical
Cooperation Program for DINAMA of US$1.2 million equivalent, currently at
IDB's Board.
6.         IDB estimates that under its global credit DINAMA would have to
review and certify approximately 100 subprojects per year, for the four years of the
program. The Bank loan would require the certification of about 20 additional
subprojects. IDB's Technical Cooperation Program will help finance consultants to
carry out the review and certification of subprojects financed by the Bank and IDB.
Also, the Ministry of Finance has indicated that it will make sure that DINAMA has
the resources necessary to carry out its tasks under this operation. DINAMA's
future workload could be further increased as a result of the approval of the
"National Environmental Impact Law", currently in Congress, which would require
environmental impact assessment of most projects. In that case, DINAMA's
management would assess the need of charging a fee to the investment enterprises to
finance its expanded activities.



- 33 -
Q2   H/Q  - Follow up
Task manager                  1.5
Q3   M    - Review loan utilization
Task manager                  1.5
Other Staff                   1.5
Q4 H/Q - Follow up
Task manager                  1.0
Total 9.5
1997:
Ql   H    - Follow up
Task manager                  1.0
Q2   H    - Follow up
Task manager                  1.0
Q3   M    - Review loan utilization
Task manager                  1.0
Consultant                    1.0
Q4   H    - Follow up
Task Manager                  2.0
Total 6.0
1998:
QL   H    - Follow up
Task manager                 0.5
Q2   H    - Follow up
Task manager                 0.5
Q3   H    - Follow up
Task manager                  0.5
Q4   M    - Preparation of PCR
Consultant                   6.0
Task Manager                  2.0
Total 9.5
H/Q = Headquarters
M = Mission



;



T          A
ft.J    bl       !! Ef
                       1/ -X-    ;, ,p
11'  Z'I                                                                                                                  R  A  Z
4-/                                                Aft-'Af'-' f                              ''..J.*"                     BRAZILI'a
4'   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
-J                                                       ft                  1-'                                 N' tsX\I  ;  l19  ,f 
Z > _ _~~~~~~,                                                                           wf  .!. 
/                                                                                                    Is>  I           Nr-SN
ch-~~~~~~~~~~~~f
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~
M IGNACIO
ARGENTINA    ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                  ONTEVIDEO                         I.  .  
UR U GUA Y
SOO I" ft                                                  *                                                                              Ef *<.. , .
AftAI RIf A                                                                                                                                -           R.4S.~4.y .
----  U~a..d P,8
. I,                       56'            _5-           5   ,    ,                                  ... ....C....r
\~~~~~~~~ r0                                              lA       Mft$k0o    \                  /                    Nf,6l/}6t
-(                                                                                                                                                     D * t' f  S~\ t      ,ft..,Li I 8 * 4 ( 10\ ~ ~ 4~
V                                                                    '                                                                          '    I I(I    3  1 R). 7   k, ..3
I   \-   JtC            (   P/ o.41.,       _j/ '                    >.   /,7         3                Jez~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.,
|.                  SO>                        <                 (       '.$                                                                                              1  \31  
# % del Ra o \t Alfil:8 b \t1) r// { }\ / kI SlslH~~~






