Report No. PIC2189
Project Name              Uruguay-Private Sector Development Project
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Financial
Project ID                UYPA8175
Borrower                  Republic of Uruguay
Implementing Agency       Central Bank of Uruguay
Av. Fabini y Florida
Casilla de Correo 1467
Codigo Postal 11000
Montevideo, Uruguay
Contact: Cr. Roberto Baz (BCU)
Tel. 598 2 923602
Date PID Prepared         May 17, 1995
Approval Date             01//94
Signing Date              03/04/94
Effective Date            08/15/94
Closing Date              11/30/97
1.   Country Background.   After a period of stagnation during the second
part of the 1980's, Uruguay's economy began to grow at the beginning of
the 1990s, as a result of the Government's efforts in balancing public
finances and the increased aggregate demand originating from Argentina.
The stabilization measures have been supported by two IMF stand-by
programs since December 1990. A "Brady" deal, in early 1991,
substantially reduced the external debt burden. The Government's
program, together with lower external and domestic interest rates,
succeeded in bringing the public sector budget to equilibrium in 1992.
Despite the fiscal tightening, inflation has remained high, due to large
capital inflows from Argentina. The Government also has carried out
some structural reforms, including trade liberalization and financial
reform, and has embarked on a program to reduce the size of the state,
including plans to privatize some public enterprises.
2.   During the mid-1970's, the financial sector underwent comprehensive
deregulation that eliminated restrictions on capital movements, exchange
transactions, and interest rates. Also, restrictions were lifted on
entry into the banking business and on exposure to foreign exchange
risks. This liberalization was not supplemented with prudential
regulations, which contributed to a debt and banking crisis at the
beginning of the eighties. In response to the crisis, the BCU acquired
the bad loans of banks with solvency problems and intervened four
commercial banks. Also, laws were enacted that forced banks into
compulsory rescheduling of debts. To avoid a repetition of the banking
crisis, the Government embarked on a major financial sector reform with
support from the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
The Bank has supported strengthening of the framework for banking
prudential regulation, bringing it to international standards;



improvement of BCU's structure and staff for banking supervision;
rationalization of the operations of the largest public bank--Banco de
la Republica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU), which accounts for about half
of total commercial credit in Uruguay; and rehabilitation and
privatization of three of the intervened banks and liquidation of the
fourth. The Financial Intermediation Law was amended in late 1992 to
strengthen the regulatory powers of the BCU, and extend the regulatory
framework to public banks.
3.   The financial sector reforms have not yet extended significantly
the maturity of bank loans and the capital market remains
underdeveloped. Although Uruguay has attracted financial capital from
neighboring countries to its banking system, most of this inflow is
short-term and is invested abroad. Credit to the domestic private
sector concentrates on consumer loans and short-term trade financing.
Lack of term financing could slow the investment drive for export
production that should accompany a trade liberalization program.
4.   Project Objectives.   The general objectives of the project are both
to help increase production of goods and services that generate foreign
exchange revenues and enhance the efficiency of the productive and
financial sectors. Increased production and allocative efficiency would
be achieved by timely provision of term financing to enable the private
sector to take advantage of the liberalized trade regime. Increased
efficiency of the financial sector would be achieved through the
development by the BCU of norms to regulate and supervise medium and
long-term credit operations and through the project's technical
assistance that would address some of the regulatory constraints to
credit access in Uruguay.
5.   Project Description.    This is a US dollar single currency loan to
the Republic of Uruguay. The loan has two components: (a) a Line of
Credit of US$34.4 million to finance private investment, associated
permanent working capital and leasing operations--excluding purchase of
land and housing--of viable enterprises that have revenues predominantly
in US dollars; and (b) a Technical Assistance (TA) component of US$0.6
million to finance studies aimed at improving regulations on the use of
movable assets as collateral, computerization of the cattle registry;
and the securitization of mortgage loans. The Bank loan parallels
finance a US$90 million loan from the IDB approved in November 1992.
Enterprises eligible to participate in the Bank's loan could be
cofinanced by the IDB's loan.
6.   The BCU is the executing agency of the Borrower acting as a second-
tier bank. The Borrower, through BCU, would lend and disburse the
resources--in US dollars--to participating financial institutions
(PFIs)--banks, finance and leasing companies and savings cooperatives--
that meet agreed eligibility criteria. PFIs, in turn, would onlend the
resources to private firms in the same currency. PFIs would assume the
credit risks and be responsible for the selection and evaluation of
subprojects.
7.   Project Financing.   The project financing is as follows: IBRD:
US$35 million; IDB: US$90 million; PFIs, other sources of credit and/or
project owners would contribute US$55 million to the financing package.
-2 -



8.   Project Implementation.   The loan is expected to take three years
to commit and four years to disburse. PFIs are selected by the BCU
according to eligibility criteria consistent with Bank's guidelines
about financial sector operations. The PFIs bear the subloan credit
risk and be responsible for subproject appraisal and supervision.
Subloans to the PFIs are in US dollars at market determined interest
rates. PFIs onlend and disburse these funds in US dollars at LIBOR-
based variable rates. The terms of the subloans are subject to the
following parameters: maximum size of subloans: US$5.0 million;
maturity: 3 to 10 years for goods and works, 1 to 3 years for technical
assistance, and 3 to 12 years for leases; and maximum grace period: 3
years for subloans.   Subloans could be up to a maximum of 70t of the
investment project cost; the remaining 30t has to be covered by the
subborrower and the PFIs. A Special Account of US$2.5 million would be
established in BCU to facilitate disbursements. The Borrower would be
allowed to relend funds to PFIs from the project account substantially
on the same terms and conditions and for the same purposes as the Bank
loan. The Office of Budgeting and Planning (OPP), which handles other
Bank technical assistance loans, would handle the administrative aspects
of the TA component. However, the BCU would handle the technical
aspects including writing terms of reference, selection of consultants
and supervision of the studies.
9.   Project Sustainability.   The project's design contributes to its
sustainability. First, the fact that PFIs take the credit risk, carry
out the appraisal of the projects, and are free to determine the terms
of the subloans, within the stated parameters, ensures the likelihood of
the project's financial viability. Second, there would be periodic
reports and supervision to assess the status of the loan.
10.   Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement.    The design of
this loan reflects lessons learned from financial intermediation loans
in Uruguay and other countries in the last ten years. The most
important elements for the success of these loans are a stable
macroeconomic environment, a free financial sector with market-
determined interest rates, and a strong regulatory framework and
institutions that ensure the solvency of financial institutions.
Successful loans also establish the second-tier function in institutions
that do not have direct lending activities; eliminate the project
appraisal role of the second-tier bank, but strengthen its ex-post
supervision; and provide for project appraisals to be carried out by the
intermediary banks which carry the credit risk.
11. Poverty Category. N. A.
12. Environmental Aspects. This project has an environmental category
B rating. The Ministry of Housing, Territorial Ordinance and
Environment's National Environmental Office (DINAMA) has central
responsibility for the development of environmental norms and their
enforcement. Several other ministerial departments and government
agencies also issue environmental norms and review the environmental
impact of investment projects in their respective sectors. DINAMA will
have the responsibility to certify that each investment project financed
by Bank and IDB funds has complied with all applicable environmental
protective norms in Uruguay and has obtained all the required permits
- 3 -



from the concerned agencies, or that the investment project does not
require to comply with any current environmental norms. This
certification will be a prerequisite for granting a subloan.
13. Program Objective Category. Private Sector Development.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
lTelephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



