Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3698 UR
                          Loan Agreement
               (Private Sector Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                        Dated March 4, 1994
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3698 UR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL
URUGUAY (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has contracted with the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) for a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount
equivalent to $90,000,000 to assist in financing Part A of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
IDB Loan Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and the IDB
and dated November 30, 1992; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Page  2
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of
the Bank, dated February 9, 1993, with the modifications set forth
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "BCU" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central
del Uruguay);
      (b)   "BCU Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Credit Regulation Manual" means the Borrower's credit
regulations (Reglamento de Crhungarumlautdito) to be approved by the Borrower,
through BCU, as set forth in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "Environmental Entities" means one or more of the
entities as the case may be, defined in Schedule 9 to this
Agreement;
      (e)   "Environmental Manual" means the Borrower's manual which
sets forth the procedures to be followed by each Investment
Enterprise and DINAMA with respect to environmental matters under
Part A of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, to be approved by
the Borrower as set forth in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
      (f)   "Financial Intermediary" means the Borrower's Bank of
the Oriental Republic of Uruguay (Banco de la Rep€blica Oriental del
Uruguay - BROU) or any private commercial bank or private finance or
savings cooperative or private leasing company legally established
and operating in the territory of the Borrower, which is in good
standing with the BCU and meets the eligibility criteria set forth
in paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
      (g)   "Free-limit Lease" means a Lease of the type referred to
in paragraph 4 (b) of Section I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
      (h)   "Free-limit Subloan" means a Subloan of the type
referred to in paragraph 4 (b) of Section I of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement;
      (i)   "Intermediary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made, with the proceeds of the Loan and pursuant to a Participation
Agreement, by the Borrower to a Financial Intermediary;
      (j)   "Investment Enterprise" means a private enterprise
engaged in, or to be established for the purpose of engaging in, a
productive activity and which meets the eligibility criteria set
forth in paragraph 1 of Section II of Schedule 7 to this Agreement,
and to which a Financial Intermediary proposes to make or has made
a Subloan or a Lease;
      (k)   "Investment Project" means a specific project (relating
to the carrying out of productive activities such as manufacturing,
mining, fishing, food production, agriculture and other natural
resource extraction or processing activities, but not relating to
the provision of services except for transportation, tourism, data
processing services or export related services) to establish an
Investment Enterprise or to increase or improve the physical
resources or productivity of an existing Investment Enterprise, by
means of, without limitation, purchase or construction of fixed
assets (excluding land and housing), leasing of equipment and
provision of associated working capital, training or technical
assistance, as required for such Investment Enterprise to carry out
such specific project, and which is financed under a Subloan or
involves a Lease;
      (l)   "Law 16.072" means Ley No. 16.072 of the Borrower dated
Page  3
October 9, 1989;
      (m)   "Law Decree 15.322" means Decreto Ley No. 15.322 of the
Borrower dated September 17, 1982, as amended by Law No. 16.327 (Ley
No. 16.327) of the Borrower dated November 11, 1992;
      (n)   "Lease" means an arrangement whereby an Investment
Enterprise, for purposes of carrying out an Investment Project and
by periodically paying a rental fee to a Financial Intermediary
which is a leasing company, obtains the use of (and eventual option
to buy) equipment owned by such Financial Intermediary;
      (o)   "Lease Agreement" means an agreement, entered into
between an Investment Enterprise and a Financial Intermediary which
is a leasing company, for purposes of carrying out a Lease;
      (p)   "OPP" means the Office of Planning and Budgeting
(Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto) of the Borrower;
      (q)   "Participation Agreement" means an agreement to be
entered into by the Borrower with a Financial Intermediary pursuant
to Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
      (r)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.10 of this Agreement;
      (s)   "Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made in
part with the proceeds of an Intermediary Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project;
      (t)   "Subloan Agreement" means an agreement entered into
between an Investment Enterprise and a Financial Intermediary, for
purposes of making a Subloan; and
      (u)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of thirty-five million Dollars ($35,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of: (A) withdrawals
made by an Investment Enterprise under a Subloan to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is
requested; and (B) withdrawals made by a Financial Intermediary
under an Intermediary Loan to meet the reasonable cost of equipment
(leased or to be leased by such Financial Intermediary to an
Investment Enterprise) required for the Investment Project in
respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested;
and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BCU on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to Single Currency
LIBOR, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%), plus or minus the
Average Margin as provided in paragraph (b) (iv) below.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means the initial period from
                   and including the date of this Agreement to but
                   not including the first Interest Payment Date
                   and thereafter the period from and including any
                   Interest Payment Date to but not including the
                   next Interest Payment Date.
           (ii)    "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified
                   in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
          (iii)    "Single Currency LIBOR" means the London
                   interbank offered rate for Dollars, expressed as
                   a percentage per annum, reasonably determined by
                   the Bank in accordance with Schedule 8 to this
                   Agreement for the January 15 or July 15 on which
                   an Interest Period commences (or, for the
                   initial Interest Period, the January 15 or July
                   15 preceding the date of this Agreement or on
                   which such Interest Period commences).
           (iv)    "Average Margin" means, for any Interest Period,
                   the weighted average margin, for the Semester
                   preceding the relevant January 15 or July 15,
                   between: (A) the cost of the outstanding
                   borrowings of the Bank or portions thereof
                   allocated to the funding of single currency
                   loans in all currencies; and (B) the specific
                   London and, for French francs, Paris interbank
                   offered rates or other such reference rates
                   attributable to such borrowings in each such
                   currency, all as reasonably determined by the
                   Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
                   For any Interest Period in which (A) exceeds
                   (B), the Average Margin shall be added under
                   paragraph (a) above. For any Interest Period in
                   which (B) exceeds (A), the Average Margin shall
                   be subtracted under paragraph (a) above.
                   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Average
                   Margin for the Interest Period ending January
                   14, 1994 shall be minus 0.23%.
            (v)    "Semester" means the first six months or second
                   six months of a calendar year.
      (c)   After the Bank shall have determined Single Currency
LIBOR and the Average Margin for any Interest Period, the Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such determination.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  5
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) through BCU, as its agent,
and with the participation of the Financial Intermediaries and the
Environmental Entities, carry out Part A of the Project; and (ii)
through OPP, and with the assistance of BCU, carry out Part B of the
Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices,
and in accordance with the Credit Regulation Manual and the
Environmental Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   The Borrower, through OPP, shall enter into an agreement
with BCU (the BCU Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, for purposes of defining BCU's functions and
responsibilities in assisting the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part B of the Project.
      (c)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend, assign, waive or fail to enforce the BCU Agreement
or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower, through BCU, shall for
purposes of Part A of the Project, relend the proceeds of the Loan
to Financial Intermediaries in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement and under Participation
Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower, through BCU, and
each Financial Intermediary, containing terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, inter alia: (i) rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including the right to suspend or terminate the right of the
Financial Intermediary to use the proceeds of the Loan upon failure
by such Financial Intermediary to perform any of its obligations
under the Participation Agreement; and (ii) the applicable terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower, through BCU, shall exercise its rights
under the Participation Agreements in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend, assign or fail to enforce any Participation
Agreement or any provision thereof. The Borrower, through BCU, shall
provide to the Bank a copy of each Participation Agreement
immediately after each such Participation Agreement is entered into.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower, through BCU, undertakes that,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Subloan and Lease shall
be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, beginning: (i) after the sum
referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section has reached $17,500,000
equivalent; or (ii) one year after the Effective Date (whichever
occurs first), the Borrower and the Bank shall exchange views on
the: (A) progress achieved by the Borrower in: (1) carrying out Part
A of the Project; and (2) regulating and supervising private
commercial banks and private financial institutions in Uruguay; (B)
situation of the Borrower's current trade regime; and (C) procedures
followed by the Borrower, through DINAMA, in carrying out its
obligation under Section 3.12 of this Agreement.
      (b)   If, as a result of the exchange of views referred to in
paragraph (a) above, the Bank determines that the progress achieved
by the Borrower in carrying out Part A of the Project or in
regulating and supervising private commercial banks and private
financial institutions in Uruguay, as the case may be, is not
satisfactory, or that the variations in the Borrower's maximum
import tariffs and quantitative import restrictions have adversely
Page  6
affected the private sector's relative prices, or that the
procedures followed by the Borrower, through DINAMA, in carrying out
its obligation under Section 3.12 of this Agreement are different
from those set forth in the Environmental Manual, the Bank may cease
the approval of applications or the authorization of withdrawals
under paragraphs 5 (a) and (b) of Section I of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement. Such cessation may continue unless the Bank shall be
satisfied based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the events
described herein, have been resolved in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
      (c)   The sum referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section
shall be the sum of: (i) Subloans for which applications have been
approved pursuant to paragraph 5 (a) of Section I of Schedule 7 to
this Agreement; (ii) Subloans for which withdrawals have been
authorized pursuant to paragraph 5 (b) of Section I of Schedule 7 to
this Agreement; (iii) the value of equipment for which Lease
applications have been approved pursuant to paragraph 5 (a) of
Section I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and (iv) the value of
equipment for which Lease withdrawals have been authorized pursuant
to paragraph 5 (b) of Section I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause BCU to
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than June 15 and December
15 of each year, starting six months after the Effective Date until
the completion of the Project, a semiannual progress report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request, on the
progress of Part A of the Project, such report to include, inter
alia, detailed information on: (a) interest rates charged on
Intermediary Loans and Subloans; and (b) the certifications issued
by the Borrower, through DINAMA, for the period in question, in
accordance with Section 3.12 of this Agreement.
      Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than
June 15 and December 15 of each year, starting six months after the
Effective Date until the completion of the Project, prepare and
furnish to the Bank a semiannual report of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank may reasonably request, on the progress of Part B
of the Project.
      Section 3.07. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out, in respect
of Investment Projects, by Investment Enterprises pursuant to
Subloan Agreements or Lease Agreements.
      Section 3.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through OPP, and with the
participation of BCU, shall: (a) not later than six months after the
Effective Date, employ the consultants to carry out the studies
referred to in Part B.1 of the Project; (b) complete the studies
referred to in Part B.1 of the Project in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) not later than three
months after the completion of the studies referred to in (b)
herein, review jointly with the Bank the recommendations of such
studies.
      Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall open and maintain in BCU,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, the Project
Account into which it shall deposit repayments of, and interest
earned on, Intermediary Loans.
      (b)   Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
Page  7
shall use the amounts deposited into the Project Account to: (i)
cover BCU's administrative costs in assisting the Borrower in the
carrying out of Part A of the Project; and (ii) pay amounts due
under the Loan and make loans to Financial Intermediaries in
accordance with the Credit Regulation Manual and substantially in
the same terms and conditions of, and for the same purposes as, the
Intermediary Loans.
      Section 3.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce either
the Credit Regulation Manual or the Environmental Manual or any
provision thereof, respectively.
      Section 3.12. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.01 (a)(i) of this Agreement and in order to carry out Part A of
the Project, the Borrower, through DINAMA (as such term is defined
in paragraph (b) of Schedule 9 to this Agreement) shall certify that
each Investment Enterprise is in compliance with the existing
environmental norms in the Borrower's territory with respect to the
Investment Project in question, in accordance with the procedures
set forth in the Environmental Manual.
      Section 3.13. The Borrower, through BCU, undertakes that,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the sum of Intermediary Loans
to be made to BROU shall not exceed fifty percent of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated to Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the department or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   Section 4.01 of this Agreement, including those
                   for the Special Account and the Project Account
                   for each fiscal year audited in accordance with
                   sound auditing principles consistently applied,
                   by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, a certified copy of the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning the said records, accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of
                   this Agreement, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, and with respect to Part A of the
                   Project, cause each Financial Intermediary to
                   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Page  8
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable, and with respect to Part A of the
                   Project cause each Financial Intermediary to
                   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
BCU;
      (b)   Law Decree No. 15.322 or any provision thereof, shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not
enforced in such manner that, in the opinion of the Bank, the
carrying out of Part A of the Project shall be materially and
adversely affected;
      (c)   Law 16.072 or any provision thereof, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in
such a manner that, in the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of
Part A of the Project shall be materially and adversely affected;
      (d)   the interest rates charged on any loans (including
Intermediary Loans) made by the Borrower after the date of this
Agreement shall, in the opinion of the Bank, not have been freely
market-determined;
      (e)   the interest rates charged on any Subloans made after
the date of this Agreement shall, in the opinion of the Bank, not
have been freely market-determined;
      (f)   (i)    subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of the IDB Loan shall have been
                         suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                         whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                         the IDB Loan Agreement; or
                   (B)   the IDB Loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   the IDB Loan Agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                   for the Project are available to the Borrower
                   from other sources on terms and conditions
                   consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
Page  9
                   under this Agreement; and
      (g)   BCU shall have failed to comply with any of its
obligations under the BCU Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) or
(d) or (e) or (g) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the Credit Regulation Manual, satisfactory to the
Bank,  has been approved by the Borrower, through BCU;
      (b)   that the Environmental Manual, satisfactory to the Bank,
has been approved by the Borrower;
      (c)   that the Borrower, through BCU, shall have entered into
three Participation Agreements, in terms satisfactory to the Bank,
each of which shall be with a different Financial Intermediary; and
      (d)   that the BCU Agreement has been duly executed and
delivered by the parties to such agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished by the Bank, namely that the BCU Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the parties
to such agreement in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date June 2, 1994 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                         ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
Page  10
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
            Colonia 1089
            Montevideo, Uruguay
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  MINECON                         269 MINECON UY
                  Montevideo, Uruguay
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                        REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                        By /s/ Carlos Steneri
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Subloans                 34,400,000       In the case of
      and Leases                                Subloans, 100%
                                                of the amounts
                                                disbursed by
                                                Financial Inter-
                                                mediaries accord-
                                                ing to the pro-
                                                visions set forth
                                                in paragraph
                                                3 (a) of Section
                                                II of Schedule 7
                                                to this Agreement
                                                and, in the case
                                                of Leases, 100% of
                                                the amounts
                                                disbursed by
                                                Financial Inter-
                                                mediaries under
                                                Intermediary Loans
                                                to purchase equip-
                                                ment leased
(2)   Consulting                  250,000       100%
      Services
      under Part B
Page  11
      of the Project
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3)   Equipment under             350,000       100% of foreign
      Part B of                                 expenditures and
      the Project                               60% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
                                __________
      TOTAL                     35,000,000
                                ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) a Subloan
or a Lease (and therefore of an Intermediary Loan) unless the
Subloan or the Lease, as the case may be, has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures
under contracts for goods, works and services to cost less than
$500,000 equivalent under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) assist the Borrower
in increasing the production of goods and services which generate
foreign exchange revenues, through the provision of term financing
to the private sector to enable it to take advantage of the
liberalized trade regime within Uruguay; and (b) enhance the
efficiency of the productive and financial sectors by assisting: (i)
BCU in developing norms to regulate and supervise medium and long-
term credit operations; and (ii) the Borrower in removing the
regulatory constraints to obtain long-term financing in Uruguay.
      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Investment Projects
      Financing of Investment Projects.
Part B:     Technical Assistance
1.    Carrying out of the following studies:
      (a)   a study to expand the use of movable collateral on
financial transactions in Uruguay, such study to include, inter
alia, a legal and economic analysis of the impediments to attach
movable collateral, and the sale of such collateral thereafter; (b)
a study to develop the securitization of mortgages' loans in
Page  12
Uruguay; and (c) a study to modernize and computerize the Borrower's
cattle registry, and integrate such registry with the Borrower's
legal registries.
2.    Acquisition and utilization of equipment resulting from the
recommendations of the study referred to in Part B.1 (c) of the
Project.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                       Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                      (Expressed in Dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
      beginning July 15, 1999
      through January 15, 2009             1,750,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to
      be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the
      General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A and Part C.2 of this Section, the Borrower shall use the
relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other international recognized standards
Page  13
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    To the extent practicable contracts for goods and works to be
financed out of the proceeds of Subloans (or out of Intermediary
Loans in the case of equipment leased to Investment Enterprises)
under Part A of the Project shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of this Section, goods manufactured in Uruguay
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$5,000,000 per contract or per bid package, to be financed out of
the proceeds of Subloans (or out of Intermediary Loans in the case
of equipment leased to Investment Enterprises) under Part A of the
Project, may be procured: (a) under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least two
suppliers or contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; or (b) if allowed
by paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines, pursuant to direct contracting.
2.    Computer equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more per bid package, and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan under Part B.2 of the Project, may be procured
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9,
2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded
pursuant to the provisions of Part A.1 and C.2 of this Section; and
(ii) the first contract procured under Part C.1 of this Section to
be financed by each Financial Intermediary with the proceeds of its
Intermediary Loan, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract for goods and works not
governed by the preceding paragraph estimated to cost the equivalent
of $500,000 or more but less than $5,000,000 equivalent, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together
with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
Page  14
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower or Investment Enterprises in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, and an Investment
Enterprise may, if allowed, pursuant to a Subloan Agreement, employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
Section III. Special Provisions
A.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
and rules of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of
goods and works referred to in Parts A and C.2 of Section I of this
Schedule:
1.    Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids,
be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local
bidders.
2.    The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award.
3.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with
local authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.
4.    Contract prices for goods and works may be adjusted even if
such prices have increased by less than 15% of the bid price.
5.    There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be
submitted in order for a contract to be subsequently awarded.
6.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their
bidding documents with Uruguayan authorities as a prerequisite for
bidding.
7.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to hire local personnel,
except for unskilled personnel.
B.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following
principles and rules of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of
this Schedule:
1.    Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for
participating in the selection process, be required to enter into a
joint venture agreement with a local consultant.
2.    Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in
a short list on the basis of evaluation criteria and terms of
reference, both satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    The prices of contracts over one year duration may be
adjusted.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  15
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided,
however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4 (b) of
Section I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures
to be financed out of the proceeds of Free-limit Subloans, or
payment for expenditures to purchase equipment leased under a Free-
limit Lease, may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect
thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible
expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize such
withdrawals; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Page  16
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
              Modifications of the General Conditions
      For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows: The words "the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled",
set forth at the end of Section 6.03, are deleted and the following
is substituted therefor:
            "or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 5 (c) of
      Section I of Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall,
      in respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no
      applications or requests permitted under subparagraphs (a) or
      (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such
      applications or requests, the Bank may, by notice to the
      Borrower, terminate the right to submit such applications or
Page  17
      approvals or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the
      case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the
      Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion
      of the Loan shall be cancelled.".
                            SCHEDULE 7
              Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
            of Intermediary Loans, Subloans and Leases
Section I.  Intermediary Loans
1.    To qualify as a Financial Intermediary and thus be eligible to
enter into a Participation Agreement and receive an Intermediary
Loan, an entity must satisfy the eligibility criteria and be
selected according to the procedures specified in the Credit
Regulation Manual, which criteria must, inter alia, include that the
entity:
      (a)   in the case it is a private entity, meet the minimum
networth requirement established by BCU in accordance with Law
Decree No. 15.322;
      (b)   meet the minimum reserve requirement established by BCU
in accordance with Law Decree No. 15.322;
      (c)   without limitation to the provisions set forth in
paragraphs (a) and (b) herein, meet all the other requirements set
forth in Law Decree No. 15.322;
      (d)   comply with all the regulations, general provisions and
specific instructions issued by BCU in connection with financial
intermediation in Uruguay;
      (e)   has no unresolved disputes with BCU's banking
supervision department in connection with issues related to the
activity of financial intermediation;
      (f)   be current in meeting its obligations to have had its
financial statements audited by external auditors approved by BCU;
      (g)   has adopted BCU's accounting standards and chart of
accounts;
      (h)   has adequate staff and procedures to carry out efficient
Subloan or Lease promotion and Investment Project appraisal and
supervision (including efficient evaluation and supervision of the
procurement procedures of an Investment Project);
      (i)   in the case it is a leasing company (as such term is
defined within the term referred to in Section 1.02 (f) of this
Agreement) meet the requirements set forth in Law 16.072;
      (j)   has a need for a loan in Dollars to match its revenues
in Dollars;
      (k)   not be managed by the Borrower;
      (l)   services its debt from its own revenues;
      (m)   manages the risks associated with the foreign currency
composition of its assets and liabilities; and
      (n)   has clients or prospective clients which earn revenues
in Dollars.
2.    Each Intermediary Loan shall be made in accordance with
procedures and under terms and conditions set forth in the Credit
Regulation Manual, which procedures, terms and conditions must,
inter alia, include that:
      (a)   (i) Intermediary Loans shall be made and disbursed in
Page  18
Dollars; and (ii) the amortization schedule of Intermediary Loans
shall be expressed in Dollars and the principal of and interest on
Intermediary Loans shall be repayable and payable, respectively, in
Dollars;
      (b)   the interest rate on Intermediary Loans shall be a
variable rate equal to the higher of: (i) the average interest rate
for 180 days certificates of deposit in Dollars charged by the five
financial institutions which have registered the highest volume of
deposits in Dollars on the day prior to the approval date of the
Intermediary Loan in question, plus a specified spread agreed
pursuant to direct negotiations between the Borrower, through BCU,
and the Financial Intermediary; or (ii) an interest rate equal to
the average cost of the proceeds used from the IDB Loan, the Loan,
and any other loan made to the Borrower, through BCU, as the case
may be, to finance the Subloan in question, provided, however, that
such rate is not below the interest rate referred to in Section 2.05
of this Agreement, plus a spread to cover the BCU's operational
costs;
      (c)   the principal amount of each Intermediary Loan shall be
repaid, irrespective of whether the Subloan or Subloans in question
are repaid, on the same terms and conditions applicable to the
Subloans made from the proceeds of such Intermediary Loan, provided,
however, that if a Subloan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Financial Intermediary in advance of maturity, or, if a Subloan
or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or
otherwise disposed of for value by the Financial Intermediary, the
Financial Intermediary shall promptly repay to the Borrower the
amount of the Intermediary Loan corresponding to such Subloan or any
part thereof so repaid in advance or disposed of for value;
      (d)   if the proceeds of an Intermediary Loan are used to make
a Lease, the principal amount of such Intermediary Loan shall be
repaid, irrespective of whether rental payments on the Lease in
question are made, on terms and conditions which shall include a
maturity equal to the term of the Lease in question and principal
installments of a periodicity equal to that of rent payments under
such Lease and in an amount equal to the amortization component of
each such rent payment (as such component is calculated pursuant to
paragraph 8 of Section II of this Schedule), provided, however, that
if the option to buy under a Lease is exercised by the lessee in
advance of such Lease's term, or, if a Lease or any part thereof
shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for
value by the Financial Intermediary, the Financial Intermediary
shall promptly repay to the Borrower the amount of the Intermediary
Loan corresponding to the amount paid by the lessee to exercise the
option to buy or received by the Financial Intermediary upon its
disposal for value of the Lease or part of such Lease; and
      (e)   the proceeds of an Intermediary Loan used to finance the
purchase of equipment leased to an Investment Enterprise shall not
exceed: (i) 94% of the estimated cost of the equipment leased; or
(ii) an amount equal to $5,000,000, whichever is the lowest.
3.    Participation Agreements shall, inter alia, contain:
      (a)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to maintain
the staffing referred to in paragraph 1 (h) of this Section;
      (b)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to comply
with the requirements referred to in paragraph 1 (a) through (g) and
(i) through (n) of this Section;
      (c)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to: (i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial
condition, including records and separate accounts regarding its
activities under Part A of the Project; (ii) have such records and
accounts, together with its financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements), for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
Page  19
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Borrower and the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Borrower, through
BCU, not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such
scope and in such detail as the Borrower shall have reasonably
requested; and (iv) furnish to the Borrower, through BCU, such
information and documentation as required to allow the Borrower to
comply with its obligations under Article IV of this Agreement;
      (d)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to finance
at least 6%, from proceeds other than those of the Loan, of the
purchase price of equipment leased to an Investment Enterprise; and
      (e)   the obligation of the Financial Intermediary to comply
with the applicable terms of the Credit Regulation Manual.
4.    No expenditures for goods, works or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan (and therefore out of the proceeds of an
Intermediary Loan) unless:
      (a)   the Subloan or Lease for such Investment Project (other
than a Free-limit Subloan or a Free-limit Lease) shall have been
approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not
earlier than one hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received the application and the information
required under paragraph 5 (a) of this Section in respect of such
Subloan or Lease; and
      (b)   the Subloan or Lease for such Investment Project shall
have been a Free-limit Subloan or Free-limit Lease for which the
Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred and
eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received
the request and information required under paragraph 5 (b) of this
Section in respect of such Free-limit Subloan or Free-limit Lease.
For purposes of this Agreement, a Free-limit Subloan shall be a
Financial Intermediary's subsequent Subloan after such Financial
Intermediary has obtained Loan proceeds for its first two Subloans
and a Free-limit Lease shall be a Financial Intermediary's
subsequent Lease after such Financial Intermediary has obtained Loan
proceeds for its first two Leases.
5.    (a)   When presenting a Subloan or Lease (other than a Free-
limit Subloan or Free-limit Lease) to the Bank for approval, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and the appraisal and environmental
certification referred to in paragraph 1 of Section II of this
Schedule, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms
and conditions of the Subloan or Lease, including the schedule of
amortization of the Subloan or the schedule of rental payments under
the Lease; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
      (b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a Free-limit Subloan
or Free-limit Lease shall contain: (i) a summary description of the
Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the
Subloan, including the schedule of amortization of the Subloan or
the schedule of rental payments under the Lease.
      (c)   Applications and requests made pursuant to the
provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before October 31, 1996.
Section II. Subloans and Leases
Page  20
1.    To qualify for a Subloan or Lease: (i) an Investment
Enterprise and Investment Project must be appraised by a Financial
Intermediary in accordance with the applicable terms of the Credit
Regulation Manual; and (ii) an Investment Project must be certified
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Environmental
Manual, and must meet the criteria specified in such Credit
Regulation Manual, which criteria must, inter alia, include that:
      (a)   the Investment Enterprise must have: (i) revenues in
Dollars; or (ii) prospective revenues in Dollars; or (iii) revenues
whose pricing is linked to Dollar prices; and
      (b)   each Investment Project must be expected to yield a
financial rate of return in real terms, calculated in manner
satisfactory to the Bank, of not less than twelve percent.
2.    (a)   Subloans shall be made and disbursed in Dollars; and
      (b)   the amortization schedule of Subloans shall be expressed
in Dollars and the principal of and interest on Subloans shall be
repayable and payable, respectively, in Dollars.
3.    (a)   The amount of each Subloan to be financed with the
proceeds of the Loan shall not exceed: (i) 70% of the estimated cost
of the Investment Project; or (ii) an amount equal to $5,000,000,
whichever is the lowest.
      (b)   The proceeds of a Subloan shall not be used to finance
the following expenditures:
            (i)   overhead and administrative costs;
           (ii)   severance payments;
          (iii)   transfer of assets, including, inter alia, the
                  acquisitions of shares, equity investments and
                  other type of securities;
           (iv)   recurrent expenses;
            (v)   working capital expenses (except for associated
                  working capital expenses as referred to in
                  Section 1.02 (k) of this Agreement);
           (vi)   restructuring of debt;
          (vii)   payment of dividends or recovery of invested
                  capital; and
         (viii)   purchase of land and housing.
      (c)   The amount of Subloans to an Investment Enterprise shall
not exceed in the aggregate the limits set forth in paragraph (a)
herein.
4.   The interest rate of Subloans shall be freely agreed between
each Financial Intermediary and Investment Enterprise, provided,
however, that such interest rate shall be a LIBOR based variable
rate. (For purposes of this paragraph, LIBOR means the average
interest rate per annum at which term deposits in dollars maturing
in six months are offered in the London England interbank market at
11:00 a.m. (London time)).
5.    Subloans to finance goods or works shall have a maturity of
three to ten years with a maximum grace period of three years.
Subloans for other purposes shall have a maturity of one to three
years with a maximum grace period of six months. Leases shall have
a term of three to twelve years with no grace period for rental
payments.
6.    Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Financial
Intermediary shall obtain, by written Subloan Agreement with the
Page  21
Investment Enterprise, rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:
      (a)   require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
      (b)   require that: (i) the goods, works and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project;
      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, the goods, sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
      (d)   require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practices; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
      (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Project;
      (f)   require the Investment Enterprise to finance at least
fifteen percent of the Investment Project's cost with funds of its
own that have not been borrowed (such funds contributed by the
Investment Enterprise cannot be used to cover recurrent labor costs
and working capital expenses, except for associated working capital
expenses as referred to in Section 1.02 (k) of this Agreement, nor
can the Investment Enterprise's contribution requirement be met
through contributions in kind or investments made in the past);
      (g)   require the Investment Enterprise to comply with the
existing environmental norms in the Borrower's territory;
      (h)   require the Investment Enterprise to comply with its
obligations referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement; and
      (i)   suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
Subloan Agreement.
7.    Leases shall be made on terms whereby the Financial
Intermediary shall obtain, by written Lease Agreement with the
Investment Enterprise, rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower, including rights identical to those set
forth in paragraph 6 (a), (b), (c), (e), (g) and, when applicable,
(h) of this Section, as well as the right to terminate the Lease
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its Lease Agreement.
8.    Each Lease Agreement shall contain a schedule of rent payments
for the Lease in question, and each rent payment in such schedule
shall consist in part of an amortization component, the amount of
which should be clearly identified in the Lease Agreement, which
component shall be calculated as if: (a) the Lease were a loan for
the amount of the leased equipment's value; (b) each rent payment
were a payment of interest and principal under such loan; and (c)
each amortization component were the principal amount included in
Page  22
each such payment of interest and principal. If and when an
Investment Enterprise exercises its option under the Lease to buy
the leased equipment, it shall purchase the equipment by paying to
the Financial Intermediary the sum of the amortization components of
the rent payments still outstanding.
                            SCHEDULE 8
                Single Currency LIBOR Determination
1.    Single Currency LIBOR for any Interest Period shall be the
offered rate for deposits in Dollars for a period of six months
which appears on the display designated as page "3750" on the
Telerate monitor (or such other page or service as may replace it
for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of
major banks for Dollars deposits), as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on
the second day on which banks and foreign exchange markets are open
for business in London prior to the relevant January 15 or July 15
(the Interest Determination Date).
2.    If such rate does not appear on the Telerate monitor or on
such service as may replace it, the Bank shall request the London
offices of four major banks to provide the Bank with the rate at
which deposits in Dollars are offered by such banks on the Interest
Determination Date to leading banks in the London interbank market
for a period of six months ending on the last day of such Interest
Period. Single Currency LIBOR for such Interest Period shall be the
arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth decimal
place) of such offered quotations as determined by the Bank.
3.    If not more than one major bank provides the Bank with such
quotations under paragraph 2 above, Single Currency LIBOR shall be
Arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if necessary to the fifth decimal
place) determined by the Bank of the rates quoted by at least two
major banks in New York City selected by the Bank on the Interest
Determination Date for loans in Dollars to leading European banks
for a period of six months ending on the last day of such Interest
Period. If fewer than two of the banks so selected are quoting such
rates, Single Currency LIBOR shall be the single currency in effect
for the last preceding Interest Period.
                            SCHEDULE 9
                      Environmental Entities
      (a)   "ANCAP" means the Borrower's Petroleum, Alcohol and
Cement Entity (Administracion Nacional de Combustibles, Alcoholes y
Portland);
      (b)   "DINAMA" means the National Environmental Directorate
(Direcci›n Nacional de Medio Ambiente) within the Ministry of
Housing, Land-Use, Planning and the Environment of the Borrower;
      (c)   "MGAP" means the Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and
Fishery (Ministerio de Ganaderòa, Agricultura y Pesca) of the
Borrower;
      (d)   "MIE" means the Ministry of Industry and Energy
(Ministerio de Industria y Energia) of the Borrower;
      (e)   "OSE" means the National Sanitation Authority (Obras
Sanitarias del Estado) of the Borrower; and
      (f)   "UTE" means the Borrower's Power Entity (Administraci›n
Nacional de Usinas).
