Page  1
                                                    November 10, 1995
Dr. Luis Mosca
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Colonia No. 1089
Montevideo, Uruguay
           Ref:  URUGUAY (Private Sector Development Project)
                 Loan No. 3698-UR Amendment to Loan Agreement
 Dear Minister Mosca:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement between Republica
Oriental del Uruguay (the Borrower) and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated March 4, 1994.
      In response to your October 11, 1995 request to eliminate
certain requirements to be met by an Investment Enterprise in
order to qualify for a Subloan or a Lease, we are pleased to
inform you that the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan
Agreement as follows:
           1.  The terms "Free-limit Lease" and Free-limit
Subloan" referred to in Section 1.02 (g) and (h), respectively are
hereby amended to read as follows:
                "(g) 'Free-limit Lease' means a Lease of the type
                referred to in paragraph 4 of Section I of Schedule 7
                to this Agreement;
                (h)  'Free-limit Subloan' means a Subloan of the type
                referred to in paragraph 4 of Section I of Schedule 7
                to this Agreement;".
      2.  Section 3.04 is hereby amended to read as follows:
                 "Section 3.04. (a)  Without limitation to the
           provisions of Section 9.01 of the General
           Conditions, beginning: (i) after the sum referred
           to in paragraph (c) of this Section has reached
           $17,500,000 equivalent; or (ii) eighteen  months
           after the  Effective Date (whichever occurs first),
           the Borrower and the Bank shall exchange views on
           the: (A) progress achieved by the Borrower in: (1)
           carrying out Part A of the Project; and (2)
           regulating and supervising private commercial banks
           and private financial institutions in Uruguay; (B)
           situation of the Borrower's current trade regime;
           and (C) procedures followed by the Borrower,
           through DINAMA, in carrying out its obligation
           under Section 3.12 of this Agreement.
                (b) If, as a result of the exchange views referred to
           in paragraph (a) above, the Bank determines that the
           progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out Part
           A of the Project or in regulating and supervising
           private commercial banks and private financial
           institutions in Uruguay, as the case may be, is
           not satisfactory, or that the variations in the
           Borrower's maximum import tariffs and quantitative
           import restrictions have adversely affected the
           private sector's relative prices, or that the
           procedures followed by the Borrower, through DINAMA,
           in carrying out its obligation under Section 3.12
           of this Agreement are different from those set forth
           in the Environmental Manual, the Bank may cease the
           authorization of withdrawals under paragraph 5 (a) of
Page  2
           Section I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement. Such cessation
           may continue unless the Bank shall be satisfied based on
           evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the events described
           herein, have been resolved in a manner satisfactory to the
           Bank.
                (c) The sum referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of this
           Section shall be the sum of: (i) Subloans for which
           withdrawals have been authorized pursuant to paragraph 5
           (a) of Section I of Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and (ii)
           the value of the equipment for which Lease withdrawals have
           been authorized pursuant to paragraph 5(a) of Section I of
           Schedule 7 to this Agreement.".
      3.  Section 3.05 is hereby amended to read as follows:
           "Section 3.05.  Without limitation to the provisions
           of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
           shall cause BCU to prepare and furnish to the Bank not
           later than June 15 and December 15 of each year starting
           in June 1996, until the completion of the Project, a
           semiannual progress report of such scope and in such
           detail as the Bank may reasonably request, on
           the progress of Part A of the Project, such report to
           include, inter alia, detailed information on: (a) interest
           rates charged on Intermediary Loans and Subloans; and (b)
           the certifications issued by the Borrower, through DINAMA,
           for the period in question, in accordance with Section 3.12
           of this Agreement.".
      4. Paragraphs 4 and 5 of Section I of Schedule 7 are hereby
amended to read as follows:
            "4. No expenditures for goods, works or services required
            for an Investment Project shall be eligible for financing
            out of the proceeds of the Loan (and therefore out of the
            proceeds of an Intermediary Loan) unless the Subloan or
            Lease for such Investment Project shall have been a
            Free-limit Subloan or Free-limit Lease for which the Bank
            has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such
            expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one
            hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank
            shall have received the request and information required
            under paragraph 5 of this Section in respect of such Free-
            limit Subloan or Free-limit Lease.
            5.  (a)  Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
            make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a
            Free-limit Subloan or a Free-limit Lease shall contain:
            (i) a summary description of the Investment Enterprise and
            the Investment Project, including a description of the
            expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
            the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Subloan,
            including the  schedule of amortization of the Subloan or the
            schedule of rental payments under the Lease.
            (b) Requests made pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph
            (a) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or
            before October 31, 1996.".
         5.  Paragraph 1 of Section II of Schedule 7 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
             "1.  To qualify for a Subloan or Lease: (i) an Investment
             Enterprise and Investment Project must be appraised by a
             Financial Intermediary in accordance with the applicable
             terms of the Credit Regulation Manual; and (ii) an
             Investment Project must be certified in accordance with
             the procedures set forth in the Environmental Manual, and
             must meet the criteria specified in such Credit Regulation
Page  3
             Manual, which criteria must include, inter alia, that each
             Investment Project must be expected to yield a financial
             rate of return in real terms, calculated in a manner
             satisfactory to the Bank, of not less than twelve percent.".
         This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts each
of which shall be an original and shall not become effective until the
Bank has received: (a) one fully executed original of this amendment
letter; and (b)  an amended Environmental Manual satisfactory to the Bank.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and
dating the two counterparts of this amendment letter.  Upon your
confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
                                    Sincerely,
                               INTERNATIONAL BANK
                       FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    Homi Kharas
                              Acting Country Director
                                    Department I
                       Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By _____________________
   Authorized Representative
Date: __________________
