Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13758-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
April 12, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 1994)
1 Baht     =    US$0.039
25.5 Baht   =    US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Barrel (bbl) of Crude
Oil (0.85 Specific
Gravity/34° API)            =    0.136 Metric Ton (t)
1 Barrel                     =    0. 159 Cubic Meter (m3)
1 British Thermal Unit (Btu)    =    0.252 Kilocalories (kcal)
1 Cubic Foot (cu ft)         =    0.028 Cubic Meter (m3)
1 Gallon (US)                =    3.785 Liters (1)
1 Metric Ton of Crude Oil    =    44.4 x 106Btu (typical)
1 Mile                       -    1.609 Kilometers (km)
1 Standard Cubic Foot
(SCF) of Natural Gas      =    1,000 Btu (typical)
1 Ton of Oil Equivalent (toe)   =    10.415 x 106 kcal
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
bbls           barrels
BMR            Bangkok Metropolitan Region
BPPCL          Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited
BPR            Bangchak Petroleum Refinery
bpcd           Barrels per calendar day
bpd            Barrels per day
bpsd           Barrels per stream day
cO             Carbon Monoxide
DGOHT          Deep Gas Oil Hydrotreater
EGAT           Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
FCC            Fluid Catalytic Cracker
HC             Hydrocarbons
LTD            Land Transport Department
NEQA           National Environmental Quality Act
NOx            Nitrogen Oxides
NPPC           National Petroleum Policy Committee
PTT            Petroleum Authority of Thailand
RTG            Royal Thai Government
SO2            Sulfur Dioxide
SPM            Suspended Particulate Matter
toe            Ton of oil equivalent
TORC           Thai Oil Refinery Company
tpy            Tons per year
FISCAL YEAR
RTG:  October 1 to September 30
BPPCL: January 1 to December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ............................. i
I.     TRANSPORT FUELS AND AIR POLLUTION IN THAILAND ....                       ......... I
A.     Economic and Sectoral Context ............................. 1
B.     Air Quality Issues ...........              .................. 2
C.     Petroleum Fuels and Transport Emissions ..........         ............ 3
D.     Sector Institutions ...........             .................. 5
E.     Experience Under Past Loans .............................  7
F.     Rationale for Bank Involvement .     ......................                 8
II. THE PROJECT .......... 10
A.     Project Objective  .    ................................... 10
B.     Project Description  ...............   10
C.  Cost Estimate ............... 12
D.  Financing Plan ............... 12
E.     Project Implementation ...............   13
F.     New Facilities Operations and Management .......         ............. 14
G.     Monitoring and Reporting ...............................  14
H.  Supervision Plan ................................ 14
I.  Procurement . ............................... 15
J.  Disbursements ................................ 17
K.  Environment ................................. 17
III.  THE BORROWER . ................................ 19
A.  Background ................................. 19
B.     Corporate Ownership   ................................  19
C.     Corporate Structure ................................    20
D.     Managerial Systems ................................    20
E.     Financial Management ................................  22
F.     Insurance  ...........               .....................  23
IV.     FINANCE ................................                                          24
A.     Past and Present Financial Condition  ..........       .............. 24
B.     BPPCL's Financing Plan ................................ 26
C.     Future Financial Condition  .............................. 27
D.     Financial Conditionality  ................  29



E.      Internal Financial Rate of Return ...................  ....  ..               .  29
V.      ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION   ................................  30
A.      Economic Costs and Benefits .       ............................ 30
B.      Net Present Value .................................    30
C.      Benefits and Risks .................................    31
VI.      AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  .......... ............. 33
A.  Agreements .................................. 33
B.      Recommendation   .................................    33
List of Annexes
1    Petroleum fuels Reformulation Objectives and Specifications ..................... 34
2    Refinery Modifications  ............................................  36
3    Process Flow Diagram   ............................................  37
4    Project Implementation Schedule .        .....................................  38
5    Project Supervision Plan  ...........................................  39
6    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .         ................................... 43
7    Summary of Project Environmental Aspects .........                ...................... 44
8    Annual Financial Statements ............. I ...........................  56
Key Indicators 1990-2000
Table 1 - Projected Income Statements ...........             .......................  56
Table 2 - Projected Income Statements ...........             .......................  57
Table 3 - Projected Balance Sheets 1990 - 2000 ............................. 58
Table 4 - Sources and Applications of Funds 1990- 2000  ....................... 60
9    Crude Oil and Petroleum Price Projections .       ................................  61
10   Refinery Production ................................  62
11   Economic Costs and Benefits Without Project ..............................  63
12   Economic Costs and Benefits With Project ................I...............  64
13   Incremental Costs and Benefits from Project ...............................  65
14  List of Documents in Project File ................................. 66
Map: IBRD No. 26195.
This report is based on the findings of missions that visited Thailand in March and June 1994 that
included Messrs. Lakdasa Wijetilleke (Task Manager), Jamil Sopher (Principal Financial Analyst). Mr.
Sudhir Shetty (Senior Economist) provided considerable support with regard to the economic and
environmental aspects of the project. Mr. Alfred Picardi (Consultant) assisted in reviewing the
environmental aspects both in the field and at Headquarters. Ms. Rapti Goonesekera (Consultant) assisted
in the collection of environmental data. Ms. Hamideh Keyhani and Mr. Martin Edmonds assisted with the
project at headquarters. Messrs. Carl Heinz Mumme, Jitendra Shah and Darayes Mehta reviewed
different aspects of the project at various phases. Mmnes. Marie Nimley and Mercedes Pendleton assisted
in the processing of the report. The project was cleared by Messrs. Callisto Madavo, Director, EAl and
Vineet Nayyar, Chief, EA1IN.



- i -
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           The Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited (BPPCL).
Guarantor:          Kingdom of Thailand.
Implementing
Agency:             BPPCL.
Benefrciary:        Not Applicable.
Poverty:            Not Applicable.
Amount:             US$90 million equivalent.
Terms:              17 years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Commitment Fee:   0.75%  on undisbursed balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver.
Onlending Terms:   Not Applicable.
Financing Plan:     See para. 2.15.
Net Present Value:   US$171 million equivalent.
Map:                IBRD No. 26195.






TEHAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. TRANSPORT FUELS AND AIR POLLUTION IN THIA1LAND
A. Economic and Sectoral Context
1.1        Rapid Economic Growth. Thailand has accumulated a remarkable and enviable record of
economic growth since 1986. Real GDP growth has averaged almost 11 percent p.a. between 1987
and 1993, making Thailand one of the world's fastest growing economies. As a result, real per capita
incomes have almost tripled during the past decade. With rising per capita incomes have come
improvements in living standards for the majority of the Thai people as is evident from a variety of
social indicators. Life expectancy has risen by almost three years since the early 1980s, and the share
of Thais living in poverty has fallen to about 22 percent.
1.2        With this rapid growth and the accompanying structural changes in the economy have
come dramatic increases in energy use, transport demand and industrial production. During 1983-
1992, energy demand more than doubled, vehicle kilometers-travelled and vehicle registrations rose at
more than 10 percent annually, and manufacturing output almost tripled. With robust economic
growth averaging 8 percent p.a. projected to continue for the rest of the decade, the demand for energy
and transport services is expected to increase at a comparable pace.
1.3        The Urban Environment. With this recent growth has come increasing concem about its
undesirable side-effects. In particular, the stresses on the urban environment due to the increases in the
scale of production and consumption have undoubtedly been severe in the last decade. Most obvious
are the worsening air and water pollution and traffic congestion, especially in the Bangkok
Metropolitan Region (BMR). 1 The costs of doing nothing about these problems are already high as is
evident in their adverse health and productivity impacts, and these would grow further without
remedial action. These costs are also magnified in Thailand because economic activity is concentrated
in the BMR.2 The most serious environmental problems in the BMR in terms of health and/or
productivity losses are air pollution due to suspended particulate matter (SPM) and lead, micro-
biological contamination of water mostly from discharges of untreated sewage, and traffic congestion.
1.4        Air pollutants are of particular concern since their levels are linked closely to road
transport demand, which is expected to continue to increase rapidly. There is evidence that blood lead
levels in adults and children in the BMR are about two to three times the levels considered safe in
' /    The BMR includes the Bangkok Metropolitan Area and the five neighboring provinces of Samut Prakan,
Sanut Sakhon, Nonthaburi, Nakhon Pathom and Pathum Thani.
2,     These environmental impacts are concentrated in the BMR, which generates over half of Thailand's
GDP, and within which almost three-quarters of manufacturing firms are located. The BMR is also
densely populated with over 9 million people.



- 2 -
industrialized countries. Respiratory diseases attributable to high concentrations of SPM are common,
and particularly prevalent among traffic policeman, road-side vendors and taxi and bus drivers.
Moreover, ambient concentrations of other air pollutants including carbon monoxide (CO),
hydrocarbons (HC), and nitrogen oxides (NOx) are rising rapidly, and without concerted action, could
reach damaging levels by the end of the decade.
B. Air Quality Issues
1.5        Among air pollutants, especially in the BMR, the highest priorities for control are SPM
(especially particles less than 10 microns in diameter-PM10) and lead. It has been estimated that a
20 percent reduction in ambient concentrations from current levels in the BMR would provide annual
health benefits of between US$400 million and US$1.6 billion for SPM and between US$300 million
and US$1.5 billion for lead.3 With the continued increases foreseen in industrial activity, energy use
and traffic within the BMR, these adverse impacts are likely to continue to worsen without
ameliorative action. Although the present concentrations of several other air pollutants such as CO,
NOx, HC, ground-level ozone, and toxic pollutants such as benzene are not as high as for SPM and
lead, their levels also would undoubtedly increase with continued growth - along with their adverse
health impacts.
1.6        The main sources of these two air pollutants in the BMR are the transport and industrial
sectors. For SPM, it is estimated that transport accounts for about a fifth of total emissions, and is the
likely contributor to a larger proportion of the more-damaging finer particles). Almost all lead, CO and
HC originate from motor vehicles, as does the bulk of NOx. For sulfur dioxide (SO2), a substantial
share of emissions is accounted for by the use of fuel oil by power plants. Within transport, the biggest
offenders are two-stroke motorcycles, which account for almost 87 percent of transport-sector SPM
emissions, a fifth of lead emissions, and almost half of HC emissions in the BMR. Diesel vehicles,
primarily trucks and buses, are the other major transport source of SPM and SO2, while gasoline-
powered vehicles (cars and pick-up trucks) account for the bulk of lead emissions.
1.7        Without additional policy action, emissions of these air pollutants are projected to rise
substantially over the next decade. It has been estimated, for instance, that both SPM and SO2
emissions in the BMR would more than double. The bulk of these increases would come from the use
of polluting fuels by industry and transport. Without a shift towards the use of unleaded gasoline, lead
emissions (almost all of them from vehicles) would increase threefold. Other air pollutants that come
mainly from vehicle emissions would also rise significantly, and CO and NOx emissions would double
while HC emissions would increase about 50 percent. Consequently, ground-level ozone, which
results from the interaction of HC and NOx, would also emerge as a problem.
1.8        Recognizing the adverse environmental impacts associated with the recent rapid growth,
the RTG enacted a comprehensive and far-reaching Environmental Law in April 1992, and
improvement of the environment is a high-priority objective under the Seventh National Development
Plan (1992-1996). To achieve air quality improvements in the BMR and other urban areas, the RTG
3 /    For details of these estimates, see World Bank, Thailand: Mitigating Pollution and Congestion Impacts in
a High-Growthe Economv, Report No. 11770-TH, February 14, 1994.



-3 -
has formulated and begun implementing an Action Plan to reduce vehicle emissions. The specific
actions implemented or envisaged under the Action Plan, which has been supported by the Bank
through the Third and Fourth Highway Sector Projects, include: (i) using unleaded gasoline and low-
sulfur diesel; (ii) setting emission standards for in-use and new vehicles; (iii) refining vehicle inspection
procedures; (iv) using compressed natural gas-fueled buses; and (v) adopting traffic management
measures.
1.9        In addressing air pollution and other urban environmental problems, Thailand's
policy-makers still face the challenge of implementing sound policies that reduce environmental damage
without throttling economic growth. Hence, the costs of reducing air pollution and achieving other
environmental improvements should be compared to the benefits that they bring. In particular, control
policies need to be well chosen in that they reduce pollution at least cost and are feasible to administer.
In tackling air pollution, measures directed towards rnitigating the two most urgent air pollution
problems - SPM and lead in the BMR - are likely to be among the most justifiable aspects of the
initial phase of an air pollution control strategy. A study to develop an SPM mitigation plan is being
conducted with financial support from the Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Grant
Fund.
C. Petroleum Fuels and Transport Emissions
1.10       It is well recognized that air pollution in the BMR is worsening because of many factors,
including traffic congestion, poor vehicle maintenance, and the use of polluting fuels.  Hence,
corrective policies have to influence three sets of factors. The aggregate demand for transport services,
and its growth over time have to be reduced. The distribution of transport demand over modes should
be altered towards relatively less-polluting alternatives such as mass transit. Finally, the emissions
intensity of specific transport modes needs to be reduced by shifting towards cleaner engines, as with
motorcycles, and fuels as with unleaded gasoline. The challenge that the RTG faces is twofold. The
most feasible and least costly mix of these three sets of policies must be chosen and implemented. And,
the corrective measures must be phased appropriately. In determining the phasing of policies, it has to
be recognized that measures directed towards slowing the growth of transport demand and influencing
its modal mix require substantial planning and lead time before their beneficial impacts on vehicular
emissions of air pollutants are evident.
1.11       Fuel Reformulation Programs. Hence, although the RTG is implementing measures
aimed at influencing all three determinants of transport pollution, those that have been emphasized the
most initially, and which have been most successful, have been aimed at reducing the emissions
intensity of transport modes.4   Of these, the RTG's fuel refornulation program  is particularly
important, and is already having a significant impact. This program is similar to those implemented in
the 1970s and 1980s by several industrialized countries, notably the U.S., and aims at reducing
vehicular emissions of lead, SPM, HC and CO. Since a substantial share of emissions of SPM and
almost all airbome lead, CO and HC emissions originate from transport, the use of cleaner fuel helps
improve air quality. Such measures also economize on scarce administrative resources because, unlike
4 /    The design and implementation of many of these policies, including vehicle emissions standards and
emissions testing, have been supported by the Bank under the Third and Fourth Highway Projects.



- 4 -
policies aimed at reducing vehicle use or encouraging the use of cleaner engines, they do not require
much monitoring, nor do they require the behavioral changes necessary for the success of measures
aimed at switching modes or reducing transport demand. Hence, fuel reformulation programs are a
cost-effective initial step in strategies to control vehicle emissions.
1.12       The Bank has been involved in an extensive dialogue with the RTG in providing technical
advice and financial assistance to formulate and begin implementation of cost-effective policies for
improving air quality. This support has included analytical work such as an Economic Report
completed in 1994, which focused on prioritizing pollutants and evaluated alternatives for of mitigating
the pollution impacts of the rapid expansion of transport and energy use (Report No. 11770-TH).
Moreover, the Bank has provided analytical support and financing for the RTG's Action Plan for
reducing emissions through its highway sector lending, the Fuel Option Study (Report No. 11948-TH),
and technical assistance efforts. An important aspect of this dialogue has centered on the scope and
efficacy for reformulating transport fuels as a way of improving ambient air quality.
1.13       In 1990, studies were commissioned to evaluate fuel reformulation options as part of
developing its medium-term air quality improvement strategy. Based on these studies, various gasoline
and diesel oil specifications have been issued. The main changes to the formulation of gasoline are: (i)
an initial reduction of lead to 0.15 milligrams per liter, and the introduction of unleaded gasoline in the
BMR in 1991-92; (ii) the phasing out of all lead by January 1996; and (iii) reductions in the benzene
and aromatics levels in gasoline to 3.5 percent and 35 percent, respectively. Other changes in
specifications that would reduce HC and CO emissions have also been made. The adjustments to the
specifications of diesel to decrease SO2 and SPM emissions include: (i) progressively reducing the
sulfur content from one percent weight to 0.5 percent weight in 1991 and 0.05 percent weight in 2000;
(ii) reducing the distillation range; and (iii) lowering the viscosity. Finally, the lubricating oil mixed with
gasoline in two-stroke engines has also been reformulated to reduce emissions of SPM and HC.
1.14       The impacts of this program have been most dramatic in the case of lead. Following the
introduction of unleaded gasoline in May 1991, there has been steady progress in its substitution for
leaded gasoline, particularly in the BMR Unleaded premium gasoline (88-93 RON) continues to gain
market share, and the lower-octane leaded gasoline has been eliminated. By the beginning of 1996,
when only unleaded gasoline is available for sale in the BMR, it is estimated that lead emissions from
transport will fall by 95 percent relative to their 1992 levels. The impacts of the other fuel
reformulation efforts are more difficult to quantify precisely because of the greater complexity of the
links between fuel specification and emissions. However, it is thought that the reduction in the
distillation range of diesel has lowered transport emissions of SPM by about 10 percent relative to
uncontrolled levels. The reduction in sulfur content (to the current 0.25 percent weight) is estimated to
have reduced SO2 emissions from transport in the BMR by about 5 percent.
1.15       The Refinery Sector. Having decided on the basis of this technical and analytical work to
implement these ambitious fuel standards, the task now is to assure adequate and cost-effective
supplies of gasoline and diesel fuels that comply with these standards. Thailand is a large importer of
petroleum products, particularly diesel oil and aviation fuel. Some limited quantities of unleaded high
octane gasoline are also imported. The amount of imported diesel oil averages about 100,000 barrels
per day. There are three operating refineries in Thailand at present: (i) the Bangchak Oil Refinery,
owned by the Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited (BPPCL); (ii) the Thai Oil Refinery



- 5 -
(TORC), jointly owned by the Royal Crown Properties, the Petroleum Authority of Thailand, Shell Oil
Company, Caltex and other private companies; and (iii) the Esso Refinery. The combined capacity of
these three refineries is 390,000 barrels per stream day (bpsd). Two new refineries by Shell Oil
Company and Caltex Petroleum Company, which are under construction, will add an estimated
265,000 bpsd of refining capacity, giving a total capacity of 655,000 bpsd.
1.16       In meeting the new fuel standards, the two existing private refiners can finance the
necessary investments on the strength of their parent companies' access to long-term credit.
Furthermore, the two new refineries have incorporated the requirements for complying with these
standards into the designs of the facilities they are constructing at present. The challenge, however, is
more serious for BPPCL, whose refinery currently has a design capacity of 120,000 bpsd. Although
the refinery is now in excellent mechanical condition and is efficiently operated, it lacks secondary
conversion and deep gas oil treating facilities. BPPCL was able to implement the initial diesel
reformulation measures by mixing throughput from its existing plant with higher-grade imports.
However, this approach cannot be used in complying with the more stringent standards that will
become effective in 1998. Moreover, it could meet the gasoline specifications only by relying heavily
on imports and blending these with the refinery's own production. But this may be risky and expensive
because of the large quantity of imports involved relative to current international supplies of products
of the required quality. Hence, BPPCL would be faced with the need for large new investments before
it has been able to consolidate frlly its operational and financial restructuring.
D. Sector Institutions
1.17       The RTG has responded to the growing concerns about environmental degradation
through a number of legislative and policy initiatives. The improvement of environmental quality was
explicitly listed as one of the objectives of the Seventh National Development Plan (1992-1996).
When the environmental law (the National Environmental Quality Act -NEQA) was revised in 1992,
significant institutional changes were also made. The Office of the National Environmental Board
(ONEB) was raised to ministerial status, as part of the Ministry of Science, Technology and
Environment (MOSTE). The National Environmental Board (NEB) was reconstituted, and its status
elevated with the Prime Minister as its Chairman and the inclusion of a number of key sectoral
Ministers.
1.18       Under the revised NEQA, the key RTG agency with regulatory jurisdiction over pollution
control is the Department of Pollution Control (DPC) in MOSTE. Within it, DPC has an Air Quality
Division, which is responsible for air pollution control. DPC makes recommendations to the NEB on
the establishment of ambient standards for air and water quality, groundwater and noise, operates most
of the ambient air and water quality monitoring stations in the country, and is allowed to establish
emissions and effluent regulations as well as conduct source monitoring and enforcement activities.
Since it was created in its present form under the revised NEQA, DPC has successfully begun fulfilling
its broad mandate, especially with regard to air quality, with technical assistance from the Bank,
USAID and other donors.
1.19       In the energy sector, the National Energy Policy Office (NEPO) has responsibility for all
matters associated with the production and use of energy and collaborates with DPC in formulating



policies to mitigate the environmental impact of energy use. The other institutions involved in the
implementation of environmental legislature include the Land Transport Department (LTD), within the
Ministry of Transport and Communications, which is responsible for enforcement of emissions
standards in new and in-use vehicles; the Department of Industrial Works (DIW) in the Ministry of
Industry, which has jurisdiction over industrial sources of emissions; and the Ministry of Public Health,
which conducts analyses on the health impacts of air pollutants and also collects air quality monitoring
data.
1.20      Efficient development of the petroleum sector is crucial to provide the commercial energy
requirements of Thailand.  Overall responsibility for planning and investment decisions in the
hydrocarbon sector is vested in the National Energy Policy Committee (NEPC), which is chaired by the
Prime Minister. NEPC sets policies and targets for the development of the petroleum industry and
policies regarding pricing. Until May 1991, petroleum product prices in Thailand were regulated, and
a fuel fund created in 1980 was used to stabilize prices. This fund was financed by government
revenues from fuel sales when international oil prices were lower than the regulated price. When
international prices exceeded retail prices, the fund was used to subsidize the oil companies, without
passing over the additional costs to the consumer. In May 1991, oil prices were partially deregulated,
and in August 1992, prices were totally deregulated, except those for liquefied petroleum gas. In
parallel, all restrictions for private sector investments in refining were also removed. The importation
of all products has also now been deregulated.
1.21      Bangchak Petroleum Public Company Limited.  The Bangchak Petroleum Refinery
(BPR) currently has a design capacity of 120,000 bpsd. The refinery is now in excellent mechanical
condition and is efficiently operated. The refinery lacks secondary conversion and deep gas oil treating
facilities. Without such facilities, the refinery will not be able to market its products once the new
standards go into effect.  The Bangchak Petroleum  Public Company Limited ("BPPCL" or
"Bangchak") investigated the possibility of importing large quantities of high quality products to blend
with the refinery's own production; however, this was considered impractical due to the large volumes
involved, and the scarcity of products of the required quality, regionally and globally.
1.22       Ten years ago, Bangchak Refinery was a languishing government owned enterprise in
dire financial and operating condition. Then, with the Bank's financial and technical support, the
Government decided to implement an aggressive three-pronged program to turn the enterprise's
fortunes around. First, the Bangchak Petroleum Company was established as a new company with
autonomous operations and a sound financial structure. Second, a young and dynamic team was
installed to manage the Company and given unusually broad autonomy. Finally, the Government
committed itself to making the heavy investments needed to modernize and expand the Bangchak's
refinery facilities. The Bank provided considerable guidance with regard to Bangchak's reorganization,
and lent $85 million to finance the plant upgrades under the Bangchak Petroleum Refinery
Restructuring Project. This strategy led to a virtual tripling of effective production capacity, and the
recasting of the Company as a commercially operated enterprise. The new management emphasized
good product planning and rapid responsiveness to market changes in demand. As a result, the
Company turned profitable almost immediately. Its financial performance improved gradually through
1991; although revenues did not grow in 1992-93, the measures introduced in 1992 to improve
operating efficiency and cash management were effective, so that Bangchak's financial performance
remained relatively strong.



- 7 -
1.23      While the Government wishes to retain majority ownership and operating control of
Bangchak, it recognized the substantial advantages of privatizing a significant proportion of the
Company's shares. The presence of private shareholders would ensure that the Company would
continue to operate as a commercial enterprise. And, while the Company has already begun to attract
some interest from commercial lenders, partial privatization would make it eligible to obtain funding
from a broad array of financiers who have limited interest in wholly owned Government entities. A
public share offering of 20% of the Company's shares to private interests for some $120 million came
to closure in mid-June 1994. The Government has indicated an interest in increasing progressively the
proportion of the Company to be owned by private interests.
1.24       With the revitalization of the Company and its partial privatization now nearly completed,
Bangchak has turned its sights to becoming the archetype of the public company of the future. Its
primary objective is to continue its successful commercial operations. At the same time, it wishes to
use the strength provided by its successful operations to address important public issues related to its
business. As a result, the Company has developed a strong interest in understanding the linkages
between fuel composition, air quality, and health. Not only has Bangchak shown real leadership in
setting an ambitious program for meeting clean fuels requirements, but it has also invited the use of its
facilities for basic research into the linkages between transport pollutants and health. The Company
currently provides offices and facilities for a leading Thai environmental NGO, and has provided
leadership in building awareness about environmental issues related to automobile and industrial
emlssions.
E. Experience Under Past Loans
1.25       The Bank has supported projects aimed both at enhancing efficiency in the refinery sector
as well as improving the effectiveness of the RTG's efforts to improve air quality. The previous Bank
loan to BPPCL in 1986 provided US$85 million (the Bangchak Petroleum Refinery Restructuring
Project; Loan No. 2548-TH), and was completed in June 1992. That project, which included
components aimed at restructuring certain managerial, financial and physical aspects of BPPCL,
contributed substantially to the company's current financial and economic viability. When that Project
was approved, the Bangchak Refinery was a stagnant government owned enterprise in dire financial
and operating condition. With the support of the Bank loan, the RTG successfully implemented an
aggressive restructuring program, which included new management, financial reforms, additional
investment to upgrade facilities, and operational autonomy. The program has resulted in a tripling of
production capacity and the transformation of the company into a profitable and commercially-oriented
enterprise. The success of the BPPCL restructuring is evident in the progress of the RTG's recent
efforts to sell 20 percent of the Company's shares to private interests (which has raised about US$120
million). The public share offering in June 1994 was oversubscribed.
1.26       This is the Bank's second project with BPPCL. In 1986, the Bank lent US$85
million to finance the Bangchak Petroleum Refinery Restructuring Project (Loan 2548-TH); that
project was completed in June 1992. Although the project met all its objectives, it suffered from
serious initial delays as Bangchak decided to redesign the facilities to enable greater
responsiveness to changing patterns of demand. Outputs from the proposed project are expected



- 8 -
to have a ready market not only in Thailand but also elsewhere in the region, which would assure
the project's financial viability. Moreover, project designs are well advanced, and most decisions
concerning the technology have already been made; the acquisition of the specific technology is
expected by June 1995. With this technology acquisition concept, redesigning of the facilities are
not expected, and project implementation is expected to proceed without delay. Further, the
managerial, financial and physical restructuring that were accomplished during the Bank's first
project would contribute substantially towards timely completion and efficient operation of the
proposed project. With this technology acquisition concept, redesigning of the facilities would
not be necessary.  Further, the managerial, financial and physical restructuring that were
accomplished during the Bank's first project would contribute substantially towards timely
completion and efficient operation of the proposed Project.
1.27        In assisting the RTG in its efforts to improve air quality in the BMR and other urban
areas, the Bank has provided support as part of its lending for the road sector. Components of the
Third and Fourth Highway Projects (Loans No. 3220-TH and 3446-TH) supported the development
and implementation of the RTG's Action Plan to reduce air pollution. The analytical work, financial
support, and technical assistance provided under these loans has helped to strengthen regulatory
institutions like DPC, combined to build up the RTG's ambient air monitoring network, define new
ambient standards, establish vehicle emission and fuiel standards, and implement vehicle emissions
testing. Experience with these loans has shown that it may be more effective in Thailand to address
complex cross-sectoral issues like air quality improvement with lending for related sectors such as
highways and petroleum refining, rather than through self-standing environmental projects. In this
regard the Bank is currently assisting the DPC to implement a study to define a program for SPM
abatement under a PHRD Grant Fund.
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.28      The proposed Project is justified for three main reasons. First, the Bank has
supported a series of efforts by RTG to mitigate the adverse impacts of transport-related air
pollution, particularly in the BMR. Specifically, the Bank has assisted various agencies of the
RTG (notably the Department of Pollution Control [DPC] and the National Energy Policy Office
[NEPO]) in formulating and implementing cost-effective strategies for reducing vehicular
emissions. BPPCL has worked closely with RTG and the Bank in developing the clean fuel
standards. It values the Bank's technical advice and necessary financial support in implementing a
substantial investment program that would go a long way towards improving air quality in urban
areas, especially BMR. Second, Bank's involvement in BPPCL's investment program would help
catalyze funding from commercial sources of finance to ensure full funding of the project. And,
Third, continued Bank support to BPPCL would help expedite the process of privatization, which
was begun in mid-1994 with the Company's successful issue of common stock.
1.29      The policies and programs pursued by the Government in the Environmental sector,
in general, and the Petroleum sector, in particular, are in compliance with the Bank's policies. The



- 9 -
Project is also consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No.13458-
TH). As discussed in the CAS, which was presented to the Board on September 22, 1994, Bank's
support to Thailand aims at providing value added in terms of helping Thailand address the most
important development issues. Among the priority areas for Bank assistance identified in the CAS
are the development of physical infrastructure and improvement in environmental management, to
which this project would directly contribute. The proposed Project would help Thailand in
implementing a cost-effective strategy for improving air quality. While the first stage of the fuel
standards could be met by increasing imports and mixing these with output from BPPCL's existing
facilities, excessively large volumes of imports would be required in meeting the more stringent
standards in 1998.
1.30      Finally, continued Bank support to BPPCL would help expedite the process of
privatization on which it has already embarked with its recent equity issue. The investments to be
financed under this project are essential if BPPCL is to be able to meet the new fuel standards.
Moreover, since the fuel standards take effect in 2000, these irnvestments must be made immediately.
Thus, Bank support at this stage will enable BPPCL to finance and implement the proposed
investments expeditiously.



- 10-
IL THE PROJECI
A. Project Objective
2.1        The primary Project Objective is to support the reduction of air pollutants attributable to
petroleum fuels in Thailand, by assisting the Borrower in: (a) meeting reformulated gasoline and diesel
oil specifications established by the Government; and (b) improving its refinery operations through the
installation of appropriate facilities and equipment to further reduce refinery emissions and enhance
safety.
B. Project Description
2.2        The Project comprises the following components:
(a)   a Deep Gas Oil Hydrotreater (DGOHT) of 30,000 barrels stream per day (bpsd) capacity
to enable the production of 0.05 weight percent sulfur diesel oil;
(b)   a Fluid Catalytic Cracker (FCC) of 16,000 bpsd capacity and modifications to existing
naphtha reformer to produce high octane, low aromatic and low benzene content
gasoline, in order to enable the refinerys gasoline pool to meet unleaded octane
requirements, and permissible aromatics and benzene levels and other prescribed
specifications;
(c) the installation of equipment and facilities to further enhance the refinery's environmental
nitigation system and safety;
(d)  the purchase of modem air quality monitoring equipment,
(e)   project engineering and management;
(f)  acquisition of technology and procurement of catalysts and chemicals; and
(g)  training.
2.3        FCC and DGOHT. The FCC will convert gas oil to premium value gasoline, which will
be its major output. It will also produce some diesel oil and liquefied petroleum gas. The gasoline will
be blended with other refinery gasoline streams to make unleaded gasoline of the required
specifications. The DGOHT will reduce the sulfur level of both FCC diesel oil and diesel oil from the
crude distillation unit. The blended diesel from all refinery sources will meet the sulfur, distillation and
other required specifications.



- 11 -
2.4        The FCC and DGOHT are the primary project components which are essential to
reformulate gasoline and diesel oil. Annex 1 gives a description of the fuels reformulation
objectives and specifications for reformulated fuels; Annex 2 provides a brief process
description and Annex 3 a process flow diagram. Reformulated fuels have to meet a range of
specifications. With regard to gasoline, the most important of these are the elimination of lead,
the reduction of the aromatics and benzene levels and the vapor pressure of gasoline. The most
critical specifications for diesel oil are sulfur content reduction, limitation on the boiling range
(the 90 volume percent distillation temperature) to reduce SPM, and the aromatics content. A
co-generation power unit will be added to ensure a reliable supply of electricity, which will be
essential with the addition of the DGOHT and FCC.
2.5        Environmental Safety Enhancement and Operating Reliability. The Bangchak
Petroleum Refinery (BPR) is situated within the BMR. BPPCL has conscientiously maintained
its refinery and operated its facilities to the highest intemational standards. Under the just-
completed Bangchak Refinery Restructuring Project, the safety and the mechanical integrity of
the refinery was restored and brought up to a level comparable to that of a modem refinery.
Under the Project, facilities will be added to recover sulfur from waste gases as well as treat
tailgases.  Also, further assessments of refinery operations will be made to identify
modifications which may be needed to further enhance refinery operating safety, incorporating
state of the art technology.
2.6        With regard to the environmental impact of refinery operations, the facilities now
meet or exceed Thai and comparable intemational environmental regulations.   An
environmental impact assessment of the facilities satisfactory to the Bank has been completed.
The Project wiH provide consultancy services to identify any process modifications and
equipment which may be needed to further reduce gaseous, liquid and solid discharges which
may be harmful to the environment, over and above those required to meet Thai standards.
2.7        Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Mobile Units. The Project would finance the
purchase of mobile air quality monitoring units, which would improve Bangchak's air quality
monitoring capabilities (primarily to monitor the impact of refinery operations in the
surrounding areas).
2.8        Project Engineering and Management Assistance.  The project will engage
consultants to assist Bangchak in the implementation of the project.
2.9        Technology Acquisition and Procurement of Catalysts and Chemicals. Under the
project necessary technology for the reformulation of gasoline and diesel oil will be acquired.
The project will also provide for the procurement of required catalysts and chemicals.
2.10       Training. The project will provide training to BPPCL staff to operate the new
facilities.



- 12-
C. Cost Estimate
2.11         The total financing requirements of the Project, including physical contingencies,
price escalation and interest during construction are esfimated at US$370 million equivalent, of
which US$226 million is in foreign exchange. The local cost component of about US$144
million equivalent includes about US$15 million equivalent of import duties and applicable
local taxes. The proposed Bank loan of US$90 million would finance an estimated 24 percent
of the Project costs. Table 2.1 summnaizes the cost estimates for the Project.
2.12         Base cost estimates are expressed in 1994 prices and were developed based on:
(a) estimates by Bangchak, and (b) the feasibility study, conceptual design and cost estimates
prepared by the Chiyoda Engineering and Construction  Company.   Estimates include
contingencies of US$68.2 million, or 26 percent of the base cost. Price contingencies are
based on annual projected price increases from 1995 through 2000 for foreign costs of 2.2
percent and local cost of 5.0 percent.
Table 2.1: Project Cost Estimate
DGOHT                                       485      1,206    1,691    19.0      47.3      66.3        71.3
FCC                                        1,683    2,091     3,774    66.0      82.0      148.0       55.4
Environmental & Safety Enhancement          458      381       840     18.0      15.0      33.0        45.4
Air Quality Monitoring Mobile Units                   26       26       0.0       1.0       1.0       100.0
Project Engineering & Management Assistance  20      173       193      0.8      6.8        7.6        89.4
Licensor Fee, Technology, Catalysts & Chemicals       77       77        -        3.0       3.0       100.0
Training and Operation Assistance            _        26        2       t0        t0        IQ
Base Cost                                  2,572    3,981     6,653    104.8    156.1      260.9       59.8
Physical Contingencies                      268       98       666     10.5      15.6      26.1       59.7
Price Contingencies                         416      6                    16 3   258       A.1         12
Total Installed Cost                      3,356    5,036     8,392    131.6    197.5     329.1       60.0
Interest During Construction                                 1. 724  _  12_S    28,4       AU        69.4
TOTAL                                36       S 74N              144 1    2.M .      30
D. Financing Plan
2.13         The financing plan for the Project is shown in Table 2.2. The proposed Bank loan
of $90 million equivalent would finance about 40 percent of the foreign cost of the Project or
24 percent of project financing requirements.  The proposed Bank loan would be made to
BPPCL at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for a 17-year term, including five years of
grace on repayment of principal. Own cash generation is expected to finance about $110
million, or about 300/0 of the total; this would cover about 39% of the local and about 24% of



- 13 -
the foreign expenditures, respectively. The balance of funding requirements would be provided
from other sources including but not limited to commercial bank loans and supplier credits.
Table 2.2: Financial Plan
(US$ million)
Long-term Debt:
IBRD                                    0.0         90.0        90.0
Other External Sources                 88.0         82.0       170.0
OwnCashGeneration                       56.1         53.9       110.0
TOTAL                            144.1        225.9       370.0
2.14         Bangchak has yet to receive firm offers for finance from other extemal sources,
including inter alia supplier credits and/or commercial loans. However, with Bank support,
the Company believes it is fully capable of raising adequate amounts of external finance to
ensure full funding and timely completion of the proposed project. The market for supplying
refinery equipment has been highly competitive for some time already - Bangchak was
receiving offers for supplier credits in connection with the earlier Bank project, even when its
financial circurnstances were much less favorable - and offers for such credits will be solicited
in conjunction with procurement. During the past two years, the Company has demonstrated
an ability (paras. 4.6-4.7) to raise substantial funding from commercial sources; Bangchak now
enjoys relatively favorable access to local credit markets. Even if commercial debt financing is
not available in the amounts projected, the Company can (i) make available a greater amount of
intemal cash generation, or (ii) selling additional shares to the public (para. 4.11). At
negotiations, Bangchak agreed that it would make demonstrable arrangements, by March
31, 1998, so that all the required external finance would be available as and when needed.
E. Project Implementation
2.15         The detailed  engineering, procurement, installation, construction  and
commissioning and start-up of the two major refinery process units and associated facilities will
be implemented over a period of five years. The other components will be implemented in
parallel and completed within the same time period. A detailed project implementation plan
was prepared by Bangchak. The proposed implementation schedule is given in Annex 4. The
project completion date is estimated to be December 31, 1999.
2.16         Bangchak staff gained valuable experience implementing the Bangchak
Refinery Restructuring Project (Loan 2548-TH). The Bangchak Project construction division



- 14 -
is well staffed, and organized to coordinate the implementation of the Project. A consulting
Engineering Firm has recently been appointed to prepare the project specifications based on
licensor packages and the associated engineering, and to integrate the new facilities with the
existing refinery.
F. New Facilities Operations and Management
2.17         Bangchak operating staff have a wealth of valuable experience behind them.
However, the FCC is relatively new technology for BPR, while the DGOHT is similar in many
respects to the gas oil desulfurizer already in use in the refinery. Staff will be trained to operate
the facilities and the selected licensor will provide on-the-job training. Staff will be selected to
follow the design and construction of both units and ultimately to operate these units. Selected
staff will be sent for training to refineries where simnilar units are in operation.
G. Monitoring and Reporting
2.18         Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project in terms of
physical execution and financial reports have been discussed with Bangchak, which would
continue to furnish quarterly progress reports just as it had in connection with the earlier Bank
financed project. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be drafted by the Bank
not later than six months after completion of the loan and Bangchak would assist in its
preparation. Bangchak would also prepare and make available to the Bank its own evaluation
report, including a summary report which would be attached unedited to the ICR. The
evaluation would assess the project execution and initial operation, its costs and benefits, the
Bank's performance, its own performance of the obligations under the Loan Agreement, and
the extent to which the purpose of the loan was achieved. Bangchak would adopt the plan for
the operational phase of the project and together with the Bank, define the performance
indicators to be used to monitor operations and development impact. Bangchak shall prepare
on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and not later than six months after the closing
date of the loan, a plan for the future operation of the project.
H. Supervision Plan
2.19         Supervision of this project would include: (a) all aspects of project
implementation; (b) periodic reviews of Bangchak's operating strategy and plans in keeping
with changes in the economic scenario; (c) monitoring of compliance with financial covenants
to assure the financial health of Bangchak while undertaking a large investment program; (d)
close monitoring of the implementation of the environmental impact mitigation plans for the
project; and (e) adequate technical and financial monitoring of its operations to assess
competitiveness vis-a-vis other refineries in Thailand and the regions, and identify an
appropriate plan of action if competitiveness is threatened. The Bank missions would also
assist Bangchak and the Government in their efforts towards privatization. Supervision of the
project would require expertise in petroleum processing, petroleum fuels reformulation and air



- 15 -
pollution, general refinery operations, economics, financial analysis and environmental
engineering. A table of key performance indicators is indluded in the Project File, and will be
used during project supervision. Three missions each year for the first two years and two
missions annually for the following two years are foreseen for adequate supervision of this
project. The total estimated staff inputs for four years are: refinery engineer -- 26 staff-weeks;
financial analyst -- 18 staff-weeks; environmental economist -- 6 staff-weeks; and
environmental engineer -- 6 staff-weeks. In addition, another 14 staff-weeks will be required at
Headquarters for general project administration. Annex 5 gives details of the proposed project
supervision plan.
L. Procurement
2.20       The project procurement activities will comprise about four works contracts,
three goods contracts, three consultancy contracts, and three contract for proprietary licenses
and related technology. Contracts for works and goods to be financed by the Bank will be
procured in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines, and the Bank's standard
bidding documents and contracts will be used as appropriate. International competitive bidding
(ICB) will be used for procurement of US$293 million equivalent of works and goods.
Bidders for turnkey contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5 million or more per
contract shall be pre-qualified. Turnkey contracts will include FCC, DGOHT, sulfiur recovery,
tailgas treating facilities and general refinery and safety improvements. Limited International
Bidding (LIB) will be used in connection with procurement of specific equipment for the
DGOHT, Environmental and Safety Enhancement Equipment, and mobile air quality
monitoring equipment. The estimated cost of these items is about $16 million. Short-lists of
suppliers under LIB will be submitted to the Bank for clearance. Consultants will be selected
according to Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Proprietary items estimated to cost
$4.5 million comprising catalysts and chemicals, use of which will be mandatory to safeguard
process guarantees will be procured by direct or sole source contracting, with the concurrence
of the Bank. Licenses and proprietary technology, costing less than $100,000 per contract and
an aggregate cost of not more than $3 million in total value, may be procured by international
shopping, in accordance with the Bank guidelines. All bidding packages estimated to cost
more than $500,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documents. This would cover about 90 percent of the Bank-financed contracts. The prior
review threshold for consultants' contracts shall be US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals.
2.21       A margin of preference, as allowed by the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, will be
applied for domestically manufactured goods under ICB procurement.  The margin of
preference will be the lower of (a) 15 percent of the CIF bid price for imported goods; or (b)
the prevailing customs duties and other import taxes. The selection of technology suppliers
and other engineering and technical assistance will be procured under Bank procurement
procedures.
2.22       A Retroactive Financing provision in the amount of $3 million would be
made to cover payments with respect to consultancy services, licensors fees, and the



- 16-
acquisition of environmental monitoring equipment, which may be made after April 1,
1995 but prior to the date of loan signing. These expenditures need to be made
imminently because the finalization of project designs depends on the acquisition of
technology. The provision of $3 million represents about 3.3% of the amount of the
proposed loan.
2.23        Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
Table 2.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US$ Million Equivalent)
1. Works (with associated Goods and Services )l
under Turn-key Contractsl
1.1 DGOHT &Associated Facilities              82.1    4.0       --              86.1|
(45.0)   (3.3)    (-)     (-)    (48.3) 
1.2 FCC &Associated Facilities                187.7     ---                     187.7|
1.3 Environmental &Safety                     23.3    11.0      --               34.3|
|  Enhancement Equipment                     (7.0)   (8.2)    (-)       (-)    (15.2) |
2. Goodsl
2.1 Air Quality Monitoring Equipment            -      1.0      -        -        .0
2.2 Catalysts & Chemicals                       -       -      4.5       -       4.5 |
|3. Consulting Servicesl
3.1I Project Managemient & Engineering Assistance  -            -       9.7      9.7 |
3.2 Operations Assistance & Overseas Training   -       -       2.0      -       2.0
3.3 Technical Services                          -       -       0.8      -       3.8
l                                    (-)    ~~~~~~~~~(-)  (0.8)  (-)    (3.8) 
4. Proprietary Licenses and Technology           -               3.0       -|
|  TOTAL                                     293.1   16.0    10.3       9.7    329.1
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     (69.0)  (12.5)   (8.5)     (-)    (90.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amnounts financed by the Bank Loan.
Other include direct contracting, international shopping, and consulting services.
NBF Not financed by the Bank.



- 17 -
J. Disbursements
2.24       The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 65 percent of local expenditures on tum-key contracts, (b) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, with 100 percent of ex-factory local expenditures and 65 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured locally, for goods; and (c) 100 percent for consultants'
services and training. The Borrower would finance all expenditures below US$500,000 from
its own resources, and only submit individual applications above this amount.
2.25       An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 6. A summary is given
below. This schedule is based on the Bank's profile for similar industrial Projects. The closing
date of the proposed loan is June 30, 2000. The rate of disbursement is based on historical
disbursement profiles for Thailand and the region as well as the characteristics and
implementation schedule for different components.
Table 2.4: Estimated Loan Disbursement
(US$Million)
i ian JS                 1996g42 w 7      198       19
Annual                  13.0    20.0      40.0     17.0
Cumulative              13.0    33.0      73.0     90.0
K. Environment
2.26       A review of the environmental impact of the existing refinery facilities and the
proposed project is given in Annex 7.  Under the Bank-assisted Bangchak Refinery
Restructuring Project (Loan 2548-TH), refining facilities were rehabilitated and their
mechanical integrity was restored to international levels. Baseline data collected on ambient air
reveal that current refinery operations have had no adverse impact and that ambient air quality
meets Thai standards and Bank guidelines. With regard to waste-water and other liquid
effluents, baseline data collected on the Chao Phraya River indicate that refinery operations
have not had any detectable impact on river water quality.
2.27       An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the refinery, including the
Project, was submitted to the Bank. The Bank reviewed the study and requested the inclusion
of some additional data, which were supplied. The EIA is of satisfactory quality, and a
summary of that EIA was circulated to the Board on December 9, 1994. The project's designs
take account of the ElA's recommendations. Thai environmental regulations also require an
EIA to be approved prior to start-up. The Project will include the installation of appropriate
pollution control equipment and treatment facilities to handle the additional loadings of gaseous
and liquid effluents resulting from the added processing facilities and operations. An analysis
has been performed to estimate total emissions on completion of the Project. A dispersion



- 18 -
model was used to predict resulting ambient air quality. Based on the model predictions, air
emissions control equipment has been included to contain pollutant emissions to levels well
below Thai and intemational standards. A similar analysis was done to characterize and
estimate additional waste-water loadings. Based on these analyses, additional capacity
requirements for control of gaseous emissions and treatment of liquid effluents have been
identified. The Project will upgrade waste-water treatment facilities to more stringent effluent
quality standards than are mandatory in Thailand. They will be designed to meet Thai as well
as international standards, and will conform to applicable Bank guidelines.
2.28        Air pollution control equipment will include sulfur recovery and tailgas treating
facilities and control of coke fines from the fluid catalytic cracker. With regard to waste-water
and other liquid effluents, pollution mitigation or elimination measures will include surface
water drains for new units, an additional oily storm pond, and a dissolved air floatation unit.
An additional activated sludge tank will be installed in parallel or series with the current system
and a sand filter will be installed before the guard basin to increase the efficiency of total
suspended solids removal. A second activated sludge tank will be added to reduce phenol from
the FCC process and limit its concentration to less than one milligram per liter. A concrete pad
and drainage system will be installed to direct run-offs to the oily water treatment system.
2.29        A detailed hazops analysis of the entire refinery, including the new Project
facilities, will be included in the detailed design and engineering work of the project. While the
refinery operations currently meet or exceed all industrial safety standards, the hazops study
will identify safety enhancement areas for the entire plant, including the new facilities, to ensure
that refinery operations will continue to meet or exceed the safety standards of industrialized
countries.
2.30        The project involves no land acquisition and no relocation. Some military
barracks that currently occupy the east side of the site will be relocated on land within the
immediate vicinity of the refinery compound.



- 19 -
II THE BORROWER
A. Background
3.1        The Borrower of the proposed loan will be the Bangchak Petroleum Public Com-
pany Limited ("BPPCL" or Bangchak). BPPCL was initially registered as a limited company
under the Civil and Commercial Code of Thailand in November 1984. In April 1993, BPPCL
was converted to a public limited company. The Company's main business is refining crude oil
and selling refined petroleum products to wholesalers as well as industrial and retail end-users.
The Company purchases most of its inputs on the spot market from a variety of Far Eastern
and Middle Eastern suppliers.
B. Corporate Ownership
3.2       Prior to June 1994, BPPCL was wholly owned by the Government through three
of its agencies. Of the total, 60 percent of its shares were held by the Ministry of Finance
(MOF); 30 percent by the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT); and the remaining 10
percent by Krung Thai Bank. While the Government wishes to retain majority ownership and
operating control of Bangchak, it recognized the substantial advantages of privatizing a signif-
icant proportion of the Companys shares. The presence of private shareholders would ensure
that the Company would continue to operate efficiently and follow commercial practices.
Thus, in June 1994, some 20 percent of the Company was offered for sale to private interests.
Following that offering, the Company's shares are distributed so that MOF now owns 48
percent; PTT, 24 percent; Krung Thai Bank, 8 percent; and public Thai investors, 20%.
3.3        The Government has indicated its interest in increasing the percentage of
Bangchak stock that would be owned by private holders progressively. However, the recent
offering needs to be absorbed frilly before a new one can be contemplated. In all likelihood, the
market could be ready for a new offering in 1996-97. If current financial projections are
sustained, the next sale of stock might be limited to a secondary offering (para. 4.11).
3.4       Bangchak owns significant interests in three other companies. BPPCL owns all
ordinary shares, but only 49 percent of the total share capital, of Bangchak Green Net Compa-
ny Limited (Green Net) and Bangchak Green Line Company Limited (Green Line). Green Net
holds Bangchak's interest in service stations and Green Line is an oil distributor. The shares in
these two companies not owned by Bangchak are preference shares, which carry limited voting
rights and dividend entitlement. Bangchak also owns 10 percent of the share capital of the Fuel
Pipeline Transportation Company (FPTC), an outfit that constructed and now operates a
pipeline from Bangchak's refinery to Bangchak's new terminal at Bangpa-in, via the airport at
Don Muang. The remaining shares of FPTC are owned principally by major oil product
consumers and distributors.



- 20 -
3.5        With the revitalization of the Company and its partial privatization now nearly
completed, Bangchak has turned its sights to becoming the archetype of the public company of
the future. Its primary objective is to continue its successful commercial operations. At the
same time, it wishes to use the strength provided by its successful operations to address
important public issues related to its business. Under the proposed project, Bangchak wants to
enhance its capacity to monitor transport related poLlution. The Company considers that these
activities, which are expected to help in setting priorities applicable to its future product line,
are consistent with its objective of serving the public interest in issues of transport related
poLlution.
C. Corporate Structure
3.6        The Company is run by an eleven person Board of Directors. The Chairman is
the Permanent Secretary of MOF. Bangchak's President serves as a member and as Secretary
of the Board. MOF appoints one other director; PTT appoints two directors; Kning Thai
Bank appoints one director; and the other five directors come from outside the Company. The
Board meets regularly every month, and may meet more frequently as needed. The Board sets
the Companys policies and, either in plenary or through committees of the Board, ratifies the
major decisions concerning management and finance.
3.7        Although the Board is vested with broad powers, it has given management broad
autonomy to run the Company. Management consists of a President, two Senior Executive
Vice Presidents, and five Department Directors. The Company itself is organized along
functional Lines. Much of the present management has been in place over the last ten years, and
can be credited with turning a bloated, inefficient outfit that responded very slowly to market
trends into a lean, cost-effective Company noted for its rapid responsiveness to market
exigencies and requirements.
D. Managerial Systems
3.8        Nature of Bangchaks Business.  Bangchak is engaged in refining and
marketing activities and is one of three oil companies that operates refinery facilities in
Thailand. Bangchak's facilities are located along the Chao Phraya River on the eastem end of
Bangkok. The Company's main income is derived from the sale of oil-based products. To the
extent it can, Bangchak refines those products in its own facilities; to satisfy contractual obli-
gations that cannot be met from its own throughput, BPPCL acts as a trading company,
purchasing products on intemational markets for resale domesticaLly. The bulk of its products
are fuels, which account for the vast majority of its throughput and some 83 percent of the
Company's revenues; the remainder consists of solvents and lubricating oils. While the
Company seLls a large number of specific products, all of them are generic in nature and freely
available in world markets.



- 21 -
3.9        In the past, the Company served a wholesale market. Through 1991, its ten
largest customers accounted for 86 percent of Bangchak's sales.  In this context, the
Company's business is characterized by large throughputs and low margins. Those margins are
residual in the sense that (i) the Company's costs are determined mainly by world market prices
for crude oil; and (ii) the revenues of its customers are determined by domestic markets. While
pricing trends in these markets are related, they do not move coincidentally. In 1992, the
Company decided to expand its retail business in order to protect its margins. By 1993, retail
sales increased to 21 percent of revenues. While margins have become more stable, they are
still thin.
3.10       Under the circumstances, the Company's success depends very largely on effec-
tive planning and efficient production. On the planning side, the Company must be able to
anticipate accurately the level and timing of demand for its various products. Its thin margins
can readily be eroded by the cost of carrying slow moving inventory; similarly, its profitability
can be enhanced if it recognizes changing trends early and can adjust production accordingly.
Similarly, the Company's profitability depends on efficient refining and marketing operations.
3.11       Planning. Bangchak's senior management devotes considerable attention to
planning. A Product Planning unit, which monitors market trends and forecasts demand for the
Company's various products, reports directly to the Senior Executive Vice President over
Operations. The Corporate Planning unit, which addresses the Company's financial and human
resource requirements, reports to the Senior Executive Vice President over Finance and
Administration. Both units are smalL selectively staffed, and equipped with the latest in
modeling tools. The output of these units is carefully integrated into the Companys functional
operations. For example, the Product Planning unit's forecasts determine what grades of crude
oil will be purchased and the specific production processes to be followed at any given time. In
tum, Corporate Planning feeds financial management and corporate strategy. Both of these
units are deemed to be very effective.
3.12       Operations. Bangchak's plant uses simple, modem technology. As a result, the
Company's philosophy is to keep a small staff and reward them for efficient operations. The
Company's complement of about 600 staff is deemed comparable to that of the privately
owned refineries operating in Thailand. Operating indicators are gathered regularly, and
adjustments are made to optimize efficiency wherever appropriate.
3.13       While BPPCL was already regarded as efficient in the early 1990s, management
responded to the squeeze on margins in 1992 by making a detailed review of operating prac-
tices and overhead, and focusing corporate attention on cutting waste. In the process, major
adjustments were made and considerable cost savings were realized. Among the adjustments
were important changes in the procedures and timing of plant maintenance. These cost savings
have been sustained over nearly two years, without apparent loss in efficiency.
3.14       Training. Bangchak regards its human resources as its most important asset. It
treats its personnel well and offers considerable opportunities for career growth. As a result, it



- 22 -
has experienced little staff turnover during the last ten years. Training is an important aspect of
the Company's human resource management system. The Company offers extensive in-house
training courses. These are mostly aimed at upgrading and maintaining the operating skills of
its staff. Promising staff are singled out and offered training in areas where they have
demonstrated a potential for career growth. Occasionally, they are offered external training
opportunities. The Company provides some in-house training for managers and professionals,
but Bangchak provides ample opportunities for them to receive external training.
E. Financial Management
3.15       Accounting. The Company follows proper commercial accounting procedures.
The financial accounting system is similar to that of international oil companies. Similarly, the
Company has implemented a cost accounting system following the general practice of the oil
industry. These systems are fully computerized.
3.16       Budgeting. The formulation of the budget is an important, annual company-wide
function that consumes considerable managerial activity starting in April. The starting point is
the development of an action plan for each department for the coming year. These action plans
are then integrated to assess their impact on the Company as a whole. They are then adjusted
to bring them into alignment with the Company's overall capabilities. Then these action plans
are costed out, and (i) resources are allocated, and (ii) targets are assigned to each unit. The
budget is then used as a dynamic instrument. Performance against the budget is monitored
monthly, and the budget is adjusted as and when needed to take account of changing circum-
stances.
3.17       Office Technology. Bangchak has made appropriate use of modern office tech-
nology. The Company has developed and applied standards for hardware and software, and a
small unit keeps those standards up to date. This unit has also developed company specific
applications, some integrated data bases and a modest management information system. The
Company has plans to upgrade, refine, and integrate the management information system;
however, it aims to keep the system modest.
3.18       Audit. According to regulations covering Government owned companies, the
audit of Bangchak's annual accounts is performed by the Office of the Auditor General. The
audit focuses mainly on transactions; however, accounting practices and (to a lesser degree)
company policies are also subject to the auditor's review. The auditor normally provides a
certification of the accounts; it may also provide a long form report if specific issues are
deemed to need discussion. For the last few years, the audit has been timely and thorough.
Bangchak also maintains a small internal audit unit. This group attends to verification of
transactions, bank reconciliations, bid openings, and other special projects.



- 23 -
F. Insurance
3.19       Bangchak maintains a combination of commercial and self insurance to cover a
very broad range of possible risks to its facilities and inventories. These arrangements, which
were acceptable under the earlier Bangchak Petroleum Refinery Restructuring Project, will be
continued under the proposed project.



- 24 -
IV. FINANCE
A. Past and Present Financial Condition
4.1        BPPCL's financial performance for 1990-93 is presented in Annex 8 and
summarized in Table 4.1:
Table 4.1: BPPCL's Financial Performance (1990-93)
(MiMion Baht)
Operating Revenue             23,652       27,021       24,213       25,161 l
Operating Income               997         1,321         779          880    l
Net Income                     562          785          474          527     l
Total Assets                  9,203        10,968       12,325       15,962 l
Long-term Debt                1,010         1,569       2,194        4,208    l
Retained Earnngs               824          1,337       1,372         844
Profitability Margin           2.4          2.9          2.0          2.1     l
Debt Service Coverage          2.7          3.0          2.0          1.6     l
DebtlEquityRatio              15:85        21 :79       27:73        43:57
Current Ratio                  2.3          1.7          0.7          0.8
4.2        When BPPCL was established in 1984, the Bank expected that the Company
would break even for a few years before turning the corner to fu.ll profitability. Profitability
was only expected to reach the level of about US$10 million per year by about 1991. In fact,
through some excellent demand forecasting and some agility in shifting throughput to high
margin products, Bangchak turned profitable almost immediately. Profitability remained
modest through 1990; however, in 1991, the Company net income after tax increased to about
US$30 million, or about 300 percent of what had earlier been projected.
4.3        Realization of early results that exceeded expectations stemmed from  top
management's mastery of the key variables of this high throughput, low margin business. In
effect, the refinery would yield a number of different products, each having different margins,
and the mix of those products could be adjusted by varying the process and the grade of the
crude oil inputs. The Company, therefore, focused on (i) forecasting demand for its various
products, with an emphasis on optimizing its volume of high margin products; (ii) maximizing
the flexibility of its refinery operations, so that it could respond quickly to market changes; and
(iii) reducing inefficiency and waste Company-wide. While foreign advisers were employed,
their role was confined to transferring know-how to a carefu.lly selected local management



- 25 -
team, who in turn retained control over the Company's various activities. By the early 1990s,
the Company had developed a team of innovative professional managers.
4.4       In 1992, following the Gulf War, crude oil prices became extremely volatile; and
the Company had to face the squeeze that results when the market forces that control the cost
of its crude inputs and those that control the end user prices of refined petroleum products are
out of synchronization. Although its throughput was some 10 percent higher than ever before,
profitability declined by about 35 percent; during that year, Bangchak's profitability margin
declined from 2.9 percent to 2.0 percent. The Company responded with two initiatives, which
were pursued aggressively: (i) a drive to wring out whatever inefficiencies could be identified;
and (ii) a move into the retailing of gasoline for automobiles. The efficiency improvement drive
did lead to substantial reductions in overhead in 1992 and thereby contained the decline in the
profitability margin in that very year. Because the squeeze on refinery margins continued, the
Company did not show an appreciable rebound in 1993. Sales and profitability both increased
by about 10 percent, while the profitability margin increased slightly to 2.1 percent. However,
operating cost and overhead appear to have stabilized at 1992 levels.
4.5        The move toward gasoline retailing will take time to produce visible results. The
Company has established two subsidiaries: one to own participations in service stations and
the other to engage in service station operations. The objective is to reduce the risk of
squeezed margins at the wholesale level by also realizing the retail margin for some of its
products. As a secondary objective, since the Company has chosen to own service stations
outright only in prime locations, it is hoping to enjoy reasonable appreciation in the value of the
underlying real estate at low risk.
4.6        Bangchak enjoyed healthy levels of liquidity through 1991. After several years
of only nominal investments during 1988-90, the Company invested heavily in the renovation
of its second refinery unit and in its retailing activities. Those investments, which were largely
self-financed, depleted the Company's cash reserves during 1991-92. In 1993, the Company
raised a one year US$80 million syndicated loan from a group of Hong Kong based banks.
The Company can expect to continue encountering cash constraints, especially during periods
of normal to heavy investments. Given the amounts to be invested in the proposed Project,
Bangchak will need to focus closely on cash management.
4.7        Recent Financial Events. In late 1993, as mentioned above (para. 4.6) the
Company raised a syndicated US$80 million commercial loan for one year. This was the first
time the Company borrowed large amounts commercially. Also, in June 1994, Bangchak
succeeded in floating an initial public offering of its common stock, through which it raised
US$120 million in exchange for some 20 percent of the Company's stock. Some 70 percent of
the offering was absorbed by the Thai capital markets (about half by institutional investors and
the other half by individuals), while the remainder was floated intemationally (mainly Hong
Kong). By acquiring diversified ownership, the Company can continue to focus on efficient
professional management and commercial operation. However, as a result of this share
offering, long term debt represents only about 25 percent of the Company's capital structure; to
provide adequate returns to its shareholders, the Company will need to make better use of its
capacity to leverage its equity. In fact, from the viewpoint of effective financial management,



- 26 -
the Company should not consider raising new equity capital until debt reaches about 60 percent
of total capital (para 4.11). So, while these recent financial transactions will help the Company
develop recognition among international commercial investors, the nature and terms of the
funding that is available would not be appropriate for financing projects such as the one
proposed, as they are characterized by long lead times and have long payback periods.
B. Financing Plan
4.8        BPPCL's financing plan for 1995-99, the period of project implementation, is
presented in Table 4.2. This table is based on the financial projections for the period 1994 -
2000, which is provided in Annex 8:
Table 4.2: BPPCL's Financing Plan   1995-1999
Net Profit                          6,457            253             42%l
Depreciation                        7,280            286             48%l
Operating Cash Flow                13,737            539             90%l
Misc. Sources (Uses) of Funds       383              14              2%l
Less: Long-term Debt Repayment      4,817            189             32%l
Less: Dividends                     2,762            108             18%      l
Less: Net Incr. in Working Cap.     750              29              4%
Internal Cash Generation            5,790            227             38%l
Investment Requirements            15,250            598            100%      l
Balance to be Financed              9,460            371             62%l
|Long Term Debt                     9,460            371             62%
4.9        The proposed Project accounts for about 62 percent of the Company's entire
capital investment program for the period. The remaining capital expenditures include
investments in (i) Bangchak's retailing operations and (ii) miscellaneous major maintenance on
the refinery complex. The Company expects to finance some 38 percent of its investment
requirements from internal cash generation. It expects to finance the remaining 62 percent
from long-term borrowings. The proposed loan accounts for about 24 percent of those new
borrowings. Another 25 percent of new borrowings is expected to come from supplier credits;
the Company hopes to raise the remainder from commercial loans. This reliance on
borrowings to finance the balance of investment requirements is appropriate, given the
Company's under-utilization of its capacity to leverage its equity following its recent common
stock offering (para 4.1 1).



- 27 -
4.10       The prominence of long term loan repayment shows clearly how sensitive this fi-
nancing plan is to effective cash management. Repayments of existing borrowings are
expected to account for some 33 percent of operating cash flow. If sales prices for the
Company's products are less favorable than has been assumed, or if the Company's interest
expenditures are higher than projected due to rising rates, internal cash generation could be less
than projected. However, the Company does have considerable capacity to borrow on the
strength of its balance sheet.
4.11       The Company's reliance on long-term debt to finance its new investments may
appear at odds with the Government's objective of dispersing still more of Bangchak's stock to
private holders (para. 3.03). In fact, the Company need not raise cash from further sales of
stock; instead, the Government can sell some of its own shares through a secondary offering,
once the market has absorbed the recent initial public offering and conditions are deemed
favorable for a new issue. And, if the Company does encounter chronic cash flow constraints,
it would still have the option of attaching a modest primary offering to any possible secondary.
4.12       Bangchak's working capital requirements are projected to increase only nominally
during the projection period. This is appropriate, given that the proposed project is not
expected to increase the volume of the refinery's output.
C. Future Financial Condition
4.13       Financial projections for 1994 - 2000 is presented in Annex 8 and summarized in
Table 4.3:
Table 4.3: Financial Projections (1994-2000)
(Million Baht)
(Assumes Revaluation of Assets)
Operating Revenue     33,497    36,407   37,011   38,024    43,586    45,821    48,454
Operating Income       1,559     1,633    1,916    2,074     3,147     3,320     3,318
Net Income              779      939      1,105    1,079     1,621     1,712     1,795
Total Assets          20,014    24,050   27,756   31,018    32,872    33,496    34,053
Long-term Debt         3,844     5,995    8,399    10,318    9,450     7,978     6,632
Retained Eanings       1,359     1,908    2,542    3,067     4,147     5,047     5,983
Profitability Margin    2.3       2.6      3.0      2.8       3.7       3.7       3.7
Debt Service Coverage   1.8       1.2      1.5      1.6       1.4       1.1       1.3
Debt/Equity Ratio      25:75     32:68    39:61    43:57     38:62     32:68     27:73
CurrentRatio            1.1       1.0      0.9      1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0



- 28 -
4.14       The critical assumptions, which provide the basis for these projections are:
(a)   although Thai accounting procedures call for assets to be valued on the basis of
historical cost, asset revaluation does provide a truer indication of how efficiently
the Company is using its resources. Therefore, a notional revaluation was
performed and provides the basis for the projections. The following analysis,
which flows from the projections, will be based on asset revaluation. However,
where the valuation of assets at historical cost results in materially different
numbers, those will be provided in parentheses along side the projection figures;
(b)   crude oil markets are projected to stabilize at 1994 levels and would remain stable
thereafter. Therefore, the profitability margin was expected to recover to about
2.3 percent (2.5 percent) in 1994 and 2.6 percent (2.8 percent) in 1995. The
results recorded through the latter months of 1994 appear to validate this
assumption;
(c)   profitability margins will change in future years in relation to changes in the
Government's clean fuels requirements. Essentially, the level of clean fuels as a
proportion of Bangchak's product mix will increase as effluent requirements
change; and those clean fuels, which involve a higher degree of refining, are
higher margin products. In this regard, profitability margins are expected to
increase to 3 percent (3.3 percent) in 1996 and to 3.7 percent (4.1 percent) in
mid-1998;
(d)   product prices are expected to remain steady relative to current levels. However,
as demand for cleaner fuiels increases, their relative prices (and therefore their
margins) may well also increase. Consequently, the Company's revenues for the
1996 - 2000 period may well be appreciably higher than assumed; and
(e)  the exchange rate is expected to remain stable at B 25.5=US$1. The inflation rate
is projected to remain stable at 4.1 percent. Interest rates are expected to increase
gradually through 1996 by about two percentage points per year over mid 1994
levels, and remain steady thereafter.
4.15       Based on these assumptions, the Company is expected to remain financially
healthy throughout the projection period. Retum on fixed assets, which had recently dropped
to about 5 percent, is expected to recover to about 6 percent on revalued fixed assets (6.4
percent on historically valued fixed assets) through 1997, and about 8 percent (9 percent) after
the product mix changes in mid-1998. While the debt/equity ratio will surely increase as a
result of acquiring the debt needed to finance the Companys investment program, that
indicator is expected to peak in 1997 at about 43:57, assuming revaluation of assets (49:51,
assuming historically valued assets).
4.16       Despite its projected financial good health, the Company is expected to continue
having to focus on cash management (para. 4.10). Debt service coverage, which has regularly
exceeded 2.0 and not previously dropped below 1.6, is projected to drop to about 1.5 during



- 29 -
the projection period, and drop as low 1.2 in 1995 and 1.1 in 1999. The current ratio, another
important measure of liquidity, is expected to hover around 0.9 - 1.0 throughout the projection
period.
D. Financial Conditionality
4.17       As was the case under the Bank's previous loan to Bangchak, cash management
should be the financial focus of the proposed loan. In that context, the Company should be
asked to renew its subscription to the financial ratios that were agreed under the previous loan;
however, the specific levels should be adjusted to reflect the current expectations. Specifically,
at negotiations, Bangchak agreed to the following:
(a) maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 0.8. This is
reasonable for a company with a heavy investment program, which records
payable related to investments under accounts payable.  Also, Bangchak's
suppliers of crude oil have been known to compete by providing more generous
terms of trade, which could depress the current ratio below projected levels
without any negative impact on Bangchak's financial condition.
(b)  refrain from incurring any debt if so doing would cause the debt to equity ratio to
exceed 60:40. The Company is not expected to approach this target during the
projection period; still, it should view the target as an appropriate threshold for
raising new equity; and
(c)  refrain from incurring debt unless a reasonable forecast shows that revenues, after
covering all expenses, taxes, dividends and net working capital increases, shall be
at least 1.2 times the Company's projected debt service requirements.
4.18       In addition, at negotiations, Bangchak agreed to furnish the Bank, not later than
six months after the conclusion of each financial year, its annual accounts, certified by an
acceptable auditor, together with the report of such auditor. The Company should ensure that
the audit covers all project accounts. For purposes of this agreement, the office of the Auditor
General of Thailand is considered to be an acceptable auditor.
E. Internal Financial Rate of Return
4.19         The internal financial rate of return for the project was computed at about
21%. This is appropriate for a refinery project where an existing facility is being modified
to enable the production of a product mix with generally higher margins than the current
mix.



- 30 -
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Costs and Benefits
5.1          The economic analysis of the proposed Project is based on adjustments to the
financial analysis in Chapter IV. Project cost estimates are given in Chapter II; crude oil and
petroleum product prices are in Annex 9 and anticipated refinery production in Annex 10. The
profile of project expenditures is also the same as in the financial analysis. Since Thailand's
exchange rate is market determined, no adjustment is required in valuing foreign exchange.
Similarly, there are no labor market distortions that necessitate use of a shadow exchange rate.
5.2          The adjustments to the financial analysis are twofold. The capital costs of the
project are derived from the financial capital costs by deducting interest expenses incurred
during construction, and by excluding all import duties and local taxes on equipment and
materials. The economic cost of crude oil is based on the prevailing weighted average CIF
price for crude oil (a mix of 70% Dubai and 30% Tapis), and this cost is assumed to rise in line
with the Bank's crude oil price projections. The cost figures for processing, maintenance and
materials are estimated by staff from data for a similar refinery in East Asia, with adjustments
for Thailand.
5.3          The stream of benefits is also similarly derived from the figures used in the
financial analysis by netting out all duties and taxes. The principal benefit that is quantified in
this analysis accrues from the increased production of distillate products in the specifications
that meet Thailand's revised fuel quality standards. It is assumed that, because the demand-
supply balance for high-quality distillates in the East Asian market will continue to be tight, the
margins for unleaded gasoline and low-sulfur diesel will remain at their current levels.
B. Net Present Value
5.4          The Net Present Value (NPV) for the project is computed in Annexes 11-13.
The estimated NPV is US$171 million based on a discount rate of 12% (which represents the
cost of capital in Thailand). It should be noted, however, that this NPV does not include an
important category of benefits. The refinery investments to be financed under this project
would help BPPCL to meet stringent standards for petroleum fuels. Implementing those fuel
standards would improve air quality in the BMR, thereby bringing considerable health benefits
by reducing mortality and morbidity from respiratory illnesses. Since producing the cleaner
fuels domestically by upgrading BPPCI's facilities has been judged to be the cost-effective
option, the value of those health improvements should be included among the project's benefits,
which would raise its NPV.



- 31 -
5.5          The NPV was tested to assess its sensitivity to several potential negative
impacts. If the project cost were to increase by 10%, the NPV would drop to about US$152
million. If project completion were delayed by a year, the NPV would drop to about US$140
million. If the sale price of the projects' refined outputs were to drop by 10% without a
corresponding decline in the cost of crude oil inputs, the NPV would drop to about US$133
million. Finally, if the project cost would increase by 10% and the sale price would drop by an
unmatched 10%, the NPV would drop to a still healthy US$114 million. All NPV calculations
were computed on the basis of a 12% discount rate.
C. Benefits and Risks
5.6        Benefits.  The primary benefit of the proposed project is the expected
improvement in health, productivity and quality of life for urban dwellers, especially those
residing in the BMR, as a result of the substantial reduction of pollutions (mainly SPM, NOX
and SOX) that will arise from the implementation of the Government's new clean fuel
standards. The proposed project effectively enables Thailand's largest refinery to comply with
those standards. Further, the proposed addition to the refinery will result in an increase in the
yield of high value products, thereby improving its economic viability, and is the least cost
option for BPPCL to meet its market requirements. The net present value (NPV) computed
for the proposed project is US$171 million, based on a discount rate of 12% (the estimated
cost of capital for Thailand). The intemal financial rate of return (IRR) is about 21%.
5.7        Risks. An inherent risk in the proposed project is the possibility of creating excess
refinery capacity in Thailand to meet the country's own need for clean fuels. This could
narrow refining margins, making the investment uneconomic. However, the likelihood of
underutilized capacity materializing at Bangchak is small, since the refinery could export any
surplus products to nearby countries that are adopting clean fuel standards similar to Thailand.
A second risk is that the new standards could be further modified, requiring further changes in
gasoline and diesel oil specifications. This risk is small as Thailand is following modern
standards set by industrialized countries after extensive research and testing.  Major
specification changes are therefore, unlikely to occur in the foreseeable future. The project
faces no risk factors that, either singly or in combination, are likely to reduce the net present
value to $0 or less
5.8        A major risk in reformulation of fuels is that as environmental problems become
better defined, the actions taken may be too little or could cause secondary problems. This
Project has benefited from the experience of industrialized countries. The reformulated fuels
specifications adopted have evolved over a period of 15 years. The specifications adopted are
the most stringent in East Asia and conform to those of the U.S. and Western Europe.
5.9        One other major risk is that the products refined according to the required
specifications may become surplus in the region or globally, so it may become cheaper to
import them. However, the likelihood of this happening is remote, as there is an acute shortage



- 32 -
of refined petroleum products with the current specifications in the region, and deficits are
likely to worsen as more stringent specifications are adopted.
5.10        The financial risks that Bangchak may face are discussed in Chapter IV of this
report. They are addressed satisfactorily by the conditionality that was agreed at negotiations
(paras. 2.14 and 4.17).



- 33 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
6.1        The following agreements were reached with the Borrower during negotiations:
(a)   Make demonstrable arrangements, by March 31, 1998, so that all required
external finance would be available as and when needed (para 2.14).
(b)  maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 0.8
(para.4. 17(a)),
(c)  refrain from incurring any debt if so doing would cause the debt to equity ratio to
exceed 60:40 (para. 4.17(b));
(d)  refrain from incurring debt unless a reasonable forecast shows that revenues, after
covering all expenses, taxes, dividends and net working capital increases, shall be
at least 1.2 times the Company's projected debt service requirements (para.
4.17(c)); and
(e)  furnish to the Bank, not later than six months after the conclusion of each finan-
cial year, its annual accounts, certified by an acceptable auditor, together with the
report of such auditor (para 4.18).
B. Recommendation
6.2          With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$90 million equivalent to Bangchak
Petroleum Public Company Limited, with the guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate for a 17-year term including a five-year grace
period.



-34-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
THAILANDS CLEAN FUELS PROGRAM
Background
1.    Thailand has one of the fastest growing econrnies in the world. The per capita income doubled
during the past ten years; the gdp registered an annual average growth rate of nearly 12 oercent over the
196 to 1993 period. In parallel there was a dramatic incrase in road transport, with traffic volume
increasing by over 14 percent annually. Nearly 9 million vehicles are estimated to be on the road today.
Road transport account for nearly 90 percent of the the passenger transport and 90 percent of freight.
With the expected continued robust economic growth, motorized road transport will continue to dominate
the movement of goods and people.
2.    The increase in traffic and vehicles was in turn accompanied by an explosive increase in the
consumption of transportation fuels, particularly in the Bangkok Metropolitan Area. With the increase
of vehicles and consumption of petroleum fuels, exhaust emissions and pollutant species have increased
to dangerously high levels. Based in several studies commissioned by the National Energy Policy Office
(NEPO), the Royal Thai Government changed the specifications of gasoline and diesel oil to eliminate
or reduce the emission of lead and sulfur oxides, respectively, from vehicle exhausts. In addition, other
specification changes were also enacted to limit benzene and aromatics in gasoline as well as to limit the
distillation range of diesel oil. In addition, catalytic convertors became mandatory in all automobiles
from 1992.
3.    The most critical specification changes are summarized below. The new specifications will be
phased over the time periods shown.
TIME FRAME
1996                       1998-2000
Distillation deg. C
10 vol. %                        70                          No change
50                                70-110                     No change
90                                160                        No change
FBP                               200                        No change
Aromatics vol. %                  50                         35
Benzene                           3                          2.0



-35-
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
TIME FRAME
1996                1998-2000
RVP,psi                                  8.8                  No change
Premium Unleaded
RON                               97                   No change
MON                               84                   No change
FEON                              87                   No change
MTBE vol. %                5.5 - 10.0                  No change
High Speed Diesel Oil
Distillation deg.C
90 vol. %                  338                  No change
Specfic Gravity                    0.81-0.87                  No change
Cetane No.                                47                  No change
Viscosity @ 40C,cS                   1.8 - 4.1
Sulfur wt. %                             0.25                0.05



-36-                                 Annex 2
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
BANGKOK PETROLEUM REFINERY MODIFICATIONS
1.    The proposed process unit additions to the Bangchak Petroleum refinery and ancillary facilities
to meet the reformulated gasoline and diesel oil specifications comprise of the following units:
(a)    a deep gas oil hydrotreater;
(b)    a fluid catalytic cracker;
(c)    air quality monitory equipment; and
(d)    environmental and safety enhancement facilities
The primary purpose of these additions is to enable the refinery to meet clean fuel specifications which
will become mandatory over the 1995 to 2000 time-frame given in Annex 1
2.     The attached process flow diagram gives a diagrammatic representation of the existing and
proposed FCC and deep gas oil hydroteater. The specifications of products the refinery will produce on
the installation of these units will be as required by RTG. Detailed studies and descriptions of the process
units are available in the project files.
3.    The role of the FCC process unit is to convert heavy, high sulfur gas oil to high quality premium
value gasoline. The FCC will also produce some light cycle oil and LPG. The LPG has a ready market
and is an environmentally desirable fuel. The cycle oil is used primarily to reduce the viscosity of fuel
oil. The FCC gasoline produced will enable the refinery to meet the gasoline specifications given in the
table.
4.     The deep gas oil hydrotreater will be used to desulfurize gas oil from the crude distillation unit
to meet the required specifications. The total diesel oil produced in the refinery will meet the very
stringent 0.05 weight percent sulfur specification for diesel in 2000.
5.     A sulfur recovery unit will be installed to recover sulfur from waste gases and the deep gasoil
hydrotreater. A flue gas desulfurizer may also be added to further reduce sulfur emissions, during
engineering of the FCC, depending on the likely concentration of sulphur dioxide and catalyst fines.



AlILex 
SIMPLIFIED BLOCK FLOW DIAGRAM
REFINERY CONFIGURATION STUDY FOR BANGCHAK PETROLEUM CO., LTD
CASE: 4-DT.FC (FCC Mi.. Shze C-.e)
UnAI: CRS0
,I.noE..1
flEEE 12.5141
FUEL GAS
| ; _ _ > * ~~~~~~~~P GMEO                                       LI                                                      L-  I. S9O
PLANT NO,                                                                                                                                                  L G FUEL CS
- - -, r- -     --- - - - - - - --I
|HL                                                                                                       .0 t  1 . | t  <   TSOLtERATE   t  _ _   4;7IF}Il,lD2IRTR GASOLINES
L _ _ _ _ _ _  ,   ,    H1tSR   I  I 1                             PA.SEIPI  UN  I 2'2(0
A |   D                         UNLEUADED II( I.71
44.9                   UN~~~~~LEADED  (1)5
0l E       RI-ITEINA  (0I
(.0,OODI ~    ~~~~~                               I                   I |R  EROSNEE            1111                          AT? |||   5
(U I0n2(                       I |              l                  |     DIESEL              | |  | | | | |          215        _    o
mAID           I                                            O l        iESEE   1111111              .1
DIESEL                             2 153~~DESE
l                     l                   |     HGO        f       | |  l l l ROD    12        _
_   _   l l l l l   l l         I                  |     P~~~~~~~EDUCED   i lllllll              liI,Nr                       JlAl(OO0
UD5CRUDE_ _ _ _ _ _                                            ,    HIRUD    1ED
rT~~~~~~~~2 I_               - -- - -; -        - L CI - -J
VCD ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~TRAE |.5                                                                                            R  ,lOVET1   7.GLO    ,DDIER  I   
705                                'A' OIL     2..FUE GS          1      _L_EL  EOL
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~FA  _A  _~T                          *01 GA FU        'LASF;  I*5DIR0
|~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.Z                                              ME 01                               I                DIESEL    
- -   - I GA   T    F- - - - - -       L- -IOUI SULFUR ( T(
177 FCG 4






THAILAND
Clean Fuels and Environmental Improvement Project
Implementation Schedule
= 195            1996              1997                1996              1999              2000
ACTIVITIrS-                                           QI  Q2  Q3  Q4  QI  Q2  Q3  Q4  QI  Q2  Q3  Q4  Ql  Q2  Q3  Q4  Ql  Q2  QJ Q4  QI  Q2  Q3 Q1i
DOIIDT                                                         __  _ _                                                                              _          _
vosign/Unginocring/PIo1 Plant 
Prcqtaallflcallon                                            _         _    _       - = -=   -             -                                     
issue or ITn                                                 -    _
scicioit or E°C Conirrnor_
Conn .clg lnn   6l1i1o  Contirnssionln.                            _   =    _        _     _  _    =    =
r_cc                                                                               _  _ _  _  _ _ _= -                                                        _  _
Licensor SdcclIon=
PregoqwificAtlnn
P& ID, PLOT PIlat nt. r-=Ac                                                                                __
isawo or IT!!
Sdecleio, or t3PC Coltincdor
Conxlcruclon .1p1o Commlusnioning
ENVIRONMI.NTAL & SAFE.TY E(NIIANCEMENT                         _  =        =   =    =   _   =   =-
bIdenulfcaeion ot Dexigun of Cni onenl                         ___
Prcparnihloi  or l)lt I'ckng__
Ixxiie of rin_
scieciIot orContraclor
Imlclmcnlealllon                                                                                           _ _ _ _ _ _           
AIR QUALITY MONIrORING EQUIPMENT STATIONS
Dcai!n lcici.liflcnl 1i(i of Ed,iaiprlncti-
ITI) Doc,encialals Prepirnlion &                                  _ii  -   -   - p
Seleclion of Comatraclors
llwcnlllsl                                                                    _             _    _ _ _ _ _ _tt|_ = = = =
I na1,Ic.ncnlal Ii,,a~~~~~~~~~



.39.                                  Aihex 5
Page 1 of 4'4
THAILND
CLE.AuN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL 1IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
Bank Supervision InDurs Into Kev Activities
1.            The staff inputs in the table below is in addition to the regular supervsion needs at
Headquarters for the review of progress resorts. procurement actions. correspondence, etc. (see
paragraph 2.19 of the text). Accordingly, the total Bank supervision inputs is estimated aE 70 staff
weeks of which 14 staff weeks would be at Headquarters and 56 staff weeks in the field.
2.            The ralbe below provides a tentative program  of supervision activities to be carried
out during project implementation.
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate                                      Expected Skill             Staff Input
Date            Activity                   Requirements                (Staff Weeks)
Sutervision Mission
Februarv 1995        Review of engineering       Chemical Engine-er         4
design work. progress      Environmertal Engineer
on site preparation and
preparation of ITB: review
TOR for environmental
studies and research:
development of environ-
mental monitoring
ecuipment specifications.
Supervision Mission
June 1995            Review of engineering,      Chemical Engineer           6
overall progress of        Fncancial Analyst
project, selection of       Environmental Economist
consultants, review of
progress on commercial
crediEs.



AnnexS 5
-40-                               Page 2 of 4
Approi                                          Expected Sdll              Staff Input
Dam            Activirv                    Requirements              (Staff Week)
Supervision Mission
November 1995       Artend kick-off meening     Chemical Engineer          6
with EPC contractor        Fmancial Analyst
revise irmlementation and
disbursement schedules per
EPC contracor's bid. Review
progress on environmental
snudies
SuDervision Mission
Februarv 1996       Review progress of          Chemical Enzineer          4
work financial arrange-    Financial Analyst
ments. disbursements and
progress on long-lead tiIe
procurement items; revise
imDlemetlaion and disburse-
ments schedules. Review
condirionalities and cove-
nants: :review BPR's compe-
titvness with regional
refineries: meet with DPC
and NEPO
Sunervision Mission
June 1996           Work progress review,       Chemical Engineer          6
meerings with EPC con-     Financial Analyst
tractor, consultants       Environmental Economist
un environmental studies:
meet with NEPO and DPC
Supervision Mission
November 1996       Work supervision and        Cheical Engineer           6
review of all prior to     Fmancial Analyst
finanlization: review      Enviormmemal Engineer
environmental mitigation  Envi        l Economist
plans; audit special account.
SOEs.



Annex 5
-41-                                  Page 3 of 4
Approximate                                      Expected Skill              Staff Input
Date            Activirv                    Requirements                (Staff Wecks)
Suuervision Mission
March 1997           Full supervision; revise as    Chemical Engineer        6
appropriate implemen-       Financial Analyst
tation and disbursement
schedules as appropriate;
review financial covenants,
audiE special account. SOE.
e:c.. make mid-course
corrections if needed.
Suvervision Mission
March 1998           Review imnlementaxion       Chemical Enzineer           4
progress; adequacy of       Financial Analyst
Funcs co completc project;
review environmnrtal
mitigation plan progress.
SuDervision Mission
November 1998        Review work progress;       Chemical Engineer           4
identify and impediments    Financial Analyst
to cormpletion of project in
time. Update implemen-
tation and disburesement
schedules.
Sunervision Mission
March 1999           Full suDervision            Chemical Engineer           4
mission; make a difirive    Fimancial Analyst
assessment wiEth a view to
alerting senior management
of any likely loan closing
extensions.
November 1999        Overall performance         Chemical Engineer           6
review and comence pre-    Financial Analyst
paraion of Implenmetation    E iro        Enginer
Review Completon Report   Efvironmenl Economist



Annmex 5
-42-                              Page 4 of 4
Borrower's Conmribuarion to Supervision
3.    The coordinaion of the project would be the responsibility of BPAR. This would include aUl
project components directly linked to the refinery as well as the environmental smdies and research
and other assistance to be provided to DPC.



-43-                                   Annex 6
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$Million)
Bank Fiscal                 Estimated Disbursements                    Disbursements
Year & Semester             By End of Semester         Cumulative    As % Total Loan
1996
Dec.31,1995                 3.0                  3.0
June 30,1996                10.0                 13.0                14.4
1997
Dec.31,1996                 10.0                23.0
June 30, 1997               10.0                 33.0                36.7
1998
Dec.31,1997                20.0                 53.0
June 30, 1998               20.0                73.0                 81.1
1999
Dec. 31,1998                10.0                83.0
June 30, 1999               7.0                 90.0                 100



-44-
Annex 7
Page 1 of 12
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT ENVIRONMENT
Introduction:
1. The proposed Clean Fuels and Environmental Improvement Project would provide the additional refinery
facilities required to meet Thailand's new clean fuels standards, in addition to upgrading safety and environmental
operations in order to meet expected standards into the year 2000. The National Energy Policy Office (NEPO) of
Thailand promulgated new clean fuels standards in late 1992. In order to meet the new fuel specifications, certain
process modifications in the Bangchak refinery are required. Bangchak's consultants completed optimum process
redesign in March, 1993. The project scope is to add an FCC unit for gasoline product, and a deep gas oil HDS
unit for diesel product, and associated facilities, including environmental controls.
Proiect Description and Analysis of Alternatives:
2. The Bangchak refinery is located in Bangkok, 25 km upstream from the Gulf of Thailand on the east side of the
Chao Phraya river. The land use is agricultural on the other side of the river. Along the northwest the refinery
borders a Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) terminal, and to the northeast lie some low density housing areas.
To the east of the facility there are army barracks, which will be relocated Industrial facilities lie to the south of the
refinery.
3. Crude oil is shipped to the facility via ship and railway. Product is shipped out of the refinery via tank truck,
(currently 3,000 trips/day), railway and pipeline. The railway loading racks and piers are located along the west side
of the facility, and the truck loading racks are located in the southwest corner. There are five piers along the
riverfront on the west side of the facility operated by Bangchak. A newly commissioned pipeline will transport some
of the product out of the facility, replacing the heavy tank truck traffic. There is another pipeline in use for product
delivery to the PTT terminal adjacent to the Bangchak facility to the north.
4. The refinery includes 91 bulk storage tanks for crude oil, gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel. Floating roof crude oil
storage tanks are located along the north side of the tank farm. Light fuels are also stored in floating roof tanks.
There are three LPG spheres and about 14 LPG bullets. All tanks are located within diked areas with impervious
bases. The refinery is equipped with a fire and explosive gas detection system, as well as water and foam fire
suppression systems, (detailed below). The tank farm is located on the northern half of the grounds, while the
process and auxiliary facilities are located to the south.
5. The Bangchak Petroleum Refinery completed a major restructuring project in June, 1992, under the project the
refinery facilities were rehabilitated and mechanical reliability was restored to a level meant to exceed international
safety standards. In addition, refinery operations were brought up to the Thailand environmental standards.
6. Pollution control equipment: The project would include additional emissions and effluent control and treatment
process equipment required to handle additional loadings from the added refinery process equipment, as well as
upgrading current pollution control facilities, mainly in the wastewater treatment area. An analysis has been
performed on emissions in comparison to permit limitations and dispersion modelling of ambient air quality in order
to assess the need for air emission control equipment. Likewise, an analysis was performed to characterize and
estimate additional wastewater loadings. From these analyses additional needs for wastewater treatment facilities
have been detailed. Bangchak's intention is to upgrade the wastewater treatment facilities such that more stringent
effluent quality standards can be obtained.



-45-
Annex 7
Page 2 of 12
7. Selection of the FCCU: A residual FCC unit was rejected in the process modification plans because of the
catalyst usage (four to five tons per day). Instead, the FCCU was selected on the basis that less than one ton per
day of catalyst is used in the unit. This analysis was performed by Bangchak's redesign consulting team.
Baseline Data:
8. In addition to the baseline data collected for the EIA for the recent plant expansion (October, 1991), Bangchak
has since been monitoring ambient air, water, workplace exposure, emissions and effluent since 1991. The
environmental monitoring plan currently carried out by Bangchak is shown in Table 2.
9. Ambient air gualitv monitoring in the refinery area performed by the pollution control department indicates the
level of SOx (0.03 mg/mE3) is an order of magnitude less than the ambient standard upper limit of 0.3 mg/mE3.
Bangchak is required to perform ambient air monitoring every six months; however, the refinery takes samples on
a weekly basis. Parameters monitored include carbon monoxide (CO), hydrogen sulfide (H2S), oxides of nitrogen
(NOx), oxides of sulfur (SOx), and particulates. One year's ambient air monitoring data indicates that ambient air
quality in the refinery area is within Thailand ambient air standard limitations and World Bank guidelines.
10. Water Quality and Ecologv of the Chao Phrava River: The Chao Phraya river flows north to south past the
refinery. The Thailand Pollution Control Board classifies the section of the Chao Phraya river in the area of the
Bangchak refinery (reach 7 - 62 km from the river mouth), as Class 4. Class 4 waters are described as, 'fairly clean
fresh surface water resources used for: i) consumption but require special water treatment processes before uses;
ii) industry, and; iii) other activities. Water quality monitoring carried out by Bangchak indicate a high level of
sewage and possibly industrial pollution: coliform and fecal counts are comparable to untreated sanitary wastewaters,
conductivity and chlorides are high, and dissolved oxygen levels are below those which would support fish. There
is little difference, in terms of pattern of pollution, between the stations upstream and downstream of the refinery.
11. Performance of existing refinery environmental controls: Air emissions and wastewater effluent monitoring
indicates the existing refinery is currently operating within Thailand standards and World Bank guidelines.
12. Air Emissions monitoring: Emissions from the boiler, CRU and CPU are monitored by Bangchak. Parameters
monitored include carbon monoxide (CO), hydrogen sulfide (H2S), oxides of nitrogen (NOx), oxides of sulfur
(SOx), and particulates. One year's monitoring data indicates that Bangchak is operating within Thailand emission
standard limitations. Air emissions at the refinery have also been measured by third parties, and indicate that SOx
emissions are the main concern. Ambient air monitoring stations have been selected in the area of predicted
maximum ground level concentration by dispersion modelling.
13. Re2ulations and vermit limitations: Thailand air emission standards set a limit of 1,000 parts per million (ppm)
on sulfur dioxide (SOx). The standards are set by concentration only, and not by mass loading; however, dispersion
modelling is used in the permitting process, according to Bangchak personnel. Bangchak refinery is targeting 400
ppm as their emission goal. Against a standard of 400 ppm, the emissions measured from the refinery sources are
as follows: boiler 200 - 300 ppm; topping unit 40 ppm; catalytic reformer 40 ppm. The planned FCCU would be
the main concern; mitigation strategy is discussed below.
14. Effluent monitoring: Sample analyses are conducted by the Bangchak laboratory under the Supply Division.
The Technical and Environment Division is responsible for sending the monitoring results to the regulatory agency.
Samples are taken in the three guard basins once a week except in the dry season. The guard basins are equipped
with skimming weirs and are the points of discharge into surface water. One year of effluent monitoring data
indicates the Bangchak facility is currently meeting effluent standards.
15. Occupational Exposure Monitoring: Workplace exposure monitoring is carried out for carbon monoxide,
hydrogen sulfide, oxides of nitrogen and sulfur, particulates, organic lead and 1,1, 1-TCE. Identified workplace
areas are monitored for noise levels and heat. Staff with potential exposure to lead are tested for blood and urine



-46-
Annex 7
Page 3 of 12
lead levels. Complete physicals are given once each year, including hearing and respiratory system checks.
Environmental Manaeement
16. Environmental Management Oraanization: Corporate policy is set by the Health, Environment and Safety
Committee; including the Bangchak Senior Executive Vice President and five other persons from various
departments. All operational environmental functions come under the Manufacturing Department Director; one
Assistant Director in charge of the Technical and Environment Division, (two staff), the Safety Division, and the
Maintenance Division. Another Assistant Director is in charge of the process division and oil movement. Under
the division of oil movement comes the operation of the wastewater treatment plant.
17. Refinery fuel: The Bangchak refinery uses sweetened fuel gas (90% of total usage) and fuel oil (10% of total
usage). The fuel oil is used only in the boiler, which is fired with 50% fuel oil and 50% gas. Electricity supplies
the balance of the refinery's needs. The SOx emissions from this source is low, since the sulfur content of the fuel
oil is less than 0.5%, and the sulfur content of the sweetened fuel gas is nil.
18. Wastewater treatment: The wastewater treatment system is divided into physical separation and biological
treatment techniques. Oily wastewaters are collected in an oily water pond and cycled through a corrugated plate
separator (CPI) and then dissolved air flotation (DAF). Tank drains are sent through oil separators and the oily
water is sent to the oily water pond for physical separation at the beginning of the wastewater treatment process.
Sour water and spent caustic are combined in an equalization tank and sent to a tilted plate separator (TPI) and then
to the activated sludge process. The effluent from the dissolved air flotation is also sent to the activated sludge
process. The activated sludge process consists of an aeration tank and a clarifier flocculator. The effluent from the
clarifier is discharged through a flow measurement flume.
19. Solid Waste: Scale and dirt from storage tank cleanout (once every ten years) is currently stored in a warehouse
for further treatment in a planned government waste treatment facility. The Thai government has not yet constructed
this waste treatment facility. Wastewater treatment sludge is sent off site for land farming. Spent catalyst is
exported for regeneration.
20. Heavy bottoms (fuel oil) are sold to the Electricity Generation Authority of Thailand (EGAT) for use in their
power plants. Current specifications for sulfur content in the heavy bottoms are 3.5 percent. Bangchak Refinery
is currently producing heavy bottoms with 2 percent sulfur. There are no specifications for heavy metals in the fuel
oil Bangchak delivers to EGAT. Nickel and vanadium are not analyzed for. The Thailand government concern is
currently focused on sulfur content of fuel oils and not heavy metals. The Bangchak Refinery processes over 20
different kinds of crude oil. These feedstocks are not currently analyzed for heavy metals.
imDacts and Mitigation:
21. A summary of the existing refinery and Clean Fuels Project Environmental Impact and Mitigation Plan is shown
in Table 1.
22. Refinery fuel: The Bangchak refinery uses sweetened fuel gas (90% of total usage) and fuel oil (10% of total
usage). The fuel oil is used only in the boiler, which is fired with 50% fuel oil and 50% gas. Electricity supplies
the balance of the refinery's needs. The SOx emissions from this source is low, since the sulfur content of the fuel
oil is less than 0.5%, and the sulfur content of the sweetened fuel gas is nil.
23. Air emissions control: The new units will have emissions control equipment designed to meet both Thailand
and World Bank standards. The Thailand emissions standard for SOx of 400 ppm would be used as process design
criteria. Total emissions of SOx from the refinery are estimated to be 3.12 tons per day (TPD), well within the
World Bank criteria I limit of 500 TPD. The World Bank emissions standard for SPM  of 100 mg/mE3 would be
used for design criteria of the ESP unit for the FCCU.



-47-
Annex 7
Page 4 of 12
24. Compliance with ambient air standards: Ambient air monitoring at the predicted GLC max sites indicates ground
level concentrations of SOx are less than 50 micrograms per cubic meter (ug/mE3), within the Thailand standard
limit of 300 ug/mE3, and World Bank guideline of 100 ug/mE3.  The incremental increase of SOx is estimated
to be less than 50 ug/mE3 in ambient air at GLC max, and would therefor conform with World Bank guideline for
SOx criteria II.
25. Dispersion modelling: Dispersion modelling for winter and summer conditions was performed for the existing
refinery emissions. Results were added to ambient background concentrations. The locations of ambient air quality
monitoring stations were selected in the areas of maximum ground level concentration identified from the dispersion
modelling. Estimates of SOx concentrations at these monitoring locations have been less than one third of the
predicted values over the period of several year's sampling. Emissions estimates of the dispersion modelling were
based on an SOx loading of 1.32 tons per day. Total SOx emissions from the existing refinery calculated from stack
gas monitoring are actually 1.9 tons per day. The dispersion model estimated GLC max 24 hour concentrations of
SOx at 150 ug/mE3, given worst case winter conditions. Actual ambient air monitoring at the predicted GLC max
sites indicates ground level concentrations are less than 50 micrograms per cubic meter (ug/mE3), or less than one
third of predicted values. Ambient background concentrations are on the order of 10 ug/mE3. The Clean Fuels
project is estimated to have SOx emissions of 1.22 TPD SOx; which is less than the current emission level of 1.32
TPD. Therefor the incremental increase in ambient air concentrations at GLC max is estimated to be less than 50
ug/mE3. This incremental increase of ambient concentrations would comply with World Bank criteria II for SOx
emissions.
26. Additional dispersion modelling: An additional dispersion model will be performed as design parameters of the
new project units are finalized. The project units will be designed such that Thailand emission and ambient air
quality standards, and World Bank guidelines will be met. The dispersion modelling report for the Clean Fuels
project will be sent to the World Bank for review prior to negotiations.
27. Deep pas oil unit: The deep gas oil unit would be equipped with an HDS sulfur recovery unit (400 - 500
kg/day), and a tail gas treatment unit with emissions of less than 40 ppm.
28. Fluid Catalytic Cracking Unit (FCCU): The FCCU will be equipped with an electrostatic precipitator. The
ESP will be designed for emissions of suspended particulate matter of less than 100 mg per cubic meter, which is
the World Bank guideline.
29. SOx emissions of the FCCU will be controlled through mixing feedstock crude to the Thailand limit of no more
than 2 % sulfur: An analysis undertaken by Bangchak refinery process redesign consultants has shown that reduction
of sulfur in the feedstock crude would allow operation of the FCCU unit within emission permit limitations; therefor,
a flue gas desulfurization (FGD) unit would not be required. Low sulfur far east crude would be blended (40%)
with relatively higher sulfur mid-east crude (60%) for a total of 2% sulfur content. The FCCU is fed vacuum
residual (40%) from the vacuum flasher, and vacuum gas oil (60% with sulfur content of less than 1.4%). An SOx
removal additive is added to the FCCU. Calculated SOx emissions from the FCCU are 1,000 ppm without the
additive, and 400 ppm with the de-SOx additive. This strategy is deemed more cost-effective than installation of
an FGD unit. The emission design guideline for the FCCU will be the Thailand standard of 400 ppm SOx.
30. Impacts on the Chao Phrava river: The flow of the Chao Phraya river varies between 500 and 1000 cubic
meters per second; the flow of the existing refinery wastewater effluent is about 0.005 cubic meters per second. The
refinery is currently operating within Thailand wastewater effluent standard limitations.  All new wastewater
treatment systems to be added along with the additional refinery units in the clean fuels project will be designed to
exceed current Thailand standards for wastewater. In addition, wastewater from the guard basin receiving the
effluent flow will be partially recycled within the refinery. Given these factors, the impacts of the refinery effluent
are considered to be the minimal, and ecologically insignificant.
31. Planned Expansions to the Wastewater Treatment System: The planned expansions would include oily surface
water drains from the new units, and an additional oily storm water pond. The Bangchak Refinery plans to install



-48-                                   Annex 7
Page 5 of 12
another dissolved air flotation unit. Another activated sludge tank is planned which would operate in parallel or
series with the current system and a sand filter may also be installed before the guard basin for total suspended solids
removal. The second activated sludge tank would be added in order to target phenol. Phenol is not currently a
problem in the refinery's effluent. However, the additional cracking unit would increase phenol concentrations in
the effluent. The target phenol concentration in the effluent would be I milligram per liter. Another clarifier and
sludge drying bed would also be added.
32. Additional Wastewater Treatment System Instrumentation: Bangchak plans to install a continuous chemical
oxygen demand (COD) analyzer on stream for the wastewater effluent system.
33. Water Conservation and Recycling: Bangchak is planning to recycle water collected in three guard basins for
irrigation usage instead of discharge into the local surface water. The three guard basins are located in the south
side of the plant (into which the wastewater treatment system discharges) and on the northeast and northwest corners
of the plant. The guard basins are equipped with oil skimmer and absorbent booms were observed installed in front
of the oil skimmer at the time of the site visit.
34. In the past, the Bangchak Refinery used 25,000 cubic meters of water per day, primarily for cooling. The
consumption has now been reduced to 5,500 cubic meters of water per day because airfin coolers have been installed
on process equipment.
Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasures:
35. The Emergency Plan for the refinery covers firefighting, oil spill cleanup and evacuation.
36. Spill Response Ornanization: Bangchak has the capability to clean up an oil spill of "tier one" volume, that
is, up to 200 barrels. Bangchak is a member of a cooperative organization called the Oil Industry Environmental
Safety Group (IESG) comprised of 10 member companies. The IESG has a written agreement to cooperate on
cleanup of spills. The response capabilities are tiered according to size of spill. Larger spills would require
government assistance and the assistance of TARC from Singapore (also a cooperative. group). The IESG has a
stockpile of equipment for oil spill cleanup on the east coast of the Gulf of Thailand at Sriracha. IESG capabilities
for "tier two" spills cover up to 5,000 barrels. The IESG manual covers contacts and member companies, the
government, TARC and equipment lists for each company.
37. Spill control measures in the tank farm: All of the bulk storage tanks are surrounded by dikes with impervious
(plastic liners topped with asphalt) bases. The dikes surrounding the light fuels have recently been raised in order
to contain the full volume of the enclosed tanks.
38. Bulk liquid transfers: Bulk liquid transfers present the greatest probabilities for spills. Bulk liquid transfers are
made through pipelines, tank trucks, ships and railway cars at the refinery.
39. Jetty operations: Jetty operations for loading ships come under the responsibility of the Bangchak Transportation
Division. The control depth of the jetty facility is 9 meters. About 200 ships per month are serviced at the five
piers. The piers have maximum ship sizes as follows: two of 5,000 dead weight tons (DWT), one of 10,000 DWT;
one 15,000 DWT; and one 20,000 DWT.
40. Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasures Plan: Bangchak's SPCC plan is the responsibility of the
Transportation Division. Since 1987, spill containment booms have been deployed during every loading operation
at the river jetty. With this precaution, if a spill occurs, there is time to deploy skimmer and absorbants. The use
of spill containment booms was observed by the mission during inspection of the jetty operations.
41. International standards used in Jetty Operations: American Petroleum Institute (API) engineering standards were
used in the design of the jetty facilities at Bangchak. International standards are used for guides in operation of the



-49-                                Annex 7
Page 6 of 12
jetty facilities:
A.  ISGOTT International Safety Guide for Oil Tankers and Terminals, OCIMF International Chamber
of Shipping Oil Companies, International Marine Forum, International Association of Ports and
Harbors, 1991.
B.  Liquefied Gas Handling Principles, On Ships and In Terminals, McGuire and White, SIGTTO,
Bermuda, 1986.
C.  OCIMF, Tanker Safety and Pollution Prevention, 1993.
42. Operating procedures: Bangchak Refinery has developed operating procedures for their own use and onshore
bulk liquid transfer operations. These documents include a Ship/Shore Checklist for Jetty Operation, including
instructions and an operation manual to be completed in the first quarter of 1994.
An international safety standard guide is used for the following:
A.  Forms for Transfer Operations,
B.  Contingency Plan for Spills and Fire,
C.  Hose Certification and Hose Testing,
D.  Service Recommendations for Hoses,
E.  Safety Checklist for Coastal Tanker Facilities,
F.  Advance Information Forms for Lightering Operations.
43. Spill control provisions at the piers include containment curbing and spill slop tanks below the hose connections,
ranging in volume from 2,500 liters to 10,000 liters. Blank flanges are bolted to the hoses when not in use, with
bolts in every other hole. The dates of pressure testing are usually displayed on the hoses, according to Bangchak
personnel; however, there were none observed by the mission. The manifolds are equipped with check valves. A
perimeter ditch surrounds the onshore manifolds, and is lead to the waste water treatment system.    Spill
containment booms are deployed to encircle the entire ship for each loading operation. There is lighting for night-
time operations at the piers. Warning signs and the fire emergency plan are posted, and there is a wind sock at the
control room.
44. Communications equipment maintained at the pier control room includes marine band walkie talkies for
communications with the oil companies and port authority. A fire alarm is connected to the fire brigade location
and the refinery control room. The transfers are made with radio communication between the pier and the tank farm
pumphouse. According to Bangchak personnel, the bulk storage tanks will be equipped with high level alarms in
the near future.
45. Spill control eauipment maintained at the control room includes: 25 drums of (EXXON) freshwater oil
dispersant; skimmer and suction pipe for diaphragm pump; suction truck; 3M absorbent (100 pc); suction hose;
backpack dispersant sprayers; portable diesel driven sprayer; mobile wagon dispersant sprayer to be run off fire
hydrant system; and a workboat with boom spreader and dispersant sprayer. Three spare oil containment booms
are kept at the facility warehouse.
46. Railway tank car loading operations: Along the west side of the refinery, inshore of the jetties, are narrow
gauge railway sidings. Trains of 29 cars make four loading trips a day to this area, bringing crude oil to the
Bangchak refinery from Bangkok. About 20 to 25 cars per day are filled with gasoline and diesel for transport out
of the refinery. The area has the potential to contaminate surface water and groundwater from the numerous
uncontained spills and the chronic nature of the spillage. The discarded flammable materials, both on and around
the railway cars, in conjunction with the pervasive oil spillage presents a fire hazard. Bangchak will provide spill
containment and tie in to the refinery oily water treatment system, or provide an oily water separator, with provision
for removal of oil slops for this area, as part of the project.



-50-                                  Annex 7
Page 7 of 12
47. Truck loading racks: About 3,000 trucks per day are loaded with oil and gasoline at the refinery truck loading
racks. There are six racks of 12 bays each currently in operation, with an additional five racks under construction.
The truck loading racks under construction are completely encircled with a spill collection trench; however, the
existing racks have no such spill containment provision. Moreover, the site drainage pattern would drain large
spills, or contaminated runoff water from chronic spillage to the refinery drainage system, and not through an oily
water separation system of any type. Bangchak will provide a spill cutoff trench and an oily water separator, with
provision for removal of oil slops for this area, or make provision for tie-in to the refinery oily water treatment
system, as part of the Clean Fuels project.
Occupational Health and Safety:
48. Safety organization:  The Safety Division Manager comes under the Department of the Director of
Manufacturing in Bangchak. Under the Safety Division Manager are a safety engineer and two sections including
the Prevention Section and the Site Service Section. Under the Prevention Section come the Security, Fire Brigade,
Safety Control and Safety and Firefighting Training. Under the Site Services Section, come the General Services
and Housekeeping and other safety activities.  In addition, there are safety organization committees.  The
Management Safety Team sets policy and is over the Safety Operation Team and the Safety Promotion Team. The
Safety Promotion Team includes operator participation. The Safety Operation Team reviews procedures, regulations
within the refinery.
49. Accidents and Followup: Accident records for Bangchak Refinery indicate that up to 2.5 million hours have
been logged with no loss time accidents (these figures do not include contractors). The Safety Department will set
an index for safety at the beginning of 1994. Followup on accidents is the responsibility of the SOT, that is, the
Safety Operations Team. The coordinator for followup is the safety engineer, who is responsible for collecting data
and reporting to the government.
50. Training: Training programs are held each year in safety, firefighting, emergency drill and hazardous materials
handling. In addition, a safety orientation course and firefighting course is given to every operator (according to
Thai law, only 40 percent of the operators are required to have firefighting training). Last year at Bangchak, 100
percent of the employees had firefighting training.
51. Supervision of Work Permits: Four kinds of work permits are issued to contractors at Bangchak Refinery: 1)
cold work, 2) hot work, 3) vessel entry, 4) X-Ray. Each work permit is separated into categories. A checklist and
attachments are provided for each category. The work permits are prepared by the field engineer and checked and
accepted by the area supervisors. Inspections and audits are carried out by the Safety Promotion Team and Safety
Foremen to countercheck the area authority. If unsafe conditions are uncovered, work is stopped immediately. Each
permit is good for only 8 hours of work. Work commenced on holidays and at night requires special consideration
by the operation team because the support functions are not available at the refinery. Therefore, this type of work
permit is avoided when possible or special precautions are taken after review by management. Contractors are
required to have safety officers or safety engineers to counter control with Bangchak safety engineers.
Industrial Hazards:
52. Risk Assessment: A HAZOPS assessment was performed for the Bangchak Refinery before the emergency plan
was made. Another HAZOPS assessment would have to be completed prior to plant expansion. A foreign expert
will be contracted to perform the assessment.
53. Industrial hazards control measures to be included in the Clean Fuels proiect: The safeguard systems to be used
for the Clean Fuels project units FCC and GO deep HDS are listed below:
54. FCC Unit Safeguards:
a) feed failure safeguard system;



-51-
Annex 7
Page 8 of 12
b) reactor and regenerator safeguarding system to prevent reverse flow of hydrocarbon feed to pass into the
regenerator, and;
to prevent reverse flow of oxygen containing gas to pass into the reactor/stripping and the fractionator section.
c) low air flow to regenerator safeguarding system (air blower);
emergency steam is injected into the regenerator to keep the catalyst bed fluidized;
d) cat. tube cooler tube rupture safeguard system;
e) wet gas compressor safeguarding system (general failure);
Other related safeguard systems:
a) emergency depressurizing system;
b) interface with other sections: relief facilities on upstream and downstreamn sections should be capable of coping
respectively with backflow and failure of the interface barrier;
c) overpressure protection by safety valves.
55. Gas Oil deep HDS Unit Safeguards:
Emergency shutdown system, (major systems):
a) feed pump safeguard system;
b) charge heater safeguard system;
c) reactor outlet temperature safeguard system and depressurizing system; to protect reactors against overheating.
For depressurization the hydrogen containing reactor section by releasing process gas to flare system during
emergency process conditions, for instance, temperature runaway and recycle gas failure, and in case of fire;
d) fresh/recycle gas compressor safeguarding system to protect fresh/recycle gas compressors against emergency
conditions, and to prevent subsequent process upsets;
e) wash water pump safeguard system.
Other related safeguard systems:
a) interface with other sections;
b) overpressure protection with safety valves.
56. Contingencv Plans: The Bangchak Refinery Contingency Plan has been revised and reviewed and updated twice
this year, (1994). The Contingency Plan is regularly updated only once per year. A meeting for orientation of
supervisors is called on contingency drills, once each year. BCP employees are given fire training and have
completed the highest level of training by a U.S. expert consultant course given in Thailand. Six drills per year and
classes and drills in respirators, firefighting technique are given to Bangchak employees. Safety teams conduct safety
equipment checks, including foam, floating tank seals, etc. besides the firefighting equipment itself. The Safety



-52-                                 Annex 7
Page 9 of 12
Engineer coordinates compliance with new Thailand safety laws. Safety posters and safety awards are part of the
safety management technique. The Contingency Plans would be revised to include the additional units of the Clean
Fuels project during the design phase of the project, in the EIA prepared for the Thai government.
57. Safety Enaineering of existing refinery: The control room of the Bangchak Refinery includes a fire alarm system
and automatic feed cutoffs for the processing units. The fire alarm system is displayed on a site plan board and
includes both fire alarms and gas leak detectors. The fire pumps are automatically started and the system can be
started from the control room as well. The system is checked once each week. The control room itself is an
explosion proof building, and is protected with a halon fire protection system.
58. A computerized control system in the refinery operations control room allows for automatic shutdown of
individual unit feeds and unit process operations in the entire plant. Video monitors in the control room are tied
to video cameras located throughout the plant. The monitors are normally focused on the flares and the plant
operation areas. The view field of the remote cameras can be controlled from the operations control room.
59. Emergency Power Supply: There is a load shedding system for the Bangchak Refinery, in case of a power
failure. No critical areas would be shut down first. The electric power requirements of the Bangchak Refinery is
supplied by 7 megawatts from MEA and the facility's own three generators, two of 6 megawatts and one of 7
megawatts.
60. Fire Suppression Systems: The fire suppression system design was checked by Japanese and British petroleum
experts and modified according to their recommendations. The standards used in the fire suppression system are
the NFPA or better.
6 1. Tank Farm: The LPG spheres are equipped with water deluge systems. In addition, the tank farm is equipped
with a foam chamber and a foam truck. Hydrants for foam and water and fire monitors are located throughout the
plant and tank farm.
62. Fire water for the fire suppression system is obtained from the river through redundant pumps, both electric and
diesel. There are three main fire water lines. The pressure in the line is automatically controlled and set by jockey
pumps. The jockey pumps are all electric. The firewater pumps can be operated by the control room remotely.
The large firewater pumps are both diesel and electric. In addition, the facility maintains several fire trucks, one
foam truck, two large fire trucks, and two small fire trucks, plus an ambulance. Bangchak has recently placed an
order for a telescoping platform and rescue truck. The order is expected to be filled within 10 months. The order
would include rescue equipment.
Monitoring and Evaluation:
63. The environmental monitoring plan currently in use for the facility is shown in Table 2.  Monitoring of
emissions from the new equipment to be added under the clean fuels project would be the only substantive change
to the current monitoring regimen.
Resettlement and Rehabilitation:
64. There will be no resettlement involved in the project. Some military barracks that currently occupy the east side
of the site will be relocated.
Institutional Needs:
65. Worker training in spill and fire prevention and housekeeping will be required when remedial measures are
constructed at the railway loading area.
Public Participation:



-53-                               Annex 7
Page 10 of 12
66. Bangchak will engage in public consultations in order to obtain the views of affected groups and local NGO's
prior to negitiations. The EIA will record discussions with local civic groups about the project, and how the
concerns of the civic groups have been incorporated into the project planning. The record will include lists of
invitees and attenders.



Annex 7
Page 11 of 12
Bangchak Clean Fuels Project Environmental Impacts and Mitigation
Potential      Source             Mitigation                                       Remarks
negative
impacts
1. Air         Fluid Catalytic    Control of sulfur in feedstock for FCCU          The new uLits will have emnissions
emissions,      Cracking Unit     Electrostatic precipitator (ESP)                 control equipment designed to meet
SOx, NOx,      (FCCU)                                                              both Thailand and World Bank
SPM                                                                                standards.
Deep gas oil unit,  The deep gas oil unit would be equipped with an HSD   Emissions monitoring and dispersion
HDS deep gas oil  sulfur recovery unit (400 - 500 kglday), and a tail gas  modelling indicates NOx is not a
unit              treatment unit with emissions of less than 40 ppm.  problem
2. Ambient air  Combined          Estimates based on dispersion modelling and      The Bangchak refinery uses
quality        refinery sources    current impacts on ambient air indicate impacts  sweetened fuel gas (90% of total
would be within Thai standards and World Bank    usage) and fuel oil (10% of total
guidelines. Further dispersion modelling will be  usage). SOx emissions from this
performed including the new units by 8/94.       source is low, since the sulfur content
of the fuel oil is less than 0.5%, and
the sulfur content of the sweetened
fuel gas is nil.
3. Effluent     GO deep HDS       Additional WWT units: oily surface water drains from   A second activated sludge tank would
VDU               the new units, additional oily storm water pond,  be added in order to target phenol.
FCC               dissolved air flotation unit, activated sludge tank,  Phenol is not currently a problem in
sand filter may also be installed upstream of the guard  the refinery's effluent. However, the
basin                                           additional cracking unit would
increase phenol concentrations in the
effluent.
4. Water       treatment system    Bangchak plans to install a continuous chemical  The flow of the Chao Phraya river
quality        upsets             oxygen demand (COD) analyzer on stream for the  varies between 500 and 1000 cubic
wastewater effluent system.                     meters per second; the flow of the
existing refinery wastewater effluent
is about 0.005 cubic meters per
second. The refinery is currently
operating within Thailand wastewater
effluent standard limitations.



-55-                                     Annex 7
Page 12 of 12
5. Industrial    FCC Unit             feed failure safeguard;                               Other related safeguard systems:
hazards                               reactor and regenerator system to prevent reverse     a) emergency depressurizing system;
flow of hydrocarbon feed; low air flow to regenerator    b) interface with other sections:
safeguard system; emergency steam injected into the    relief facilities on upstream and
regenerator to keep the catalyst bed fluidized; cat.  downstream sections should be
tube cooler tube rupture safeguard system; wet gas    capable of coping respectively with
compressor safeguarding system                        backflow and failure of the interface
barrier;
c) overpressure protection by safety
valves.
6. Industrial    Gas Oil deep         Emergency shutdown system, (major systems):  a)       Other related safeguard systems:
hazards          HDS Unit             feed pump safeguard system;                           a) interface with other sections;
Safeguards          b) charge heater safeguard system;                     b) overpressure protection with safety
c) reactor outlet temperature safeguard system and    valves.
depressurizing system; depressurization the hydrogen
containing reactor section by releasing process gas to
flare system during emergency process conditions,
d) fresh/recycle gas compressor safeguarding system
to protect fresh/recycle gas compressors against
emergency conditions, and to prevent subsequent
process upsets;
e) wash water pump safeguard system.



Annex 8
Page 1 of 5
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Bangchak Petrolemn Public Co., Ltd.
Annual Finandal Statements
Table 1: Key Financial Indicators, 1990-2000
(Projections based on revaluation of assets)
.990       1991 19      92       19.....    1994          . 199   196        -7         i998        .9  2600
._-_._                       _._          -        f-                           - ] ( c (...:.-:   
LIQUIDITY RATIOS
Current ratio                                   2.3        1.7        0.7        0.8        1.1        1.0       0.9         1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0
Quick ratio                                     1.8        1.3        0.4        0.4        0.6       0.5        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4         0.4
PROFITABILITY RATIOS
Net profit margin(%)                          2.4%       2.9%       2.0%       2.1%       2.3%       2.6%       3.0%       2.8%       3.7%      3.7%        3.7%
Returnonequity(X)                            10.1%      12.9%       7.8%       9.5%       6.7%       7.5%       8.1%      7.4%       10.0%      9.6%        9.2%
EFFICIENCYRATIOS
Return on Assets (%)                          6.1%       7.2%       3.8%       3.3%       3.9%       3.9%      4.0%        3.5%      4.9%       5.1%        5.3%
Return on Fixed Assets (%)                   17.2%      15.2%       5.0%       4.8%       6.4%      6.0%       5.8%       5.1%       7.4%       8.1%        8.9%
LEVERAGE RATIOS
Debt to total debt plus equity (%)           15.4%      20.6%      26.5%      43.0%      24.9%      32.2%      38.1%     41.4%      36.8%      30.9%       25.4%
Debt service coverage ratio                     2.7        3.0        2.0        1.6        1.8        1.2        1.6       1.6        1.4        1.1         1.4
PERFORMANCE RATIOS
Earnings per share (Baht/Share)                13.4       18.8       11.4        1.3        1.5       1.8        2.1        2.1        3.1        3.3         3.4
Number of shares (Mil Shares)                  41.8       41.8       41.8      417.6     522.0      522.0      522.0      522.0      522.0      522.0       522.0
Book value (Baht/Share)                       132.9      145.1      146.0       13.3       22.3      24.1       26.2       28.0       31.1       34.2        37.3
Dividend per share (Baht/Share)                 6.0        6.5       10.5        2.5        0.5       0.8        0.9         1.0       1.0        1.6         1.6



Annex 8
Page 2 of 5
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Bangchak Petroleum Public Co., Ltd.
Annual Financial Statements
Table 2: Projected Income Statements, 1990-2000
(Million Baht)
1990       1991        199         193         1994        199 09 9    19199                              1999       2000
::: _________________ :  ::.:: :   (Actual    (Actual)   (Actual)   (Actual)                   :::   :                                                  _::::_
REVENUES
Net sales                            23,221     26,566      24,047      25,061      33,315      36,201      36,782      37,776    43,295.0     45,492     48,074
Other income                           431         455         166         100         183         206         230         248        291         330        380
Total                             23,652      27,021      24,213      25,161      33,498      36,407      37,011      38,024     43,586      45,821     48,454
EXPENSES
Cost of goods sold                   22,476      25,004     23,079      23,702      30,767      33,483      33,618      34,268      38,581     40,466     42,907
Admin. and selling expenses             179        697         355         579       1,172       1,291       1,477       1,681       1,857      2,035      2,228
Total                             22,655      25,700      23,434      24,281      31,939      34,774      35,095      35,950     40,438      42,501     45,136
Earnings before interest and tax       997        1,321        779         880        1,559      1,634       1,917       2,074       3,148      3,320      3,319
Financial expenses                      130        110          99         126         446         291         338         532         832        874        754
Profit before tax                      867        1,211        680         754       1,113       1,342       1,578       1,542       2,315      2,446      2,565
Income tax                             306         426         206         228         334         403         473        463         695         734        769
NET PROFIT                             562         785         474         527         779         940       1,105       1,079       1,621      1,713      1,795
BEGINNING RETAINED
EARNINGS BALANCE                       514         824       1,337       1,372         844       1,359       1,908       2,542       3,067      4,147      5,047
Director Bonus                          (1)         (1)        (1)         (1)         (1)         (1)         (1)         (1)         (2)        (2)        (2)
Legal Reserve                            0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0          0           0          0
Dividend                              (251)       (272)      (439)      (1,054)      (264)       (390)       (470)       (552)       (540)      (810)      (856)
Net Profit                              562        785         474         527         779         940       1,105       1,079       1,621      1,713      1,795
ENDING RETAINED
EARNINGS BALANCE                       824        1,337       1,372        844       1,359       1,908       2,542       3,067       4,147      5,047      5,983



Annex 8
Page 3 of 5
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Bangchak Petroleum Public Co., Ltd.
Annual Financial Statements
Table 3: Projected Balance Sheets, 1990-2000
(Million Baht)
199         1991        19          1           1994       1995        199         197        1994        19"99      2000
.___________________            (Actual)     (Actual)    (Actua)    (Actual)                                                      .                            l
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and short-term investments     1,891        2,369         22         223         34          29          33          34         66        529        879
Accounts receivable/trade bills     1,852       -1,575      1,205       1,486       1,917       1,885      1,713       1,552       1,542      1,371      1,317
Product inventories                  586          391         444         863       1,099       1,158      1,286       2,167      2,634       2,808      3,016
Crude inventories                    644          829         599       1,757       1,345       1,412      1,428       1,474       1,552      1,635      1,726
Material and supplies                 184         155         181         314        361         415         477         548        631        725        834
Subsidy and tax refund               427          115         142         112         123        135         149         163        180         198       218
Claim receivables and other           97           64          94          46         37          30          24          19          15        12         10
Total                            5,681        5,489       2,688       4,801      4,915       5,064       5,109       5,959      6,620      7,278      7,999
Investment in other company            0            7          44          44         45          45          45         45          45         45         45 |
Land, plant and equipment, net      2,938       3,048       3,662      10,139      10,723     11,206      11,979      19,952     21,323     20,701      19,886
Net fixed asset revaluation            0            0           0           0       2,467      2,898       3,322       3,741      4,304      5,013      5,676
Construction in progress             326        2,111       5,765         840       1,440      4,496       7,022       1,142        442        342        342
OTHER ASSETS
Ppd construction cost/retention      200          258         106          14        305         229         172         76          38         19         10
Deferred charges                      48           39          56          85         77          69          62          56         50         45         41|
Other assets                           9            7           5          38         41          43          45         47          49         52         55
Total                              257          304         166         138        423         341         279        179         138        116        105
TOTAL ASSETS                        9,203       10,968     12,325      15,962      20,014     24,050      27,756      31,018     32,872      33,496    34,053



Annex 8
Page 4 of 5
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Bangchak Petroleum Public Co., Ltd.
Annual Financial Statements
Table 3: Projected Balance Sheets, 1990-2000
(Million Baht)
1990       1991 _192              1"3        19          1MS9         190    :  1997        1998       1 99       2000
_____________________ (Actual)  (Actual    (Atul            (Atl)_ __
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Short-term loans                       0           0         769       1,408        142         185        360         513        596        250        475
Accounts payable/trade              1,682       1,500      1,168       2,600      2,768       3,071      3,215       3,425       3,533      3,779      3,945
Excise tax/oil fund                  353         291         167        276         298         313        300         295        344        355        367
Provision for income tax              21         130          44         81         214        283         354         343        575        614        650
VAT payable                            0           0           0          0          64          69         71          72         83          87        92
Accrued expenses                      124        939       1,444        542         569        597         627         658        691        726        762
Accrued dividend                       0           0           0        762           0           0          0           0          0          0          0
Long-term due in one year            307         356         358        361         364        789         614         614       1,162      1,639      1,442      ,
Total                            2,488       3,216       3,949      6,029       4,418       5,307      5,540       5,921       6,983      7,450     7,732      \O
OTHER LIABILITIES
Accounts payable - MOF                152        114          76         38           0          0           0           0          0          0          0
Deferred revenue                       0           0           0        108         119         131        144         159         174        192       211
Long-termn loans                    1,010      1,569       2,194      4,208       3,844       5,997      8,399      10,318       9,449      7,978      6,632
Pension fund                           6           8          10         11          13          15         17          19         21         23         25
TOTAL LIABILITIES                   3,655      4,907       6,229      10,394      8,394      11,450     14,099      16,416      16,628     15,642     14,600
EQUI
Share capital                       4,176      4,176       4,176      4,176       5,220       5,220      5,220       5,220       5,220      5,220     5,220
Excess of par value                    0           0           0          0       2,025       2,025      2,025       2,025       2,025      2,025     2,025
Revaluation reserve                    0           0           0          0       2,467       2,898      3,322       3,741       4,304      5,013      5,676
Legal reserve                        548         548         548        548         548        548         548         548        548        548        548
Unappropriated retained earnings     824       1,337       1,372        844       1,359       1,908      2,542       3,067       4,147      5,047      5,983
TOTAL EQUITY                         5,54      6,061       6,096       5,568     11,619      12,600      13,657     14,602      16,244     17,854     19,453
TOTAL LIABILITIES
AND EQUITY                          9,203     10,968      12,325      15,962     20,014      24,050     27,756      31,018      32,872     33,496    34,053



Annex 8
Page 5 of 5
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Bangchak Petrolem Public Co., Ltd.
Annual Fdnancial Statements
Table 4: Sources and Applications of Funds, 1990-2000
(Milllon Baht)
::90      1991       1992        1993      14         199         1m6         1997        199S        1999       2000
: -  (A     cAul  (Actu   (Acl                                __                         __-::_
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net profi                                  562        785        474        527        779        940        1,105       1,079       1,621      1.713      1,796
Depreciation and amortization              266        263        254        288        836        979        1,135       1,301       1,853      2,012      2,186
Loss from selling assets                     0        416           1         0          0           0          0           0           0          0           0
Pension fnd                                  6          2           2         1          2           2          2           2           2           2         2
Funds from operations                    333      1,466         731       816      1,617       1,920       2,242       2,333       3,476      3,727      3,983
Long-term loan                             374        560        625      2,014          0       2,940       3,310      2,870         340          0          0
Capital incrase                              0          0           0         0      3,069           0          0           0           0          0          0
Odher asset decreases                        0          0          0        192          0          82         62          99          41         22          11
Retu  on retention                           0          0         152         0          0           0          0           0           0          0          0      o
Deferred revenue increase                    0          0          0          0         11          12         13          14          16          17         19
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                   1,207      2,026       1,508     3,021      4,697       4,954       5,627      5,366       3,373      3,766      4,014
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Long-term investnents                        0          7         38          0          1          0           0           0           0          0          0
Investment in PPE + CIP                    247      2,562       4,529     1,833      1,952       4,425      4,305       3,220       2,300       1,000      1,000
Long-term loan payments                      0          0          0          0        364        789         614         614       1,162       1,639      1,442
Prepaid construction cost                  143        21           0          0          0          0           0           0           0          0          0
Paid retention                              34         37          0          0          0          0           0           0           0          0          0
Increase in other assets                     0          0          9         71        285          0           0           0           0          0          0
Installment of leasehold                    38         38         38         38         38          0           0           0           0          0          0
Bonus of director                            I          I           I         1          1           1           1           1          2          2          2
Dividends Paid                             251        272        439       1,054       264        390         470         552         540        810        856
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                714      2,937       5,053     2,996      2,904       5,604       5,390      4,388       4,003      3,452      3,300
NET WORKING CAPITAL CHANGE                 494      (911)     (3,545)        25      1,793       (651)        237         979        (130)       314        714



Annex 9
-61-                                                     e 
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Crude Oil and Petrolei= Prordlct' Prices
(Curren USS Per Barrel)
t  O     01     V 2     03    04      05S     06      07  j  8      09  1   0    111
L,.2G Gasla        20.6   !!., °1.   2- 6   24.0   24.7   26.1  2t.0   23.2   29.1   30.1   31.3
L4. P              30.3   31.1.  3                3.8  32.6   ;3.3   34.0   34.6   35.3   36.0   37.0   38.1   39.2
Ld. R              29.1   30.0   30.6   31.4   32.0   31.9   33.5   34.2   34.9   35.6   36.7   37-5
tJLG PR.           32.9  3;.6   34.8   35.2   36.1   37.0   37.9   38.9   39.9   40.9   41.9   42.J
Rg.             31.3   32.4   33.3   34.1   34.9   35.9   36.2   37.3   38.2   39.7   40.2   41.5
1?.1               30.6   31.3   31.9   32.6   33.7   35.1   36.9   38.2   39.5   40.4   41.4   42.9
Diesel Oil - 0.25S    28.9   29.6   30.5   31.2 I 2;.0  ;3      34.9   35.8   36.3   37.3   38.9   41.2
L.OOS    27.4   S3.4   29.0   29.5   30.1   30.7   3!.3   32.0  3i.6   33.3   34.0   34.6
RFO                 13.9   14.6   15.2   16.2   17.0   17.9   19.0   20.0   20.3   21.6   2.3   24.1
Crude Oil           19.3   24:  '70.9  271.5       .      .7  23.3   23.9   24.5   25.3   26.0   25.7
.Not:  Crude oil is a bleid oF 70 pc.Lnt Dubai 2nd 30perc-U Tapis. Crude prc: is CF --Trnsporn o 3Bangck. P._du' priics
are CIF th.ilard.



-62-                         Annex 10
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Refinery Production
(1000 bpd)
.    '...'.'_'               '1''   Withou P roc        ..With Pr ' .:
LPG                                   4.20                    6.82
Gasoline
Pr. Leaded                           5.17
Reg. Leaded                         15.74
Pr. Unleaded                                                12.21
Reg. Unleaded                                               17.79
JP-1                                 10.87                    4.44
Kerosene                              0.53
Diesel Oil
1.0 Wt. 0/OS                       38.72
0.25 Wt.%                                                   50.21
Fuel Oil                             40.04                   28.65
Total Saleable Products             116.25                  121.49
Own-use and Losses                    3.75                    4.04



-63-                        Annex 11
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits Without Project
(US$ million)
WITHOUT PROJECT                 COSTS                        BENEFITS
Year       Crude Oil      Processing      Total         Refined      Net Benefits
l1 l            Maint. & Other                   Products   l
2000         820.2          32.7          852.7         920.6           67.9
2001         843.7          33.7          877.4         951.6           74.2
2002         866.5          34.7          901.2         977.4           76.2
2003        890.1           35.7          925.8        1,007.4          81.6
2004        914.2           36.8          951.0        1,037.7          86.7
2005         939.1          37.9          977.0        1,065.2          88.2
2006         964.6          39.0        1,003.6        1,098.6          95.0
2007         991.0          40.2         1,031.2       1,140.8          109.6
2008        1018.4          41.4         1,059.8       1,173.3          113.5
2009        1046.5          42.7         1,089.2       1,204.1          114.9
2010        1075.6          43.9         1,119.5       1,240.2          120.7
2011        1105.3          45.3'        1,150.6       1,026.4         -124.2



- 64 -
Annex 12
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits With Project
(US$ million)
WITH. PROJECT               COSTS_ -_-___BENEFITS::
Year.:    CrudeOil -- Processing    -  Total      Refined:      Net-
-_____  --:-Ma. & ab    -                  -Products  9enefts_
2000       820.2         36.0          856.2      1,002.1      146.0
2001       843.7         37.1          880.8      1,030.0      150.0
2002       866.5         38.2          904.7      1,065.0      161.0
2003       890.1         39.3          929.4      1,095.0      166.0
2004       914.2         40.5          954.7      1,142.0      188.0
2005       939.1         41.7          980.8      1,165.0      185.0
2006       964.6         43.0         1,007.6     1,208.0      201.0
2007       991.0         44.3         1,035.3     1,236.0      201.0
2008       1,018.4       45.6         1,064.0     1,288.0      224.0
2009       1,046.5       47.0         1,093.5     1,325.0      232.0
2010       1,075.6       48.4         1,124.0     1,360.0      236.0
2011       1,105.3       49.9         1,155.2     1,408.0      253.0



- 65 -
Annex 13
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Incremental Economic Costs and Benefits from Project
(US$ million)
_   t  l0 i ;00 With Project  :t0;l-::    Without:    Net-i:ncrease
_________ P00 ;; ; ;0 i00;000-00i;t;00-  0 0  roject ;00  EEin jBenefits l
Year    CaXpitalt   tBenefits  -  Net;      0Benfits j00     gt     - 
1995    (24.5)                   (24.5)                     (24.5)   l
1996    (49.0)                   (49.0)                     (49.0)   l
1997    (73.5)                   (73.5)                     (73.5)   l
1998    (73.5)                   (73.5)                     (73.5)   l
1999    (57.5)                   (57.5)                     (57.5)    l
2000       -146.0                146.0         67.9         78.0      l
2001       -150.0                150.0         74.2         75.8      l
2002       -161.0                161.0         76.2         84.8      l
2003       -166.0                166.0         81.6         84.4      l
2004       -188.0                188.0         86.7         101.3     l
2005       -185.0                185.0         88.2         96.8      l
2006       -201.0                201.0         95.0         106.0
2007       -201.0                201.0        100.6         100.4
2008       -224.0                224.0        113.5         110.5
2009       -232.0                232.0        114.9         117.1
2010       -236.0                236.0        120.7         115.3
2011       -253.0                253.0        124.2         128.8
Economic Rate of Return: 21.7%
NPV Discounted @ 12% per annum: US$171 million



-66-                      Annex 14
THAILAND
CLEAN FUELS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
List of Documents in Project File
A.   Bank Internal Documents
A. I   Internal Executive Project Summary
A.2  Final Executive Project Summary
B.    General Information
B. 1   Refinery Configuration Studies for Various Petroleum Projects
B.2   Crude Oil Price Projections
C.    Project Related Correspondence
C. 1.  Listing and Qualifications of Potential Licensors
C.2.  Documentation related to the Selection of Consulting Firms
C.3   General Correspondence regarding Project Design
D.   Chiyoda Engineering Company Studies
P. 1.  Study on Project Design
D.2.  Project Cost Estimates
E.    Financial and Performance Projections
E. 1   Bangchak Financial Projection Model
E.2   Key Performance Indicators
F.    Bangchak Company's Project Implementation Plan






MAP SECTION






=                                &        :      A;~~~~~~~~AOPEOPLE'S DE.RP
C.o§Mif:~~~~.-                                                                                       -'P..-+71
, C    --           If ¶"o 
'.   ' 1'.s.'.'  't1     .AC. s.,                                                                                                        /
-A~~~~~~~~-
*D~~~*CIAC* ~~~~~  p 5AMBDI
C                 - ,),i  BANGCHAK PETROLEUM PUJBLIC COMPANY, LTD.
'1/0~ tumvIU IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                4                           V I ECT NAM A
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UM - L'GovK TOC E MF,S 45 9H                                                                                D
¾                                                                         '~~~~~~~~~m
-P-L / 0 5./ -
|N         :*-      °/    *-RIW
r rE,   \t,  I                    e   ^llo"~~~EG-L c.0-1-L                            .
8C,CCCR  *fl.*. CCRC         CIUC~......C E
THAILAND                                                                  - >J_   _   RECION^L BOUNDARE
|~~~~~~~t Cf,.                                                      CAIIOCCLRIRRA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~IC,    _                                   .-C.    R,AILWAYSIA,,.s-Aoo 












