DonwnEt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C Q  /A)F;--ZA
Report No. 663?-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 3, 1987
'ndustrial Development and Finance Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects Department
| This document has a restricted listribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
On September 12, 1983, Zaire devalued by about 80 percent vis-a-vis the
SDR and introduced a transitional exchan-e rate regime which lasted until
February 24, 1984; thereafter, the rate has floated on a weekly basis,
Currency Unit = Zaire (Z)
US$1 = Z 55 (December 1985)
US$1 = Z 65 (December 1986)
US$1 = Z 82 (January 1987)
SDR Exchange Rate as at Negotiations
SDR 1 - US$1.26419 (February 28, 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AUF      = African Development Fund
ANLZA    = Association nationale des entreprises du Zaire
BCA      = Banque de credit agricole
BCZ      = Banque commerciale zairoise
EDP      = Banque du peuple
BZ       = Banque du Zaire
CADEZA   = Caisse d'lpargne du Zaire
CADICEC  - Centre chretien d'action pour dirigeants et cadres
d'entreprises au Zaire
CCA      = Contribution sur le chiffre d'affaires
CCP      = Centre comptes chAques postaux
CLPETnUE = Centre de perfectionnement aux techniques de developpement
CIDA     = Canadian International Development Agency
CPCL     = Caisse populaire de credit Luymas
FAC      =  onds d'aide et de cooperation
FCUD     = Fdnds des conventions de developpement
ILO      = International Labor Organization
IN?P     = Institut national de pr6paration professionnelle
INSS     = Institut national de securite sociale
MNE1     = Ministry of National Economy and Industry
NGO      = Non-Governmental Organization
OPLZ     = Office de promotion des petites et moyennes entreprises
zairoises
PMU      = Project Management Unit
PPAR     = Project Performance Audit Report
SCC      = Savings and Credit Cooperative
SOFIDE   = Societe financiare de developpement
SONAS    = Soci6te nationale d'assurances
SSE      = Small-scale enterprise
UCCEC    = Union centrale des cooperatives d'epargne et de credit
UNDP     = United Nations Development Program
I,NID   = United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID    = United States Agency for International Development
UZB      = Union zairoise des banques



ZAIRE                   FOR OMCIL US ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEV'&LOPMENT PRO.JECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ..................................           i - iii
PART I - THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT  .......,...................            ...... * ........ 1
A.  The Economic Setting ....... ........... . *....... * . *.....         1
B.  The Small-Scale Enterprise Sector 3....                                3
Importance and Characteristics                                    3
The Artisan Sector ........0..0...... ..................       4
Women in SSEs .................................... ...         5
Government SSE Policies                                           5
Investment Code                                                6
The Guarantee Fund ..... .. . ....... ........          .      6
Government Regulations                                         6
Price Decontrol .............  .        .                      7
Import Licensing                                               7
Promotion and Training Institutions .....0.....".......           8
a) ANEZA .....,.................................               8
lo) CEPETEDE ...oo.................                            9
c) Technical Support Institutions                              9
Constraints and Development Potential                            11
C.  The Financial Sector .......                                          11
Institutional Structure                                          11
The Banque du Zaire .................................         12
The Commercial Banks                 .....                    13
The Development Banks                                         16
The Savings and Credit Cooperatives (SCCs) .......            18
Interest Rates and Resource Mobilization                         19
Term Lending and SSEs:  Need for the Proposed Credit             21
PART II - BANK GROUP SECTOR LENDING STRATEGY ...*..s.......  ...    22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Zaire
in October-November 1986.   The mission was composed of Messrs. Chuong N.
Phung, Philip Adoteye and Andres Jaime of EAPID, and of Mr. Josep Lloveras
and Ms. Deborah Lindsay, Consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
PART III - THE PROJECT  *.o, oeo.e,e..o.soe                          23
Project Objectives and Justification .......0*......*.*e     23
Lessons Learned from Previous SSE Assistance Efforts ...    23
Project Description o......  ...... ......e. ..e...          24
Credit Component ..............................     24
Size of tle Credit Component .......................      24
Institutional Arrangements ....e..................        24
Eligible Intermediaries *.................o....e          25
Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects    ..............  27
Terms and Conditions of Financing     ...................  27
Subloan Processing and Administration ...............     29
Assistance and Training Component ......................     30
Design and Special Features ...............e.o.           30
Assistance and Training of Women Entrepreneurs .......    32
Estimated Cost of the Component's Various Programs *.    33
Terms and Conditions  ... *ee.........  ..............    33
Project Management Unit ........  0 ****,***************.    34
Project Cost and Financing ........................          35
Project Implementation ................0.......              35
Project Management ....................                   35
Procurement and Disbursement .*.,,        ...........     35
Special Account ,...,...*,.,.. *,*eo                      36
Auditing and Reporting *0*oO*o..............              36
Project Benefits and Risks *..e......o.......oo..ee          36
Benefits ............. .o.o  ....... ....... .0           36
Risks                .    .               0o              37
PART IV - AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS TO BE REACHED ..........     37
Condition of Effectiveness       ..........................  38
Condition of Disbursement ...........e..........          38
ANNEXES:
I - Distribution of Productive Small-Scale Enterprises
by Region and by Sector *..e....* *.......*..**.....       39
II - Performance of Productive Enterprises
by Number of Employees o.o..... 00 e.,eo...0o,.0**o.*o.    40
III - ANEZA Organization Chart, 1986 ....0.4.............*0...     41
IV - Banque du Zaire Organization Chart, 1986 ....o.........0    42
V - List and Characteristics of Banks ......e.o.e.,..            43
VI - Relative Market Shares of Commercial Banks  *......o         44
VII - Summary Balance Sheets of Banking Institutions        .      45
VIIV - Summary Balance Sheets of SOFIDE ..e....eo.o.@*..e.          46
IX - Distribution of Bank Depooits by Term ...............        47
X - Distribution of Bank Deposits by Sector and Region .e...     48
XI - Outstanding Bank Credit By !*ctor and Term      .............    49
XII - Schedule of Disbursements ........e.......o..o...            50
XIII - Distortions on Debt Servicing of Long-Term
Basis Due to High Inflation *........................      51
XIV - Selected Documents Available in the Project File .......     54



- i -
ZAIRE
SMALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Zaire
Beneficiaries:         Banque du Zaire (BZ), participating financial inter-
mediaries, CEPETEDE, ANEZA, Zairian SSE promotion
institutions and small enterprises.
Amount:                SDR 19.8 million, equivalent to US$25.0 million.
Terms:                 Standard IDA terms.
Relending Terms:       The Borrower, through the Bank of Zaire (BZ) as its
agent, would onlend US$22.5 million equivalent to
qualified participating financial intermediaries at
the rediscount rate (currently 30% p.a.), or the
KINIBOR rate (Kinshasa Inter Bank Offering Rate) when
the recently established interbank market operates to
the Borrower and IDA's satisfaction, with a flexible
amortization  schedule   reflecting   the  aggregate
.ubloans made by the intermediaries.   The onlending
rate would be reviewed annually.   Acting under a
Management Agreement satisfactory to IDA, BZ would
{i) collect for the Borrower the interests due by
participating   intermediaries,   except   for   an
administrative fee of one percentage point that would
accrue to the Project Unit; (ii) recycle the Credit
proceeds back to participating intermediaries for SSE
financing; and (iii) repay the Borrower the funds
lent to intermediaries over a period of 17 years
starting three years after the date of the Management
Agreement.   Interest rates charged by participating
intermediaries to beneficiary SSEs would be variable
and market-determined. They are expected to be about
37 percent p.a., excluding the CCA tax on interest,
which would however be eliminated over a two-year
period. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the Government. The Borrower would use the remaining
USM2.5 million to (i) provide training and technical
assistance   to  participating   intermediaries   and
beneficiary SSEs (US$1.7 million); and (ii) cover
part of the operating costs of a Project Management
Unit located in the Central Bank (US$0.8 million).
Project Description:  The  project  would  offer  a  package  of  credit,
technical assistance, and training tailored to the
needs of small enterprises in Zaire.   The credit



- ii -
component would finance the foreign exchange and some
local costs of (i) fixed assets and associated
permanent working capital of investment projects
promoted by small private entrepreneurs in all
sectors of the economy; and (ii) free-standing
working capital for viable existing SSEs in the
productive  sectors.      Any  accredited  financial
intermediary in Zaire with clean audits and in good
standing witt, the Central Bank would be eligible to
participate,   provided  it  has  entered  into  a
participating agreement with BZ that would specify,
inter alia, the lending and repayment conditions,
procurement and disbursement procedures, and the
intermediary's  acceptance  of  responsibility  for
appraisal and supervision of subprojects.   Besides
well established financial intermediaries, small
savings cooperitives are also expected to participate
in the project wten they obtain accreditation from
BZ.   The technical assistance component  would be
provided through local institutions involved in
training and SSE promotion for (i) SSEs and women
entrepreneurs on technical matters and project
management; and (ii) participating intermediaries on
appraisal and supervision of investment projects.
The component has been designed to mainly use local
competence and to build up in Zaire a strong
appraisal and supervision of investment projects.
Benefits:              By supporting the growth of SSEs, the project will
nurture the development of Zairian entrepreneurs and
generate new job opportunities at a relatively low
capital  cost.    It  is  expected  that  the  credit
component would support investment totalling about
US$35 million and create 5,000 new jobs at an averege
cost of US$7,000 per job. The impact of the project
is also expected to be widely dispersed both
geographically and among various income groups with
benefits reaching subborrowers in the regions and
micro-entrepreneurs.    Finally,  the  proj ct would
enable women entrepreneurs to upgrade their skills
and ease their access to institutional credit.
Risks:                As the first apex operation in Zaire, the p-oject
involves institutional arrangements that are new to
intermediaries and the Central Bank. Some delays in
subloan processing may occur as the Central Bank
needs to familiarize itself with the system and as
participating   intermediaries    strengthen   their
capacity to appraise and supervise SSE projects.
This risk would be considerably reduced by the rapid
implementation of the technical assistance component
and the close supervision by IDA during the initial
phase of project execution.  Another risk relates to



- iii -
the possible deterioration of Zaire's economic
situation, which would affect the investment plans of
small entrepreneurs and slow down the demand for term
credit. Such a risk is, however, limited by Zaire's
continued determination to implement stabilization
measures and the actions envisaged by IDA and other
donors  to  increase  the  resource  transfer  and
accelerate economic growth in Zaire.
Local     Foreign       Total
-US$million-
Estimated Cost:
Investments                                13.8       20.d         34.6
Technical Assistance and Training           1,6         0.1          1.7
Project Management Unit                     0.5         0.5          1.0
TOTAL                               15,9        21.4         37.3
Financing Plan:
SSE Subborrowers                            8.6         -           8.6
Participating Financial Intermediaries   3.5             -          3.5
Project Management Unit                     0.2          -          0.2
Proposed IDA Credit                         3.6       21.4         25.0
TOTAL                               15.9        21.4         37.3
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY            1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
Annual             1.0   3.1   4.5   5.1   4.7   3.4   2,3   0.7   0.2
Cumulative         1.0   4.1   8.6  13.7  18.4  21.8  24.1  24,8  25,0
Rate of Return: N.A.



ZAIRE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT
A. The Economic Setting
1.01      Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of its area
(2.3 million km2) and the fifth largest in terms of its population (30
million people).   Its GNP per capita, estimated at US$140 in 1985, ranks
among the lowest in the continent.   Agriculture is the most important
sector contributing 30 percent of GDP and emplo) lng more than 75 percent of
the active population. Mining and mineral processing represent 33 percent
of GDP, are the largest source of public revenues, and generate more than
two thirds of the country's export earnings.   Industry and construction
account  for  10 percent  of  GDP.   Government  administration and other
services make up the remaining 27 percent.
1.02      From 1967 to 1974, GDP grew at seven percent per year in real
terms, spurred by high copper and coffee prices, but decreased thereafter,
By 1979, GDP at constant prices was about ten percent below its pre-crisis
(1972-74) level. The Zairianization (Government-sponsored takeover of most
foreign owned business, mainly by private Zairians) and Radicalization
(nationalization of most large enterprises in all the major sectors of the
economy) measures of 1973-74, coupled with the balance of payments crisis
resulting from a substantial decrease in copper prices and high debt
service payments, were the primary reasons for this severe deterioration of
the economic situation.   The demonetization measure in 1979 (when notes
representing 73 percent of currency in circulation were demonetized and
replaced on a two-for-one basis by new notes) further worsened the
situation as many individuals and companies were not able to exchange their
notes  within  the  specified  time  period.    Severe  cash  shortages  and
liquidity problems resulted and affected much of the private sector. Faced
with a deteriorating economic situation, the Government sought to regulate
economic activity. Prices of most agricultural commodities and industrial
products were controlled and mechanisms were established to allocate scarce
foreign exchange.
1.03      A slight economic recovery was registered in 1980 and 1981 when,
aided by a recovery in copper production, there was a real GDP growth of
2.4 percent in each year. In 1981, the Government freed most agricultural
prices and declared that the directly productive sectors would be reserved
mainly for the private sector.   These two years of moderate recovery,
however, were folloted by a further contraction (about 2.6 percent) of real
GDP in 1982 and an increased shortage of foreign exchange due mainly to a
fall in copper prices.



- 2 -
1.04      To address  this situation,  in September 1983,  the Government
adopted a broad and comprehensive stabilization program in collaboration
with  the  IMF.    The  Zaire  currency was devalued by about  80 percent
vis-&-vis the US dollar and, since February 1984, its rate has been
determined by an interbank foreign exchange market iP which all the
commercial banks and the central bank participate.   All commercial bank
deposit and lending rates were liberalized, with the exception of agricul-
tural credit which remained fixed at 30 percent per annum.   Controls on
agricultural producer prices were also removed. On the demand side, credit
was tightened and budgetary expenditures strictly controlled.
1.05      The  stabilization  program  undertaken  by  the  Government  has
started  to yield positive  results  in some areas:   despite  continuing
declines in world prices for Zaire's principal exports, the current account
deficit of the balance of payments declined from 13.7 percent of GDP in
1982 to 6.9 percent in 19i5, while the overall deficit was reduced from
SDR 598 million in 1982 to SDR 423 million in 1985.  The public finance
objectives were also largely achieved, as net financing of the Government
from the domestic banking system was reduced from 6.3 percent of GDP in
1982 to 1.9 percent in 1985.
1.06      The economic stabilization has not, however, been accompanied by
a significant economic recovery. GDP growth in each of the years 1984-86
has remained below the level of population growth.   Thlu  disappointing
performance has been due primarily to the deterioration of Zaire's terms of
trade, the continuing heavy burden of external debt service payments and a
lower than anticipated level of external assistance.   In 1985, external
debt service payments amounted to 26 percent of exports of goods and
services (and about half of budgetary outlays). As Zaire has continued to
meet punctually all its debt obligations under the Paris and London Club
agreements, imports had to be severely curtailed. The resulting shortages
of essential inputs and spare parts have led to continuing low levels of
capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector and have adversely
affected  agricultural  output.    New  investment  has  also  fallen  to  a
critically low level.
1.07          The Government now finds itself in an extremely difficult
situation.  The success of the economic reform program implemented since
1983 is threatened by the insulficient availability of foreign exchange.
Zaire needs urgently to improve the living standards of the population and
needs strong support from the international community to achieve this
objective.    In the  industrial  sector,  the  Government  has  started  to
implement a structural adjustment program begun with the IDA- and
SAF-supported Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit.  Under that credit, the
Government eliminated the remaining import and price controls, abolished
all export duties and taxes on manufactured exports and adopted a new
tariff regime.  In order to expand the structural reform to other sectors
of the economy, the Government has requested further World Bank assistance
to prepare a series of structural adjustment operations as well as
assistance from the IMF through its new Structural Adjustment Facility.
However, for the productive sectors to respond to the new economic
environment, a large amount of external resources will be required to
rehabilitate and restructure the country's productive base and infra-
structure. New capital inflows and debt relief will be needed from Zaire's
external donors in the next three to four years, while the economy is
expanding and diversifying its production and exports.



- 3 -
B. The Small-Scale Enterprise Sector
Importance and Characteristics
1.08      Small-scale enterprises  (SSEs) in Zaire are a non-homogeneous
group, varying significantly in complexity and sophistication as well as by
size and activity. Firms with the same number of employees or comparable
turnover often have very diverse organization of management or ability to
maintain records, depending on the nature of their activity or the
background and capacity of the owner-manager.   Partly because of this
diversity, and partly because of the absence of a clear official definition
of small enterprises, reliable data on Zaire's SSEs are scarce. Given the
size of the country, most SSE studies are limited to a particular category
of SSEs (e.g. artisans) or region (Kinshasa, Kivu, Shaba) and do not give
an overall view of the sector, nor of its importance to the Zairian
economy.  The only comprehensive source of informatiou is the census of
productive enterprises (agriculture, mining, and industry) undertaken in
1980.
1.09      The census shows that of the 2,208 registered firms surveyed,
71 percent were SSEs employing less than 50 workers and accounting for 12
percent of total productive employment.   Fifty-five percent of the small
firms are in the three most hervily populated areas: Kinshasa, Bas Zaire,
and Shaba.   The remaining 45 percent are spread among Kasai Occidental
(11%), Bandundu (8%), Kivu (8%), Haut Zaire (7%), Equateur (6%), and
Kasai-Oriental (5%).  The census data also show that SS-Es produced Z 459
million (US$ 265 million) worth of goods in 1979 or about 8.5 percent of
the total production of the enterprises surveyed. About 42 percent of the
SSE production originated in Kinshasa, with Shaba (15%), Bas-Zaire (10%)
and Bandudu (9%) following in that order.  The five other regions made up
the remaining 26 percent with each region holding from three percent
(Kasai-Oriental) to six percent (Kivu and Haut Zaire). Non-servibe sector
SSEs were mainly in food production (51%), wood products (10%), and
chemicals (7%).   Industry as a whole dominated, accounting for about 83
percent of total SSE production. The remaining 17 per ent were essentially
agricultural activities.  Small-scale mining was negligible (less than 1%
of SSE production). SSEs dominate in sectors where proximity to customers
and raw materials is important, such as bakeries, furniture making, and
metal works.   SSEs have also tended to multiply in sectors where the
technology is simple. In comparison with larger firms, Zairian SSEs invest
less  in inventory  and  employ  more  temporary workers.    Despite  their
concentration in industrial activities, the share of SSEs in total
industrial output was only nine percent. This was due to the importance of
textile, petroleum, tobacco and beverages in Zaire's industrial production
(36% of the total) and the absence of SSEs from these activities, which
were mostly undertaken by large firms.
1.10      As in other African countries, Zairian SSEs are also active in
trade, transport and other services such as garages, repairs and
maintenance and restaurants*   Although there is a shortage of reliable
data on these sectors, the membership of two major SSE organizations
(Office de promotion des petitps et moyennes entreprises zairoises - OPEZ
and Association nationale des entreprises du Zaire - ANEZA) indicates that
trading and service establishments account for more than 70 percent of all



SSEs in the formal sector.  About 72 percent of the 4,161 firms serviced
by OPEZ were in trade; and ANEZA reports that fully three-fourths of its
members are in commerce.   Trade and service-related small enterprises in
Zaire are located in rough proportion to the country's population
distribution, with the large majority close to the regional urban centers.
1.11      Most SSEs in Zaire are owned, managed and operated by Zairian
nationals, unlike large and medium enterprises which often have foreign
interests.  In addition, less than one percent of the staff of all 'SEs is
foreign, compared to 2.4 percent for larger firms.  SSEs are more lab&r
intensive and less dependent on imported inputs than larger enterprises.
1.12      Formal sector SSEs in Zaire are characterized by their lack of
well established and structured management and organization, by the
weakness and often complete absence of accounting systems, and by the
informality of their operations. Many of them therefore need advice on how
to upgrade their management, organization and production techniques in
order to improve their general performance. Another general characteristic
is their difficulty in gaining access to appropriate technology, to large
markets often dominated by large firms and to bank credit.  There is also
significant diversity of size within the sector, with firms having from
five to fifty employees.   The average is 19 workers per firm.   While
accounting for 12 percent of employment, SSEs make up only six percent of
the wage bill, reflecting the fact that many SSEs are run by owner-managers
who do not drew fixed salaries, but also suggesting loner wage levels than
in larger companies. According to the 1980 census, the value added per SSE
employee per year was Z 6,880 (US$3,970) in 1979, or 36 percent less than
the Z 10,670 (US$6,160) average for workers in non-SSE establishment.
This is essentially due to the absence of sophisticated and efficient
machinery and equipment in SSE production.
1.13      The paucity of reliable information on the sector allows for
little evidence on the past performance of SSEs in Zaire.,  Nevertheless,
their ubiquity is indicative of their ability to survive and continued
demand for their products and services.   Successful SSEs in Zaire are
frequently more than five years old, have been built up by individual
initiative and have developed by reinvestment of surpluses.   Since SSEs
have generally found it difficult to obtain professional assistance in
preparing bankable feasibility reports and in getting banks interested in
their project proposals, few SSEs have had access to funds outside the
equity investments of the owner and his immediate or extended family,
althougb some SSEs have from time to time operated on suppliers' credits.
The ones who have had access to bank credit have been mainly financed by
SOFIDE or BCA (Banque de credit agricole) for importation of minor
machinery and equipment.
1.14      The Artisan Se tor.  The informal sector is made up of a large
number of establishments, most of which are unregistered and do not keep
any records of their activities. Despite these shortcomings, the informal
sector is an important generator of employment.   In 1984, there were an
estimated 230,000 workers in this sector in Kinshasa, compared with 204,000
in the formal sector. In Lubumbashi, the informal sector provided 2+ times
the number of jobs as in the formal sector.



115      Informal SSEs  can be found mainly in the following areas of
activity:   (i) production workshops including dressmaking and tailoring,
brickmaking, shoe repairs, and soap making; (ii) garages and repair shops
like motor rewinding, auto and general mechanics and electronic repair
work; (111) services like small hotels, milling, restaurants, photo studios
and laundry; (iv) art and handicrafts like sculpture in ivory, wood, copper
or malachite, painting etc; (v) commerce, usually on street corners and
(vi) transport.  Very small business units (less than five employees and
under US$2,000 in total capital) make up about half of all informal SSEs
and include mostly tailors, shoe makers, garages, carpenter shops and
restaurants. The largest informal firms have about US$10,000 in assets and
are butcheries, grocery stores and maize millers.
1.16      Women In SSEs,  Women are generally not well represented in the
formal SSE sector. In the 1,561 small enterprises examined as part of the
1980 census of productive enterprises, women accounted for only five
percent of the proprietorship of SSEs and less than two percent of total
SSE employment.   On the other hand, women are heavily represented in tl.e
informal sector, particularly in activities that also allow time to care
for a family. It is estimated that 17 percent of total employment in the
Kinshasa informal sector is female, but concentrated in a few activities.
According to an ILO study 1/, 35 percent of apprentices in dressmaking, 12
percent of those in hairdressing and all apprentice caterers were women.
Women were also well represented among full time workers in bakeries (342),
hotels  (20%)  and  restaurants  (68%).    In addition,  75 percent  of all
restaurant owners are women.   As with many other SSEs, their management
systems and accounting ere rudimentary.
1.17      Despite the inroads made by women entrepreneurs, Zaire continues
to be a traditionally conservative society, expecting women to bear the
major responsibility for growing the food and maintaining the home and
hearth.   There are also specific regulations requiring women to obtain
marital permission (or certification of single status) to travel, sign
contracts or enter into  business.    Indications  are however that  such
permission has been generally obtained.
1.18      The  ILO  study  revealed  that,  as with most  formal SSEs,  the
principal constraint facing women entrepreneurs is lack of access to
credit.   Women in Zaire are often involved in very competitive types of
activities, with low margins and little scope for innovation or individual
expansion,  As a result, women, except for those in commerce, have little
chance for accumulation of surpluses for investment or as collateral for
bank credit, to which their access is extremely limited.  As with other
proprietors of SSEs, Zairian women entrepreneurs have also demonstrated a
need for increased management and technical training, in accounting, stock
and production management. These constraints will be addressed through the
technical assistance component of this project (paras. 3.37 and 3.38).
Government SSE Policies
1.19      The  major  actions  taken  by  the  Government  to  promote  SSE
development date back to 1973 when a series of laws was promulgated
creating (i) a special investment regime for small and medium enterprises;
(ii) an Office for the Promotion of Zairian bbEs (OPEZ); and (iii) a
l/ Le Secteur Non ctructurd de Kinshasa. ILO, 1985.



- 6-
Guarantee Fund to help SSEs obtain bank loans. However, the SSE Investment
Code never became operational and with the economic crisis deepening,
promotion of small enterprises took a second place in Government's
preoccupations.    The  Guarantee  Fund  did  not  receive  any  Government
contributions to start operations and, although OPEZ was created with
UNDP/UNIDO assistance, the lack of funds and the low quality of its
personnel made it a largely ineffective iustitution.
1e20      The new macro-economic environment, together with the need to
promote the participation rf Zairian entrepreneurs in the country's
investment and growth process, has recently accorded a high priority to
SSEs and to improving the policy and institutional framework for their
development.
1.21      A  new  Investment  Code  with  a  special  regime  for  SSEs  was
promulgated in April 1986.   The new code provides epecific benefits for
SSEs, defined as enterprises with less than Z 10 million, i.e. $154,000,
in investment. The most important of these benefits are (i) exemption from
taxes on equipment; (ii) a five-year moratorium on local taxes for firms
located outside the capital; (iii) a two- to five-year holiday on profit
taxes for new SSEs depending on location and use of locally produced
materials; and (iv) a 30 to 100 percent tax credit on neu investments for
existing SSEs, usable within five years of the investment.   In addition,
SSEs who implement an investment program are exempt from all import taxes
and duties (except administrative fees) for all equipmenit, spares and
materials for their projects.  Their staff training expenses are also tax
deductible, and they are allowed to use accelerated depreciation methods
for their new plant and equipment.
1.22      The Guarantee Fund was reactivated in May 1986 with a Z 20
million contribution from the Government. Another grant of Z 80 million is
expected during 1987 which, together with the initial contribution, would
allow issuance of guarantees totalling Z 1 billion (US$15 million).  The
Fund can guarantee up to 80 percent of the principal and interest of a
project, but financiers are expected to obtain all the collateral possible
from borrowers before having recourse to the Guarantee Fund. The guarantee
cannot be called until the bank has realized all other collaterals relative
to  the  loan and  the borrower  legally declared  bankrupt.    Individual
guarantees are limited to Z 5 million (US$60,000) for agriculture and small
industry, Z 2 million (US$24,000) for services and Z 1 million (US$12,000)
for trade. Guarantee fees are three percent p.a. on the guaranteed amount
plus a one percent study fee.   As  of November  1986,  ten  guarantees
totalling Z 9.7 million had been issued, All the loans guaranteed to date
were presented by savings and credit cooperatives and have maturities of
18 months including 3 months of grace.
1.23      Government regulations regarding the establishment, registration
and operation of SSEs are basically the same as those for large enter-
prises.   All firms must obtain a commercial license, a permit to start
business,  and a health certificate.   The fees for  these  permits  and
licenses  range  from  Z  100  to Z  10,000,  but  the  health  certificate
(Z 100-500) is renewable each year.  Firms also must pay municipal taxes
and an environment levy; in addition, artisans pay fees for an arts and
culture permit.  In addition to the fiecal legislation, firms are subject



- 7 -
to social regulations which are aimed at protecting the rights of both
workers and their employers. The social requirements (mainly reflected in
the work contract) establish the rights and responsibilities of employers
and employees, including the right to medical care, equitable pay and
satisfactory work, contributions for social security, reasonable vacation,
housing, and transport. There is also a legal minimum wage for different
levels of skill (Z 6-30 p_r day), which, however, has not been changed
since 1983, despite high inflation over the last three years. As a result,
firms pay much more than the minimum.
1.24      These fiscal and social regulations are similar to those in force
in most other countries, except for the medical care and transport benefits
which most large enterprises In Zaire provide to their employees free of
charge and which account for 10 to 20 percent of the labor cost for the
employers.  The fact that the regulations apply to all firms irrespective
of size can be a burden for the small ones, primarily because of the low
level of education, experience and sophistication of their management. So
far, however, they are only enforced for large enterprises and established
SSES, i.e., those with total assets of more than US$300,000.
1,25      Price Decontrol:   Until 1981 the prices of most manufactured
goods were fixed at the producer, wholesale and retail levels.   This
policy, which was intended to moderate price increases in the face of the
mounting inflationary pressures of the 19709, was applied to producer
prices through a 20 percent profit margin on production costs. From 1981,
Government began a period of gradual price decontrol that went from ex ante
control to ex post verification.   In 1986, Government discontinued all
remaining controls in the pricing of industrial goods and abolished the
system of price control.
1.26      Import Licensing:  As part of the 1983 reform program, the policy
of import licensing which had existed in the 1970s was abolished.   In
addition, with IDA support under the Industrial Sectoi Adjustment Credit,
the Government took steps to rationalize the import tariff structure in
order to, over time, lower the level of protection offered to the
manufacturing sector and to reduce the dispersion in protection rates that
existed. In that regard, a basic minimum duty of 10 percent was introduced
on most imports, including raw materials and intermediate goods, and
tariffs on finished goods will be gradually reduced over a three-year
period  to  a maximum  of  30  percent.    The  present  tariff  systtm  is
satisfactory.
1.27      The policy reforms undertaken by the Government together with the
promulgation of a new investment code and the reactivation of the guarantee
fund (paras. 1.22 and 1.23) have greatly improved the prospects for SSE
development.   To ensure wide access of SSEs to the various incentives
provided to them, IDA agreed to the Government's request to finance under
the SOFIDE VII line of credit (Cr. 1492-ZR) the services of an Advisor for
the Ministry  of  Natio-al  Econouy  and  Industry  (MNEI)  which  has  the
responsibility  for promoting  SSEs.   This Advisor would  follow up  on
requests presented by small promoters for access to the investment code's
benefits, assist MNEI in improving the policies and operating procedures of
the guarantee fund and oversee its operation. He would also be the liaison
between MNEI and the Project Management Unit established for this project
(paras. 3.41-3.43), and would advise MNEI on further improvement of the SSE
policy framework.



- 8-
Promotion and Trainng& Institutions
1.28      A wide variety of institutions exist in Zaire for promoting SSEs
and meeting their training needs, even if sucil promotion and training have
so far been done on an uncoordinated basis.   A major objective of this
project is to strengthen existing institutions to enable them to fulfill
better the functions for which they were created.  The major institutions
most likely to participate in, and benefit from, the project are discussed
below.
a) ANEZA
1.29          The Association nationale des entreprises du Zaire (ANEZA)
was founded in 1973 as an association of Zairian ccmployers to (i) inform
members of regulations affecting their business and policy and adminis-
trative changes; (ii) represent and defend the interests of Zairian
enterprises in all forms, including the formulation and implementation of
Government policies; and (iii) promote r harmonious relationsiiip between
firms, employees and other agencies.   ANEZA is also Zaire's only chamber
of commerce.   In addition to its Kinshasa headquarters, ANEZA has eight
regional and 39 sub-regional offices spread throughout the country. Each
branch outside of Kinshasa has at least one qualified professional.  The
headquarters staff, which includes 38 professionals, is organized under a
General Manager (Administrateur Delegue) into seven departments (Annex IX),
of which one is specifically in charge of SSEs.  This SSE department was
created in 1985 to improve the service and support that ANEZA provides to
its SSE members.   Headed in tempore by ANEZA's Finance Director,  the
department draws on the strength of the other departments and helped client
companies prepare eight projects for bank financing in 1986. A technical
assistance project financed by the French Fonds d'aide et de cooperation
(FAC) will provide management and training assistance to ANEZA to
strengthen its capacity to service SSEs (para. 1.32).
1.30      In November 1986, ANEZA's membership stood at 3,215.   Regional
representation was fairly widespread and, other than Shaba which had 39
percent, the membership was fairly evenly distributed among Kasai Oriental
(14%), Kivu (11%), Haut Zaire (10%), Kinshasa (9%), Equateur (6X), Bas
Zaire and Bandundu (4% each), and Kasai Occidental (3%). About 80 percent
of the members are classified as small and medium enterprises, a quarter of
whom are in production.
1.31      Besides the diversity of its membership and its good regional
network,   ANEZA's   principal   strength   derives   from   its   financial
independence.  Member companies contribute an annual fee calculated on the
basis of 1.85 percent of salary expenditures (the fee ranges from Z 10,000
for the SSEs to Z 525,000 for large firms like SCIBE Holdings).   Even
though over four-fifths of the members are SSEs, the fee contributions have
been enough to allow ANEZA a comfortable budget, which for 1986 stood at
Z 120 million (US$1.8 million),
1.32      ANEZA provided support for a four-year,  $2.4 million UNDP SSE
technical assistance project in Kivu and a two-year, EEC SSE management
assistance program  in  Shaba.   These projects,  both of which are now
complete, were successfully implemented and ANEZA will, in January 1987,
start implementation of a three-year, 13.1 FF million SSE technical
assistance project financed by PAC (para. 1.29).



- 9 -
1.33      Given its track record, the branch network vital for providing
consulting and technical support to SSEs outside of the capital area, and
its knowledge of the obstacles usually faced by firms in the regions,
ANEZA will be one of the main channels for technical assistance under the
proposed project (paras. 3.33-3.35 and 3.39).
b) CEPETEDE
1.34      The Centre de perfectionnement aux techniques de d6veloppement
(CEPETEDE) is a management trainlng Institute set up jointly by SOFIDE,
Government and Banque du Zaire in 1981 to train professional staff of the
public and private sectors in banking, administration, and financial and
economic analysis of projects.   It is managed by a former Director of
SOFIDE's Studies Department who is assisted by an expatriate Director of
Studies and two other expatriates.  All three expatriates are flnanced by
FAC.   CEPETEDE also has three full-time Zairlan couAnterpart staff and
recruits on a part-time basis foreign experts and professlonals from local
lnstitutions and enterprises to run seminars In their respective fields of
expertise. Since its inception, CEPETEDE has made substantial progress in
its efforts to becme financially autonomous.  Participants' tuitions and
fees now cover about a third of its budget, which was mostly funded by
foreign  assistance  in  1981-82.    Recently,  CEPETEDE  diversified  Into
consultancy business to further decrease its dependence on external aid.
1.35      CEPETEDE has performed well and has enabled SOFIDE, Governnent
institutlons, banks and private enterprlses to offer their staff a more
comprehensive training program than they could provide with their own
facilities and resources. Since 1981, 172 participants from 39 public and
private enterprises/institutlons have taken CEPETEDE's four-month basic
course and the three-month specialization in project evaluation and
menagement of enterprises.   CEPETEDE has also organized 32 seminars oan
various  subjects,   including  inventory  management,   cost  accounting,
personnel management, enterprise restructuring, etc. for 736 participants
from 25 local enterprises.   In the past, tailor-made courses were also
provided to staff of ANEZA (economic and flscal legislation, bank credit,
production costs) and OPEZ (financial analysis and project appralsal).
EDI has approached CEPETEDE with a view to associating it to Its training
seminars in Africa, and IDA has provided financial support to CEPETEDE
under the seventh and eighth SOFIDE credits.   Given its effectiveness,
CEPETEDE will be supported under the proposed credit and used to provide
training to bankers in project appraisal and to O!'EZ and ANEZA staff In
assistance to small enterprises (paras. 3.33-3.35, 3.37 and 3,39).
c) Technlcal Suport Institutlons.
1 .36     OPEZ (Office de promotlon des petites et moyennes entreprises
zairoises) was establlshed In 1973 by Government to provide (1) technicai
assistance  to  SSEs  In  equipment  choice,  Investment  analysls  and  new
equipment  installation;  (iI)  consulting  assistance  and managerial and
operatlonal issues for SSEs; (iii) managerial tralning to promoters and
their staff;  and (iv) assistance  in preparing feasibility  studies for
Investors and for firms applying for benefits under the Investment code and
the guarantee fund.  Although it started wlth an appropriate organization
structure (with four departments responsible under a General Manager for



- 10 -
administration, studies, training and interventicns) and about 80 staff,
OPEZ was unable to fully perform its role as promoter of Zairian
enterprises because the Government never contributed to the institution's
budget as planned and the 10 percent of the patent tax, which regional
governments were obligated to pass on to OPEZ, was never given to that
institution, Revenues thus initially came from annual dues (Z 3,000 p.a.)
of affiliated companies and from a Z 10,000 fee for feasibility studies.
Given the paucity of its financial resources, OPEZ concentrated its efforts
on preparing feasibility studies for client companies on request.   From
1973 to 1985,-over 650 studies were prepared for a total investment of over
Z 1 billion.  Due to inadequate collateral however, only about 10 percent
of these studies resulted in actual investmentso  The guarantee fund on
which many potential investors were counting was at the time also not
operational (para. 1.19). As a result, OPEZ could not fulfill its assigned
role. The institution's affiliates, who numbered 900 in 1979, fell to 151
by December 1982. During 1983, salaries for professional staff could not
be met and all the analysts resigned to join other organizations. Funding
from donors, including UNIDO which had provided some technical assistance
until 1977, dried up and OPEZ lost the little reputation it had as an
agency for SSE development.
1.37      In 1985, Government renewed its interest in OPEZ, reconstituted
the Board (with representatives of A;iEZA, the Ministry of National Economy
and Industry and the Mi.aistry of Finance, Budget and Portfolio), and
appointed a new General Manager. The institution was slightly reorganized
and about 30 professio-' staff recruited.   In 1986, USAID provided an
expert for six weeks to train the staff in enterprise analysis, and UNIDO
plans to finance foreign training to five high level staff and seven
managers of client SSEs.  The Government has resumed its budget support
(Z 900,000 per month which meet about half of OPEZ's needs) and the
guarantee fund, whicn OPEZ is supposed to manage, is now operational
(para.  1.22).   The institution is therefore gearing up to assist SSEs
iu preparing bankable projects and to provide consulting support for
entrepreneurs.  This project will assist OPEZ in fulfilling its tasks by
training OPEZ's staff and will rely on it to provide assistance to
beneficiary SSEs.   OPEZ will be compensated for the services rendered
under the project, which will give it an additional source of income
(paras. 3.33, 3.34 and 3.39).
1.38      CADICEC  (Centre chrgtien  d'action pour  dirigeants  et  cadres
d'entreprises au Zaire), a private Christian organization created in 1956,
also provides assistance to small enterprises, mainly through information
gathering and dissemination.    Staffed by three professionals,  CADICEC
organizes seminars, offers courses and promotes discussions about the
business environment.   As a result of a recent study of 233 Kinshasa
enterprises in the business, CADICEC has generated a project to train
informal sector entrepreneurs and workers in management accounting,
market analysis and quality control.
1.39      INPP (Institut national de pr&paration professionnelle) was set
up in 1964 to train workers and conduct examinations for job selection and
professional accreditation,   The training is of two main types:   formal
courses and seminars in one of INPP's centers, and on-the-job training in
the workshops and factories of interested enterprises. INPP, which has 220



- 11 -
training to over 29,000 people in inter alia commerce, administration,
motor mechanics, welding and electronics.   In 1971, an SSE management
course was introduced and since then, 673 managers and SSE staff have
received training in different issues affecting the operation of small
enterprises.   INPP has four centers in Kinshasa, Lubumbashi, Boma, and
Kisangani and runs four to ten seminars per center, depending on the needs
of firms in the regions.  An annual levy from all registered firms, based
on their salary budgets, provides INPP's main source of income, although
firms also contribute to have their workers' expertise upgraded.
1,40      OPEZ, CADICEC, and INPP will be used in the project as resource
institutions to provide assistance to SSEs when needed.   Their inter-
ventions would be initiated and coordinated by the Project Management TIJnit
(PMU). They would be compensated for the services rendered to SSEs under
the project (para. 3.33).
Constraints and Development Potential
1.41      Available studies and the recent experiences of UNDP/UNIDO and
the EEC with SSEs in the Kivu and Shaba regions showed that the development
potential of this sector is significant,  SSEs are less constrained by
transport difficulties and produce basic goods accessible to low income
groups.   There is ample scope for SSE development in such diverse areas
as food processing, agricultural tools, carpentry, construction materials,
and repairs and maintenance,  among others,   The recent policy reforms,
particularly the decontrol of industrial prices and the improvement of the
institutional support system have greatly improved the investment climate
for SSEs.  However, the sector also faces severe constraints.   More than
large enterprises, SSEs suffer from the limited training facilities and
difficult access to bank credit, even though they appear tc, have
substantial borrowing capacity as their debt/equity ratio is generally
very low.  The proposed project has been designed to address these issues
constraining the development of SSEs.
C. The Financial Sector
Institutional Structure
1.42      The financial sector in Zaire consists of the Central Bank (BZ),
nine commercial banks, and two development banks:   Societe financiZre de
dEveloppement (SOFIDE), a mixed institution with 40 percent Government
participation, which provides risk capital and term loans for investment
projects, and Banque de credit agricole (BCA), owned by the Government.
Seven of the commercial banks have more than 70 percent equity participa-
tion by a foreign bank.   The Government has a minority share in two of
them. Of the remaining two commercial banks, one was declared bankrupt and
placed under temporary state control pending reprivatization and the other
is owned by the Government.   The non-bank financial sector includes two
subsidiaries  of  commercial  banks  specialized  in  the  financing  of
construction and real estate development, an insurance company (SONAS), a
savings institution (CADEZA), a postal savings network (CCP) and a social
security fund (INSS). There is also an array of saving cooperatives which
have been expanding rapidly, particularly since the vir'ual bankruptcy of
CADEZA in the late 1970s.   They collect small savings and grant loans



- 12 -
(mainly short-term consumer credits) to their members. These cooperatives
are not yet accredited by the Central Bark. The relative importance of the
various institutions in terms of their lending to companies and individuals
is shown in the table below and has been fairly stable over the past few
years.
Lending to Companies and Individuals
(as of December 31, 1984) aF
Market        Number of
Z Million         Share        Institutions
Banque du Zaire                       39             1               1
Commercial banks                  4,233 b/         70                9
Development BanKs                  1,495 F/        25                2
Non-Bank Institutions                148             2               6
Savings Cooperatives                 150            2               12
TOTAL                 6,065           100             "30
a/  Data for 1985 or 1986 are not available for all institutions.
b/  89 percent is accounted for by the four largest commercial banks.
C/ SOFIDE accounts for 99 percent of this amount.
1.43      Most of the above financial institutions, with the exception of
those in the non-bank financial sector, are likely to participate in the
project, and are described in more detail in the paragraphs below.
1.44      The Banque du Zaire (BZ) is responsible for regulating financial
institutions in Zaire and for defining and administering national monetary
and credit policies.   Since 1983, BZ emphasized demand management mainly
through credit ceilings.   Interest rates (except those on loans for non-
coffee agriculture) are freely fixed by banks and no sectoral allocation
of credits exists.   There is also virtually no import control and -he
exchange rate is weekly determined by an interbank market (para. 1.O04).
As a financial institution, BZ can lend to the Government, but not to
public enterprises, which are considered part of the private sector as
far as credit is concerned.   BZ also prc-ides credit to financial inter-
mediaries through rediscounting of short- and mediumrterm instruments and
advances (para. l.76).
1.45      The Bank of Zaire's regulation of financial institutions mainly
focuses on three aspects:    (i) respect  of  credit  ceilings  set  on a
quarterly basis in consultation with the IMF.   Controls are weekly and
excesses penalized at a rate of one percent per day; (ii) reserve
requirements, which at present amount to 45 percent of all the commercial
banks' deposits, including provisions for covered documentary credits.
These reserves are deposited in an interest-free account at the Central
Bank.   The penalty rate for shortages  is 60 percent p.a.;  and  (iii)
commercial banks' foreign exchange position set at 40 percent of the banks'
equity and free reserves.  The control is daily and any excess should be
sold to the Central Banko



- 13 -
1.46      BZ's supervision over the management and operation of financial
institutions is less stringent.   The basic legislation and regulations
exist but are usually not translated into clear instructions for banks.
There are, for example, no maximum debt/equity ratios, no clear definition
of bad debt nor any BZ's guidelines regarding constitution of loan
provisions. Enforcement is also weak because of inadequate information and
inspection procedures.   In January 1987, BZ introduced a new and more
comprehensive reporting system for banks with a view to obtaining better
Information and gradually strengthen its supervisory function.   This is
particularly important for the long-term stability of the banking system
and has become a high priority for BZ since the bankruptcy of the Banque
de Kinshasa  (para  1.42).   Despite  the present  lax control,  financial
institutions are generally well managed and financially sound.  They have
their own provisions policies and the major institutions have adequate
appraisal and disbursement procedures (paras. 1.54 and 1.55).
1.47      BZ has a total staff of 3,250, including its head office and the
eight regional branches, and employs ten foreign experts. It is organized
into 19 departments reporting to a Principal Director, an expatriate expert
financed by the IMF, who in turn reports to a Vice-Governor and a Governor
appointed by the President of the Republic.   BZ's organization structure
appears in Annex X.
1.48      The Credit Department, which will play an essential role in this
project, is responsible for (i) establishing and controlling individual
banks'  credit  ceilings;  (ii)  monitoring  their  reserve  requirements;
(iii) managing the BZ's rediscount and advance facilities; (iv) authorizing
medium-term bank loans and ensuring their appropriate funding; and (v)
managing  the  risk  coordinating  unit  (centrale  des  risques).    These
important functions, which go beyond the strict domain of credit, place the
Department in a central position within BZ and bring it in constant contact
with the commercl4. banks' top credit executives and senior management.
The Department is divided into five units:   Administration, Rediscount,
Control, Risk Coordination, and studies. It is well managed and adequately
staffed (36 people) and seems to be well regarded by the banking community.
1.49       The commercial banks (Annexes XI to XIII) are largely in private
hands, except for the Banque du peuple -- formally the Socigte Congolaise
de Banque -- which was taken over by the Zairian Government in 1978 and the
Banque de Kinshasa which was declared bankrupt in May 1986 and is under
receivership at BZ.  Most banks are linked to prime European and US banks
and their policies, procedures, and management practices reflect those of
their parent companies. The sector is dominated by three relatively large
banks (Banque commerciale zairoise - BCZ, Banque du peuple - BDP, and
Union zairoise des banques -- UZB) whose deposits account for about 80
percent of all commercial banks' deposits.   They are the main banks with
significant branch networks (88 branches throughout Zaire). The other five
smaller banks are only active in Kinshasa and in the Shaba region and deal
mostly with local subsidiaries of multinational companies.
1.50      The main commercial banks' activity is foreign trade financing,
either in the form of direct import-export business or international trade-
related financing.  They all appear to be well equipped and knowledgeable
in this domain which accounts for 70 to 90 percent of their income.



- 14 -
1.51      Commercial banks' lending is predominantly short-term and takes
the form of overdrafts (ustally granted for 6-12 months periods, sometimes
renewable),   commercial  discounts  (discounting  of  trade  bills  with
maturities up to 12 months), and advances (up to 12 months renewable and
supported by a bill of exchange or promissory note drawn on the bank's
client), Commercial banks mainly lend to companies. Consumer and housing
loans are unusual, except for loans to bank employees. The main recipient
sectors are agriculture and trade, which together account for about
two-thirds of commercial bank loans.  Manufacturing and transport receive
about 20 percent and five percent,  respectively.   The remaiuing eight
percent goes to mining,  construction and other services.   In terms of
geographical distribution, available statistics show a heavy concentration
in Kinshasa.   This is not only due to the economic importance of the
capital, but also the fact that most bank credits are granted to medium and
large enterprises with headquarters in Kinshasa.
1.52      Although provision of short-term credits remains the commercial
banks'  major activity,  the situation is beginning to change.   With a
market-determined exchange rate and easier convertibility of the Zaire, the
demand for term credit in local currenicy is increasing and the commercial
banks are starting to provide medium-term credit (two to three years). The
banks are, however, constrained by the credit ceilings and the medium-term
credit  coverage  ratio 2/ imposed by BZ,   All commercial banks'  term
lending has to be approved by the Central Bank on a case by case basis.
The process is long (four to six months) as BZ carefully reviews all the
requests and gives its approval only when the overall ceiling agreed with
the IMF allows it.   Thus, so far, commercial banks, particularly those
which have small term deposits, reserve term loans for their best clients
who generally are large enterprises. They cannot meet the financing needs
of SSEs because of inadequate resources, although most of them are open to
such lending.  Out of about US$15 million medium-term credits approved by
BZ in 1986, only US$1.5 million were for SSEs.   With adequate resources,
commercial banks estimate they would be able to at least double their term
credits to small enterprises.  The proposed credit will fill this gap by
increasing the amount of resources available to the b'nking system for SSE
financing.
1.53      Among commercial banks, BCZ is the most active in term lending,
with nearly 34 percent of its portfolio made up with term loans, followed
by Citibank (33%), BDP (22%) and UZB (18%). BCZ and, to a lesser extent,
BDP, have a diversified client base that includes international, private
Zairian, and public sector companies and have made substantial inroads in
the small- and medium-scale enterprise sector. UZB is particularly strong
in the coffee sector and, like the smaller banks, is mainly involved in
financing subsidiaries of international firms.
2/  The taux de couverture which sets the funding requirements for term
lending requires that such loans have to be covered by term deposits,
bonds or term debt, or a combination of these, in the following
proportions:
(i) 200 percent by 3-6 months local currency deposits;
(ii) 120 percent by foreign currency deposits up to six months;
(iii) 100 percent by bonds and 6-12 months deposits; or
(iv)   50 percent by debt, bonds and deposits of at least one year.



- 15 -
1.54      Commercial banks' capacity to appraise term loans is generally
adequate. At BCZ, UZB, and BDP, credit analysis, although emphasizing the
personality of the borrower, also covers such aspects as evaluation of
market potential, sales forecasts, projected cash flow, pro-forma financial
statements, quality of the management, and includes direct visits to the
company. They are less familiar with appraisal of SSE projects and will be
assisted under this project to develop such an expertise (paras. 3.33 and
3.34).
1.55      Procurement and disbursement procedures vary from bank to bank,
but  appear  generally  satisfactory.    With  large  well  known  clients,
disbursement is effected according to a pre-established schedule with funds
made directly available to the beneficiary. For smaller or less well-known
clients, funds are directly disbursed to the supplier or contractor, and
other disbursement and procurement conditions are more thoroughly checked.
Procurement   generally   requires   several   quotations   from   different
suppliers.   Under the proposed project, participating institutions would
be required to follow these procedures, i.e., to require quotations from
three suppliers and to disburse directly to the supplier, except for small
payments of less than US$5,000.
1.56      Decisions  regarding  term  lending  by  commercial  banks  are
centralized at the head offices in Kinshasa.   With the exception of BCZ
which has delegated fairly important decision-making powers to its Shaba
branch, bank regional offices only review term loan applications.  Approval
is made at headquarters, often at the Board level.   Under the proposed
project, the project analysis capacity of bank staff in regional offices
will be strengthened to ensure that the SSE loan applications they send to
headquarters for approval meet the bank's requirements.  This would avoid
questions bv headquarters and reduce delays (paras. 3.33 and 3.34).
1.57      Practically all bank lending is backed by some form of collateral
(mortgages,  floating  charges  on  stocks  or  other  assets,  personal
guarantees, overseas guarantees, etc.) even though the enforceability
of some of these guarantees is legally difficult and time-consuming.
The collateral requirement is a particularly important problem for SSEs
and limits their access to institutional credit. In an effort to ease this
constraint, in mid-1986 the Government reactivated the Guarantee Fund,
managed by OPEZ, with a Z 20 million contribution from FCD (para. 1.22),
Building on this effort, this project would provide incentives for the
establishment of small mutual guarantee schemes to help informal SSEs and
women entrepreneurs obtain bank credit (para. 3.38).
1.58      Commercial banks' policies regarding bad debt provisions are left
to the discretion of the individual banks.   The small comercial banks
generally apply the standard provisions policies of their parent companies,
while the large banks have their own policies as follows:   BCA and BDP
review its portfolio quarterly and establish provisions by year end on a
case-by-case basis. UZB does it twice a year and classifies bad loans in
three categories for which the following provisions are made:   difficult
(5X), doubtful (20%), and under legal dispute (100%).



- 16 -
1.59      Zaire's  commercial  bank  sector  is  generally  profitable  and
stable.  In 1985, the average return on equity, calculated with published
data, averaged 47 percent, ranging from a low 14 percent for BDP to 450
percent for Grindlays.   The banks are generally well managed and  the
quality of the loan portfolios, although difficult to assess precisely in
the absence of standard practices regarding arrears, bad debt and
appropriate reporting, appears basically sound.   Arrears and bad debt as
reported to BZ represented about five percent of commercial banks' loan
portfolios as of end March 1986.   Indebtedness ratios vary widely among
banks as a result of varying asset revaluation policies and the absence of
minimum debt equity ratios,   However,  they appear adequate,  given the
generally good quality of the assets.
1.60      The Development Banks.   SOFIDE, Zaire's main development bank,
was established as a limited liability company in 1970 with 40 percent
Government participation.   IFC subscribed 18.75 percent of its original
capital and IDA provided the first of eight credits, which total US$161
million.    SOFIDE's  objectives  at  its  inception  were  to  foster  the
development of a capital market and to finance investments in the
productive sectors. Since then, it has successfully established itself as
the main term lending institution in Zaire and has been able to attract and
retain the confidence of its foreign shareholders and lenders.  The World
Bank Group's close and constant support through both financial and
technical  assistance  was  instrumental  to  this  achievement.    Much  of
SOFIDE's investments over the past ten years have been for rehabilitation
and modernization of existing industrial capacity and for agricultural
and transport projects.   More recently, SOFIDE started to increase its
financing of small and medium enterprises. Virtually all of SOFIDE's loans
and equity participations have been to private (or private majority) owned
companies.
1.61      Two Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) covering the first
three credits to SOFIDE were prepared by OED in 1976 and in 1982.  Both
reports commented positively on the institution building achievement of
the three projects, but noted the negative effects of the environment,
particularly of inflation, on SOFIDE's profitability. They also concurred
with the views of IDA staff that SOFIDE needed to further strengthen
supervision efforts and improve its organizational structure and accounting
systems to better cope with the increasing volume and diversity of
operations.   SOFIDE moved rapidly to address these issues by increasing
supervision and instituting better cost controls, by reorganizing its
structure and by raising interest rates.   In connection with the seventh
credit, SOFIDE made further efforts in improving arrears collection and
project supervision.  However, much remains to be done, particularly with
regard to the arrears situation which has substantially deteriorated as a
result of the fast depreciation of the Zaire and its impact on the
financial situation of SOFIDE's clients, most of whom bear the foreign
exchange risk.  One of the major objective of the eighth credit approved
in FY86 is to further assist SOFIDE in this area.
1.62      As of end September 1986, SOFIDE had the equivalent of US$40
million in foreign exchange for new approvals.   Hnwever, more than 90
percent of these resources are for specific operations or have conditions
regarding procurement and/or type of projects. All the funds allocated for



- 17 -
investment under the sixth and seventh IDA credits have been committed.
SOFIDE and Government are taking the necessary measures to meet the
effectiveness conditions of the eighth IDA credit and avoid the emergence
of a resource gap which would adversely affect SOFIDE's level of
operations.  On the basis of subprojects already submitted by SOFIDE for
approval under the eighth IDA credit, most of the funds would be, as In the
past, used for financing relatively large enterprises as the need for
rehabilitation and modernization of these firms are very large and exceeds
the resources available for them at SOFIDE.  To sustain Its SSE lending,
SOFIDE has llnes of credit granted by ADF (African Development Fund) and
CIDA (Canadian International Development Agency), but would also rely to a
large extent on the proposed project.
1.63      BCA was  created in 1982 as a 100 percent  public  company to
provide short-, medium- and long-term credit to the agricultural sector.
It can also take deposlts from the public and Is therefore a mixed
commerclal  and development  bank,  the only of its kind in Zaire.   BCA
started operatlon in December 1983 and despite some growth is still the
smallest bank in Zaire with a balance sheet total of Z 279 milllon in
1985.  Lending is conducted from its single office in Kinshasa but BCA
plans to open a brancn in Kwango Kwilu and in Shaba In 1987.
1.64      As of end September 1986, BCA's resources had increased to Z 365
million, including Its paid-in capital (Z 105 million) and deposits (about
Z 260 million, mostly demand deposits).  About 80 percent of the deposits
came from the Fonds des Conventions de Ddveloppement (FCD), a fund created
In 1978 to support investments in agriculture with a tax of up to
10 percent  levied on the turnover of manufacturing firms.   With these
resources, at the same date, BCA appro;ed 153 short- and medlum-term
credits for a total of about Z 310 million. Its portfolio as of September
1986 amounted  to Z 159 million, of which  about  58 percent were  term
credits.   At the same date, arrears represented Z 13 milllon, or eight
percent of the portfolio. As a young institution, BCA's staff (97, of whom
35 professlonals -- most of them recently recruited) needs considerable
training, which BCA's management is trying to provide through internship
arrangements with SOFIDE and other banks, formal training at CEPETEDE and
on-the-job traiaing.  As a result, BCA has developed a certain expertise
for project appraisal. Its financial management capacity is stlll weak and
needs considerable strengthening.
1.65      In an effort to rationallze and improve the provision of credit
to the agricultural sector, the Zairian authorities decided in October 1986
to merge FCD with BCA.  The new BCA strengthened with ECD resources is
expected to play a leading role in the financing of medium agricultural
enterprlses and smallholders, two categories *of borrowers often neglected
by banks.  To help the Government in this effort, IDA agreed to finance
under Cr. 1492-ZR (SOFIDE VII project) a comprehensive review of BCA and
FCD's operations and financial position, BCA's legal status, organizational
structure, staffing and training needs as it was clear that a number of
issues (such as liquidation of FCD's non-performing loans, restructuration
of BCA and privatization of part of Its capital) would have to be addressed
before Implementing the merger. The review is expected to be completed by
May 1987.



- 18 -
1.66      Another  issue affecting BCA's financial viability is the low
level of interest rates on agricultural credits which are the only ones
still regulated by the Cencral Bank.   They are currently fixed at 30
percent p.a., while inflation was estimated at about 35-40 percent in
1986. These low interest rates force BCA to look for subsidized resources
and reduce the spread it can earn on its lending operations.   BCAts
participation under the proposed project would not be feasible as long as
interest rates on agricultural credits remain fixed by BZ at 30 percent
p.a.   This issue will be addressed under the SAC operation for Zaire
currently under preparation.
1.67      The Savings and Credit Cooperatives (SCCs), mostly originating
from religious and community movements, started in Zaire in 1969 and have
expanded rapidly since the virtual bankruptcy of CADEZA in the 1970s.
These institutions cater to a popular clientele who lacks access to the
banking system, but needs to place modest savings or tc obtain small
consumer loans. The total amount of savings collected by SCCs is estimated
at about Z 1 billion (US$12 million), or six to seven percent of total bank
deposits, but is growing much faster than deposits in the banking system.
Only a small portion of the funds mobilized is relent to members in the
form of consumer loans; the rest is deposited with banks or invested in
treasury bills, so that, in practice SCCs resemble money market funds.
These institu._ns have developed mainly in Kinshasa and in the Kivu, but
are also present in the Bandundu, Kasai Oriental, Equateur, Bas Zaire, and
Shaba regions.
1.68      The SCC system is organized at three levels which are,  from
battom to top, as follows:
(i)  Primary Cooperatives:   They are the individual cooperatives  and
total approximately 200 at present, with about 300,000 members.
They employ well over 1,000 people, as compared to 8,500 for the
banking sector.   The primary cooperatives basically carry out a
cashier's function, extend some lending to their members, and do
the reporting to the next higher level.
(ii) Secondary Cooperatives: These are groupings of primary cooperatives
that  perform  accounting/administration  functions,   spare  cash
management, training assistance and, in general, supply back-up
services to their members.   Sometimes they also carry out lending
functions.  There are at present nine such organizations, of which
the most important is the Caisse populaire de crgdit Luymas (CPCL).
This cooperative accounts for about 45 percent of the savings in the
SCC system.
(iii) Federations: A federation of all secondary SCCs does not exist yet,
and is not likely to exist in the near future given the different
and  sometimes  coi&flicting  policies  of  the  various  secondary
cooperatives. However, four of the nine secondary SCCs, accounting
for about one third of the cooperative system, are grouped under an
umbrella organization (Union centrale des coop6ratives d'4pargne et
de credit -- UCCE) that acts as an internal forum for discussion and
an external representation body.



- 19 -
1.69      Since their creation,  SCCs have been regulated by the colonial
Decree of March 24, 1956 on cooperatives, which ts outdated and not
enforced.  They have thus grown practically unregulated.  At this stage of
their development, with more than Z 1 billion savings collected, the
cooperative system needs an adequate legal framework to continue growing.
Ithe draft cooperative law prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development to replace the March 1956 Decree does not address the financial
dimension of SCCe, wLile the 1972 banking law is too complex for them.
Other important problems facing SCOs concern the need to strengthen their
management, structures and financlal control which have become inadequate
in the light of rapid expansion over the past ten years and to develop a
good credit evaluation capacity to better invest their members' savings.
1.70      Despite  these shortcomings,  SCCs  are important  mobilisers  of
small savings, know their clients and can assess the worth of small
entrepreneurs and artisans better than any financial Institution in Zaire.
With appropriate support, some of them could become effective term lenders
to artisans and the informal sector.   Thus, provided that SCCs obtain
accreditation from the Central Bank and that their appraisal/supervision
capabilities are developed to IDA satisfaction, they could participate In
the proposed project (paras. 3.12-3.13).
Interest Rates and Resource Mobilization
1.71      During  the  1970s,  Zaire  followed  a  policy  of  administered
interest rates.  Commercial banks were free to set their own commissions,
but deposit and lending rates were regulated by the Central Bank.  Thus,
during that period, bank-customer relationships played a more Important
role than interest rates in allocating credit to the private sector. This
situation changed significantly after the Central Bank freed all deposit
and lending rates in September 1983 (with the exception of those on
agricultural credits, which remained fixed at 30 percent poa.) and, more
recently, created a market for treasury bllls.,  Beginning in April 1984,
treasury bills were sold to non-bank public at annual interest rates
ranging between 34 percent and 45 percent in 1986, while inflation was
estimated at 35-40 percent.   In response to this competition, commercial
bank term deposit rates rose to 35 percent (6 months) and 37 percent
(12 months), as compared to about 20-25 percent two years earlier,  Rates
for deposits of up to three mon,hs remained low at about 14-17 percent.
Commercial banks are not interested in this type of deposits which are not
included in the calculation of the medium-term credit coverage ratio
(para. 153).
1.72      On the lending side,  limited credit  availability  due to the
Central Bank's credit ceilings has kept interest rates at relatively high
levels as can be seen in the table below:
Range of Most Frequent Lending Rates and Commissions
(November 1986)
Interest Rates                    Commissions/Fees
Short-term advances    32-37% p.a.       12 por quarter on original amount
and discounts
Short-term overdrafts  34-35% p.a.       12 per quarter on highest overdraft
Medium-term credits    32-402 p.a.       1% per quarter on outstanding amount
Guarantees                   -           0.82-1.52 per quarter
Penalty rates           45% p.a.         0.52 per month on highest overdraft
or outstanding amount



- 20 -
1.73      In addition, borrowers pay a tax on interest of 18 percent p.a.
(contribution sur le chiffre d'affaires - CCA tax). All these commissions,
fees, and the CCA tax raise the cost of term borrowing to about 42-52
percent.  This is highly positive in real terms as inflation measured by
the average CPI was estimated at about 23 percent in 1985, down from 52
percent in 1984.   In 1986, the inflation rate was around 35-40 percent.
The cost of term credit is also not very different than that of short-term
credits and overdrafts  (43% to 50%).   This is due to the widespread
practice  of  renewing  short-term  credits  and  advances.    Ia  addition,
interest rates are variable and, notwithstanding the maturity of the loans,
banks can recall them any time to meet the reserve requirements or other
obligations imposed by BZ.
1.74      Despite the increase in deposit rates, commercial banks have not
been very successful in mobilizing term deposits.  Of the Z 12.7 billion
deposits in the banking system in March 1986, nearly 91 percent were eight
deposits.   This was partly due to the competition with treasury bills,
introduced six months after the liberalization of interest rates. The main
reason for the high share of sight deposits, however, seems to be the very
tight liquidity situation of the economy and the depositors' preference for
highly lioqid placements in the face of an uncertain and rapidly changing
environment.
1.75      Deposits originate mainly from the services sector, with trade
accounting for more than 30 percent of all sight deposits in the banking
system and transport and other services for another 18 percent.
Agriculture, which is the main user of credit, is only a marginal source of
funds for banks (less than five percent of total deposits).  This deposit
structure has remained practically unchanged over the years, and reflects
the different sectors' basic operating needs.   In terms of geographical
distribution, Kinshasa dominates with 68 percent of total sight deposits
and 90 percent of time deposits, followed by the Shaba region with
15 percent and 3 percent, respectively. Besides deposits, comercial banks
also mobilize large volumes of resources by requiring importers to cover
between 50 percent and 100 percent of their imports in advance.
1.76      Finally, banks receive financing from the Central Bank through
the following mechanisms:
(i) rediscounting of promissory notes, term loans, and trade bills. The
latter are eligible, provided that they are between 30 and 180 days
to maturity, are presented within 160 days of issue date, and were
created not later than 30 days after the involke or contract date;
(ii) "mise en pension" of endorsed bills of exchange or treasury bills
for short periods of two days renewable, up to a maximum of 15 days
per month; and
(iii)  advances against deposit of a 120 percent guarantee in treasury
bills.
1.77      The BZ's  Credit  department  is  responsible  for  administering
these facilities.   It establishes  limits for individual banks,  checks
the eligibility of the instruments presented and controls the overall



- 21 -
use of the facilities. BZ's rediscount rates are currently 28 percent for
agriculture and 30 percent for other sectors, while the "mise en pension'
rates are 23 percent for Government securities and 28 percent for
short-term and medium-term credits.   Advances are more expensive:   32
percent when they are within authorized limit and 40 percent in excess of
limit.  BZ is considering simplifying this rather complex rate structure by
unifying the two rediscount rates and by eliminating the "mise en pension'
rates and the 40 percent penalty rate for advances,   Recourse to Central
Bank financing has been limited because of its relatively high cost and the
availability of call money (between 22% and 25%).  Recently, an interbank
money market has been established in Kinshasa with BZ being the major
supplier of funds and, thus, the main determinant of the rate which has
been fluctuating around 23 percent. The Zairian authorities expect that in
the near future this market will become a fully developed interbank money
market similar to the interbank foreign exchange market with fixings
involving all financial institutions.   During negotiations, it has been
agreed that when this market operates to the Government and IDA's
satisfaction, the interbank rate (KINIBOR -- KIN for Kinshasa) would be
used as the onlending rate in this project as it adequately reflects the
cost of resources for banks in Zaire (para. 3.22).
Term Lending and SSEs: Need for the Proposed Credit
1.78      Term lending in Zaire, which only a few years ago was almost the
exclusive domain of SOFIDE, has experienced some development with the major
commercial banks showing more interest in this type of lending as a result
of the improved macro-economic environment, characterized by market-
determined interest rates and easier convertibility of the Zaire currency.
1.79      This development merits to be supported.  At present, commercial
banks only extend term loans with relatively short maturities to large
companies in Kinshasa, leaving the financing of SSEs to SOFIDE, which
despite commendable efforts (80-85 percent of SOFIDE's approvals by number
and 50-55 percent by value are for small and medium enterprises) cannot
satisfy the need of small enterprises, particularly those in the regions.
1.80      Commercial banks with their vast branch network can contribute to
meet this unsatisfied demand, but need strong incentiles to do so,  First,
their capacity to provide term loans is limited and they prefer to finance
large operations capable of generating attractive ancillary business.
Second, although their credit analysis expertise is generally adequate, it
is mainly concentrated in Kinshasa, while a large number of SSEs are in the
regions. Financing SSEs would thus require strengthening of branch offices
and improved coordination with headquarters, which add extra cost and make
this type of lending less attractive.  On the SSE side, many of them would
not be able to meet the commercial banks' guarantee requirements, nor be
attracted by the conditions of their loans, which are not adapted to SSE
investment projects, given the relatively short maturities (two to three
years) and high cost (47 percent on average, when commissions and the CCA
tax are included).
1.81      The proposed project has been designed to ease some of these
constraints and encourage commercial banks into SSE financing becanse:



- 22 -
(i)  credits extended to SSEs and financed under the IDA Credit would be
outside the BZ's individual ceilings and the IMF overall ceiling and
do not have to meet the BZ's medium-term coverage requirements, as
they are backed by adequate term resources  (para.  3.20).   The
proposed project would thus bring to participating banks a new
business without interfering with their traditional short-term
activities;
(ii) participating banks would be allowed to select the projects they
wish to finance without any external interference, as they are
taking the commercial risk. Banks would also be able to freely set
their interest rates (para. 3.23);
(iii)  technical  assistance  would  be  provided  under  the  project  to
participating banks to strengthen their capacity to appraise and
supervise SSE projects both at headquarters and at the branch level,
as well as to small entrepreneurs (paras. 3.33 and 3.34);
(iv) credits extended to SSEs under the project would be made in local
currency.    The  foreign  exchange  risk  would  be  borne  by  the
Government (para. 3.17); and
(v) incentives would be provided to encourage the establishm3nt of
mutual guarantee funds to ease the access to bank credits for
informal SSEs (para. 3.38).
II. BANK GROUP SECTOR LENDING STRATEGY
2.01      Given Zaire's economic structure and problems, the Bank Group's
main objective has been to help rehabilitate agriculture and mining,
support private investment in industry and other productive sectors, and
improve the provision of basic infrastructure. In industry, the Bank Group
supported the creation of SOFIDE in an effort to promote the development of
the private sector. IFC was one of SOFIDE's original shareholders and IDA
provided, in 1970, the first of eight credits, which total US$161 million.
In 1984, IFC made a further capital subscription in SOFIDE of US$ 576,000
equivalent.
2.02      Since the mid-1970's, IDA's main objectives in lending through
SOFIDE have been to provide the financial resources needed to help
rehabilitate and maintain the productive capacity of the industrial sector,
and to develop SOFIDE into a strong independent development finance
institution. Despite the difficult e^onomic conditions, SOFIDE has emerged
as a respected and effective term lending institution with a good project
appraisal and supervision capability.   IDA's continued support has been
critical to this achie'ement.
2.03      The  September  1983  macro-economic  reforms  and  the  Zairian
Government's determination to liberalize the economy have opened the way
for specific policy reforms and new assistance to the industriil sector.
To support the Government efforts in achieving its stabilization with
growth objective, the Bank Group lending strategy i.. the sector now



- 23 -
consists of a combination of policy-based operations to improve the
sector's institutional and policy framework, while providing the foreign
exchange required for the importation of inputs and spare parts, and of
investment projects through SOFIDE and the banking system to provide the
term foreign exchange resources needed to support the development plans of
the private sector.   The first industrial sector adjustment credit was
approved in June 1986, as well as the eighth SOFIDE project. The proposed
operation forms an integral part of this strategy and has been designed to
increase the participation of two major actors in Zaire's investment and
growth process:   SSEs, a sector with high employment potential, and the
banking system.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Justification
3.01      The objectives of the proposed operation are to (i) generate new
employment opportunities; (ii) nurture the development of Zairian entre-
preneurs; (iii) increase the participation of financial intermediaries in
the financing of SSEs. Participation of commercial banks with their large
network of regional offices would provide more term credit to areas outside
Kinshasa and contribute to the decentralization of economic activity; and
(iv) develop in Zaire a good capacity to prepare, appraise and supervise
SSE projects.  The project would also help address the training needs of
women entrepreneurs and facilitate their access to institutional credit.
3.02      IDA's involvement in the project would supplement its policy-
based lending for adjustment and would support the Government's efforts
to stimulate economic growth and increase employment.   The package of
financial resources and technical assistance provided by the project
would help the development of SSEs, a sector which has high employment
generation potential and is the breeding ground for developing a Zairian
entrepreneurial class.   Despite the involvement of many bilateral donors
in SSE development, there is still a shortage of term resources to finance
SSE projects because of the large needs of the sector and because most
bilateral assistance have conditions regarding procurement, nationality of
the beneficiary, geographical location or type of projects.   The Bank's
country assistance strategy is in full agreement with the Government's
priority for developing the SSE sector which, in contrast to medium and
large enterprises, is mostly owned and managed by Zairian entrepreneurs
and, until recently, has been neglected.
Lessons Learned from Previous SSE Assistance Efforts
3.03      A review of Bank experience with SSE lending indicated that SSE
assistance programs have often been less than successful mainly because of
(i) the bias against SSES in many countries' trade and pricing policies;
(ii) the difficult access for SSEs to the benefits accorded under national
investment codes; (Mi) the over-reliance on single intermediaries for
channeling financial assistance, thus limiting the chances of reaching
small enterprises in remote regions of the country; (iv) the excessive use
of foreign advisors for delivering technical assistance; and (v) the lack



- 24 -
of working capital funds for SSEs.   In Zaire where the policy reforms
undertaken by the Government have removed many of the discrimination
against SSEs, the proposed project will build on these lessons to improve
the chances of developing a viable SSE sector,  Specifically, the project
would (i) channel its financial assistance not only through development
banks, but also through commercial banks and small savings cooperatives;
(ii) provide working capital financing for existing SSEs in the productive
sectors; and (iii) rely on existing local SSE support institutions for
delivering technical assistance and training to SSEs.
Project Description
3.04      The project would involve an IDA credit to the Zairian Government
of US$25.0 million equivalent  (SDR 19.8 million).   It would have  the
following components:
(i)  an investment component of US$22.5 million equivalent to finance
development projects promoted by SSEs;
(ii)  a technical assistance and training component  of US$1.7 million
equivalent to:   (a)   help small entrepreneurs better prepare and
manage their projects; (b) provide special training and assistance
to women entrepreneurs; and (c) strengthen the participating
financial intermediaries' capacity to appraise and supervise
investment projects; and
(iii)  establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU) at the Central Bank
to coordinate and monitor the activities of financial institutions
and Zaire's training and SSE assistance institutions involved in the
project. The cost of this Unit (including part of staff salaries,
equipment and operating charges for five years) would absorb the
remaining US$0.8 million. Expenditures for PMU establishment up to
US$50,000 incurred between appraisal (November 1986) and loan
signing would be financed retroactively.
Credit Component
3.05      Size of the Credit Component.  Based on the SSE project pipelines
of SOFIDE and BCA and indications given by commercial banks, a credit
component for commitment over three years of US$22.5 million is
recommended.   About 50 percent of this amount (US$11 million, or US$3.7
million/year) would probably be used by commercial banks which have
estimated that with adequate resources they would be able to at least
double their present term lending to SSEs.   SOFIDE would probably absorb
another US$8-10 million since its present SSE pipeline of over US$35
million by far exceeds its existing SSE resources.  The remaining US$1.5-
3.5 million would be shared by BCA which has an SSE pipeline of US$8
million, and the savings cooperatives when they obtain BZ accreditation to
participate in the project (paras. 3-12-3.13).
3.06      Institutional Arrangements.  The credit component would be made
available under an apex arrangement to all sound financial institutions
accredited  with  the Central  Bank,   Funds  under  the Credit  would  be
channeled through the Central Bank to commercial banks, development banks



- 25 -
and other financial institutions, which would in turn grant loans to the
final beneficiaries of the project, the small-scale enterprises. The apex
arrangement is thought to be the most suitable for financing numerous SSE
projects, due to the number of commercial banks and other financial
institutions that would participate, and would provide Zairian SSEs better
accessibility to term credit.   The proposed apex approach would also be
the most appropriate to address the issue of regional decentralization of
economic activity and credit distribution. Since commercial banks have a
large network of branches (113 branches in total), while the two
development banks only account for a total of four branches outside the
capizal, the apex arrangement woult be conducive towards securing the
widest participation of the regions in the project.
3.07      The Central Bank, through a Project Management Unit (paras. 3.41
to 3.43), would act as the apex institution and administer the line of
credit for the Government. In view of its extensive role in regulating the
financial sector, including refinancing of both short- and medium-term
loans, the Central Bank is the most suitable institution in which to locate
the apex line of credit.  At the same time, given the scarcity of high
level professionals at the Central Bank, the commercial banks' reluctance
to provide confidential data on their clients directly to BZ and the
required arrangements for the technical assistance component, it becomes
necessary to establish a Project Management Unit, which, although located
at the Central Bank, would have its own operating policies and procedures
and its own staff (para. 3.41).   The signing of a Management Agreement
between the Government and the Central Bank defining the functions and
responsibilities of the latter, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.08      Eligible Intermediaries.   Any financial intermediary accredited
by the Central Bank which complies with all the laws and regulations
governing banking operations in Zaire, and has its financial statements
audited, with no qualifications, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA,
would be eligible for participating under the line of credit.
3.09      Currently, almost all commercial and specialized  banks would
satisfy the eligibility criteria described in the previous paragraph.
An eligible financial intermediary would be able to participate in the
project provided it has entered into a Participating Agreement with BZ.
This agreement would, inter alia, specify that the participants should:
(i) designate qualified staff to manage the credits financed by the
project;
(ii) perform satisfactory subproject appraisals and submit required
appraisal reports to PMU;
(iii)  ensure that resources were used by the final borrowers  for the
purposes intended;
(iv)  supervise subprojects according to required schedule and provide
PMU with periodical reports on the status of subprojects;
(v) help identify and provide input to PMU about needs of technical
assistance for SSEs;



- 26 -
(vi) adhere to terms of lending and repayment of loans; and
(vii) provide PMU and IDA with such information as they would reasonably
request.
A draft Participating Agreement has already been discussed and agreed with
the interested parties and Is available in the Project File. Most of the
banks have stated that they w7uld be prepared and able to comply with these
conditions as needed.   Receipt by IDA of a satisfactory signed agreement
between BZ and a participating intermediary would be a condition of
disbursement to such intermediary.
3.10      The  principal  particip.iting  institutions  are  likely  to  be:
(a) the three major commercial banks:   BCZ, UZB, and Banque'du Peuple;
and (b) the two development banki:   SOFIDE and BCA, the latter if the
Government and the Central Bark agree to free interest rates on
agricultural credits (para. 1.66), BCZ and UZB would probably concentrate
their credits to relatively large SSEs (close to US$350,000 ceiling), while
SOFIDE,  BCA, and,  to a lesser extent,  Banque du Peuple would tend to
finance smaller projects as they have more experience with SSEs, Among the
other, smaller commercial banks, which mainly deal with subsidiaries of
multinationals and large Zairian firms, Barclays, Grindlays, and Banque
Continentale Africaine du Zaire would participate to a limited extent as
they have a few SSE clients in their portfolios, while Citibank and Banque
Internationale pour l'Afrique au Zaire would probably not be involved
because of their self-defined policies of not financing SSEs.
3.11      An  important  second  group  of  potential  intermediaries  is
constituted by the savings cooperatives, which would be the key inter-
mediaries for the project to reach micro-enterprises and artisans.
However, at present these cooperatives are not eligible as they are not
accredited by the Central Bank nor is their financial management supervised
or controlled by a Government institution.  In addition, they do not have
project appraisal and supervision capabilities as they only grant short-
term consumer loans (paras. 1.67-1.70).
3.12      To build up that capacity and prepare the savings cooperatives'
futu:e participation in the project, it was agreed with the Government and
the Central Bank to finance through the Studies component of the SOFIDE VII
project (Cr. 1492-ZR):
(i) the services of a lawyer specialized in savings cooperatives to help
BZ prepare a special law regulating savings cooperatives in Zaire;
and
(ii) a special management audit of the major cooperative networks with a
view to identifying the weaknesses in the system and formulating an
assistance program for their reinforcement.
3.13      By end June  1988, when  these actions are completed,  BZ and
Government will agree with IDA on a program aimed at strengthening the
cooperatives' financial structure and bringing them into the formal
financial system. A covenant to that effect has been included in the draft
Development Credit Agreement. It is expected that by the end of 1988, some



- 27 -
cooperative networks could obtain accreditation and participate in the
project, while their appraisal and supervision capabilities are being
strengthened with IDA assistance. This pilot participation by the savings
cooperatives would, however, be subject to an aggregate maximum of US$2.5
million (11 percent of the investment component).   The maximum size of
their  subloans  would  also  be  limited  to  US$50,000,   instead  of
US$245,000-280,000 for well-established financial institutions.
3.14      Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects.   Beneficiary SSEs would
be enterprises with net total assets before the project of less than
US$350,000.   In the case of a new enterprise, the total investment cost
would also be less than US$350,000.
3.15      All  productive  activities,  transport,  trade,  and  all  other
services that contribute to the economic development of Zaire would be
eligible for financing. The line of credit would finance (i) fixed assets
and associated permanent working capital for new operations or extensions;
and (ii) free-standing working capital for viable existing SSEs in the
productive sectors. However, given that the major objective of the project
is to finance investment, the total amount of subloans financing
free-standing working capital would be limited to a maximum of 25 percent
of the credit component  (US$5.6 million).   Local costs would also be
eligible for financing under the Credit.
3.16      The enterprises and their subprojects to be financed would have
to meet the following conditions:
(i)  t1ey  would  be  required  to  demonstrate  financial  and  economic
viability; subloans of over US$50,000 would be specifically requirea
to have an expected financial rate of return in real terms of at
least 10 percent on total subproject investment;
(ii)  over  the  life  of  the  subproject  the projected  debt  servicing
capacity should be no less than 1.5, with the ratio calculated on
the basis of the enterprise's total debts, inclusive of those to be
incurred under the subproject.
(iii)  total subproject cost should not exceed US$350,000.
3.17      Terms and Conditions of Financing.  The IDA credit would be made
to the Government which would, through the Central Bank, relend the funds
under the credit component (US$22.5 million) to financial institutions and
beneficiary SSEs in local currency.   The foreign exchange risk would be
borne by the Government which has agreed to do so.  The onlending rate to
financial intermediaries, which would be based on the rediscount rate --
or the KINIBOR rate -- and would be reviewed annually (paras. 3.22 and
3.24), is expected to exceed the international foreign currency interest
rate by an amount sufficient to compensate the foreign exchange risk.
3,18      The Central Bank would receive the funds for a period of 20 years
for recycling back to financial intermediaries and would return it to the
Government over a period of 17 years, starting 3 years after the date of
the Management Agreement.
A



- 28 -
3.19      Funds onlent under the credit component to participating inter-
mediaries would be in local currency, with the same maturities as the
individual  subloans to final beneficiaries.   Subloans to beneficiaries
would range from a minimam of two to a maximum of ten years, inclusive of
grace periods of up to three years.
3.20      Since the funding made available under the line of credit would
not be part of the normal Central Bank refinancing facility, it would not
be counted as such in the determination of individual rediscount ceilings.
Also, unlike the regular Central Bank rediscount facilities, it would be
available to the financial intermediaries for the full term of the
subloans, thus constituting a guaranteed source of long-term funds.
In addition, subloans granted under the project would be outside banks'
individual credit ceilings and the IMF overall ceiling, due to their direct
foreign exchange coverage, and would not have to meet the Central Bank's
medium-term coverage ratio as they are backed by adequate term resources.
All these factors are expected to provide a significant incentive to the
participating intermediaries in making term credits more easily available
to Zairian SSEs.
3.21      Subloans financed by the line of credit could represent up to
80 percent of the total cost for extension/modernization subprojects, and
up to 70 percent for new subprojects to limit the debt to equity ratio of
new projects to 2.3:1.0.   The absolute maximum size of a subloan would
therefore be US$280,000 for extensions and US$245,000 for new projects.
Promoters would be required to finance a minimum of 20 percent of
subproject cost for extensions and 30 percent of subproject cost for new
projects.    In  addition,  to  encourage  co-financing  by  participating
intermediaries with their own resources, it has been agreed by BZ that such
co-financing would be exempted from the Central Bank's prior approval.
however, to minimize the impact on credit ceilings, financing by
participating intermediaries would be limited to 20 percent of subproject
cost.   Furthermore, this financing would be suspended if there is a risk
that the ceiling would be reached until BZ allows its resumption.
3.22      The Government would receive the BZ rediscount rate (currently
30%) minus an administrative fee of one percent that would accrue to PMU,
i.e.  29 percent p.a.   Under the present  interest rate structure,  the
Central Bank's rediscount rate appears to be the most appropriate rate to
use for determining the project's onlending rate.  However, as discussed
in para. 1.77, an interbank money market similar to the interbank foreign
exchange market in operation since 1984 has recently been established in
Kinshasa.    When  this  market  operates  at  the  Government  and  IDA's
satisfaction, the interbank rate would be used as the central rate in this
project as it adequately reflects the cost of resources for banks in
Zaire.    A  covenant  to  that  effect  has  been  included  in  the  draft
Development Credit Agreement.
3.23      IDA funds would be relent to participating inter-KA -ries for
financing SSE projects at the rediscount rate (302).   The   -  cipating
intermediaries would be free to set their own final rates to SSEs and to
adjust them to prevailing economic con#itionse  These are estimated to be
on average about 37 percent as banks usually add a spread of about four
percent to their cost of resources on top of a commission of three percent



- 29 -
p,a. and are variable,   Under the present tax system, the total cost of
resources to SSEs would average 44 percent as the 18 percent CCA tax on
interest has to be added to final lending rates. These rates are extremely
high and may have a negative impact on the demand for term credits.
However, as part of a tax reform package supported by a Structural
Adjustment Credit currently in preparation, the Government has agreed to
phase out the CCA tax on interest over a period of two years, so that the
effective cost for term loans would be around 37 percent, which is
reasonable in the present situation of Zaire.
3.24      The Government onlending rate would be reviewed at least every
12 months, and modified by agreement between IDA and the Government as
necessary to ensure that it continues to adequately compensate the
Government for assuming the foreign exchange risk and reflect the cost of
resources  for  financial  intermediaries.    Furthermore,  whenever the BZ
discount rate is modified, IDA agreement would be needed to continue using
it as the basis for the onlending rate under the project.
3.25      The  proposed  final  lending  rates  are  based  on  the market-
determined interest rate system currently in place.   Should this system,
which relies on market forces, be changed, further disbursements would be
subject to the establishment of a new system acceptable to the Government
and IDA. Agreement between IDA and the Government on this arrangement has
been reached at negotiations.
3.26      Because of the high nominal final interest rates, and in order
to avoid cash-flow problems to final borrowers, amortization schedules of
loans to SSEs and the associated repayment schedules of financial inter-
mediaries to BZ could include a mechanism of indexation or capitalization
of interest. This would allow the effective repayment period of subloans
to be as originally intended (Annex XIII).
3.27      Subloan Processing and Administration.  Subloan processing under
the project would be centralized by PMU, which would serve as a link
between IDA, the Central Bank, the participating intermediaries and the
beneficiaries.
3.28      Subprojects  would  be  prepared  by  the  beneficiaries,  with
assistance from supporting agencies as needed (paras. 3.33-3.40), and
presented to the intermediaries. The financial intermediaries would review
the subprojects in accordance with their own loan analysis procedures and
internal operating requirements and, if appropriate, would prepare an
appraisal report for presenting the subproject to refinancing under the
line of credit,   This appraisal report would be in the standard format
prescribed by PMU, which would vary in depth and sophistication depending
on the size and nature of subprojects. The report would cover all relevant
information about the enterprise and the proposed investment, including
details about its technical sottndness, financial viability and economic
efficiency.  Financial rate of return calculations would be required for
all subloans over $50,000.   PMUI would review the appraisal reports to
verify  that  all eligibility  conditions  (including,  inter alia,  those
specified in paras. 3.14-3.16) are adequately met.   If the subproject is
eligible for financing, PMU will issue a rediscount authorization, which
will allow the intermediary to present the loan documents for rediscount at
the Credit Department of the Central Bank.



- 30 -
3.29      In view of the involvement of untested financial intermediaries,
the first three subprojects from each intermediary would be subject to IDA
review and approval. Thereafter, assuming satisfactory standards and given
the small size of subloans (maximum US$280,000), IDA would review a sample
of subprojects on an ex-post basis during supervision missions.   Funds
under  the  credit  component  would  be  available  for  commitment  until
December 31, 1990.
3.30      The Central Bank will serve as disbursement and collection agent
for the financing granted to intermediaries.  The Credit Department, which
is currently responsible for rediscount operations, would execute
rediscount and collection operations upon approval by PM. On the basis of
PMU's instructions and authorizations, the Credit Department of BZ would
debit or credit the appropriate financial intermediary's account without
further intervention in the approval process.
3.31      Financial  intermediaries  would  be  responsible  for  making
supervision visits to SSEs receiving IDA funds, for maintaining records
adequate to monitor the evolution of subprojects, and for reporting to PMU
on the progress of each subproject and the status of the corresponding
subloan.   Supervision reports, in a standard format prescribed by PMU,
would be required from the intermediaries at least once a year until
subproject completion. These intermediaries' supervision responsibilities
would  be  clearly  specified  in  the  participating  agreement  which
intermediaries would sign with BZ.
3.32      In addition, PMU would conduct its own selective supervision of
SSE subprojects in order to monitor the performance of intermediaries'
supervision activities and to coordinate the technical assistance to SSEs.
Assistance and Training Component
3.33         Design and Special Features.   The technical assistance and
training component  (US$1.7 million) has  been designed  to involve  the
maximum of local institutions with a view to:  (a) strengthening Zaire's
existing capacity in promotion/relations with entrepreneurs (ANEZA),
training (CEPETEDE), and assistance to SSEs (OPEZ, CADICEC, INPP, etc.) to
enable these institutions to better fulfill the functions for which they
were created; and (b) easing the constraints to credit decentralization.
(i) Promotion and Preparation of Loan Reports. Because many SSEs are in
the regions, the project would rely on ANEZA, which has a vast
regional network (47 offices in the regions) to promote the IDA line
of credit outside Kinshasa and to assist small entrepreneurs in
preparing loan applications  and in dealing with banks.   ANEZA's
regional staff, after selection, would receive a two-week training
in project design to improve their effectiveness in assisting SSEs.
ANEZA would receive a flat fee of US$10,000 equivalent per year for
the use of their facilities by the project and the more active
regional offices would be granted a bonus which would be related to
the  level  of  project  approvals  by  banks.    A  draft  contract
specifying ANEZA's ob'igations and compensation under the project
has been discussed and agreed with the Zairian delegation at
negotiations;



- 31 -
(ii)  Training.  Under the project, training would be provided to staff of
ANEZA,, commercial banks and SSE assistance institutions.  Training
of ANEZA's staff is aimed at increasing their technical expertise
in project preparation (market analysis, selection of equipment,
project   planning,   choice   of  products,   financial   analysis,
environmental considerations, etc.) and at preparing them for their
role as advisors to small entrepreneurs.  They should be available
to advise SSEs, assist them in discussions and negotiations with
banks and help them prepare feasibility studies and investment
projects.   Training of banks' regional staff would be in project
analysis and risk evaluation to ensure that the SSE projects they
review and send to headquarters for approval are sound and meet
their  bank's  requirements.       This  would  avoid  questions  by
headquarters staff and reduce delays.   .t present, entrepreneurs
have to go to Kinshasa to defend their projects because loan
applications are incomplete.  Training of banks' staff would also
aim at developing a capacity to assess the environmental impact of
subprojects. Finally, training of existing SSE support institutions
would be in project execution and management and is designed to
strengthen their capacity and form a pool of national experts who
could be called upon to provide assistance to SSEs when needed. All
the training under the project would be organized and run by
CEPETEDE for a fee of US300/day, including staff time, pedagogical
materials and overhead; and
(iii)  Technical Support and Assistance to SSEs.   This assistance would
be  pr'ovided on demand by staff of existing institutions dealing
with SSEs (OPEZ, CADICEC, INPP, etc.) whose capacity will be
strengthened under the project ((ii) above). As SSE subprojects are
implemented and problems identified by banks, ANEZA, or the Project
Unit during supervision, missions composed of OPEZ staff or other
institutions would be sent in the regions to assist entrepreneurs in
project execution, financial management, accounting, or technical
matters as needed. These institutions would act as consultants for
the project  and their interventions would be coordinated by the
Project Management Unit.  The fees -  discussed and agreed with the
Zairian Government and the major local institutions -  are US$33 per
man/day plus subsistence and travel.
3.34      A  first  round  of  training  for  ANEZA,  OPEZ,  and  staff  of
commercial banks in all the nine regions of Zaire would be organized by
CEPETEDE in July 1987 and would be financed under the SOFIDE VII Project
(Cr, 1492-ZR), as the proposed credit would not be effective yet.  Draft
terms of reference and content of the courses have been discussed and
agreed with the Zairian delegation at negotiations and are available in
the Project File.
3.35      Also in July 1987 and under SOFIDE VII financing, a first series
of promotional missions (s6minaires de sensibilization) composed of
CEPETEDE, regional staff of ANEZA and commercial banks would visit all the
regions of Zaire to inform potential investors of the existence of the IDA
line of credit, explain to them the commercial banks' procedures and
requirements for obtaining term loans, and advise them of the availability
of ANEZA's assistance for their projects and bank loan applications. Draft



- 32 -
terms of reference for these promotional missions have also been discussed
and agreed with the Zairian delegation at negotiations and are also
available in the Project File.   These promotion missions would be sent
twice a year to Shaba and Kivu, and once a year to the other less active
regions. The cost per mission is estimated at US$2,500.
3.36      Althnugh financing of short-term international consultants would
be eligible under the project, the technical assistance and training
component as conceived is expected to use mainly local competence and would
thus be a cost effective way of providing assistance to SSEs and of
building up in Zaire a strong appraisal and supervision capacity of
investment projects.
3.37      Assistance  and  Training  of  Women  Entrepreneurs.    As  noted
earlier (paras. 1.17-1.19), women play an important role in the SSE sector,
but their opportunities and contribution are constrained by a number of
factors, including the lack of education and training and the limited
access to institutional credit. To ease these constraints, it is proposed
to reserve US$100,000 of the technical assistance and training component to
finance:
(i) a special training program designed to meet the needs of women
traders and entrepreneurs. The program would consist of a series of
short-term seminars (two to five days) given by Zairian experts in
Lingala and Swahili (the most widely spoken language in Zaire) on
practical issues faced by women traders and entrepreneurs.  Two of
these seminars have already been identified and will be given right
after  effectiveness.    They  are:  (a)  fiscal  and  administrative
regulations for establishing a new business; and (b) import and
customs clearance procedures, which are not well understood by women
traders.   The seminars will be organized by CEPETEDE which will
recruit local experts (customs officers, MNEI staff, etc.) to run
them. It is estimated that each of these seminars will cost between
US$1 ,000-2,000;
(ii) assistance to existing women associations and cooperatives in
strengthening their organizations to provide better services to
their members; and
(iii) training of selected staff of the Ministry for Women and Family
Affairs  ir organization  of cooperatives  and management  of women
programs supported by the Ministry or financed by external donors.
3.38      In addition, to ease the major constraints limiting the access of
women entrepreneurs (and micro-entrepreneurs in general) to bank credit,
i.e., the small amount of individual credits (US$500-1,000) which are
costly for banks to process and the lack or insufficiency of collateral,
this project would:
(M) assist women entrepreneurs in forming associations or cooperatives
which would borrow from banks and then retail the credit to their
members. This would be done through the Ministry of Women Affairs
and/or NGOs active in promotion of women. The cooperatives would be
responsible for recovery from their member clients and reimbursement



- 33 -
to the banks.   Cooperative  leaders,  who are familiar with the
community needs, are in the best position to assess their members'
worth and ensure high credit recovery through their own links to
beneficiary members and peer pressure on reluctant debtors; and
(ii)  encourage the creation of mutual guarantee funds by setting aside
one percentage point of the interest rate received by the Government
under the project (29%) until an amount equivalent to US$200,000 is
constituted to use as seed money to match contributions of
cooperatives toward the constitution of such funds on a one-to-one
basis.  These guarantee funds would be managed by the cooperatives
with a committee to select projects for guarantee. PMU would assist
the cooperatives in preparing operating procedures and policies,
designing selection criteria, as well as in dealing with commercial
banks and keeping financial records.   The use of US$200,000 from
Government's interest earnings for the constitution of mutual
guarantee funds has been agreed with the Zairian Government at
negotiations,
3039      Estimated  Cost  of  the  Component's  Various  Programs.        The
component would provide 50 man-months of CEPETEDE's services for training
of staff of ANEZA, commercial banks, OPEZ, CADICEC, etc., and women
entrepreneurs, and 400 man-months of consultant services from local
institutions for assistance to SSEs.   Based on agreed fees of US$300/day
(including staff time, pedagogical materials and overhead) for CEPETEDE,
an average renumeratiou of US$33/day for staff of OPEZ and other Zairian
institutions assisting SSEs, a per-diem on mission of US$52/day and an
average air fare ticket of US$250/person, the cost of the varicus programs
of the technical assistance component over a period of five years is
estimated as follows:
US$ Thousand
Promotion Missions                                          65
Training of: ANEZA's staff                                  85
Commercial banks' staff                       150
Staff of institutions assisting SSEs          130
Assistance and Training of Women Entrepreneurs             100
Assistance to SSEs                                         700
ANEZA's fees                                                70
Unallocated                                                175
Price Contingencies (15 percent)                           225
Total                                               1,700
3.40      Terms and Conditions.  Funds allocated for this component would
be passed on as a grant from Government to the various beneficiaries and
would be available for commitment until December 31, 1992.  The component
would be managed by the Project Unit on behalf of the Government.  PMU
would review requests for financing before submitting them to IDA for
approval along with a brief justification and qualifications of the
experts.



- 34 -
Project Management Unit
3.41      To help manage the project, a Project Management Unit (PMU) would
be established in the Central Bank and would report for administrative
purposes to the BZ's Governor.   PMU's operating policies, procedures and
staffing have been discussed and agreed with the Central Bank at
negotiations.
3.42      The  staff  of  the  Project  Unit  would  consist  of  a  Project
Director, an SSE technical expert, a financial analyst, an accountant and
a small secretariat,   Key personnel has already been identified and the
Project Director has been selected. It is estimated that for the first two
years the SSE expert position would have to be filled with an expatriate
consultant.  A local expert would take over this position in the third
year.    All  other  positions  would  be filled by local  staff  from the
Inception of the Unit.
3.43      The Project Unit would receive a one percent p.a. spread on the
outstanding amount of subloans to cover its administrative expenses.
Because this spread would not be sufficient to cover the expenses during
the initial years in which the outstanding volume is small, the project
would finance a decreasing percentage of PMU's operating costs.  This would
represent US$0.8 million, of which US$0.5 million would be the foreign cost
of the necessary office equipment, vehicles and the expatriate SSE expert.
While during the first two years, IDA would finance 100 percent of PMU's
operating costs, this financing would decrease to 50 percent during the
fourth year anC to 25 percent the fifth year.   Starting with the sixth
year, PMU would be able to cover entirely its operating costs.
3,44      The functions of PMU would be as follows:
'i)  Provide   guidance   to   potential   beneficiaries,   through   the
supporting technical assistance institutions, for the preparation
of subprojects to be financed under the line of credit;
(ii) provide guidance to participating intermediaries in selecting
eligible subprojects and assist them in developing a capacity to
assess the environmental impact of subprojects;
(iii)  ensure application of appropriate standards for sub?.oan appraisals;
(iv) review the eligibility and authorize financing under the line of
credit for subprojects submitted by participating intermediaries.
For subloans of less than US$50,000, PMU would just check whether
the requests meet the eligibility criteria (paras. 3.14-3.16) and
would give its approval within two working days from submission.
For subloans above US$50,000, the Unit would review the requests in
more detail, would give its comments on the quality of appraisal to
participating intermediaries and would check the eligibility for
refinancing of the requests within seven working days;
(v) administer the Project Special Account (para. 3.50), ensure proper
disbursement of funds, and supervise and centralize the collection
and forwarding of supporting documentation;



- 35 -
(vi)  supervise  the  participating  intermediaries' compliance  with  the
various obligations under the project;
(vii)  supervise, on a sample basis and/or focusing on problem cases, the
SSE subprojects;
(viii) ensure liaison between IDA and the participating intermediaries on
matters related to such subprojects; and
(ix)  manage the technical assistance component.
Project Cost and Financing
3.45      Total project cost is estimated at US$37.1 million erjivalent,
of which US$21.3 million equivalent (57.4%) would be in foreign exchange.
A summary of the project cost and its expected financing are given in the
table below:
Project Cost and Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Local   Foreign   Total       X
Estimated Project Cost
Investments                               13.8     20.8      34.6    92.8
Technical Assistance and Training          1.6      0.1       1.7      4.6
Project Management Unit                    0.5      0.5       !.O.    2.6
Total                               15.9      21.4      37.3   100.0
Financing Plan
SSE subborrowers                           1.6       -        8.6    23.1
Participating Financial Institutions    3.5          -        3.5      9.4
PMU                                        0.2       -        0.2      0.5
Proposed IDA credit                        3.6     21.4      25.0    67.0
Total                               15.9      21.4      37.3   100.0
3.46      The proposed  IDA credit  of US$25.0 million would  cover 67.0
percent of the total cost of the project (100 percent of the cost of the
technical assistance and training component; 80 percent of the cost of
the Project M-anagement Unit; and 65 percent of the investment component).
The remainder 33 percent would be financed by SSE borrowers (23.1%),
participating financial institutions (9.4%), and PMU (0.5%).
Project Implementation
3.47      Project Mlanemento    The Central  Bank,  through  the  Project
Management Unit (paras. 3.41-3.44), would be the implementing agency for
this project.
3.48      Procurement  and  Disbursement.    Procurement  for  subprojects
financed under the investment component of the Credit would be made on
the  basis  of  procurement  procedures  of  the  participating  financial
institutions.   These  procedures, which  require  quotations  from  three
different suppliers, have been reviewed and found acceptable to IDA.
Selection of consultants would be made in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines.



- 36 -
3.49      The  proceeds  of  the  proposed  credit  would  be  disbursed  as
follows:
SSE subloans:  100 percent of expenditures up to 70 percent of total
subproject cost for new operations;
100 percent of expenditures up to 80 percent of total
cost of subprojects for extensions.
Technical Assistance and training component:   100 percent of the
cost of consultants, assistance and training.
Project Manasement Unit:  100 percent of the coi.f. coJt of goods
directly imported, 90 percent of the local cost for
materials and supplies, and 100 percent of the
staffing cost and operating costs.
3050      The project disbursement schedule is based on the disbursement
profile for IDF projects in Ea.tern and Southern Africa.   It is expected
that the investment component would be disbursed in eight years and the
technical assistance component over five years.   Disbursements would be
completed by December 31, 1995.
3.51      Special Account.   To expedite disbursement of funds, a special
account would be set up at the Central bank into which IDA would make an
initial deposit of US$1.05 million equivalent from the proposed credit
immediately  after  credit  effectiveness.    This  amount  represents  an
estimated average disbursement of funds over a four-month period.
Replenishment of the Special Account for expenditures under US$25,000 would
be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The documenta-
tion for withdrawals made under SOEs would be retained by the Project Unit
for ten years and would be reviewed by supervision missions. Replenishment
of the Special Account for expenditures In excess of US$25,000 would be
made on the basis of fully documented applications.   Applications  for
replenishment of the Special Account for a minimum of US$100,000 would be
submitted on a monthly basis or whenever funds are below US$525,000, The
Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors and the
audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the
fiscal year.
3.52      Auditing and Reportine  PMU will have its  ccounts, as well as
the Special Account and SOEs (para. 3.50) audited anuually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and will furnish to IDA certified copies of its
audited accounts together with the corresponding management lettisr within
six months of the end of the fiscal year.  PMU will also submit to IDA
quarterly and annual progress reports on the investment and technical
assistance components and will prepare the required Project Completion
Report*
Project Benefits and Risks
3.53      Benefits,  By supporting the growth of SSEs, the proposed project
will help develop a Zairian entrepreneurial class and generate new job
opportunities at a relatively low capital cost,  It is expected that the
US$22.5 million investment component would support investments totalling



- 37 -
about US$35 million and create 5,000 new jobs at an average cost of
US$7,000 per job. The impact of the project is also expected to be widely
dispersed both geographically and among various income groups with benefits
reaching subborrowers in the regions and microenterprises and cooperatives.
3.54      In addition to providing term finance to SSEs, the project will
also play an important role in building up in Zaire an effective capacity
for financing and assisting small enterprises. Specially designed to use
local competence and to involve the maximum of Zairian institutions, the
technical assistance and training component would be a cost effective way
to develop within the commercial bank sector an expertise in appraisal and
supervision of development projects and to strengthen the capacity of
existing Zairian institutions to provide assistance to SSEs.
3055      Last but not least, the project will start addressing some of
the major constraints limiting the role of women in the SSE sector.
The training provided by the project would enable women eptrepreneurs to
upgrade their skills, while the measures designed to ease women's access to
bank credit would support the growth of women's businesses and facilitate
their integration into the modern sector.
3.56      Risks.   As  the first  apex  operation in Zaire,  the project
involves institutional arrangements that are new to intermediaries and the
Central Bank in Zaire. Some initial delays in subloan processing may occur
as the Central Bank needs to familiarize itself with the system and as
participating intermediaries develop their capacity to appraise and
supervise S5E projects,  This risk would be considerably reduced by the
rapid implementation of the technical assistance component.  In addition,
the banking system in Zaire is relatively developed.  Finally, IDA would
closely supervise the initial phase of project implementation.
3.57      Another risk relates to the possible deterioration of Zaire's
economic situation, which would, inter alia, affect the investment plans
of small entrepreneurs and slow down the demand for term credit.  Such a
risk is, however, limited by Zaire's continued determination to implement
stabilization measures and the actions envisaged by IDA and other donors
to increase the resource transfer and accelerate economic growth in Zaire.
On balance, the benefits of the project are likely to be substantial and
the risks involved manageable.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS TO BE REACHED
4.01      During negotiations, the following agreements and understandings
were reached:
(i) onlending rates and conditions foe the Government, the Central Bank,
the participating intermediaries and the beneficiary SSEs (paras.
3.18, 3.19, 3.22 and 3.23);
(11) conditions for the use of the interbank rate as the basis for the
onlending rate for the project (para. 3.22);



- 38 -
(iii) annual review of Governaent onlending rate (para. 3.24) and further
disbursements subject to agreement between IDA and the Government in
case of changes in the present market-determined interest rate
system (para. 3.25);
(iv) content   of   the   Participating   Agreement   between   financial
intermediaries and the Central Bank (para. 3.09);
(v) appraisal and supervision procedures to be followed by participating
intermediaries (paras. 3.28 and 3.31);
(vi) ANEZA's obligations and compensation under the project (para. 3.33);
(vii) content of the courses and seminars to be given by CEPETEDE to staff
of ANEZA, commercial banks, and OPEZ (para. 3.34);
(viii) terms of reference for the promotion missions (s6minaires de
sensibilisation) in the regions (para. 3.35);
(ix) use of one percentage point of the interest rate received by
Government as seed money to encourage the constitution of mutual
guarantee schemes for micro-enterprises and women entrepreneurs
(para. 3.38);
(x) establishment of a Special Account at the Central Bank to facilitate
disbursement of the credit funds (para. 3.51).
(xi) agreement with IDA on an action program aimed at strengthening the
financial structure of saving cooperatives and bringing them into
the formal financial system before June 30, 1988.
4.03       Condition of Effectiveness:  Signing of a Management Agreement,
satisfactory to IDA, between the Government and the Central Bank
(para. 3.07).
4.04      Condition  of  Disbursement:       Signing  of  the  Participating
Agreement between the Central Bank and financial intermediaries is a
condition of disbursement for eaca intermediary (para. 3.10).



- 39 -
ANNEX I
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELO01(ENT PROJECT
Distribution of Productive Small Scale Enteprises by Region and by Sector
(No. of firms)
Agriculture                      Food and      Other
Region            & Livestock  Forestry  Mining  Beverages  Manufacturing  Total (Z)
Bandundu              85            3       -         31           13           132   8
Bas-Zaire             89            6        3        71           19           188  12
Equateur              68            2       -         19           12           10   6
Haut-Zaire            34            2        1        38           31           106   7
Kasai-Occidental    117             2        5        33           18           175  11
Kasai-Oriental        43            1       -         10           19            73   5
Kinshasa              65            -        1       105          203           374  24
Kivu                  71            -        3        25           23           122   8
Shaba                153            6       2         65           64          290  19
Total                725           22      15        397          402          1561 100%
(')                 (47%)         (1%)     (1%)      (25%)        (26%)      (100%)(-)
Source: 1980 Survey of Productive Enterprises.
EAPID
April 1987



- 40 -
ANNEX II
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Performance of Productive Enterprises by Number of Employees
No. of           No. of         EmLloyent            Output        Value Added
EMloyeesl   Establishments   No.            2     Zm       %        Zm 
5-49              1561          35,758   11.8    459.0    8.5    216.4    6.7
50-99              252          21,576    7.1    337,7    6.2    160.3    4.9
100-499            308          88,515   29.1  29332.5   43.0  1,529.1   47.3
Over 500            87         158,184   52.0  2,296.5   42.3  1,329.6   41.1
Total            2,208         304,033  100.0  5,425.7  100.0  3,235.4  100.0
EAPID
April 1987



ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                    ANNEX III
ANEZA Organization Chart (1986)
Board of 
Administrateur
D61figu6
-I
Finance and       Small &Medium    Regional                      Stiudies        umaen Relations
Economics    Administration       Enterprises      Inspection    commerce]   Publication    and Training
I  _       __I                    I                               I                             I____ 
---1_ 
Bee           , -                   Haut        Kasai            Kasai
Zaire     Bandudu    .E4quateur     Zaire      Oriental       Occidental
3 offices  5 offices    6 offices   4 offices  2 offices         3 offices       8 offices  12 offices
13 staff   12 staff      13 staff    19 staff   11 staff          13 staff      51 staff      37 staff



ANE  IV
ZAIRE
SKWL EURIKDVLP WPD=
B U     ZAuRE Ra    (I 986)
1Govrw     Io
vice-Governor
Mngitg Director
Internal     AdodIl    E      W                                        aontrol                                 cur   c
Audt    I itratin      I                 TIeS T       Ream?ns          and          Credit      I ee         and Puic
and Offices                               Statistics                                      s
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ba Zaire                                                                                             t
Su91pplies0
Building                         I                                                                              Curec
ellr                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prtlmiog 
hut Zd re
Tr ldt                            I                                                                               Studies L
Nasa Oriental
i<ti1lqg   |         XRasal Occidental
=11ttlesz                                                                                                        Piero    I
Kivu
Faternl                                                                                                        Accountingb
Reain   Imb                                                                                                        andt 



MAL ER11RISE VEIM WEr
List and CQuracteristics of Banks
Year of        Total        Loan                            No.f           No. of
Nuz~                         Creation a/    Assets b/   portfoio b/   Dots b/               noee              ches cb1 d/
BEriqua CamDridale Zafroise (BCZ)                1909         10,093        2,342         4,489             2,863             34
Banqup du Peaile (IMP)                           1947          5,651        1,170         2,863             2,050             42
Union Zrarolse de Banques (IRB)                  1920          3,515          658         1,711             1,200             12
Blnue de KKnsha (NC)                             1969            n/a          463           716             1,463             19
CLtibtnk                                         1971          1,932          268           525                75              1
Ban8qUect izRs         AfEricaizu (BACAZ)        1983            831          174           180               110              1
Barclays                                        1951             543           76           239                80              1
Bampue Inter. powr 1'Afrique au Zaire
(BIAZ)                                          1971             930          82            289               100              2
GrlndLays                                        1983          1,125           49           214                67              1
SOFUE                                           1970           3,449        2,830             -               219              5
l0pe de CrWdit Agrole (BCA)                     1982             279          104           174               89               1
a/ Creation of original instii   in ces  of mergr.
b/ As ou Dee 1985 InZ inderviaus.
As o Decebe 1985.
,Z: AMIRpatovitrI



ZAIR
,L  E2fSPRISE  rVEIA4M    W
Relativ Market Sares of Camimrlal Badcs
(X)
12/82    12/83     12184     12185     3/86           _2/82     12/83      _84     12/85      3J86
IICZ                    38.0     39.5      41.2      44.0     45.3            37.8      34.6      41.4     40.0      39.7
M1                     24.6      24.1      23.5      22.0     22.5            23.0      24.4      21.9     25.5      23.4
B. IX   ABA             12.7     13.2      11.9       8.7      7.3            15*1      14.3      13.3      6.4       7.8
lUIIB                   12.5     11.4      12.1      12.4.     13.5           12.7      13.0      14.2     15.2      15.2
IPCAZ                   0.0       0.0       0.0       3.3      2.5             0.0       0.0      0.0       1.6       2.1
1.5      1.2       1.4       1.4      1.3             2.5       2.2       1.9      2.1       2.4
11hZ                     1.8      1.7       1.2       1.5       1.4            2.3       2.1       2.2      2.6       206
5.0      4.2       5.0       5.0      4.7             4.6       5.6       2.3      4.7       4.7
1.2      1.1       1.0       0.9      0.8             2.0       1.2      1.2       1.9       2.1




ANNEX VII
ZAIRE- SHALL-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROECT
sumMARY BALANCE SHEETS OF BANKING INSTITUTIONS a/
(z Million)
June
1981      1982      1983      1984       1985
ASSETS
Cash                            164        294       260        659       669
Deposits at Central Bank        848      2,105     2,859      5,386     5,893
External Assets                 801        636     3,298      3,019     4,200
Credit to the Government        174        174       176        253       284
Credit to public enterpr.        32         15        14         63        22
Credit to the private
sector                      19,243     1,784     2,757      4,170     4,990
Other assets (net)              256        320       350          -
TOTAL ASSETS                3.,518     5,328     9,714    13,550    16,058
LIABILITIES
Demand deposits               2,127      3,781     6,961      8,593     8,919
Time deposits                   320        547       683        994     1,155
Government deposits              47         24        91         24        68
Foreign exch. derosits          180        217       209        246       401
Advances for Imports            371         85       239        184       780
External borrowings             216        289       753        511       804
Other liabilities (net) b/-                  -         -      1,592     2,144
Equity                          257        385       778      1,406     1,787
TOTAL LIABILITIES           3,518      5,328     9,714    13,550    16,058
a/ Includes all commercial banks and JCA.
b/ Of which Central Bank refinancing represented 818 million in Dec. 84
and 2,024 million in June 85.



-46-
-  ANNEX VIII
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Balance Sheets of Sofide
(Z million, Bud of Period)
Dec.
1981      1982       1983       1984      1985
ASSETS
Cash and Bank Dep.             3        42        100        161       163
Other Current Assets          57        67        419        292       588
Loan Portfolio               124       173        512      1,317     2,830
Less Provisions           (8)       (10)       (54)     (115)      (331)
Equity Investments             2         2         25         30        37
Fixed Assets                   6         8         54        83        162
TOTAL ASSETS             184        282      1,056     1,768      3,449
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities          28         45         76        87        235
Foreign lines of
credit                      80        123        501       967      2,285
Quasi-Equity                 62         99        383       443        648
Equity                        14        15         96       270        281
TOTAL LIABILITIES        184        282      1,056     1,767      3,449
EAPID
April 1987



- 47 -
ANNEX IX
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Bank Deposits by Term
(Z million, End of Period)
March
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986
Demand deposits          2,,197    4,115    7,659    8,832   10,354   11,511
Time Deposits              320       550      683    1,009    1,136    1,188
Of whlch:
Up to 1 month              6         9       15       301       90       117
Over I month               8        16        0        27        1         2
3 months & over           12        47       28       334      241      181
6 months & over           97      202        97        80      531       564
1 year & over            197       276      543       267      273       324
SOURCE: Banque du ZaYre
EAPID
April 1987



- 48 -
ANNEX X
ZAIRE
SHALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Bank Deposits by Sector and Region
(Z million)
June
1981      1982      1983       1984      1985
Agriculture                    101       133        187       357        333
Forestry                         2         2          2         9        15
Llvestock & Fishing             23        33         45        52        93
Mining                          99       159        293       651        951
Manufacturing                  259       384        636       814        819
Energy & Water                  40       126        116        98         93
Construction
& Public Works                44       111       122         94       228
Commerce                       716     1,456     2,447      2,727     2,959
Transport                      197       388        477     1 ,106      882
Other Services                 357       681     1,795      1,078     1,303
Individuals
& non-classified             679     1$192     2,222      2,855    _2,806
TOTAL                     2 ,517    4,665     8,342      9,841    10,482
Of whlch:
Klnshasa                  1 ,835     3,578     6,494      6,727     7,428
Bas-Zafre                     43        68       134        203       245
Bandundu                      24        29         51        63        77
Equateur                      48        74       103        155       147
Haut-Zafre                    60       124       1 79       266       329
KiVu                          82       187        287       469       417
Shaba                        305       439       812      1,537     1 ,458
Kasal Or.                     76       102       160        192       224
Kasa! Occ.                    44        64        122       229       157
SOURCE: Banque du Zafre
EAPID
April 1987



LEP~AU
(stmtg  Bk din  Q     t by Seacr ad Tam
(Z udllieo, End of Period)
Dec. 1982          Dec. 983          Dae. 1964         Dc. 1985          Ih  1985    l      rdg 1986
621              1,039             1,669             2,065              1,855             2,332
24                 54                96                94                182                98
Ilcto* $  1?                                26                * 48              105                36                 24                56
gm                                         a81                35                51                128                51               m
_        Emfbdxuv           .381                              572               789             1,022               891              1,306
BaEr  & water                               27                 13                 9                 13                 8                17
Oaaat ctn & ptu1ic  btake                   27                142               124                77                109                74
aroa                                      385                 610               891              1,309            1,030              1,627
TanRwt                                      93                 88               186               247                196               22B
Otbar. SrvicBe                              37                 38                49                43                 76                42
Otae                                       87                 110               194               304                222               357
1,789              2,749             4,163             5,428              4,644             6,260
of 1idh:
Short Temm                           1,536               2,245             3,190             3,821             3,566              4,522
Hediiu  Tema                            253                504               973              1,607             1,078             1,738
SaRCE:  Banqe du ZaIre
EAPID
April 1987



50                          ANNEX XII
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year           T.A.                    Credit                 Cumulative
and Quarter EndIng       Cmponent        PMU      Component    Total            %
--------Amount in US$ '000----
FY88
December 31, 1987              55        120            -         175            1
March 31, 1988                120        250          150         420            2
June 30, 1988                 225        345          450       1,020            4
FY89
eptember 30, 1988             295        420          720       1,435            6
December 31, 1988             370        490        1,520       2,380           10
March 31, 1989                440         560       2,300       3,300           13
June 30, 1989                 520        630        2,930       4,080           16
FY90
September 30, 1989            645         650       3,960       5,255           21
December 31, 1989             725        670        4,970       6,365           25
March 31, 1990                810        690        6,050       7,550           30
June 30, 1990                 890        710        6,990       8,590           34
FY91
September 30, 1990           975         720        8,200       9,895           40
December 31, 1990          1,070         730        9,350      11,150           45
March 31, 1991             1,145         745       10,520      12,410           50
June 30, 1991              1,240         760       11,700      13,700           55
FY92
September 30, 1991         1,330         770       12,770      14,870           59
December 31, 1991          1,420         780       13,830      16,030           64
March 31, 1992             1,510         790       14,900      17,200           69
June 30, 1992              1,600         800       15,980      18,380           74
FY93
September 30, 1992         1,700         800       16,810     19,310            77
December 31, 1992          1,700         800       17,660      20,160           81
March 31, 1993             1,700         800       18,460      20,960           84
June 30, 1993              1,700         800       19,340      21,840           87
FY94
September 30, 1993         1,700         800       19,900      22,400           90
December 31, 1993          1,700         800       20,500      23,000           92
March 31, 1994             1,700         800       21,060      23,560           94
June 30, 1994              1,700         800       21,600      24,100           96
FY95
September 30, 1994         1,700         800       21,850      24,350           97
December 31, 1994          1,700         800       22,100      24,600           98
March 31, 1995             1,700         800       22,250      24,750           99
June 30, 1995              1,700         800       22,340      24,840           99
FY96
September 30, 1995         1,700         800       22,420      24,920           99
Decemaer 31, 1995          1,700         800       22,500      25,000          100



- 51 -
ANNEX XIII
Page 1 of 3
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distortions on Debt Serviclng of Long-Term
Basis Due to High Inflation
Inflation distorts repayment schedules of long-term loans.
When a long-term loan repayment schedule has been designed with traditional
systeas to obtain a prlncipal repayment schedule that is constant in
nomlnal terms (Table 1 of this Annex), the impact of inflation will be such
that it will reduce the effective maturity of the loan in real terms by
accelerating repayments in real terms during the earlier years of the
loan. This will normally create a cash-flow problem to the borrower that
was unintended by the lender when the loan was originally made. As shown
in Table 1, over on,-half of total payments in real terms would be made in
only two years under a 10-year loan, a devastating impact due to money
illuslon arising from inflationary effects.
The above problem can be solved by establishing from the start
a repayment schedule that is to be constant-in-real-terms. Once the amount
of the constant-in-real-terms payments have been defined, the actual
payments to be made by the borrower would be determined by the price index
at the time of repayment (the constant amount times the price index).
This  Is actually what the indexation-of-princlpal method is expected to
do.   In some countries, however,  it is considered that indexing Is a
necessary evil that should be avolded as much as possible, In which cases,
the capitalizatlon-of-interest method can be used Instead.   In practice,
the capitallzation-of-interest method (Table 2) would yield the same
results as the indexation-of-principal method. As shown by Table 2, under
the capltalization-of-interest case, one-half of total payments in real
terms would be made In flve years, as origlnally intended for a 10-year
loan.    Table  3 shows a comparison  of  the cash-flow methods,  clearly
indicating the benefits of the capitalization-of-interest method. For the
examples, an Initial loan of Z 100, a 10-year repayment period, a constant
inflation of 35 percent p.a. and an interest rate of 37 percent pea. have
been assumed.



- 52-                                 ANNX XII
Page 2 of 3
TAKLE I
Repayments under Standard Schedule
Percent.         CuG .
Annual  Total   Cdul.  Percet
End of  Price   Starting Interest Amortiz.  Total  End    Real    Rl           eal    Real
Year    2ndex  Balance kcrued Principl  Paid   Balance Payments Payments Payments Paymts
0     1.00
1    1.35   100.00    37.00    10.00   47.00    90.00   34.81    33.42   34.81    33.42
2     1.82    90.00    3i.30    10.00    43.30    80.00   23.76   22.81   58.57   56.23
3    2.46   80.00   29.60   10.00   39.60    70.00    16.10   15.45   74.67   71.60
4    3.32    70.00   25.90    10.00    35.9    60.00    10.81    10.38   85.40      2.06
5    4.48    60.00   -22.20    10.00   32.20   50.00    7.18       6.89   92.66   BB.95
6    6.05    50.00    18.50    10.00   28.50   40.00    4.71       4.52    97.37    93.47
7    8.17   40.00    14.80    10.00   24.80    30.00    3.03       2.91   100.40    6.39
8    11.03   30.00   11.10   10.00   21.10   20.00        1.91    1.84  102.31   99.22
9    14.89   20.00    7.40   10.00   17.40   10.00    1.17    1.12  103.48   99.35
10   20.11    10.00    3.70   10.00   13.70    0.00    0.68    0.65   104.16  10.00
TABLE 2
Capitalization-of-Interest Nhthod
Percent.         Cud.
Annual  Total   Cuml.  Percent
End of  Price  Starting Interest Ne       Current  End    Real    Real    Real    Real
Year    Index   Balance  Accrued   Balance Payments klance Payments Paymnts Payments Paymnts
-------~~~~~4/---- -a          b  
0     1.00
1    1.35   100.00   37.00   131.00    13.70   123.30   10.15    9.35    10.15    9.35
2    1.82   123.30   45.62   168.92   18.77  150.15   10.30    9.49   20.45   18.84
3    2.46   150.15   55.56  205.71    25.71   179.9    10.45       9.63    30.90   28.47
4    3.32   179."    66.60   246.59   35.23  211.37   10.61        9.77   41.50   39.24
5    4.48   211.37   78.21   289.57   48.26   241.31    10.76      9.92    52.27   48.16
6    6.05  241.31   89.28  330.59   66.12  264.47   10.92   10.06   6.19   58.23
7    8.17  264.47   97.86  362.33   90.58  271.75   11.08   10.21   74.27   6.44
8    11.03  271.75   100.55  372.29   124.10  248.20   11.25   10.37   85.52   78.81
9   14.89  248.20   91.83  340.03  170.01   170.01    11.42   10.52    %.94   8.33
10   20.11   170.01   62.91  232.92  232.92    0.00   11.58    10.67  108.52  100.00
a/ The new balance is estimted by adding the accrued interest to the stating balante.
bl Paymts are equal to the n  balance divided by the nmber of yeas remaining uder tbh loan.



- 53 -                                   ANNEX XIII
Page 3 of 3
TABLE 3
Payents Coeparison between Nethods
(As percentages of total real paysents)
Traditional  Nethod            Interest Capitalization Kethod
End of
Year              Annual         Cumulative           Annual         Cumulative
0
1            33.42              33.42              9.35              9.35
2             22.81             56.23              9.49             18.84
3             15.45             71.68              9.63             28.47
4             10.38             82.06              9.77             38.24
5              6.89             88.95              9.92             48.16
6              4.52             93.47             10.06             58.23
7              2.91             96.39             10.21             68.44
8              1.84             98.22             10.37             78.81
9              1.12             99.35             10.52            89.33
10             0.65             100.00             10.67            100.00



- 54 -
ANNEX XIV
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1. Draft Participating Agreement
2. Appraisal Format
3. Simplified Appraisal Format
4. Supervision Format
5. ANEZA - Draft Cooperation Agreement
6. Draft Terms of Reference for Seminars and Courses
7.  PMU:  Projected Income Statements



