Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13959
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1791-ZR)
FEBRUARY 13, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY
Zaire (Zr)
Exchange Rate
06/30/1989        1 dollar=         383 Zr
06/30/1990       1 dollar=          579 Zr
06/30/1991       1 dollar=         4.650 Zr
06/30/1992        1 dollar=      370.370 Zr
06/30/1993        1 dollar=    5.000.000 Zr
Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Acronyms and abbreviations
ANEZA           Association Nationale des Entreprises du Zaire
BCA             Banque de Cr6dit Agricole
BCZ             Banque Commerciale Zairoise
BEDEPE          Bureau d'Encouragement au Developpemrent des Petites
Entreprises
BZ              Bank of Zaire
CADICEC         Centre Chretien d'Action pour Dirigeants et Cadres
d'Entreprises au Zaire
CCA             Contribution sur le Chiffre d'Affaires
CCCE            Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEPETEDE        Centre de Perfectionnement aux Techniques de
Developpement
FAC             Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
IDA             International Development Association
IMF             International Monetary Fund
INPP            Institut National de Pr6paration Professionnelle
OPEZ            Office de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes
Entreprises Zafroises
PFI             Participating Financial Institutions
PMU             Project Management Unit
SDR             Special Drawing Rights
SED             Small Enterprise Development
SOFIDE          Societe Financi&re de Developpement
SSE             Small-Scale Enterprise
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
UZB             Union Zafroise de Banques



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 13, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Zaire
Small Enterprise Development Project
(Credit 1791-ZR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zaire - Small Enterprise Development Project
(Credit 1791-ZR) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II, contributed by the Borrower,
highlights project implementation issues.
The objective of the project was to (a) generate new employment opportunities; (b) develop an
entrepreneurial class in Zaire; (c) increase the participation of financial intermediaries; and (d) develop
a project appraisal and implementation capacity. The project included credit and technical assistance
components, and a financial provision to establish an apex and project management unit.
The project was associated with an adjustment program, which was to assure a minimum of
macro stability. The Government, however, weakened its adjustment effort during the first two years
of project implementation to the point that inflation soared to uncontrollable levels and prompted the
project implementation unit to suspend approval of new loans. The technical assistance component was
maintained to support subprojects already financed. As the overall situation continued to deteriorate,
the project was closed one year ahead of schedule. In the end, only 43 percent of the credit component
and 31 percent of the technical assistance component were disbursed.
As a result of both inflation and interest rate arrangements in the project, real rates charged have
been highly negative, leading to a large degree of subsidization. The apex unit never became financially
self sustainable. The Borrower also remarks that without a sweeping reorganization of the banking
system to improve its performance and help control inflation, it will be impossible to provide SSEs with
the financial assistance that they need.
The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability as unlikely, and its institutional
development impact as modest.
Part I of the PCR points out several positive factors, such as the participation of commercial
banks, and indicates that the project would have succeeded with proper macroeconomic policies. Part
II of the PCR, while making the same point, focuses on several weak institutional features, which had
substantially negative effects on project outcome.
An audit is not planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1791-ZR)
Project Completion Report
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                ii
PART I REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM IDA's PERSPECTIVE
I . Project Identity                                                              1
2. Background                                                                      1
3. Project Objectives and Description                                             4
4. Project Design and Organization                                                 7
5. Project Implementation                                                         9
6. Project Results                                                                12
7. Project Sustainability                                                         13
8. Bank's Performance                                                             13
9. Borrower's Performance                                                         14
10. Lessons Learned                                                              15
PART II: REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Comments on Part I of the Report Prepared by IDA                              16
2. Implementation of the Three Project Components                                17
3. Training and Technical Assistance Component                                    19
4. Project Management Component                                                  20
5. General Assessment of the Financing Operations                                21
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Credits                                                        Annex 1
Project Processing and Implementation Timetable                             Annex 2
Loan Disbursements                                                          Annex 3
Status of Compliance with Major Covenants                                   Annex 4
Use of Bank Resources - Mission Data                                        Annex 5
Sub projects Financed under the Apex Line of Credit (by Bank)               Annex 6
Sub projects Financed under the Apex Line of Credit (by Region)             Annex 7
Sub projects Financed under the Apex Line of Credit (by Year)               Annex 8
Breakdown of Sub projects Financed under the Apex Line of Credit in percentages  Annex 9
Technical Assistance Sub projects                                          Annex 10
Comments and Observations made by Project Participants                     Annex 11
This document has a restzicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1791-ZR )
Project Completion Report
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) concerns Credit 1791-ZR, Small Enterprise
Development Project. Credit 1791-ZR for SDR 19.8 million was approved by IDA in May 1987. The
Borrower was the Government of Zaire. The Bank of Zaire (BZ) was executing agency through a Project
Management Unit, the Bureau d'Encouragement au D6veloppement des Petites Entreprises (BEDEPE).
The project was closed on December 31, 1993, by which date 44.5 percent of the credit had been
disbursed.
This PCR is issued by the Industry and Energy Operations Division of the South-Central and
Indian Ocean Department (Africa Region). It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Credit and Project Agreements, the Agreement signed between the Government of Zaire and the Bank of
Zaire, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, BEDEPE Annual
Reports and internal Bank Memoranda.
This PCR has been reviewed by the Borrower, whose comments are included in Part II. Other
comments from Project Participants have also been included in Annex 11.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1791-ZR)
SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
1.    The Small Enterprise Development Project is a direct continuation of previous assistance
provided by The World Bank Group to the private sector in Zaire. Its objectives were to (a) generate
new employment opportunities; (b) develop an entrepreneurial class in Zaire; (c) increase the
participation of financial intermediaries in the financing of small-scale enterprises (SSEs); and
(d) develop a capacity to prepare, appraise and supervise the investment projects of such enterprises.
The credit consisted of three components amounting to a total of SDR 19.8 million: (a) the provision of
an SDR 17.81 million apex line of credit to finance specific SSE investment projects; (b) the provision of
SDR 1.35 million in technical assistance and training services; and (c) the establishment, within the Bank
of Zaire (BZ), of a project management unit (PMU) whose operating costs would be covered by the
remaining SDR 640,000. Although neither an improvement in the macroeconomic environment nor one
in financial sector operations was part of the project, project preparation had verified that the
environment in which SSEs operate was generally favorable to their development (paras. 3.1 to 3.6).
2.    Under the first component, subloans were made to SSEs through financial institutions approved
by BZ, which was, through the PMU, designated as the apex institution to manage the line of credit on
behalf of the Govemment. The Government was to onlend the funds from the line of credit to the central
bank at a rate initially equal to BZ's rediscount rate (30 percent per annum at the time) minus one
percentage point that would finance all of the PMU's activities. That rate was to be replaced by the inter
bank monetary market rate once the PMU became operational. The beneficiaries were to prepare loan
applications for submission to the financial intermediaries. The rates on the subloans to the final
beneficiaries were to be set by market forces (paras. 3.7 and 3.8). Technical assistance and support were
to be provided by the personnel of local training institutions at the request of the SSEs. A special
training program was planned for women entrepreneurs and traders, together with specific assistance to
women's associations and cooperatives. The PMU was also to manage the SSE technical assistance
component on behalf of the Govemment (paras. 3.9 to 3.11).
Implementation
3.    Serious, unforeseeable problems caused disruptions at project outset in late 1987 and later
caused implementation to grind to a halt. From the end of 1986 to the end of 1988, the Government
discontinued the stabilization program and weakened its adjustment effort. In 1989, the Government
nevertheless tried to improve revenue collection, maintain a flexible exchange rate, bring controlled



. . .
- 111 -
prices and interest rates closer to market rates, and improve private sector access to credit and foreign
exchange. These efforts were short-lived, however, and the Government again discontinued its
adjustment efforts in 1990, particularly with regard to public expenditure, inflation and credit targets,
avoidance of external and domestic arrears and reform of the parastatal sector. In 1991/92, this triggered
a spiraling economic deterioration, accelerated by endemic governmental instability at the same time that
Zaire embarked on a democratization process. Rioting in September/October 1991 took a heavy toll on
many modem sector enterprises (paras. 2.6 to 2.9).
4.     Although the project had started off satisfactorily, thanks in particular to effective project
management, this decline in the overall environment, and in particular inflation that soared to
uncontrollable levels, prompted the Bank to ask the PMU informally in March 1991 to suspend the
approval of new loans.  The technical assistance and project management unit components were
maintained, however, so that the sub projects already financed could be supervised and continue to
receive technical support. As the situation continued to deteriorate, the Bank decided in August 1993 to
cancel the remaining funds and in December 1993 to close the project, one year earlier than planned.
Nearly SDR 11 million, i.e. 55.5% of the credit amount, was canceled (para. 5.3).
5.    In all, the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) submitted and BEDEPE approved 92
projects, of which 71 involving a total investment of SDR 16.1 million and total refinancing commitment
of SDR 10.1 million were launched.  Only three PFIs participated in the scheme:  the Banque
Commerciale Zairoise (BCZ) received the lion's share, i.e. 49 percent of net refinancing authorizations.
SOFIDE and the Union Zairoise de Banques (UZB) received, respectively, 30 percent and 21 percent.
With regard to distribution by region, the Kinshasa region predominated overall, with 37 of the 92
approved projects, of which 27 were actually carried out representing 45.7 percent of total investments
and 46.7 percent of net commitments following the cancellations. The Kinshasa region is followed by
Shaba and Kivu (respectively 21.7 percent and 10.9 percent of investments and 21.9 percent and 10.5
percent of net commitments). Among the PFIs, SOFIDE had the best distribution of subloans throughout
the country. The commercial banks did not encourage their branch offices to become involved as
intensively as expected (paras. 5.5 to 5.6).
6.     The services financed under the technical assistance component were diversified, ranging from
seminars for the banks and SSEs to radio broadcasts, as well as training of bank personnel and of
BEDEPE itself. The sub component for support and training for women entrepreneurs yielded several
studies but few concrete results. An identification study begun in September 1989, that was supposed to
lead to the preparation of a pilot training program for Zairian women entrepreneurs, ultimately had no
outcome (paras. 5.9 and 5.10).
7.    In practice, only SDR 7.6 million was disbursed under the line of credit component, representing
74.7 percent of commitments. The remaining 25.3 percent is accounted for by partial cancellations or
projects that never got off the ground owing to changing circumstances. Total commitments under the
technical assistance component were SDR 0.6 million, whereas actual payments were only SDR 0.4
million, i.e. 71 percent of commitments. In all, 45.3 percent of the funds available under the credit were
actually utilized : 42.5 percent of the line of credit was used, as was 30.5 percent of the amount originally
allocated to technical assistance. However, the original allocation to the PMU component was overrun
by 30 percent, resulting in a minor rearrangement of the credit proceeds (para. 5.1 1).



- iv-
Project Results
8.    Being a carefully prepared and opportune undertaking, the project under review is exactly the
type of project that could have had excellent results, had the overall environment not undergone such a
severe decline, in terms of not only the political and macroeconomic environment but also the basic
infrastructure and security level. Under the current circumstances, the intrinsic results are difficult to
assess because some of the project-financed facilities were subsequently damaged or unable to produce,
while others have been encountering great difficulties in carrying out normal operations. The monetary
and banking crises (evidenced by the refusal of all checks), together with the security problems and the
weakness of the market for SSE products, made any normal industrial or commercial activity impossible.
Moreover, while the Govemment had become indebted to the Association, the significant depreciation of
the zaire left it unable to recover more than a small fraction of that debt from BZ. However, a major
achievement is that the project was among the first in Africa and indeed the first in Zaire to involve
commercial banks in medium and long-term financing of SSE investments. This fact, together with the
resulting change in commercial bankers' attitudes towards SSEs, may be considered a project success
(paras 6.1 to 6.4).
Sustainability
9.     BEDEPE is to be commended for its efficient performance throughout the project. It did its
utmost to organize seminars for, and maintain contact with, the private sector, even when the line of
credit component was essentially suspended and when the country's economy was disintegrating.
BEDEPE also did a good job of supervising the projects financed under the apex line, by regularly
organizing supervision missions in collaboration with the PFIs, even when circumstances became
difficult. Even if it is unclear whether any purpose was served by making investments in 1989 and 1990
in physical plants that were ultimately destroyed or rendered inoperable, the sustainability of the project
should be judged partly in terms of the creation of BEDEPE, which was still functioning in February
1994 and able to organize a meeting of the project participants. Commercial banks' involvement in SSE
financing, and their corresponding change of attitude toward this sub-sector, represent additional
elements of the project's sustainability. Indeed, should normal activity resume in Zaire in the not too
distant future, these new attitudes might still prevail (para. 7.1).
Bank Performance
10.   This project was considered a continuation of previous Bank operations to assist the private
sector. Its appraisal was sound. The possibility of such acute degradation of the overall economic and
political environment was not foreseen. Such developments may have been anticipated during project
appraisal, however, since the Govemment had already begun to show reticence in implementing its
structural adjustment policies. Nevertheless, the project was part of an overall Bank strategy and linked
to complementary efforts by the Bank and other donor agencies to give a new impetus to the economy. In
this context, it was impossible to envisage, or even to mention, the possibility that the adjustment process
could fail. Similarly during implementation, after the macroeconomic situation worsened, the Bank
supspended informally the line of credit but kept going a very small part of the project -- the technical
assistance which was of marginal importance compared to other Bank projects -- because of its capacity
building potential. Conceming project supervision, mission timing was adequate. Problems were
correctly analyzed and on each occasion, practical solutions were proposed (paras. 8.1 and 8.5).



Lessons learned and Measures Taken
11.    The primary lesson to be drawn from this uncompleted project is a confirmation once again of
what is already well known to the Bank, namely that a project seeking to assist private investment,
regardless of how well it is designed, can only succeed in an overall environment which is generally
favorable. While it is difficult to generalize, insofar as the project was not completed normally and its
environment became increasingly chaotic, some issues are nevertheless worth noting, as they clearly
posed problems during implementation. First, sub components involving women should be included
from the earliest stages of project preparation so as to ensure concrete objectives from the start. It is also
important to carefully assess the workload of the PMU and the financing it is to receive (paras 10.1 and
10.2).
12.    The technical assistance provided through specialized local institutions was successful, as
predicted. It therefore seems very important in the future to replicate this type of approach, which has
the dual advantage of strengthening the country's capacity in this key sector and of involving consultants
who are thoroughly familiar with the economic context in which the enterprises operate. The unit
responsible for managing such technical assistance should, however, not be placed within the central
bank, as this is not an appropriate role for such an institution (para 10.3).



ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1791-ZR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project name:       Small Enterprise Development Project
Credit No.:         1791 -ZR
RVP Unit:           Africa Regional Office
Country:            Zaire
Sector:             Industry and finance
2.    Background
2.1    Origin of the project. The Small Enterprise Development (SED) Project is a direct
continuation of previous assistance provided by The World Bank Group to the private sector,
which related to the establishment, and subsequent growth, of the Societe Financiere de
Ddveloppement (SOFIDE). As the only development financing institution in Zaire, SOFIDE had
received eight IDA lines of credit between 1970 and 1986. The seventh and eighth lines of credit
were approved in June 1984 and April 1986, respectively. During that period, the measures
taken under the structural adjustment program supported by the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) and IDA had been responsible for some economic recovery. Although the recovery was
buoyed by hopes that the Government would carry the adjustment policy through until the end,
economic growth in 1984-86 did not match population growth, eroding per capita GDP. To
arrest this trend, new capital flows had to be attracted into the country to generate productive
investments. Drawing on the lessons of previous experience, IDA felt (a) that new lending
should give priority to the SSE sector, and (b) that resources should not be channeled solely
through SOFIDE, so as to allow a better distribution of subloans.
2.2    This completion report covers the SED Project for which IDA approved financing in
1987. The seventh line of credit to SOFIDE had been fully disbursed and was closed in March
1991; the eighth line of credit was suspended in January 1989, and the undisbursed balance (40
percent) was canceled in August 1992. These two lines of credit were the subject of a
completion report sent to the Board in July 1993. The present report draws heavily on that PCR
for matters relating to Zaire's economic environment, as activities under the SED project and the
eighth line of credit took place during the same period.



- 2 -
2.3    Building  upon the stabilization  and  liberalization  measures undertaken  by the
Government since 1983, in June 1986 IDA approved its first adjustment credit to Zaire, the
Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC - Credit 1708-ZR and A-19-ZR), which was closed in
June 1988. A Project Performance Audit Report (No. 8838 of June 30, 1990) was circulated to
the Board. In addition to provision of foreign exchange for the purchase of spare parts and
industrial inputs, the ISAC sought to reform industrial, trade and enterprise policies and
regulations, including reform of the incentive system (i.e. customs and tax regimes, elimination
of price control measures and of export regulations and taxes). The SED Project, rightly, did not
seem to be an appropriate means of turther improving the macroeconomic setting that was
already largely favorable to private sector development. Moreover, it was observed that other
measures aimed more specifically at SSEs had been undertaken under the government's overall
adjustment program:
-      the new Investment Code provided favorable tax benefits for SSEs, such as (a)
an exemption on taxes on equipment; (b) a five-year moratorium on local taxes
for firms located outside of Kinshasa; (c) a two- to five-year holiday on profit
taxes; and (d) a 30- 100 percent tax credit on new investments for existing SSEs;
the Guarantee Fund, which had never operated, was reactivated in May 1986
through a Government contribution of Z 20 million; another allocation of Z 80
million was expected in 1987. The contributions were together expected to
enable the Fund to guarantee loans up to a total of Z I billion (US$15 million at
the time);
the Small and Medium  Enterprise Promotion Office of Zaire (Office de
Promotion des Petites et Moyennes Enterprises Zairoises - OPEZ) was
restructured and reactivated.
2.4    Financial sector issues were not among the areas covered under the ISAC, as these were
to be studied as part of an operation for the financial sector.2 These issues were revisited during
appraisal of the SED Project, however, since most financial institutions were likely to participate
in SSE development. The ability of commercial banks to evaluate medium- and long-term loans
was deemed satisfactory, as were current procedures governing procurement and disbursements.
Moreover, whereas medium- and long-term financing for SSEs had previously been the
exclusive domain of SOFIDE, an improvement in the macroeconomic environment and the
ensuing partial economic recovery had spurred commercial bank interest in this type of lending.
Nevertheless, the development of this new activity was impossible without a strengthening of
existing structures, at both headquarters and branch offices. As such strengthening involved
additional costs for the banks, the current project sought to maintain the attractiveness of SSE
financing by (a) excluding loans granted under the project from ceilings under adjustment
credits; (b) providing technical assistance to the banks to strengthen their capacity for project
appraisal and supervision; and (c) having the Government assume the exchange risk.
I.  In the Investment Code, enterprises investing less than US$154,000 were considered to be SSEs.
2.  Preparation of this operation was abandoned in 1989 when adjustment lending to Zaire was no longer feasible.



- 3 -
2.5    Project appraisal also noted that unlike many other Sub-Saharan African countries, Zaire
had institutions specialized in the promotion of small enterprises, the training of SSE managers
and directors and the provision of specific technical assistance.  The National Enterprise
Association of Zaire (Association Nationale des Entreprises du Zaire - ANEZA), which is Zaire's
sole chamber of commerce, had offices in the 8 regions and 36 sub regions of the country.
ANEZA had associated itself with SSE support projects financed respectively by UNDP and the
European Community and was about to do the same with a French Cooperation project. The
Center for Training in Development Techniques (Centre de Perfectionnement aux Techniques de
Developpement - CEPETEDE) provided high-quality services in the training of managers of
public and private enterprises and could therefore help train higher-level bank staff in appraising
projects involving SSEs and ANEZA managers to assist the SSEs. OPEZ, reorganized and
strengthened in 1986, the Christian Center for Business Directors and Managers in Zaire (Centre
Chretien d'Action pour Dirigeants et Cadres d'Entreprises au Zaire - CADICEC), and the
National Professional Training Institute (I'Institut National de Preparation Professionnelle -
INPP) could also provide assistance to the SSEs if necessary.
2.6    Economic andfinancial environment. After a growth spurt in the economy between
1967 and 1974 led by high copper and coffee prices on world markets, Zaire experienced a
depression due primarily to the inadequacy of measures taken by the Government.3  A brief
remission in 1980 and 1981 gave way to further decline in the following year, reflecting swings in
copper prices. In 1983, in order to come to grips with the steadily eroding GDP and a growing
shortage of foreign exchange, Zaire adopted an ambitious structural adjustment program with the
assistance of the IMF. The currency was devalued by 80% in relation to the U.S. dollar and,
effective 1984, the zaire exchange rate was set in reference to an inter bank foreign exchange
market.  The interest rates charged by the commercial banks were liberalized, except for
agriculture, and most price controls dropped. On the demand side, adjustment credit was sharply
restricted and public spending tightly controlled.
2.7    The project under review was approved and implemented during 1987-92; during this
period, the Government first abandoned and then restarted the economic reform program it had
begun in 1983, finally giving way to a complete lack of fiscal discipline:
-      From late 1986 through 1988, the Government discontinued the stabilization
program and weakened its adjustment effort.4  Although the liberalization of
trade continued, response from the private sector was minimal because of the
Government's failure to control public expenditure and the partial reversal of
previous progress in exchange rate adjustment and price liberalization.
-      In 1989, the Government tried to improve revenue collection, maintain a flexible
exchange rate, bring controlled interest rates closer to the market, and improve
private sector access to credit and foreign exchange.
3.  These were primarily the Zairianization of 1973, demonetization of 1979 and numerous control measures which
sought to limit the decline of the economy but had the opposite effect.
4.  Given the economic decline, and despite the strict adjustment measures that had been taken, in October 1986 the
Government decided to return to a system of fixed exchange rates and to limit service on its debt to 10% of
exports or 20% of the budget.



- 4 -
This was, however, short-lived: in 1990, the Government again discontinued its
adjustment efforts, particularly with regard to public expenditure, inflation and
credit targets, avoidance of external and domestic arrears, and parastatal sector
reform. By 1991/92, the economy was in a downward spiral , accelerated by
endemic governmental instability as Zaire embarked upon a democratization
process. Rioting in September/October 1991, moreover, seriously affected many
companies in the modern sector.
2.8    This sector (mining, industry, construction, banking and trade) was the most seriously
affected by the decline in economic activity resulting from the circumstances outlined in paras. 2.6
and 2.7, and the erosion of its assets was such that their recovery would require a massive
reconstruction effort. In 1989-91, domestic production (measured in SDR) fell by at least 10
percent and exports at least 28 percent.  In 1991, the value added by the extractive and
construction industries decreased by 37 percent and 34 percent, respectively. The same year, the
giant state-owned copper company that traditionally supplies 70 percent of Zaire's official foreign
exchange earnings -GECAMINES- saw its production fall by 50 percent. The company recorded
heavy financial losses and its production continued to decline in 1992, without any prospect for
improvement. A large number of local suppliers and subcontractors suffered as a result. Zaire's
physical infrastructure and human resource capital also continued to deteriorate, as (a) public
investment virtually dried up and (b) budgetary expenditures were directed further away from
developmental purposes.
2.9    Because government revenues declined without a similar adjustment in expenditures, the
resulting fiscal deficit was financed through money creation. As a result, the money supply
increased by leaps and bounds while the availability of domestic credit (in real terms) and
foreign exchange to the private sector plunged. By 1990, the budget deficit reached and
exceeded 10 percent of GDP. This grew to an estimated 25 percent of GDP for 1991, owing to
GECAMfNES' difficulties, higher debt service obligations, declining tax yields and a lack of
control over public spending. The practice of financing the fiscal deficit by accumulating
domestic and external arrears and printing large quantities of money led in 1990 to inflation of
265 percent; further fueled by the productivity decrease in the modem sector, inflation
accelerated to over 4,200 percent in 1991. Between end 1989 and April 1992, the exchange rate
depreciated from Z 457 to some Z 150,000/US$, despite an acute shortage of currency notes. By
early September 1992, the official exchange rate exceeded Z 650,000/US$ and by mid-1993 it
had reached Z 5 million.
3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.1    General project objectives were to (a) generate new employment opportunities; (b)
develop an entrepreneurial class in Zaire; (c) increase the participation of financial
intermediaries in the financing of SSEs; and (d) develop in Zaire a capacity to prepare, appraise
and supervise the investment projects of such enterprises.



3.2    In the general context described in para. 2.4, it was deemed important to promote the
development of SSEs. Although poorly understood,5 the sector had been considered important for
several reasons: (a) as most SSEs were managed by Zairians, unlike the larger, mainly foreign-
managed companies, the development of this sector was expected to nurture the emergence of
local entrepreneurs; (b) SSEs' size and previously demonstrated adaptability suggested that they
would be better able to react rapidly to a favorable environment by creating the jobs needed by the
country and at the same time generating additional revenue; and lastly (c) support to the SSEs was
also expected to affect the informal sector which is very large in Zaire, as the project would
stimulate the largest and most dynamic companies to become part of the formal economy by
taking advantage of the financing and assistance to be provided under the credit.
3.3    Although numerous bilateral donors were providing financing to the SSE sector, IDA's
support was justified by (a) a shortfall of resources over the long run for the sector, owing to its
considerable needs as well as the financing restrictions imposed by bilateral donors either on the
origin of goods and services or the nature of the project, its location or the nationality of the
investor, and (b) the complementarity of this operation with IDA action in the area of structural
adjustment.
3.4    The project moreover sought to capitalize on previous Bank experience in SSE credit.
As discriminatory measures against SSEs had been virtually eliminated under the structural
adjustment program and the ISAC, the most pressing problems to be resolved were (a) the often
limited effectiveness of a single financial intermediary (frequently, the development bank) in
reaching potential beneficiaries, including those in the hinterland, (b) the excessive use of
expatriate advisors to dispense technical assistance and (c) a lack of sources for financing
working capital needs.
3.5    To resolve the first problem, it was decided to use all possible financial intermediaries,
rather than SOFIDE alone. The project would thus take advantage of the broad geographical
coverage of the network of commercial banks and savings and loan cooperatives, and hence
distribute credit beyond  the boundaries of Kinshasa.   This strategy  was to  promote
deconcentration of the country's economy and help develop throughout Zaire a capability for
examining and appraising SSE projects. Perhaps more importantly, SOFIDE's management
problems had begun to show up clearly in the bad quality of its portfolio , and commercial banks
appeared able to offer a better alternative for intermediation, especially if the cost/efficiency
ratio was calculated after provisions for bad loans 6. The existence in Zaire of institutions
specialized in the promotion of SSEs, the training of their higher-level staff and the provision of
technical support (para. 2.5) offered a ready solution to the second problem. Lastly, a provision
for financing working capital was included in the project.
3.6    The project consisted of an IDA credit for SDR 19.8 million to the Government of Zaire,
divided among the following components:
5.  The analysis of the sector was based on the sole data available at the time, a census dating back to 1980 that
covered only the productive sectors (agriculture, mining and industry).
6.  These management problems are described in detail in the Project Completion Report for the seventh and eighth
lines of credit to SOFIDE (1492-ZR and 1685-ZR, respectively).



- 6 -
(a)    the provision of an SDR 17.81 million apex line of credit to finance specific SSE
investment projects, of which a maximum of 25 percent could be used to finance
working capital needs;
(b)    the provision of up to SDR 1.35 million in technical assistance and training to
(a) assist small entrepreneurs to prepare and manage their projects; (b) provide
training and specific assistance to women entrepreneurs; and (c) strengthen the
capacity of financial intermediaries to appraise and supervise projects;
(c)    the establishment, within the Bank of Zaire (BZ), of a project management unit,
the Small Enterprise Promotion Office (Bureau d'Encouragement au
Developpement des Petites Entreprises - BEDEPE), to coordinate and monitor
the activities of financial intermediaries and institutions specialized in SSE
promotion, the training of their higher-level staff and the provision of technical
support. The operating costs of the unit were to absorb the remaining SDR
640,000.
3.7    The first component was made available to the SSEs through financial institutions
approved by BZ in the forrn of an apex line of credit. Through BEDEPE, BZ was designated as an
apex institution for managing a line of credit on behalf of the Government. However, given the
scarcity of high-level professionals at the central bank and the reluctance of commercial banks to
provide confidential information on their clients directly to BZ, BEDEPE was to operate as an
autonomous entity, with its own rules and procedures7 as well as personnel.  BZ's credit
department was to serve as the disbursement and recovery body for the financing accorded to the
financial intermediaries.
3.8    The Government was to onlend to the central bank the proceeds of the line of credit at a
rate equal initially to the BZ rediscount rate (i.e. 30 percent per annum at the time), minus one
percentage point representing the financing for BEDEPE.8  This rate was nevertheless to be
replaced by the inter bank monetary market rate once the PMU  became operational.9  The
financial intermediaries were free to set subsidiary loan rates to the final beneficiaries as they
saw fit. The beneficiaries' total assets could not exceed US$350,000 for a small-scale enterprise
and US$50,000 for a micro enterprise. The amount of these loans, limited in absolute terms to
US$280,000 for expansions and US$245,000 for establishment, could reach as much as 80
percent of the cost of investments in the case of the former and 70 percent in the case of the
latter. Given the high borrowing rate10 (about 44 percent per year) and in order to avoid creating
cash flow problems for the final beneficiaries and financial intermediaries, it had been agreed
7.  The makeup of BEDEPE personnel and its operating procedures were discussed with, and approved by, BZ
during negotiations.
8.  During negotiations, it was agreed that BZ's remuneration for its services would be discussed with the Finance
Department and specified in the management agreement that was to be signed between the two entities.
However, the document in question does not mention any specific compensation for BZ.
9.  In any event, it was expressly agreed that the rate would be high enough to protect the Government from any
exchange loss.
10. Exacerbated by the application of an 18.6% tax, the CCA (turnover tax), on interest received by financial
intermediaries.



- 7 -
that the pertinent loan repayment schedules could include interest capitalization and/or indexing
clauses. Lastly, loan applications were to be prepared by the beneficiaries and submitted to the
financial intermediaries, which were to submit them for approval to BEDEPE.
3.9    In accordance with Section 3.09 of the Credit Agreement, a mutual guarantee fund was
to be established to benefit small cooperatives ("including female cooperatives," to use the exact
wording of the Credit Agreement), I' and 1 percent of the interest received on the lending activity
was to be set aside for the fund, up to a limit of an equivalent in zaires of US$200,000.
3.10   Technical assistance and support were to be provided at the request of the SSEs by the
personnel of the institutions mentioned in para. 2.5.  Those institutions were to serve as
consultants, in accordance with fee schedules approved by BEDEPE. A special training program
was planned for women entrepreneurs and traders, in conjunction with specific assistance to
women's associations and cooperatives as well as a training program for the Ministry of
Women's Affairs and for NGOs active in women's development. BEDEPE was also responsible
for managing the SSE technical assistance and support component on behalf of the Government,
and analyzing requests for financing before they were sent for approval to IDA, along with a
briefjustification and the qualifications of the experts.
3.11   BEDEPE's compensation was ultimately supposed to cover all administrative expenses
and the cost of its local personnel. As in the early years of the project the outstanding balance on
subloans was not expected to be sufficient, the SAR had envisaged that IDA would finance 100
percent of costs during the first two years of the project and that that percentage would decrease
to 50 percent in year 4 and then 25 percent in year 5, with BEDEPE covering all such
expenditures after the sixth year of the project. This provision was not explicitly reflected in
either the Credit Agreement or the Project Agreement.
4.     Project Design and Organisation
4.1    Project preparation occurred during a time when the economic growth spurred by the
structural adjustment program was beginning to slow down but before the tensions on the foreign
exchange market and the inflation level worsened. In retrospect, the idea of stimulating the
economy by making an apex line of credit available to the SSE sector still seems appropriate.
The selection of the SSE sector in particular was appropriate because (a) it was undoubtedly the
sector that could respond the quickest to an operation of this type by rapidly creating jobs; (b)
this was one of the very top priorities of the Government; and (c) other donors had provided
funds for medium- and large-scale enterprises.'2
4.2    The project completion report for the fifth and sixth lines of credit to SOFIDE, submitted
to the Board in July 1993, stresses the benefit of diversifying across intermediary institutions. It
draws lessons from intermediation projects that were supported by the Bank in Latin America
11. The wording of the SAR on this issue is ambiguous, as it seems to refer more specifically to women's
cooperatives whose establishment was promoted by the project.
12. At the same time, the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique was considering making available to
financial intermediaries, via BZ and under a somewhat similar mechanism, a refinancing framework agreement
for FF 100 million, renewable.



- 8 -
and in Asia since the early seventies, which clearly demonstrated the greater efficiency of the
apex mechanism. This project took into account Bank experience in apex lending and correctly
evaluated the ability of the banking sector in Zaire to play such a role. All banks, with the
exception of those on the brink of bankruptcy, were deemed capable of serving as intermediaries,
provided that they were strengthened by structural improvements, in particular at their provincial
branches, and that certain of their higher-level staff received specific training. The project
offered training 13and proposed incentives to offset additional costs to the banks.
4.3    Project preparation included an analysis of the macroeconomic environment which was
found to be acceptable. Although the project had not been considered an appropriate means for
achieving additional and more in-depth reforms, it had been verified that Zaire's economic
system was free of any major bias against SSEs. Moreover, an adjustment project for the
financial sector was under preparation, and was expected to further improve the overall
macroeconomic environment.
4.4    However, the workload represented by the management of technical assistance services
seems to have been underestimated. The extent of needs and the magnitude of the response of
small-scale enterprises rapidly transformed BEDEPE into an SSE promotion and support
institution14. The supervisory personnel initially envisaged, i.e. three nationals plus an expatriate
advisor, had to be increased by three higher-level and two middle-level staff. BEDEPE's
compensation was too low from the start and was increasingly unable to cover its operating
costs. Moreover, placing management of the technical assistance component within the central
bank should have been only a temporary solution, this not being among the normal functions of a
central bank.
4.5    The sub component for support and training of women entrepreneurs was evidently
added to the project in the later stages of preparation; its design was too broad and even vague,
as regards training, as it was not supported by specific studies identifying either target groups or
training priorities.15 In addition, although encouraging the establishment of cooperatives is
commendable, it does not appear always necessary to channel training for women through
groups which have yet to be established.
13. Significantly, by bringing in local institutions.
14. According to staff responsible for project evaluation, this evolution was forecasted and, should the project have
been a success, BEDEPE would have been used as an SSE support institution and implementation agency for a
second SSE project.
15. Given the types of problems actually faced by female traders in customs clearance, it is doubtful that training
seminars in customs clearance procedures are a true priority.



-9 -
5.     Project implementation
5.1    The project was approved on May 5, 1987 and became effective on December 2, 1987.16
A former manager of SOFIDE was officially appointed director of BEDEPE on June 1, 1987 and
the project began to operate as of that date, thanks to BZ advances that were reimbursed after the
project became effective. The awareness-raising activities targeted towards the SSEs and later
the training offered to them as well as to the PFIs were very successful and were soon
intensified. At the same time, all financial intermediaries capable of potential participation in
the line of credit signed an intermediation agreement with the central bank.
5.2    Beyond a modification in the commitment fee applicable to all IDA credits to Zaire, the
only changes to the Credit Agreement involved the limits on sub projects. Following a fall in the
dollar in relation to the European currencies, the July 1988 supervision mission recommended
that the limits be increased and denominated in SDRs, changing the maximum assets of eligible
companies from US$350,000 to SDR 310,000 (with a possibility, left to the discretion of
BEDEPE, of exceeding the limit by 15 percent) and the ceiling on loans for existing companies
from US$280,000 to SDR 248,000 (this limit could be raised to SDR 285,000) and for new
companies from US$245,000 to SDR 217,000. These changes were formalized on November
28, 1988.
5.3    With the free fall in the country's economic environment in 1989-1991 (as described in
paras. 2.8 and 2.9), in March 1991 IDA informally requested the Government to suspend
approvals of loans to the SSEs. Disbursements under this component continued until July 1992
and the remaining funds for the component were canceled on August 4, 1993. The other
components were maintained because of the subprojects to be supervised, but as economic,
political and security conditions in Zaire still had not improved and the country had not made the
payments due under outstanding credits, the Bank decided in December 1993 to cancel all
balances on subloans for projects that could not in any event operate any longer.
5.4    Annexes 6, 7 and 8 show listings of projects financed under the apex line of credit,
broken down respectively by financial intermediary, region in which the enterprises were located
and year in which the loan was granted. Annex 9 summarizes these data in terms of percentages.
Of the 92 projects submitted by the PFIs and approved by BEDEPE, 71 were carried out for a
total investment of SDR 16.1 million and a refinancing commitment on the line of credit of SDR
10.1 million'7. The remaining 21 projects were canceled. These represented SDR 2.3 million in
refinancing commitments. The industrial sector predominated with 24 projects, followed by the
services sector (20 projects, including 10 in transportation) and the agriculture sector (19
projects, including 7 in agro-industry and 2 in forestry).  The food-product sector was
proportionally the most affected by the cancellations (7 projects out of the 14 approved),
followed by the transportation sector with the same number of cancellations out of 17 approved
projects.  The  reasons for these cancellations are difficult to ascertain in the current
circumstances. It is nevertheless probable that the high interest rates, which in reality meant a
16. The Credit Agreement was signed on June 30, 1987; it was ratified on October 4 and a legal opinion issued on
November 27 of the same year.
17. The average loan amount was SDR 143,000, which is much lower than the maximum authorized amount of SDR
248,000 and SDR 217,000 respectively for existing enterprises and new enterprises.



- 10-
shorter repayment period, and the prospect of having to live with variable rates loomed large in
the cancellation decisions, most of which were made in 1990 (para 5.7).
5.5    SOFIDE was well known to the Bank, aware, unlike the other PFIs, it was exempted
from the non-objection arrangement for the first three projects it proposed for refinancing. This
familiarity with procedures and experience in long-term financing enabled it to take the lead over
the other banks. Rapidly, however, UZB and BCZ became interested and submitted projects
beginning in June 1989, the latter walking away with the lion's share with 48.9 percent of net
refinancing authorizations.  However, the other PFIs did not participate at all; BCA's
involvement was limited to the submission of several project proposals that were ultimately not
selected.
5.6     Deconcentration of the economy being a supplementary objective of the project, it is
interesting to note that distribution by region was good at the start but that subsequently, the
Kinshasa region regained the lead, accounting for 37 of the 92 approved projects. The 27 (of the
37) projects ultimately carried out represented 45.7 percent of total investments and 46.7 percent
of net commitments following the cancellations. Kinshasa was followed by Shaba and Kivu
(respectively 21.7 percent and 10.9 percent of investments and 21.9 percent and 10.5 percent of
net commitments).  Regions such as the two KasaYs, Bandundu and Equateur saw  the
implementation of very few projects. The breakdown of the submitting PFI by region is also
significant, because 13 of the 34 BCZ projects and 10 of the 12 UZB projects were located in
Kinshasa. SOFIDE therefore did the best job of distributing the loans throughout the country
while the efforts of commercial banks, to encourage their branch network to participate, were
less than expected, probably because they favored projects with less risk.
5.7    The first supervision mission (July 1988) had already identified the problem that would
ultimately prompt the Bank to ask BEDEPE to suspend, first temporarily and later definitively,
all refinancing agreements. From that time on, in point of fact, the interest rates charged on the
subloans to the final beneficiaries were highly negative. Using the BZ's monetary intervention
rate instead of its discount rate was intended to solve the problem, but the higher rates were
unable to keep up with galloping inflation. The problem was also complicated by the fact that
high interest rates contain an element of compensation for capital depreciation, and hence, de
facto, result in repayment of the loan over a much shorter period of time than scheduled. This
shortening of the life of the loans may have created cash-flow difficulties for the enterprises and
may even have eradicated the subsidies implicit in the negative interest rates.
5.8    The introduction of variable rates  and procedures permitting capitalization of interest
was brought up during the supervision mission of April 1989 with a view to resolving these
problems. However, given their complexity, it was decided to bring in a specialist; by the time
he arrived, however, the situation was out of hand. An analysis of the interest rates charged
shows a steadily rising trend between December 1987 and April 1990 (up from 30 percent to 68
percent). In April 1990, faced with the pressure of the PFIs, but in contradiction to the problem
of negative real rates, the Bank agreed to return to using the BZ rediscount rate as the rate
18. In order to avoid penalizing the lender or borrower in the event that there is an accentuation in or reversal of the
upward trend in inflation.



- I I -
applicable between the Government and BZ.  The direct result was a fall in loan interest rates
to 45 percent. In December 1990, the elimination of the CCA on interest for loans refinanced
under the apex line of credit, while beneficial, only further accentuated the negative nature of the
rates, while inflation continued to soar at the same time. In April 1991, the decision to suspend
commitments on the line of credit on a temporary basis was taken in mutual agreement with the
Zairian authorities. This decision, informal at the outset, was made official in August 1993 and
led to the cancellation of nearly SDR 9.8 million.
5.9    The services financed under the technical assistance component are described in Annex
10. Total commitments were SDR 582,625, whereas actual payments totaled only SDR 411,796,
i.e. 71 percent of commitments. The services were very diversified, ranging from seminars for
the banks and SSEs to radio broadcasts, training for bank personnel or staff of BEDEPE itself.
Two activities alone utilized 64 percent of the amounts actually disbursed, namely the
organization of awareness-raising seminars that reached a very large audience in virtually all
regions, and the contract for the BEDEPE expatriate advisor.
5.10   For the reasons mentioned in para. 4.5; because BEDEPE did not have experience in the
matter; and because its main contact person left the State Commission on the Status of Women
and the Family at the end of 1988, the support and training for the women entrepreneurs sub
component gave rise to numerous studies but few concrete results. In September 1989 an
identification study was begun for the formulation of a pilot training program for Zairian women
entrepreneurs. In April 1990, the conclusions of the draft report on the study were used to
identify four target groups for pilot training programs. As the study was unable to identify
agencies capable of providing the training, such services were therefore requested of the
consultants. The final report was issued in late 1990, but its incompleteness prompted the Bank
to take a pragmatic position and recommend the launching of a pilot operation in Kinshasa. In
March 1991, the aide-memoire of the supervision mission once again revisited the issue of the
pilot operation but the upheaval surrounding the riots of September and October 1991 squelched
the idea altogether.
5.11   Disbursements are shown in Annex 3. SDR 7.6 million were disbursed under the credit
component, representing only 74.7 percent of commitments. The remaining 25.8 percent
correspond to partial cancellations or projects that never materialized.  A comparison of
projected versus actual disbursements shows that project implementation went better than
expected until fiscal 1989, after which time disbursements slowed, owing first to a tapering off
of commitments and then their suspension in April 1991. In all, 45.3 percent of funds were
utilized, representing 42.5 percent of the line of credit and 30.5 percent of the amount allocated
to technical assistance. In contrast, the amount originally allocated to the PMU component was
exceeded by nearly 30 percent, leading to a minor reallocation of credit proceeds.
19. It should be noted that this rate did not provide the Government with a sufficient margin to cover the risk of a
depreciation of the country's currency.



- 12 -
6.     Project Results
6.1    Being a carefully prepared and timely undertaking, the project under review is exactly
the type of project that could have had excellent results if the overall environment had not
deteriorated, in terms of not only political and macroeconomic but also basic infrastructure and
security conditions. Under the current circumstances, the intrinsic results are difficult to assess.
During the two years when the project was able to operate somewhat normally, the small
enterprise sector showed the expected dynamism suggesting that it would indeed have
contributed to Zaire's development had circumstances been different. The smallest loan made
was for SDR 12,761 and the largest was for SDR 273,000. Of the 72 loans that were granted and
not canceled, five were for less than SDR 30,000 and 45 were for less than SDR 180,000. It can
then be said that, during the period the project operated "normally", it achieved its objective of
promoting small enterprises. But this success was mitigated by the fact that the interest rates
charged were actually negative. Finally, the seminars and training internships responded to a real
need, to the extent that circumstances permitted.
6.2    The project was among the first in Africa and indeed the first in Zaire to involve
commercial banks in medium and long-term financing of SSE investments. This fact, together
with the resulting change in commercial bankers' attitudes towards SSEs, is probably a project
success. Should normal activity resume in Zaire in the not too distant future, these new attitudes
might still prevail. Meanwhile, the rapid deterioration of the overall situation does not allow
comparison of SOFIDE's performance with commercial banks' performance.
6.3    On the other hand, some of the investments made under the project were made in plant
that was subsequently damaged or is now not productive, while the rest are probably
encountering severe obstacles in maintaining normal operation. Having become indebted to the
Association, the Government is now left with little hope of recovering much more than a tiny
fraction of that debt from BZ, especially given the magnitude of the depreciation of the zaire.
While the PFIs are also possibly facing significant arrears, their debt to the central bank, being
denominated in zaires, will likely become progressively less burdensome and should have
relatively minor consequences compared to other problems confronting the banks.
6.4    The supervision program carried out by BEDEPE and the PFIs in late December 1991
following the riots of September and October of that year involved 38 of the 49 projects
remaining in the portfolio  and 5 projects for which loans had been repaid early.21 Of these 43
projects, 5 were not yet on stream and had little chance of ever becoming so; 15 had been
directly affected by looting and the remaining 23 had been indirectly affected as they were either
cut off from their traditional sources of supply or had lost their market niches. Thirteen projects
had been completely stopped for various reasons, including the destruction of project works,
scarcity of raw materials, the departure of expatriate technical experts, or the shrinking and even
disappearance of demand. Under the present circumstances, it is difficult to envisage how the
20. Early repayments had been made by promoters wishing to disengage vis-a-vis the banks owing to very high
nominal interest rates.
21. Owing to travel constraints and security problems, it was virtually impossible to inspect the other projects.



- 13 -
recovery measures urgently needed by these 13 projects could have been taken.  Security
problems and the virtual absence of a market combined with the banking (all checks refused) and
monetary crises to preclude any normal industrial or commercial activity.
7.     Project Sustainability
7.1    BEDEPE, and particularly its director, are to be commended for their effectiveness
throughout the project and their tenacity toward the end. With regard to the technical assistance
component, BEDEPE did its utmost to organize seminars and maintain contact with the private
sector when the line of credit component was for all intents and purposes suspended,
notwithstanding the rapid deterioration of the country's organization and economy. After a
reminder by the Bank, BEDEPE also commendably supervised the projects financed under the
apex line of credit by regularly organizing supervision missions in conjunction with the PFIs,
even when circumstances had become difficult (see para.6.4). This clearly shows how important
a properly run project management unit is to the smooth implementation of a project of this type
and its sustainability.
7.2    However, Zaire's macroeconomic environment was and still is such that project
sustainability was irremediably compromised. It is questionable whether any narrowly-focused
action in a similar context could ever have succeeded; likewise, it is unclear whether any purpose
was served by the investments made in 1989 and 1990 that were ultimately destroyed or otherwise
prevented from operation.
8.     Bank's performance
8.1    Appraisal of the project, which was considered a continuation of previous Bank
operations to assist the private sector, was sound. A review of the financial sector confirmed that
the existing macroeconomic environment was satisfactory and that additional measures to
support SSEs had been taken. The overall design of the project and its linkages with financial
and other institutions were well thought out, with the exception of a misjudgment regarding the
scope of the role of BEDEPE, which turned out to be too extensive relative to both the resources
originally provided and the traditional functions of a central bank unit. The financing envisaged
to cover operating costs also seems to have been inadequate22 and BEDEPE was late in officially
requesting an increase in that margin, although it would have had a negligible impact on the
interest rates for the final beneficiaries. However, it is fair to underline that the galloping
inflation during the initial years of the project -- which left BEDEPE's compensation grossly
inadequate to cover its operating costs -- could not have been foreseen at appraisal.
8.2    The possibility of such acute degradation of the overall economic and political
environment was not predicted. Project risks considered only a possible deterioration of Zaire's
economic situation; even this risk was assessed to be limited, intr alia, by the country's
(perceived) continued determ iniation to implement stabilization measures. Indeed, discussions
at the time of appraisal featured arguments which favored variable interest rates as a protection
for beneficiaries against a decrease in the inflation rate. The risk of economic decline might have
22. In 1988, it represented in effect only 1/30 of all interest received and in 1990 less than 1/40 of that amount,
whereas in Rwanda, in a similar project, that same margin represented 1/12.



- 14 -
been addressed during project appraisal, however, since the Government's reticence in
implementing its structural adjustment policies was already becoming evident. Such reluctance
was, however, interpreted more as an effort to obtain a significant increase in capital flows.
Furthermore, the project was linked to complementary efforts by the Bank and other donor
agencies to give a new impetus to the economy; in this light, it was impossible to envisage or
overtly entertain the prospect of a failure in the adjustment process.
8.3    One might also ask why the Bank kept the project open after the macroeconomic
situation worsened so dramatically. It is important to bear in mind that this project was part of
the overall Bank assistance strategy for Zaire. Between early 1987, when the adjustment
program started to decline, and the end of 1989, the Bank -- including senior management --
invested considerable time and effort to generate and maintain ownership and commitment on
the part of the government. The success of these efforts is reflected in the government's renewed
attempt at stabilization in 1989. When it became clear in 1990 that the President's commitment
was flagging, the Bank acted rapidly and decisively to cut back the IDA lending program for
FY91-94 by about 85 percent. At the same time, it retained a core program consisting of modest
investment operations limited to adressing urgent social needs and the preservation of essential
infrastructure. Because of their relatively small size compared to other Bank projects, the
technical assistance components were seen as more useful open than closed, because of their
capacity building potential.
8.4    The credit became effective on December 2, 1987 and the first supervision mission went
out seven months later, in July 1988. As indicated in para. 5.1, BEDEPE had been established in
June 1987 and began, with a great deal of success, its promotion and training activities using the
funds advanced by BZ. The first sub projects were accepted for refinancing as of December
1987. The timing of that first mission was therefore well chosen, as were those of the other
supervision missions that followed at regular six-month intervals, until March 1991, when the
Bank inforrnally suspended its commitment authorizations under the line of credit. Subsequently,
the situation deteriorated to such a point that project supervision served no useful purpose. A
final mission in May 1992 tried -- unsuccessfully -- get things back on track after the
September/October 1991 riots, by proposing that the project refocus on loans made in foreign
currency to exporting companies.
8.5    Overall, the missions did a good job of analyzing problems and on each occasion
proposed practical solutions. The problem of negative interest rates was recognized early on, but
its complexity (mentioned in paras. 5.7 and 5.8) made it difficult to take a clear-cut position. It
is impossible to say now whether the suspension of refinancing authorizations should have been
requested earlier. It appears that the request was made when the situation had already become so
untenable that the SSEs themselves were unable to decide where their interests lay: some made
early repayments on their loans, while others, encouraged perhaps by the negative interest rates,
sought new loans. The situation probably varied from firm to firm, depending on the assessment
of individual prospects.
9.     Borrower's Performance
9.1    As indicated in para. 7.1, the performance of BEDEPE, the BZ unit managing the project
for the Government, was highly satisfactory, particularly given the increasingly difficult



- 15 -
circumstances. The unit was successful in fulfilling its role and did everything within its power
to promote SSEs and serve as an agent between them and the PFIs. BZ's performance was
substantially less satisfactory. As an instrument of the Government, it was unable to control the
monetary slippage or bring about positive interest rates, and this ultimately brought the project to
a halt. From a strictly administrative standpoint, a review of the later supervision reports
suggests that it delegated some of the administrative tasks incumbent upon it to BEDEPE,
thereby exacerbating the shortfall between its receipts (from the margins based on the
outstanding balance of the subloans) and expenditures.
9.2    The performance of the actual borrower, the Government of Zaire, was extremely poor,
as is readily perceived from the preceding paragraphs; so poor in fact that all Banque du Zaire
projects were closed in December 1993 and Zaire's voting rights in the IMF suspended on
December 8, 1993.
10.    Lessons learned
10.1   The first lesson to be drawn from this uncompleted project is merely a confirmation once
again of what is already well known to the Bank, namely that a project seeking to assist private
investment, regardless of how well it is designed, can operate properly only in a favorable
macroeconomic environment. The project unfortunately could serve as a textbook illustration of
the above. However, given the increasingly chaotic environment and the project's premature
termination, it is difficult to generalize the observations made in this report. It is uncertain
whether,  in a more favorable macroeconomic environment, the other PFIs would have
ultimately participated in the scheme or the regional distribution of subloans would have been
better.
10.2   Certain minor aspects can nevertheless be highlighted, to the extent that they clearly
posed problems during implementation. First of all, the sub components involving women
should have been included from the earliest stages of project preparation so as to have concrete
objectives from the start. It is also important to carefully assess the workload of the PMU and
the financing it is to receive, in order to avoid problems related to the coverage of expenditures
that would have occurred if the project had continued.
10.3   The technical assistance dispensed through specialized local institutions was successful
as predicted, at a relatively modest cost. It therefore seems extremely important in the future to
replicate this type of approach, which has the dual advantage of strengthening the country's
capacity in this key sector and of involving consultants who are thoroughly familiar with the
economic context in which the enterprises operate. If possible, future projects should not place
management responsibility for such technical assistance within the central bank, this being
neither the role nor an appropriate function of such an institution.



- 16-
PART II: REVIEW OF THE PROJECT FROM THE PERSPECTIVE
OF THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT (BEDEPE)
(Translation)
1.    Comments on Part I of the Report Prepared by IDA
1.1    Overall, BEDEPE shares the point of view expressed by the World Bank, according to
which the results achieved by the project in "six years" of activity could have been better had the
political, economic and monetary environment not deteriorated so substantially. Moreover, it is
difficult to evaluate the results of a development project when its objectives were supposed to be
achieved over a specific timeframe that was cut short.
1.2   In general, the project was implemented amidst chronic monetary instability and
widespread uncertainties, which hindered the achievement of the objectives: creation of new
employment opportunities, emergence of an entrepreneurial class in Zaire, greater participation
of banks in the financing of SSEs, and development within the country of the capacity to prepare,
appraise and supervise investment projects.
1.3    Although the legal framework provided by the Agreements signed between the World
Bank, the Republic of Zaire and the Central Bank clearly set forth the obligations of each party,
there were deficiencies and institutional weaknesses, primarily with regard to the Government.
Without a strong, healthy and credible administration, the implementation of measures and
decisions to stimulate the economy were often delayed. Measures such as the elimination of the
18 percent turnover tax on interest on monies lent out, means of facilitating access to the benefits
granted under the Investment Code, establishment of a Guarantee Fund whose operation and
resources would provide the banks with greater security, etc., were decided on but have yet to be
implemented. Other measures were simply formally dropped.
How can the private sector continue to invest in a climate of uncertainty and
wastefulness, as has prevailed in Zaire since 1990? The institutional, regulatory and legal
framework must be changed if the banks and financial institutions are to participate actively in
the promotion and development of SSEs in Zaire.
Moreover, the coordination of various projects or programs providing support to the
small-enterprise sector and which receive assistance from external donors has not been
improved, despite the recent establishment of the Ministry of SSEs, which is still understaffed
and underfunded.
Independent of the constraints related to the macroeconomic environment, the SSEs
operating in Zaire continue to suffer from a deterioration of basic infrastructure and a lack of
financial and technical services to supplement credit operations and facilitate access to
information, the market and technology.



- 17 -
1.4    The current difficulties being experienced by the banks (nonconvertibility of checks)
prevent them from addressing the needs of businesses and individuals. These difficulties are due
largely to the overly lax monetary and budgetary policy that has been adopted. Most banks are
still unable to satisfy the requests made by their clients for withdrawals owing to cash shortages.
The ongoing process of bank disintermediation and depreciation of the exchange rate have led to
a marginalization of the bank system and the development of the informal economy. As soon as
the political crisis has been dealt with, the government and monetary authorities will have to
proceed immediately with the vital structural reforms, particularly in the financial sector.
Without a sweeping reorganization of Zaire's banking system in order to improve its
performance and control inflation, it will be impossible to provide the SSEs with the financial
and technical assistance that they need.
1.5   Investment project financing is a "skill" distinct from those involved in rediscountable
medium-term loans from the Central Bank. Learning this "skill" takes time, because the
procedures are different from those involved in financing the current operations of a company.
The results with regard to the participation of commercial banks in the activities under
the auspices of the project can be considered encouraging, given the very difficult monetary
context that they faced, especially beginning in 1990.
2.    Implementation of the Three Project Components
2.1    Credit Component
The implementation of the credit component can be analyzed at three levels:
establishment of the mechanism, procedures, and results prior to the suspension of new financing
agreements in April 1991.
2.2    Bank Participation
All banks in Zaire (with the exception of CITIBANK) had signed the Participation
Agreement giving them access to the refinancing funds managed by BEDEPE. However, only
three institutions (SOFIDE, BCZ and UZB) actually participated and sent BEDEPE requests for
refinancing under the credit component. Two factors account for this low participation on the
part of the commercial banks:
Two banks, NBK and BCA, did not meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the
Participation Agreements that they had signed. They experienced financial or
managerial difficulties that prompted the government authorities to place them
under the administrative management of the Central Bank, with a view to their
reorganization. A commercial bank, BZCE, whose capital belongs to the State
and in which BEDEPE had placed its hopes and expectations based on its network
of regional branch offices, did not submit a single refinancing request, despite
having signed the Participation Agreement.
Banks such  as BARCLAYS, GRINDLAYS  and  BIAZ, subsidiaries of
multinational bank groups, either declined to include SSEs in their financing



- 18-
strategy in Zaire or lacked the managerial tools and human resources necessary for
appraising investment projects. As the risk associated with investment credit is
high, they preferred to limit their financing to export-import operations which
offered more stable remuneration.
During the first two years following the startup of activities under the credit component,
BEDEPE expanded its operations after discussions with the World Bank, with a view to
accelerating resource commitments; examples would include the raising, with the approval of
IDA, of the limits on eligibility for project funds concerning both the value of the assets of
existing enterprises as well as the cost of the subprojects to be financed, and admission to
training seminars for the higher-level staff of the private consulting firms hired to assist SSE
officials formulate the financing applications for submission to the banks.
Despite a generally unfavorable economic climate and reluctance on the part of certain
commercial banks to engage in medium- and long-term operations, BEDEPE succeeded in
involving two of the largest local private banks, namely BCZ and UZB. With the involvement of
these two banks and SOFIDE, 92 subprojects representing a planned investment of SDR 20
million and refinancing agreements of 12.4 million were concluded.
The average cost per subproject was thus SDR 218,288.54, while the average refinancing
amount accorded was SDR 135,015.47. In addition, SDR 7.38 million in disbursements were
made to the participating banks during the period, , i.e. a disbursement/authorization ratio of
some 60 percent.
Cancellations made by BEDEPE either at the request of the PFIs themselves or on its
own initiative account for the level of disbursements in relation to authorizations. Without the
suspension, followed by the shutdown, of the refinancing operations, the primary cause of which
was the negativity of the interest rates, the rcsuilts in terns of subproject approval and
disbursements could have been better.
2.3    Refinancing Procedure
In accordance with the refinancing procedure specified in the Participation Agreement
signed by each participating bank or institution, the role of BEDEPE was to review and evaluate
the requests sent to it by the development financing institutions and banks that wished to obtain
refinancing in zaires or in foreign exchange for term loans that would onlend to SSE clients for
investments in the productive sector.
T he procedure was gradually adopted by the participating banks as a result of the sound
relationships that BEDEPE maintained with both the banks and the final beneficiaries. The
challenge of getting the commercial banks in Zaire involved in making investment loans to SSEs
was met. Numerous benefits were attributed to those operations by the interested parties
themselves:
More than 60 percent of the windows of commercial banks operating in the
country participated on an equal footing.  Ultimately, this was bound to



- 19 -
stimulate healthy competition among the financial institutions, which could only
be beneficial to the SSEs with regard to access to bank credit;
The inflationary risk associated with medium-term credit and generally feared
by the monetary authorities was minimized to the extent that the disbursement of
the loans in successive tranches was made solely on the basis of the real needs of
the borrower and against the submission of vouchers deemed satisfactory by
BEDEPE;
Because the refinancing conditions could be "adapted" to the general economic
situation, the refinancing procedure was highly flexible. Unfortunately, the
overdue adjustment of the prime rate of the Central Bank to reflect inflation was
a hindrance. The main criticism that can be levelled about the refinancing
procedure whose benefits have just been outlined above concerns the
introduction of an additional stage into the decision-making process and having
the participating banks carry the entire risk. As the banks became increasingly
familiar with this procedure from the time that the operations started until their
suspension, they were able to lessen the impact of what seemed to be a
cumbersome aspect of the procedure, even if the issue of credit-risk sharing
remains unresolved.
2.4    Subprojects
The nature of the projects approved and financed, the branches of activity to which they
belong, their geographical location as well as their economic impact, seen from the standpoint of
the planned investment and number of new jobs created, were analyzed in the various annual
progress reports and during IDA supervision missions.
Data are given in the annexes to the final report prepared following the sessions to
evaluate the SSE development project organized by BEDEPE in February 1994.
From our standpoint, the characteristics of the subprojects financed confirmed the role of
BEDEPE as a development agency primarily concerned with the private sector and SSEs. Its
mission did not, however, end with the shutdown of the project.
3.     Training and Technical Assistance Component
I .    With a view to improving the performance of the financial operations under the project, a
training and technical assistance component was designed to supplement other project activities.
It included a series of measures aiming, on the one hand, to train the personnel of the support
agencies and institutions participating in the project and, on the other, to provide short-term
technical assistance to the SSEs that had been beneficiaries of refinancing and that were
experiencing operating difficulties.
2.     Activities were continued under the training and technical assistance component despite
the suspension of refinancing operations in April 1991 by BEDEPE, on the recommendation of
IDA. The implementation of this component can be examined at three levels:



- 20 -
(i)      The economic information of the various participants and economic agents was
disseminated through awareness-raising workshops and seminars. The activities
carried out under this component helped disseminate information regarding the
means of participation, conditions and procedures for access to project funds.
(ii)     Training for the higher-level staff and agents of the PFIs and support entities
made it possible to strengthen their project analysis and supervision skills and to
thereby provide efficient support to the final beneficiaries of the loans. The
formulation of credit applications, selection of materials to be imported from
abroad, negotiation techniques with the bank and supervision of approved
projects were the main topics of the training seminars organized by BEDEPE.
The need to obtain the approval on a non-objection basis from IDA, for each type
of action envisaged, prolonged the time it took to program activities under this
component.
(iii)     The provision of short-term technical assistance to SSEs in distress should be
continued because it is desired by the SSEs themselves.  The operational
framework as well as the legal instruments that have been established have
proven their effectiveness. The issue in our eyes is not the location of the unit or
entity that is to manage this technical assistance, but the sound organization of
efficient technical assistance for the SSEs.
The project experience has reinforced our conviction that the availability of
term resources (even in foreign exchange) must be accompanied by the
appropriate training and technical activities to stimulate commercial bank
involvement, on a durable basis, in the financing of productive investments.
4.     Project Management component
1.    The Credit Agreement signed between the World Bank, the Republic of Zaire and the
Central Bank had placed responsibility for project management with a unit established under the
project and called the Small Enterprise Development Office (Bureau d'Encouragement au
Developpement des Petites Entreprises - BEDEPE).
2.     BEDEPE was the executing agency for the Bank of ZaTre and the Government in the
implementation of the two components reviewed above. In order to cover the costs inherent in
its mission as a financial institution specialized in the refinancing of medium- and long-term
credit, it was to receive a margin in the form of a commission based on the interest paid to the
BZ by the PFIs in conjunction with the refinancing operations. This margin was set initially at I
percent on the outstanding balance of the refinanced loans and was raised to 3.5 percent in 1991.
3.     Moreover, on a one-time basis, BEDEPE was allocated a budget appropriation of
SDR 640,000 phased over five years, to finance the cost of its operations and establishment, until
such time as the outstanding balance on the refinanced loans reached a sufficient volume so that
its commissions would ensure autonomy of operations after five years.



-21 -
4.    As IDA was informed, an analysis of the operating costs made by project management
with a view to reworking the initial budget showed that BEDEPE was faced from year 3 on with
a growing budget deficit. The subsidy was used more rapidly than envisaged, for three reasons:
(i)     The margin on the refinanced loan proved to be inadequate given the real
charges borne by BEDEPE.
(ii)     Higher inflation than projected ultimately eroded the outstanding balance on the
refinanced loans, which were disbursed in foreign exchange but repaid in current
zaires by the final beneficiaries.
(iii)     The additional workload entailed by the activities turned over to BEDEPE but
which initially were incumbent on the Central Bank.
All of these problems related to operations and BEDEPE's activities were identified in
due course and made known to the senior management of BZ, in its capacity as a project
executing agency, by both project management and World Bank supervision missions. A long-
term solution was to be pursued through the restructuring of BEDEPE's activities, with a policy
allowing for the regular readjustment of the margin and recovery of operating costs in order to
keep pace with inflation.
5.    General Assessment of the Financing Operations
1.    All parties involved in the financing operations under the Small Enterprise Development
Project were unanimous in recognizing that the project is addressing a real need of small and
medium enterprises. The Zairian authorities must consequently ensure that the operations
continue by improving the political, economic and monetary environment.
2.    Designed as part of a structural adjustment program supported by the IMF and World
Bank, the project was carried out during a time when economic adjustment efforts had slackened
off and instability and uncertainty prevailed.
3.    The Government and the monetary policy demonstrated institutional deficiencies and
weaknesses. These hindered the implementation of a true support and development strategy for
the small and medium enterprise sector.
4.    Despite the difficulties due primarily to the unfavorable environment in which the
project was implemented, BEDEPE is perceived by SSE leaders and the banks as promoting
development and it enjoys an excellent reputation in business circles. Donors other than the
World Bank have indicated their willingness to support BEDEPE so that SSEs can serve as a
catalyst in the economic development of Zaire.
5.    Given the magnitude of the country's reconstruction and economic recovery needs, in a
context of political and economic stability, a reorganized BEDEPE that has legal and financial
autonomy could serve these needs by becoming such a financial institution specialized in the
refinancing of investment credits made by the banking system.



- 22 -
Operating at the second tier and sharing the credit risk with the primary banks, it could
offer them incentives with regard to the training of their personnel and increase security in terms
of their activities on behalf of dynamic SSEs.
6.     Given its good relations with the private sector and the experience it has acquired in
project supervision and technical assistance to small-scale enterprises, BEDEPE could also help
revitalize the banking sector by offering services to the SSEs as an adjunct to the lending
operations and filling the gaps mentioned frequently by the officials of the SSEs that received its
assistance. Specific proposals were made in this connection to the monetary authorities, which
must now study the alternatives. Zaire needs comprehensive financing means for medium- and
long-term loans, such as exist in other developing countries.



-23 -                                          Annex I
page 1
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Related Bank Credits
Credit Title                            Purpose                             Year of               Status
Approval
190-ZR      Funding for commencement of opertions.                          1970    Fully disbursed
271-ZR      Long-term finance for productive investments;                   1971    Fully disbursed
strengthen SOFIDE's appraisal capabilities
463-ZR      Long-term finance for productive investments;                   1973    Fully disbursed
strengthen SOFIDE's appraisal capabilities
710-ZR      Funding for import content of SOFIDE subprojects.               1977    Fully disbursed
998-ZR      Funding for foreign exchange cost of productive investments     1980    Fully disbursed
in Zaire; staff training, technical assistance & equipment
for SOFIDE.
1273-ZR     Funding for foreign exchange cost of productive investments     1982    Fully disbursed
in Zaire; technical asistance & policy studies for Government;
training, equipment & seminars for SOFIDE & CEPETEDE
1492-ZR     Foreign exchange financing for investment in Zaire;             1984    Fully disbursed and
technical assistance & policy studies for Government;                  closed December 31, 1990.
training, equipment & seminars for SOFME & CEPETEDE
1685-ZR     Foreign exchange financing for investment in Zalre;             1986    Commitments suspended on
technical assistance & policy studies for Government;                  investment components in
training, equipment & seminars for SOFIDE & CEPETEDE                   January 1989 and Credit closed
August 1st, 1992.
1708-ZRIA-19-ZR Industial Sector Adjustment Credit to support policy            1986    Fully disbursed and
reforms designed to increase the efficiency and productivity            closed June 30, 1988.
lof industrial entreprises                                              I



- 24 -                                      Annex 2
page 1
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Processing and Implementation Timetable
Item                     Planned      Revised      Actual
Preappraisal Mission                                                  Jul-86
Appraisal Mission                         Oct.-Nov. 86             Oct.-Nov. 86
Credit Negotiations                          Mar-87                 3/25-27/87
Board Approval                               5/5/87                   5/5/87
Credit Signature                                                     6/30/87
Credit Effectiveness                         9/1/87      12/31/87    12/2/87
Credit Closing                              12/31/95     12/31/94    12/31/93
Credit Completion                                                    12/31/93



-25-                                      Annex 3
page 1
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Loan Disbursements
(SDR)
Estimated      Actual      Actual as        Actual as %
Fiscal Year    Cumulative    Cumulative    of EstiFated   of IDA Standards
1988        791,020.34   1,017,257.90   128.60%          87.13%
1989      3,243,183.38   3,876,052.75   119.51%          90.54%
1990      6,802,774.90   6,747,966.96    99.19%          82.57%
1991     10,836,978.62   8,079,108.35    74.55%          66.97%
1992     14,554,774.20   8,893,637.57    61.10%          55.74%
1993     17,244,243.35   8,984,983.56    52.10%          49.12%
1994     19,459,100.29   8,813,175.48    45.29%          45.29%
Disbursements by Component (SDR)
Estimated     Revised         Actual        Acul as %
of Estimated
Component 1  17,810,000.00  17,369,277.00    7,570,658.89         42.5 1%
Component 2    1,350,000.00   1,600,000.00    411,795.73          30.50%
Component 3     640,000.00    830,723.00      830,720.86         129.80%
19,800,000.00  19,800,000.00    8,813,175.48        44.51%



- 26 -                                      Annex 4
page 1
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Status of Compliance with Major Covenats
Covenant                              Status
1     The aggregate amount lent under Sub-loans for free-standing    In compliance
working capital must not exceed 25% of the amount allocated
to Category 1 and such Sub-loans must be restricted to
existing Investmnent Enterprises in productive sectors. (Sect.
=-2.04 of the Project Agreement)
2     The Bank of Zaire shall have the accounts of the Project, of    In compliance
the Project Management Unit and of the Special Account
audited each fiscal year, by independant auditors acceptable to
the Association (sect. 3.01 of the Project Agreement)    _
3     The onlending rate applied on behalf of the Borrower shall be    In compliance
reviewed at least every year (sect. 3.05 of the Development
Credit Agreement)
4     The Borrower must set aside, out of the interest it receives on    In compliance
the relending of the proceeds of the Credit, an amount equal to
1% point of such interest, until an amount equivalent to
$200,000 shall have been accumulated (sect. 3.09 of the
Development Credit Agreement)
5     The Borrower shall furnish to the Association an action  Not in compliance
program satisfactory to the Association aimed at strengthening
the COOCECS (sect. 3.10 of the Development Credit
_Agreement)



-27 -                                       Anc= 5
page 1
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Use of Bank Resources - Mission Data
Stage of     Date      No. of    Days in            Specialization           Performance
Project Cycle I (NM      persons     field             Represented             Rating Status
I) Trough Appraisal
Appraisal       11/86       5          20    Two operation officers,
two senior operation officers
two consultants
Post Appraisal   03/87      3          19    Two operation officers,
one consultant
II) Supervision
Supervision     07/88       4          12    Operation officer, senior operation     2
officer, two consultants
Supervision     04/89       3          14    Operation officer,                      2
two senior operation officers
Supervision     02/90       2          4      Senior operation officer,              2
operation officer
Supervision     10/90       1          8      Senior operation officer               2
Supervision     03/91       1          7      Senior operation officer               2
Supervision     05/92       1          9      Senior operation officer               3



ZAIRE                                                                               Annex 6
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                           page 1 of 3
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Subprojects financed tinder the apex line of credit
Recipient               Sector            Region    Approval lotal project Authorizdl l1oan Amount Intetest Matunty (race per     Cancellation             Net Amount Lent
Date   cost (SDR)    SDR         USS      Rate  (months) (monthis   date       SDR        USS        SDR        USS
A) SOFlDE
Stlr CorLsumtion         IITP                  Kasa or      12/30/87    205,949    12S,172    10,032   30%         42        6                                   123,172     180,032
Autopamo                 Services              Bas-Zaire      1/5/38    165,394     74,48S     105,273    35%       47       1 1                                   74,483     105.273
Muanda fishing           Peche                 Baa-Zare       115/S    173I,212    109,377    154,581   35%         42       I3                                   109,377     154,581
Kamola                   Tranport              Nord Kivu      1/6/8S     31,306     71,991     100,364   35%        36        6                                    71,991     100,364
Chamnbu                  Tranport              Nord Kivu     I3n/l8                106,990    149,157                              12/1/88   106.990   149,157          0           0
B.R.K.                   Industria a*imr       Shaba          2/1/SS    185,595     76,233     103,939   30%        54       12                                    76,233     103,939
Comakin                  Trasport              Bandundu       2/1/83     41,995     22,462      30,626   30%        36        6                                    22,462      30.626
C.F.K                    Trnuspoft             Kasal oc.     2/12/83     73,132     43,029      53,329   30%        36        6                                    43,029      58,329
CPAKI                    Transport             Nord Kivu      3/4/k8                77,494     104,377                             6/1 1/90    77.494    104,877        0           0
Massamba                 Tr-port               Kasal occ.    3/25/88                41,940      57,414                              7/6/89    41,940    57.414          0           0
Kus. Nkukulu             Tranport              Kasal oe.     4/12/88                45,269      62,065                             7/10/90    45,269    62,065          0           0
Minokin                  Agro-industrie        Kinshasa       6/3/88                16,737      22.617                              7/6/89    16,737    22,617          0           0
Sangs Sam,               Tranport              Bandundu       6/31/8    155,125     90,790     122,689   30%        36        4                                    90,790     122,689
DAS.                     Transport             Kasa oec.     6/10/88    152.303     75,303     102,S39   30%        36        3                                    75,303     102,839
Banga & frls             Agriculture           I taut-Zaire    6/10/88  40,272      25,313      34,332   40%        42       12                                    255,318     34,332   t'
tVVR-                    Transport             Shaba         7/15/88    148,413     81,507     106,005    40%       42       12                                    81,507     106,005    o
Zhiako                   Trawport              Shaba         7/15/88    240,725    108,262     140,069   40%        42       12                                   108,262     140,069
Acofin                   Agro-industrie        Sud Kivu      7/25/88    285,139    160,395    208,243    40%        54        6                                   160,395    208,248
A. Kony                  Agro-industrie        Sued Kivu     7/27/88                54.389      74,975                             6/11/90    54,389    74,975          0           0
IEthy izlre              Tr usport             Kiaoliasa     9/30/88                88,904     114,323                              7/6/89    88,904   114,323          0           0
Efana                    Industric aliim.      Sliaba        10/4/88    293,490    178,431    230,150   40%         52       16                                    178,431    230,150
C A P.                   Elevage                3as-Zalre    30/5/88    173,099    123,300     169,039   40%        60       24                                    123,300    169,039
Polymbu                  Sunte                 Kasa or.      12/1/88    150,297    104,705     142,860    40%       48                                             104,705    142,360
Prechimneo               Industrie             ilaut-Zalre   12/21/88    277,655    204,998    274,347   40%        33                                            204,993    274,347
Sangiro                  Aviculture            Kinslasa  1 2/2U8    369,999    274,148    356,213   40%            102       12                                   274,148    356,213
putsua                   Menuiscric            Kinshaa        I3/t/89    17,539     12,761      17,100   42%        42                                              12,761     17,100
Flat hotel               Services              Kinshasa      1/30/39    343,268    227,226    298,959   42%         78        4                                   227,226    298,959
Aluaka                   Industric alimr       Kinshasa      1/30/39               203,935    270,000                              6/11/90   203,935   270.000          0           0
Utracaf                  Agro-induutrie        Kinshasa       3/9/89               100,577    130,750                               7n/90   100,577    130,750          0           0
Muabi                   ItndusUrie alim.       Kawal or.     16/89      92,465      48,049      67,300   42%        54        6                                    48,049      67,800
Esso agri                Agro-industrie        Ilaut-Zare    4/26/89               143,953     136,279                             7/10/90   143,953   186.279          0           0
APZ/T,emvo               Agro-industrie        Bai-ZaIre     6/11329               108,521    133,741                              6/11/90   108,521   133.741          0           0
Saniza                   Agro-industrie        Kinshas       6/12/89               116,495    143,563                               7n2/89   116.495   143,568          0           0
Sozscomin                Agra-industrie        Equateur      6/12/89                62,603      77,153                             6/11/90    62,608    77,158          0           0
Frigen                   Senrvies              Kinshasa       3/3/89                63,796      88,353                             6/11/90    63,796    38,353          0           0
Ndaze                    Transpoit             Kinshas       9/15/89               108,798      333,494                            6/11/90   108,798   1383494          0           0
Carro-Zztre              Construction          Kinshaa       9/15/89    317,277    182,488    238,863   65%         60       12                                    182,433    2338,63
Evangeltas               Industrie alim.       Shaba         3/13/90    271,334    177,070    232,317   65%         57       I5                                   177.070    232,317
AlIas Service            Serviees              Shaba         3/13/90    338,477    257,823    338,265   65%         52       10                                   257,823    338,265
Mukap       -            Industrie slim.       Shaba         8/10/90    153,954    104 936    137,493    45%        60       12                                    1 04,936   137,493
rhutal /S(FIDE (40 projets)                  I_ __                   4,757,4 1 4   4,309,1373   5,704,508   =   =                         3,345,406  1,753,771  2.963,767   3,950,737



ZAI RE                                                                              Annex 6
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                          page 2 of 3
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Subprojccts fiunanced utidcr (he apex linc of credit
Recipient               Secdor           Region    Approval Total project Autlioized Loan Amount Intierest Malurity Ctrace per.  Cancellition            Net Amount l1ent
Recipient     Datk   cost (SDR)    SDR         liSS     Rate  (months) (months)   date       SDiR       USS       SDR         USS
B) Union zuTrolso de bainques (IJZB)
Jiji alimeiuaatioui      Agro-industrie        Kinshas      7/11/88    269,231    205.680    266,106   43%                                                       205,680    266,106
Silver mousse            Industrie            Kinsaus,.     8/22/88    256,912    202,981    260,870   43%                                                       202,981     260,870
La forestiee             Exploitation rorestire   Haut-Zalre  M2288    280,769    225,000    288,000   43%                                                       225,000    288,000
1'ruck Kin               Transport            Ilaut-Zate    11/21/88              207,051     280.000                             6/25/90  207,051   280,000           0           0
Mdater nostra            SUSnt                Kinshas       1/10/89     92.432     67,443      91,782   43%                                                       67,443      91.782
Katemno Kah.            Industrie             Kinshas       2/27/89    237,094    189,690    250,049   53%                                                       189,690    250,049
Ktinobola               Industrie alim.       Kinshsa        6/2/89    296.003    211.663    274,038   53%                                                       211,663    274,038
Ll.R                    Industrie             Kinshasa       /10/89    312,615    225,283    279,685   68%                                                       225,283    279,685
Kenzs                    Services             Kinshua       8/17/89    247,531    198.025    240.792   68%                                                       198,025    240,792
Travinoki                TIransport           Nord Kivu    8U29/89    309,199     147,687     186,545   68%                                                       147,687    186,545
Yolo m6dical             Sante                Kinshasa      2/15/90    308,342    247,987    326,699   63%                                                       247,987    326,699
Sotragel                Trarrport             Kinsba.       5/22/90    356,678    205,800    272,134   45%                                                       205,800    272,134
Fantshi                  Industuie            Kinsha         2/1/91    208,010     95,373     134,318   45% _        _                                            95,373     134,318
A/totl UZB (13 projets)_                                        3,174,816   2,429,663   3,151,018                                      207,051   280,000   2,222,612   2,871,018



ZAIRE                                                                                 AnnCx 6
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                             page 3 of 3
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Subprojccts fitaice d untdcr Ilc apcx linc of credit
Recipiit        |        Sector           Region    Approval Total project Authorized Loan Amount |teret Maturity Grace per         Cancellbtion              Net Amnount Lcnt
_________   I)ate   cost (SDR)       SDR         tJSS     Rate  (months) (mond)   date         SDR        USS        SDR         USS
C) Banque conunlerciale zalrolse (BCZ)
Chambu                   Industriu alitr.       Nord Kivu      7/6/18    153,099      90,731     111.142   41%        69       21                                     90.781     118,142
Medinject                Industisi phasmaceutique Kinshasa    10/n/83    267,455     1g3,000    242.965    42%        72       12                                    133,000    247,965
Poma                      p6che                 Baa-Zaire    12/20/83    203,153      95.000    129,090    41%        72       12                                     95,000     121,090
Ariisan ahabien          Aitisrnt               Shaba        12/20/33                144,055    194,474                                1990   144,055    194,474           0           0
Zongo                     Agro-industui         Equateur     12/23/18    253.692     141,510    1s9,963    41%        72       12                                    141.510     189.963
Agrika                   Agro-inuistric         Shaba 1h27/89    206,716             160.460    215,016    42%        42        6                                    160,460    215.016
Yav a Muydt              Imnprimesie            Shaba         1t27/99   263,273      153,927    201,906   41%         78       is                                    153.927    201,906
Engemak                  Conatnction            Kinshasa       19/9/9    172,602      77,697     92,651   41%         34       24                                     77.697      92.651
Zat tourisme             Touaume                Nord Kivu     3/1/8/9    101,547      47.162     61.311    41%        60       12                                     47,162      61,311
Mast rMind ZaIre         Industrie              Nord Kivu     3/1 s89                159,536    207,396                                1990   159,536   207,396            0           0
Ngba Tunbakis             Agro-industile       Ilaut-Zatre    3/15/39    209,349      98,013    127,423    41%       10        I8                                     93,01     127,423
Fka                       Industric alimnLauire  Kinahasa     3/14/39    150,063      11,792     106,330    52%       63       IS5                                    81,792     106,330
Saya                     Industrie              Shaba         3/1 U99   196,39 8      85,445     111,079    51%       26        6                                     85,445    111,079
Femco                     Indutuic chimique     Kinsha        4/26/89    252,956     149,195     193,953    51%       34       1 2                                   149,195    193,953
Halvaco                  Industric dianique     Kinshasa      5/10/89                149,825     191,192                               1990   149,825    191,192           0           0
Top rood                  Industeicalinmntaire  Kinhasa       5/12/39                104.415    133,254                                 1990   104,415    133,254          0           0  ~
Maison m&dicale           Sunth                liaut-ZaTs     5/19/89     21.281      16,199     20,262   66%         60       12                                      16.199     20.262
Alsa peinture             Indulric chimique     Kinshau       5/30/89    323,702     213,217    272,902    52%        60       12                                    218,217    272,902
Polydainiie              Indutricc himique      Kinshaa       5/31/89                173,656    217,174                                1990   173,656   217,174            0           0
Cotolu                    Agriculture           Shaba         6/26/99   30S,415    246,449    316,794   66%           34       24                                    246,449    316.794
Cetraca                   Agriculture           Nord Kivu     7/14/39    305,793'    245,243    299,803    66%        42        6                                    245,243    299,803
Bek                     Ihuastric               Kinshas       7/14/89    310,852     235,494    293,895   66%         36       12                                    235,494    298,895
Kabwika                  hnprimeric             Shabs          3/99    305,403       207,415    268,539   66%         60       12                                    207,415    268,539
SAC.                      Industrie             Shaba h/17/89    161,3S0             11s,564     156,582   41%        21        8                                     118,564    156,532
Ctombilin                 Agriculturm           Bandundu      8181u89    296,072     110,207     135,637   66%        84       12                                     110,207    135,637
I'olytex                  lnduatie              Kinshasu     10/19/89    296,701     207,875    263,953   66%         48        9                                    207,875    263,953
Shakila                  Services               Nord Kivu     VI 5/90    192,329     106,580     138,914   60%        60       12                                    106,580     138,914
Sogena                    Sarvicr               Kinshasa      3/12/90    240,975      72.770     92,233    67%        72       18                                     72,770      92,238
Wagenta                  lndurie               Kinhas        5/23/90    323,664    227,170    289,932   45%          72       12                                    227,170    239,932
Shirley-Zatre             nustri, alimentaire   Kinshasa      6/23/90    291,130     171,068    223,034    45%       120       24                                    171,068    223.084
Sozalu                   Industrie              Kinshasa      6nuLs90    300,827    210,635    273,03s   45%          66        6                                    210,635    278,038
Cogeboza                  Agriculture           Iandundu      7/13/90     77,457      51.246     65,904    45%        72       12                                     51,246      65,904
Nosna                     Agriculture           Shaba         7/13/90     97,636      23,107     36,353    45%        30        4                                     23,107      36,353
Savinu                   Indusrie               Sud Kivu      7/13/90    328,291    192,310    252,523   45%          72       24                                    192,310    252,523
ExfOIki                   Exploitation rtirc  Ilaut-Zatre   10/15/90    206,531      160,275    206,204    45%        60       24                                    160,275     206,204
Tranfleuve                Tras-pot              Kinshaa       11/6/90    334,100     138,780    220,796   45%         67       1 3                                    133,780    220,796
Akre                      Agro-industrie        IauL-Zatre   IV14/90    242,000     171,457    238,084   45%         78       IS                                    171,457    238,084
Mura Swanepoel           Agro-industric         Shaba         2/13/91    315,915    237,485    333,025   45%          84       36                                    237,485    333,025
Cogest                    Services              Kinshasa      3/28/91    442,666    20K,614    300,000   45%          57        9                                    208.614    300,000
Atot l BCZ (39 Projets)5                                          8.154,433   5.682,634   7.440,786                                       731,487   943,490   4.951,147   6,497,296
Total touta banqucs (92 oioets)                                       16.086,663  12,421,470  16,296,312                                     2,283,944  2,977.261  10,137,526  13,319,051



- 31 -
ZAIRE                                                      Annex 7
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                 page 1 of 2
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Subprojects financed under the apex line of credit (by region)
Recipiclt              Sedor         Approval Total project Authonized Loan Amount  Net Amount Lent
Dafe  cost (SDR)    SDR         USS         SDR        USS
A) Kinshasa
Minokin               Agro-indstrie           613/S8                16.737     22,617          0          0
Tiji alimenta*ion     Agro'-indsic           7/11/82   269,231    205,680    266,106    205,680    266,106
Silver mouse          Indukie                8/22/88   256,912    202,981    260,870    202,981    260,870
Ethy Zzk              Transpot               9/30/28               88,904    114,323           0          0
Medinjent             Indusrie phamcacutique  10/7/88   267,455    188,000    242,965    188,000    242,965
Sangiro               Avulie                12/28/88   369,999    274,148    356,218    274,148    356,21S
Putsua                Mcnuiscrie              1/8/S9    17,539      12,761     17,100      12,761     17,100
Eng-ak                C       _asuetion       1/9/19    172,602    77,697      92,651     77,697      92,651
Mawr noaa             Sal"                   1/10/89    92,432     67,443      91,722     67,443      91,7S2
Flat hotcl            Savics                1/30/89    348,268    227,226    298,959    227,226    298,959
Alaska                Industrie ai           1130/89              203,935    270,000           0          0
Kateo KlaL            Indurie                2/27/89   237,094    189,690    250,049    189,690    250,049
Utrcaf                Ao-indie                3/9/89               100,577    130,750          0          0
Eka                   Lndstrie ulimntake     3/14/89    150.063    81,792    106,330      31,792    106,330
Femco                 idutrie chimique       4f26/89    252,956    149,195    193,953    149,195    193,953
Halvaco               Indussriedimique      5/10/89               149,825    191,192          0          0
Top food               Indutie aimcntair     5/12/89               104,415    133,254          0          0
ALas peinture        T1ndstie chimique       5130/89   323,702    218,217    272,902    218,217    272,902
Polychimie             Industriecimiquc      5131/99               173,656    217,174          0          0
Kiuobola              Indiztic a1inL          6N2/99   296,003    211,663    274,038    211,663    274,038
Saniza                Agro-ki&stic           6/12/89               116,495    143,568          0          0
Bek                   Industic               7/14/S9    310,852    235,494    298,893    235,494    298,895
Fngen                 Servies                   3/89               68,796      88,353          0          0
LI.R                  Indusic                8/10/89   312,615    225,283    279,685    225,283    279,685
Kenza                 Services               S/17/89   247,531    198,025    240,792    198,025    240,792
Ndaze                 Transpot               9/15/29               108,798    138,494          0          0
Carro-Zafre           Coauuctiai             9/15/89   317,277    182,488    238,863    182,488    238,863
Polytex               Induatuie             10/19/89   296,701    207,875    263,953    207,875    263,953
Yolo m6dical          Sasth                  2/15/90   308,342    247,987    326,699    247,987    326,699
Sogea                 Serices                3/12/90   240,975     72,770      92,238     72,770      92,238
Sotrel                Transport              5/22190   356,678    205,800    272,134    205,800    272,134
Wagenta               Iudustrie              5/23/90    323,664    227,170    289,932    227,170    289,932
Shirley-Zalr          Industric dalietaire   6/28/90   291,130    171,068    223,084    171,068    223,084
sozalu                IDdustrii              62/890    300,827    210,635    278,038    210,635    278,038
Transfleuve           Tranpot                11/6/90   334,100    138,780    220,796    138,780    220,796
Fanuashi               Induic                 2/1/91    208,010    95,373     134.318      95,373    134,318
Cogest                 Services              3/28191   442,666    208,614    300,000    208.614    300,000
sibtotl (37 projecs)                             7,345,624   3,865,993   7,633,075   4,733,355   6,183,350
B) Haut-Zaire
Banp & fils           Apiatltwu              6/10/18    40,M2      25,318      34,332     25,318      34,332
La forcStikM          Exploition foreie    8/2VS    280,769    225,000    288,000    225,000    288,000
Tnrck Kin             Transpot              11/21/ 8             207,051    280,000           0          0
Prechimoo             Indsic                12/21/88   277,655    204,998    274,347    204,998    274,347
Ngba Tambakis         Apo-indstrie           3/15/89   209,349     98,018    127,423      98,018    127,423
Esso agri             Ago-indusric           4/26/89               143,953    186,279          0          0
Maisn mdicule          Santc                 5/19/89    21,281      16,199     20,262      16,199     20,262
Exforki               Exploitation forstitre   10/15/90   206,531    160,275    206,204    160,275    206,204
Alefe                 Agrindustric          12/14/90    242,000    171,457    238,084    171.457    238.084O
Ltota(9 projects)                              1,277,857   1,232269   1,654,931    901,265   1,188,652
C) Bas-ZaTre
Autopamo              Services                1/3/18    165,394    74,488    105,273      74,4s8    105,273
Muanda fishing        pbe                     1/3/88    173,212    109,377    154,581    109,377    154,521
C.AP.                 Elevage                1015/88    173,099    123,300    169,039    123,300    169,039
Poam                  P8che                 12/20/88   203,158     95,000    128,090      95,000    128,090
APZ/Temvo              AgoF     ie           6/12/89                108,521    133,741        0          0
subtotal (5 Projects)                            71 .863    510,686    690,724   402,165    556.983



- 32 -
ZAIRE                                                        Annex 7
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                   page 2 of 2
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Subprojects financed under the apex line of credit (by region)
Recipici                Sec           Approval Total project Authorized Loan Amount   Net Amount LetY
Date   cost (SDR)    SDR         USS         SDR         USS
D) Nord Klvu
Kamola                 Transpot                 1/6/8     81,306      71,991    100,364      71,991     100,364
Chambu                 Transpon                 1/7l88               106,990     149,157          0           0
CPAKI                  Transport                3/41/S                77,494    104,M             0           0
Chambu                 Industric alinL          7/6/88    153,099     90,781     118,142     90,781    118.142
Za.1tourisme           Tounme                  3/11/89    101,547     47,162     61,311      47,162      61,311
Maer Mind ZAkM         Indusaiz                3/18U89               159,536    207,396           0           0
CcUsc                  Agri,cutum              7/14189    305,793   245,243     299,803     245,243     299,803
Trvinoki               TrAnsport               8/29/89    309,199    147,687     186,545    147,687     186,545
Sba-ila                Services                2115/90    192,829    106,580    138,914     106,580     138,914
subtotal (9 pvjec-)                               1,143,773   1,053,464   1,366,509   709,444    905,079
E) Sud Kivu
Arfi&                   Agro-ind-ie            7/25/88    285,139    160,395    208,248     160,395     208,243
A. Kony                Agro-indshtie           77/88                  54,389     74,975           0           0
Saviru                 Industrie               7/13/90    328,291    192,310    252,523     192,310    252,523
aus-total (3 projets)                              613.430    407,094      535,746    352,705     460.771
E) Shaba
B.RK.                  Industie aliim           2/1/88    185,595     76,233    103,939      76,233     103,939
ICV.R                  Transport               7/15/88    148,413     81,507    106,005      81,507     106,005
Z7ako                  Trnspot                 7/15/88   240,725     108,262     140,069     108,262    140,069
Efan                   Industzie alim          10/4188   298,490     178,431    230,150     178,431    230,150
Artissahabie           Artisant2              12/20/88               14.4,055   194,474           0           0
AilA                   Agro-industie           1/277/9    206,716    160,460    215,016     160,4.60    215,016
Y&avaMuyct             Inspimae                1/27/89    263,278    153,927    201,906     153,927    201,906
Says                   Indusbic                3/118/9    196,398     85,445     111,079     85,445     111,079
Coto1u                 AVi-Lre                 6f261S9    308,415    246,449    316,794    246.449    316,794
Kabw&a                 Imprizie                 U/9/S9    305,403    2071415    268,539    207,415    268,539
S.AC.                  Industic                8117/89    161,880    118,564    156,582     118,564     156,582
Evanelalos             Industrie alinL         3/13/90    271,334    177,070    232,317     177,070    232,317
Atlas Service          Savices                 3/13/90    338,477    257,823    338,265     257,823     338,265
Nomna                  Agicltumn               7t13/90    97,636      28,107     36,358      28,107      36,358
Mukap                  Industie ali.L          8/10/90    153,954    104,936    137,493     104,936     137,493
Mum Swanepoel          Agr-industic            2/13/91    315,915    237,485    333,025     237,485    333,025
subtotal (16 projects)                            3,492,629   2,366,169   3,122,011   2,222,114   2,927,537
G) Kasai oriental
Sta Casuion            BTP                    12/30/S7    205,949    128,172    180,032     128,172     180,032
Polymbu                Sane                    12t1/88    150,297    104,705    142,860     104,705     142,860
Muabi                  Industrie alimL          /26/89    92.465     48,049      67,800      4S,049      67,800
sutotal (3 projects)                               448,711    280,926    390,692      2S0,926    390,692
H) Kas;T occidental
C.F I.                 Transport               2/12/88    73,132      43,029     5S,329      43,029      58,329
Maamba                 Trunpo                 3/25/t8                41,940      57,414           0           0
KuLs Nkukulu           Transport              4/12/88                45,269      62,065           0           0
D.A.S.                 Tr.nport               6/10/88    152,303     75,808     102,39      75,808     102,839
subtot.a (4 projects)                              225,435    206,046    280,647      118,837     161,168
r) Bandundu
Comakin                Transport                2/1/88    41,995      22,462     30,626      22,462      30,625
Snga Sam               Transpot                 6/3/18    155,125     90,790    122,689      90,790     122,689
Combilin               Agriculture             8/18/89    296,072    110,207    135,637     110,207    135,637
Cogeboza               AgricuIUe               7113/90    77,457      51.246     65,904      51,246      65.904
subtotal (4 projects)                              570,649    274,705     354,856     274,705     354,856
J) Equateur
Zongo                  Agro-dustrie           12/23/88    253,692    141,510    189,963     141,510     189,963
Sozacomin              Agro-industrie         6/12189                62,608      77,15S           0           0
subtotal (2 projecs)       _                       253,692    204.118    267,121    141,510    189,963
Total                              I16,086,663  12.421,470  1 6,296.312  10,137.526  13,319,051



- 33 -                                                  Annex 8
page I of3
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPPvENT PROJECT
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Subprojects financed under the apex line of credit (by approval year)
Recipient       Region   Total projea Authorized Loan Amount Interest Maturity        Cancelations             Net Amount Lent
cost (SDR)    SDR         USS       Rate  (months)  date      SDR        US5        SDR         USS
1987
Star Constuction   Kasat or.     205,949     128,172     180,032    30%        42                                  128,172    180,032
198S
Autopamo          Bas-Zalre       165,394     74,488    105,273    35%         47                                   74,488    105,273
Muanda fishing    Bas-Zaire       173,212     109,377    154,581    35%        42                                  109,377    154,581
Kamola            Nord Kivu        81,306     71,991     100,364    35%         36                                  71,991    100,364
Chambu            Nord Kivu                   106,990    149,157                   12/l/8   106,990    149,157          0          0
B.RK              Shaba           185,595     76,233     103,939    30%         54                                  76,233    103,939
Comakin           Bandundu        41,995      22,462      30,626    30%         36                                  22,462      30,626
C.F.K.            Kasatocc.       73,132      43,029      58,329    30%         36                                  43,029      58,329
CPAKI             Nord Kivu                   77,494     104,877                   6/11190    77,494   104,877           0          C
Massamba          Kasai occ.                  41,940      57,414                    7/6/89    41,940     57,414          0          C
Kus. Nkukllu      Kasai occ.                  45,269      62,065                   7/10/90    45,269    62,065           0          C
Minokn            Kinshasa                     16,737     22,617                    7/6/89    16,737    22,617           0          C
Sanga Sam         Bandundu       155,125      90,790    122,689    30%         36                                   90,790    122,68S
DA.S.             KasaI occ.     152,303      75,808     102,839    30%         36                                  75,808    102,83S
Banga & fils      Haut-ZaIre      40,272      25,318      34,332    40%        42                                   25,318      34,332
Chambu            Nord Kivu      153,099      90,781    118,142    41%         69                                   90,781    118,142
Jiji alimentation    Kinshasa    269,231     205,680    266,106    43%                                             205,680    266,106
K.V.R             Shaba          148,413      81,507    106,005    40%         42                                   81,507    106,005
Zhako             Shaba          240,725     108,262    140,069    40%         42                                  108,262    140,069
Acofin            Maniema        285,139     160,395    208,248    40%          54                                 160,395    208,242
A. Kony           Mandiena                    54,389      74,975                   6/11/90    54,389    74,975           0          C
Silver mousse     Kinshasa       256,912    202,981    260,870    43%                                              202,981    260,870
La forestiere     Haut-ZaIre     280,769    225,000    288,000    43%                                              225,000    288,000
Ethy Zaire        Kinshasa                    88,904     114,323                    7/6/89    88,904   114,323           0          C
Efana             Shaba          298,490     178,431    230,150    40%1a       52                                  178,431    230,15C
CAP.              Bas-Zaire      173,099     123,300    169,039    40%/a       60                                  123,300    169,03S
Medinject         Kinshasa       267,455     188,000    242,965    42%         7_                                  188,000    242,96'
Truck Kin         Haut-ZaIre                 207,051    280,000                    6/25/90  207,051   280,000            0          C
Polymbu           Kasal or.      150,297     104,705     142,860    40%        48                                  104,705    142,86C
Poma              Bas-Zaire      203,158      95,000     128,090    41%        72                                   95,000    128,09C
Artisans shabicn    Shaba                    144,055     194,474                   6/12/05   144,055   194,474           0          c
Prechimco         Haut-ZaIre     277,655     204,998    274,347    40%         33                                  204,998    274,341
Zongo             Equateur       253,692     141,510     189,963    41%        72                                  141,510    189,96-
Sangiro           Kinshasa       369,999     274,148    356,218    40%        102                                  274,148    356,2U
subtotal 19881            4,696,467   3,757,023   4,993,946                           782,829  1,059,902   2,974,194   3,934,04c



- 34 -                                               Anx8
page 2 of 3
ZAIRE
SMfALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Subprojects financed under the apex line of credit (by approval year)
Recipient      Region   Total project Authorized Loan Amount Interest Maturity      CanceUatic              Net Amnunt Lent
cost (SDR)    SDR        USS      Rate  (months)  date      SDR        USS        SDR        USS
1989
Putsua           Kinshasa         17,539     12,761     17,100    42%        42                                  12,761     17,100
Engemak          Kinshasa        172,602     77,697      92,651    41%       8-4                                 7T7,697    92,651
Mater nosta      Kiashasa         92,432     67,443      91,782    43%                                           67,443     91,782
Muabi            Kasal or.        92,465     48,049      67,800    42%       54                                  48,049     67,800
Agika            Shaba           206,716    160,460    215,016    42%        42                                 160,460    215,016
Ya a Muyet       Shaba          263,278    153,927    201,906    41%         78                                 153,927    201,906
Flat hdtel       Kinshasa        348,268    227,226    298,959    42%        78                                 227,226    298,959
Alaska           Kinshasa                   203,935    270,000                   6/11/90  203,935   270,000           0          0
Katemno Kah.     Kinshasa       237,094     189,690    250,049    53%                                           189,690    250,049
Utracf           Kinshasa                   100,577    130,750                    7/7/90   100,577   130,750          0          0
Eka              Kinshasa        150,063     81,792    106,330    52%        63                                  81,792    106,330
Ngba Tambakis    Haut-Zaire      209,349     98,018    127,423    41%        108                                 98,018    127,423
ZaIre toussme    Nord ivu        101,547     47,162      61,311    41%       60                                  47,162     61,311
Master Mind ZaIre Nord Kivu                 159,536    207,396                     1990   159,536   207,396           0          0
Sava             Shaba           196,398     85,445    111,079    51%        26                                  85,445    111,079
Esso agri        Haut-Zalre                 143,953    186,279                   7/10/90   143,953   186,279          0          0
Femco            Kmnshasa       252,956     149,195    193,953    51%        84                                 149,195    193,953
Halvaco          Kinshasa                   149,825    191,192                     1990   149,825   191,192          0          0
Top food        KYnshasa                    104,415    133,254                     1990   104,415   133,254          0          0
Maison mdicale  rIaut-Zalre       21,281     16,199     20,262    66%        60                                  16,199     20,262
Alsa peinture    Kinshasa       323,702    218,217    272,902    52%         60                                 218,217    272,902
Polychimie       Kshasa                     173,656    217,174                     1990   173,656   217,174          0          0
Kittobola        Kirishasa      296,003    211,663    274,038    53%                                            211,663    274,038
APZ/Temvo        Ba,-Zaire                  108,521    133,741                   6/11/90   108,521   133,741         0          0
Saniza           Kinshasa                   116,495    143,568                    7/7/89   116,495   143,568         0          0
Sozacomin        Equateur                    62,608     77,158                   6/1 1/90    62,608    77,158        0          a
Cotolu           Shaba          308,415    246,449    316,794    66%         84                                 246,449    316,794
Cetraca          Nord Kivu      305,793    245,243    299,803    66%         42                                 245,243    299,803
Bek              Kinshas        310,852    235,494    298,895    66%         36                                 235,494    298,895
Fngen            Kmshasa                     68,796     88,353                   6/11/90    68,796    88,353         O          a
Kabwika          Shaba          305,403    207,415    268,539    66%         60                                 207,415    268,539
L. I. R          Kinshasa       312,615    225,283    279,685    68%                                            225,283    279,68S
Keu2a            Kinsbasa       247,531     198,025    240,792    68%                                           198,025    240,792
SAC.             Shaba           161,880    113,564    156,582    41%        21                                 118,564    156,582
Combilin         Bandundu       296,072     110,207    135,637    66%        S4                                 110,207    135,631,
Tramvicki        Nord Kivu      309,199     147,687    186,545    68%                                           147,687    186,545
Ndaze            Ki.sbasa                   108,798    138,494                  6/11/90   108,798   138,494          0          C -
Carro-Zalre      Kinshasa       317,277    182,488    238,863    65%         60                                 182,4S8    238,863
Polytex          Kinshasa       296,701     207,875    263,953    66%        48                                 207,875    263,953
subtotal S 9            6,1153,431   5.470,789   7.006,008                       1,501,115  1,917,359   3,969,674   5,088,64S



- 35 -                                              Annex 8
page 3 of 3
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Subprojects financed under the apex line of credit (by approval year)
Recipient       Region   Total project Authorized Loan Amount Interest Mantrity     Cancellations           Net Amount Lent
I cost (SDR)    SDR       USs      Rate  (months)  date       SDR       USS        SDR        USS
1990
Yolo m6dical     Kinsbasa        308,342    247,987    326,699    63%                                           247,987    326,69!
Shakila          Nord Kivu       192,829    106,580    138,914    60%        60                                 106,580    138,91'
Sogena           Kinshasa        240,975     72,770     92,238    67%        72                                  72,770     92,235
Evangelatos      Shaba           271,334    177,070    232,317    65%        57                                 177,070    232,31'
Atlas Service    Shaba           338,477    257,823    338,265    65%        52                                 257,823    338,26'
Sotragel         Kinshasa        356,678    205,800    272,134    45%                                           205,800    272,13'
Wagenta          Kinshasa        323,664    227,170    289,932    45%        72                                 227,170    289,93:
Shirley-Zaire    Kinshasa        291,130    171,068    223,084    45%       120                                 171,068    223,08"
Sozalu           Kinshasa        300,S27    210,635    278,038    45%        66                                 210,635    278,031
Cogeboza         Bandundu         77,457     51,246     65,904    45%        72                                  51,246     65,90.
Noma             Shaba            97,636     28,107     36,358    45%        30                                  28,107     36,355
Savima           Maniema         328,291    192,310    252,523    45%        72                                 192,310    252,52:
Mukap            Shaba           153,954    104,936    137,493    45%        60                                 104,936    137,49:
Exforki          Haut-Zalre      206,531    160,275    206,204    45%        60                                 160,275    206,20.
Transtleuve      Kinshasa        334,100    138,780    220,796    45%        67                                 138,780    220,794
Alefe            Haut-Zare       242,000    171,457    238,04    45%        78                                 171,457    238,0&
subtotal 90             4,064,25   2,524,014   3,348,983                                 0         0  2,524,014   3,348,98:
1991
Famatshi         Kinshasa        208,010     95,373    134,318    45%                                            95,373    134,31:
Mura Swanepoel   Shaba           315,915    237,485    333,025    45%        S4                                 237,485    333,02:
Cogest           Kinshasa        442,666    208,614    300,000    45%        57                                 208,614    300,00O
subtotal 91              966,591    541,472    767,343                          I        0 ____0   0    541,472    767,34:
Total                   16,086,663  12,421,470  16,296,312                        2,283,944  2,977,261  10,137,526  13,319,05



Annex 9
- 36 -
ZAIRE
SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Breakdown of subprojects financed under the Apex Credit Line in percentages
I) Percent of subprojects by lender
BanklName       Total Cost Authorized Amount      Cancellations     Net Amount Lent
(SDR)    SDR        USS       SDR       USS        SDR       USS
SOFIDE           29.57%    34.69%    35.00%    58.91%    58.91%    29.24%    29.66%
UZB            19.74%    19.56%    19.34%     9.070%    9.40%    21.92%    21.56%
BCZ            50.69%    45.75%    45.66%    32.03%    31.69%/   48.84%    48.78%
Total  1 00.00%   1 00.00%   100.00%  100.00%   100.00%  100.00%   100.00%
II) Percent of subprojects by year
Authorization Date  Total Cost Authorized Amount     Cancellations     Net Amount Lent
(SDR)    SDR        uss       SDR       USS       SDR        uss
1987            1.28%     1.03%     1.10%     0.00%     0.000%    1.26%     1.35%
1988           29.19%    30.25%    30.64%    34.28%    35.600/o   29.34%    29.54%
1989           38.25%    44.04%    42.99%    65.72%    64.40%    39.16%    38.21%
1990           25.26%    20.32%    20.55%     0.00%  -  0.00%    24.90%    25.14%
1991            6.01%     4.36%     4.71%     0.00%     0.00%     5.34%     5.76%
Total  100.00%   100.00%   100.00%   100.00%  100.00%   100.00%  100.00%
M) Percent of subprojects by Region
Regions       Total Cost Authorized Amount      Cancellations     Net Amount Lent
(SDR)    SDR        uss       SDR        uss      SDR        uss
Kinshasa                45.66%    47.22%    46.84%    49.57%    48.69%    46.70%    46.42%
Haut-Zaire               7.94%    10.08%    10.16%    15.37%    15.66%     8.89/e   8.92%
Bas-Zalre                4.44%    4.11%     4.24%     4.75%      4.49%     3.970/    4.18%
Nord Kivu                7.11%     8.48%     8.39%    15.06%    15.50%     7.00%     6.80%
Sud Kivu                 3.81%    3.28%     3.29%     2.38%      2.52%     3.48%     3.46%
Shaba                  21.71%    19.05%    19.16%     6.31%      6.53%    21.92%    21.98%
Kasai oriental           2.79%    2.26%     2.40%     0.00%      0.00%     2.77%     2.93%
Kasai occidental         1.40%     1.66%     1.72%    3.82%      4.01%     1.17%     1.21%
Bandundu                 3.55%    2.21%|   2.18%      0.00%      0.00%     2.71%     2.66%
Equateur                 1.58%     1.64%     1.64%    2.74%      2.59%     1.40%     1.43%
Total  100.00%   100.00%  100.00%   100.00%   100.00%   100.00%   100.00/c



ZAIRE                                                            Annex 10
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                 page I of 3
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Subprojects: Technical Assistance
Title                  Approval   Sector    Nwnber   Number          Training            Regions        Amount
._______________________    Date   _                    of days   of persons    Companies          concerned         SDR
Scminaires BEDEPE - Formation en         3/1/88     Bank      35 -75       16        CEPETEDE/   Kivu, Shaba,             170,000
Regions                                                                    24          ANEZA        Haut Zaire
Seminaires BEDEPE - Formation en         12/9/88    Bank       3 A 6                 CEPETEDE/   Equateur,                 23,000
Rcgions                                                                                ANEZA        Kasai (Oc/Or)
Bandudu, Bas-Zaire
BEDEPE - Audit Exercice 1988             5/3/89      SSEs                                                                   3,000
Conmmission ANEZA pour etude de projets    5/24/89  SSEs                                                                    8,600
BEDEPE - Scminaires sensibilisation      7/3/89      SSEs                             BEDEPE/    Bas-Zalre, Bandundu       12,300
ANEZA        Maniema, Equateur,
Shaba, Haut-Zaire
BEDEPE - Emissions Radio-                7/3/89      SSEs                          ANEZA, OPEZ,                             7,700
CEPETEDE, PFIS
Formation Personnel BEDEPE                9/8/89              10 A 17      3                                                1,100
Etude sur Programme formation            8/17/89     SSEs                              Centre                              12,200
Femmes Entrepreneurs                                                               Perfectionnement
en Administration
Commission ANEZA pour etude de projets    12/5/89               20                                                          S _   _  5,900
sous-total                                                                                 243,800



ZAIRE                                                          Annex 10
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                              page 2 of 3
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Subprojects Technical Assistance
Title                  Approval   Sector    Number   Number          Training            Regions        Amount
Date               of days   of persons    Companies          concerned         SDR
report                                                                                  243,800
Formation Personnel Institutions          2/6/90    Banks                  50        CEPETEDE,                             33,000
Financieres Participantes (Seminaires)                                                 ANEZA
Formation Personnel BEDEPE
Janvier - Decembre 1990 (Seminaires)     4/18/90                10         15        CEPETEDE                               8,816
Programme Supervision BEDEPE             5/23/90    Banks                                           Bas et Haut-Zalre,      7,700
Shaba, Nord-Kivu
00
Contrat A.T. M. Le Corre                 5/24/90                                                                          202,000
(9/15/89 - 9/15/91)
Seminaire Evaluation Financiere ct       6/21/90     SSEs       73         20        CEPETEDE                              24,300
Technique des Projets
Seminaire Supervision des Projets        9/27/90     SSEs       16         26          ANEZA                               10,600
Commission ANEZA pour etude de projets    12/6/90    SSEs                                                                   6,900
Sdminaire Financement de l'Entreprise    12/7/90     SSEs       80         3         CEPETEDE                               5,520
pour Personnel OPEZ
Audit Comptes BEDEPE                     12/27/90                                                                           6,354
sous-total ISI               I         I          I _                _                     548,990



Annex 10
page 3 of 3
ZAIRE
SMALL SCALE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit 1791-ZR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Subprojects: Technical Assistance
Title                  Approval   Sector    Number   Number           Training            Regions        Amount
Date                of days   of persons    Companies          concerned         SDR
report                                                                                   548,990
Module 'Tronc Commun" (financement
entreprises) pour personnel UZB, NBK,     5/16/91                90          6     CEPETEDE                                  16,200
BCA, OPEZ
Formation Personnel Banques et           10/15/91                           11    CEPETEDE                                   21,298
Institutions Financieres Participantes
'0
Programme formation Informatique          12/4/91                                  CEPETEDE/                                  8,980
Cadres du BEDEPE                                                                   ASYST
Mission Supervision Projets BEDEPE        12/4/91                                                                             4,777
Honoraires KPMG pour Audit Comptes
BEDEPE 1990                               4/21/92            .                                                                7,580
Total volet "assistance technique"                                                                                     607,825



- 40 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 5
COMMENTS AND OBSVERVATIONS MADE BY PROJECT PARTICIPANTS
(Translation)
1.     On the Mechnism Itself
(a)    The establishment of an apex institution to channel large volumes of external resources to
the SSEs is evidently of definite benefit. Beyond opening up the mechanism to a large
number of finncial intermediaries and the involvement of the supervisory institutions,
which in many cases is an assurance of success in the operations financed, the project was
truly able to promote a rapprochement between the primary donor (World Bank) and the
final beneficiary. This rapprochement is reflected in reasonable refinancing costs and
timefiames.
(b)    The availability of funds in foreign exchange, the shouldering of the exchange risk by the
Govermnent and the possibility offered to clients of long repayment periods and deferred
depreciation have all constituted encouraging factors.
(c)    These benefits notwithstanding, the participants indicated that project design did not
sufficiently take into account the internal constraints on the institutions identified as project
participants.
The major constraints would include:
(a)   the limited decision-making power of the branch offices and agencies of the PFIs in the
regions with regard to the granting of loans. This factor often protracted the formalities
and partially accounts for low regional participation;
(b)    shortages of human and physical resources at the SSE support and supervisory
institutions, primarily within the regional offices (e.g. ANEZA and OPEZ);
(c)    the inefficiency, or non-existence in certain regions, of competent consulting firms that
could carry out reliable feasibility studies within reasonable periods and that could provide
support for the credit applications. This constraint often forces the banks to act both as
consulting firm and financial agency. Under such conditions, delays in the review of
applications were inevitable;
(d)    the high cost of the studies; it was stressed that in some cases the cost of studies ranged
from US$3,000 to 9,000;
(e)    the size of eligible enterprises (maximum SDR 310,000), as well as the credit ceiling
applicable to project funds (measured by the balance sheet total not exceeding a maximum



- 41 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 5
of SDR 248,000). These dual criteria posed an obstacle to participation by the
commercial banks, which traditionally work with substantially larger enterprises;
(f)   the problem of inadequate equity in the SSEs; the project did nothing to address this
problem and as such did not provide an incentive for the PFIs to increase their fiancing
volume to the SSEs facing this difficulty;
(g)    moreover, the solution envisaged by the feasibility study of gradually establishing a
guarantee fund of up to US$200,000 did not provide an imrnediate solution to the thorny
problem of guarantees.
2.     On project implementation
2.1    Difficulties encountered
With the exception of SOFIDE, which had long experience in medium- and long-term credit, the
startup of this operation in the commercial banks ran into serious obstacles, the most important of which
are noted below:
*       TWith regard to the banks and their clientele
the lack of reception facilities and personnel with professional experience in medium- and
long-term credit within the commercial banks;
the requirements of BEDEPE with regard to the submission of the refinancing
applications;
the traumatic experience with the indexed credits granted previously on certain external
lines of credit as well as a lack of confidence vis-a-vis the Government with regard to the
possibility of the actual shouldering of the exchange risk and other tax benefits;
difficulties associated with the preparation of financing applications in accordance with
generally accepted bankability standards;
the difficulties encountered by the commercial banks at the start of the project with regard
to project supervision. However, the organization of joint missions with BEDEPE experts
gradually overcame this obstacle;
the insufficient information disseminated by BEDEPE on the various services it could offer
in terms of technical assistance, particularly with regard to the possibility of assuming the
cost of studies and the cost of management assistance for subprojects encountezing
difficulties;



- 42 -
Annex 11
Page 3 of 5
the nonutilization of the PFIs as a means of raising the awareness of economic agents.
*     With regard to support agencies and supervision
-     the shortage of physical and financial means;
-     the shortage of human resources, particularly at the regional level;
-      poor regional representation of certain agencies (e.g. OPEZ);
-      shortage of operating funds associated with dependence on the State budget (e.g. OPEZ).
3.    Relations Between Project Participants and BEDEPE
Overall, the participants considered the relations between BEDEPE and the various partners to be
excellent. In particular, the availability of BEDEPE's technical services to respond to all requests from the
PFIs and oversee the analysts in their work was mentioned.
Several complaints were nevertheless made with regard to BEDEPE, primarily as regards:
1.    The length of the refinancing authorization procedure, especially during the review of the
first three briefs submitted by the commercial banks which had to be approved by the World Bank.
In this connection, it was nevertheless pointed out that although there were delays attributable to
the review of the briefs, they were due in most cases to the internal procedures of the PFIs and not to
slowness on the part of BEDEPE.
2.     Cumbersome disbursement procedures: the PFIs in this connection mentioned that the
SSE beneficiaries of their financing did not always comply with the agreed investment programs and often
made modifications unbeknownst to them.
The PFIs criticized BEDEPE for a lack of flexibility in its review of requests for disbursements,
when changes had been made to the program without prior authorization.
3.    The existence, at the start of the project, of problems related to standardizing the
accounting systems, resulting in a lack of agreement on the value dates for the posting of disbursements
made by BEDEPE.
4.    The late notification of the PFIs by the Current Account Departnent of the Banque du
Zaire of operations made in their favor by BEDEPE. Delays that ranged from four to six months placed
the PFIs in the position of not being able to onlend the funds themselves to the final beneficiaries and hence
to activate the repayment schedule. All of these errors nevertheless were corrected by BZ Circular 260,
which in particular introduced a new procedure for notification of BEDEPE disbursements.



- 43 -
Annex I1
Page 4 of 5
5.     Reluctance to grant refinancing in foreign exchange to one of the PFIs, when the
procedures expressly provided for this.
6.     The excessive rigor on the part of BEDEPE in interpreting the eligibility criteria as well as
a certain tendency to stand in for the PFls, when the latter assume the credit risk.
In responding to this criticism, BEDEPE indicated that its rigor in analyzing and processing the
refinancing applications was, in its eyes, the price that had to be paid for ensuring that only those projects
that were technically, economically and financially sound would be refinanced.
7.     A lack of specific actions targeted towards SSE heads in the training modules proposed by
BEDEPE.
8.     A lack of on-site evaluation of the effectiveness of the training activities for the higher-
level staff of PFIs.
4.     Conclusions and Recommendations
The sessions that BEDEPE organized to evaluate its experience and which were attended by the
various project partners confirmed the relevance of the operation as well as its interest for Zaire's economic
development. It was observed that although the project had World Bank assistance for its startup, it is and
remains above all a Zairian undertaking and as such the government and monetary officials bear the
responsibility for ensuring its continuation.
Designed as part of a structural adjustment program supported by the IMF and World Bank, the
project was implemented amidst a general context characterized by instability and uncertainty. Institutional
deficiencies were a problem, in particular regarding the Government, and hindered the implementation of a
true support and development strategy for the SSE sector. It was thus shown that a project of this type can
achieve its objectives only in a favorable economic, political and legal environment.
According to the various agencies attending the workshop, the financial mechanism established
under the Small Enterprise Development Project responds to a real need of the beneficiaries. However,
adjustments are necessary to adapt it to the needs of the national economy.
The participants consequently expressed the desire that the BEDEPE unit not be dissolved in the
wake of the World Bank's decision to close down the project.
To that end, the participants recommended:
(a)    Concerning BEDEPE's decision-making powers: that the new BEDEPE as reorganized
have greater decisionmaking autonomy over management and credit operations, as well as
technical assistance, with a view to making it possible to implement the planned actions
promptly.



-44 -
Annex 11
Page 5 of 5
(b)    Concerning the refinancing component: that improvements be made to the project so that
it include:
an equity financing mechanism in order to resolve the thorny problem of inadequate self-
financing, particularly for new enterprises in the future;
a guarantee mechanism that would give rise to risk sharing between BEDEPE and the PFIs
and would encourage the latter to take on greater risk in SSE financing.
That BEDEPE seek to diversify its sources of fiacing, particularly by acquiring the means to
mobilize resources on the local market.
(c)    Concerning the technical assistance component:
*      inclusion in the training modules of actions specifically targeted towards SSE heads, in
particular women entrepreneurs;
*      systematic monitoring in the field of those who received training under the project;
*      strengthening of the macroeconomic analysis capacity of the institutions involved in project
activities, so that environmental constraints can be taken into account to a greater extent in
subproject appraisal;
*      establishment of an 'enterprise creation" module ("incubator") to promote the emergence
of a new class of entrepreneur;
*      the establishment by BEDEPE of project appraisal technical guides to be used by the PFIs.
(d)    Concerning involvement of the Government:
*      The evaluation sessions suggested strongly that the country's authorities, i.e. the Banque
du Zaire and the Government, maintain a minimum program of activities for BEDEPE so
that it could ensure the monitoring of the subprojects that were refinanced and assist
other SSEs still trying to survive in the current environment;
*      Stressing the responsibility of the Government in mnacroeconomic management, another
evaluation recommendation was that it seek a return as soon as possible to greater
monetary and political stability, a sine qua non condition for the restoration of a climate
conducive to a recovery in business;
The evaluation lastly recommended that the Government establish in the very near future,
with the assistance of the international financial partners, a recovery program for Zaire's
financial sector with a view to making a larger number of financial institutions eligible for
the apex mechanism managed by BEDEPE.



