oomel
CREDIT NUMBER 1791 ZR
Project Agreement
(Small Enterprise Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANK OF ZAIRE
Dated                 -        8      1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1791 ZR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    141 tz, 1987 between
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
the BANK OF ZAIRE.
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Zaire (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen million eight
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,800,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that the Bank of Zaire agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in
this Agreement; and
(B) by the Management Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Bank of Zaire, a portion of the proceeds of
the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to the Bank of Zaire on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in said Management Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank of Zaire, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, and in
the General Conditions (as so defined), have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Project Management Unit
Section 2.01. (a) The Bank of Zaire declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall ensure the
carrying out of the Project, and shall conduct the operations and
affairs of the Project in accordance with sound financial and
management standards and practices.


﻿- 2 -
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Bank of Zaire shall maintain the Project Management Unit with the
management and staff and under the terms of reference set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, through which the Bank of Zaire will
act under this Agreement and shall finance the operations of such
Unit as providv_ in Section 3.01 (c) of the Development Credit
Agreement,
Section 2.02. (a) The Bank of Zaire shall enter into Partici-
pation Agreements with Participating Financial Intermediaries
(PFIs) under which the Zaire equivalent of proceeds of the Credit
will be lent to such PFIs for relending in the form of Sub-loans
to Investment Enterprises to finance Investment Projects; such
Participation Agreements shall be satisfactory to the Association
and shall provide that Sub-loans be made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b) The Bank of Zaire shall exercise its rights in relation
to each PFI in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Association and those of the Bank of Zaire; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Management Agree-
ment; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project Manage-
ment Unit and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be carried out through international and local shopping as
described in paragraph 3.4 of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank in May
1985, and the selection of consultants and experts for the Project
Management Unit and for Part B of the Project shall be conducted
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the Bank as Executing
Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.04. The Bank of Zaire shall, through the Project
Management Unit, ensure that the aggregate amount lent under Sub-
loans for free-standing working capital not exceed twenty-five
percent (25%) of the amount allocated to Category 1 in the table
set forth in para-graph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit
Agreement, and that such Sub-loans be restricted to existing
Investment Enterprises in productive sectors.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.05. The Bank of Zaire shall carry out the obliga-
tions set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and ser-
vices, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance)
in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.06. The Bank of Zaire shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Management Agreement and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abro-
gating or waiving the Management Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Bank of Zaire shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Management Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Bank of Zaire shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by the Bank of Zaire of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Management Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Bank of Zaire shall seek approval of the
Association on any proposed appointment to the position of Project
Director (Directeur du Bureau du Projet) and, for this purpose,
shall furnish to the Association a description of the qualifica-
tions and experience of the proposed candidate and the proposed
terms and conditions of employment.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3,01. (a) The Bank of Zaire shall maintain or cause
to be maintained proce-uires and records adequate to monitor and
record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to
reflect, separately from its other operations and in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the
operations and financial transactions of the Project Management
Unit.
(b) The Bank of Zaire shall:
(i)   have the records referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account,
audited for each fiscal year, in accordance with


﻿appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records as well as the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time t time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Bank of Zaire thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)    the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii)    a date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in subparagraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Bank of Zaire of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Bank of Zaire:
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address                    Telex:
BANQUE DU ZAIRE                21365 BZKIN ZR or
21028 BZKIN ZR
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Bank of Zaire or by the Bank of Zaire
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement,
may be taken or executed by the Governor of the Bank of Zaire, or
by such other person or persons as the Governor shall designate in
writing, and the Bank of Zaire shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.


﻿-6-
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one ins trument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/15
Regional Vice President
Africa
BANK OF ZAIRE
By
Auth c(24ied Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Management Unit
Management and Staff
Project Director
A technical expert in small-scale enterprises
A Financial Analyst
An Accountant
Appropriate support staff
Functions
1.   Provide guidance to Participating Financial Intermediaries
(PFIs) and Investment Enterprises through the supporting technical
assistance institutions, for the preparation of Investment
Projects to be financed under Sub-loans;
2.   provide guidance to PFIs in selecting eligible Investment
Projects and assist them in developing a capacity to assess the
environmental impact of such Projects;
3.   ensure application of appropriate standards for appraisals of
Investment Projects;
4.   review the eligibility and authorize financing for Investment
Projects submitted by PFIs. For Sub-loans of less than $50,000,
check whether the requests meet the eligibility criteria and give
approval within two working days from submission. For Sub-loans
above $50,000, review the requests in more detail, give comments
on the quality of appraisal to the PFI concerned and check the
eligibility for refinancing of the requests within seven (7)
working days;
5.   ensure proper disbursement of proceeds of the Credit, and
supervise and centralize the collection and forwarding of support-
ing documentation;
6.   supervise the PFIs' compliance with their obligations under
the Participation Agreements;
7.   supervise, on a sample basis and/or focusing on problem
cases, the Investment Projects;
8.   ensure liaison between the Association and the Participating
Financial Intermediaries on matters related to the Project; and
9.   coordinate, monitor and supervise the carrying out of Part B
of the Project.


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   PFIs will relend the Zaire equivalent of the proceeds of the
Credit to Investment Enterprises for Investment Projects, for
terms of two to ten years, including appropriate periods of grace,
and at rates of interest determined in the free market.
2.   Sub-loans for any Investment Project for modernization or
expansion of small enterprises may not exceed eighty percent (80%)
of the total cost of the proposed Investment Project nor a total
of the equivalent of $280,000.
3.   Sub-loans for any Investment Project for the establishment of
a new enterprise may not exceed seventy percent (70%) of such cost
nor a total of the equivalent of $245,000.
4.   PFIs may cofinance up to twenty percent (20%) of the cost of
Investment Projects from their own resources.
5.   No Sub-loan granted by any PFI shall be eligible for re-
financing by the Bank of Zaire out of the proceeds of the Credit
without the prior verification of the Project Management Unit as
to its eligibility and without the approval of the Association;
when three Sub-loans have been so approved, however, the approval
of the Association will no longer be required.
6.   (a) When presenting a Sub-loan to the Association for
approval, the PFI and the Bank of Zaire, acting through the Proj-
ect Management Unit, shall furnish to the Association an applica-
tion, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with:
(i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of
the Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the Schedule of Amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii)
such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request.
7.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PFI concerned
shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association, those
of the Bank of Zaire and those of the PFI, including the right to:


﻿- 9 -
(a) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and oper-
ate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency, and
in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial stan-
dards and to maintain adequate records;
(b) require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Sub-loans be purchased at reasonable
prices, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of the goods, and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them; and (ii) such goods and services be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association and the Project Management Unit, the goods, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d) require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound busi-
ness practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing,
such insurance cover hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e) obtain all such information as the Association, the PFI,
or the Project Management Unit shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and finan-
cial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to
be derived from the Investment Project; and
(f) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with the PFI concerned.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


