Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
D^ 3s C> & _-YO
3 ,  7    D  /                        Report No. 7479-Y_
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPL.Y AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
MAY 1, 1989
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autharization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Dinar (Din)
Din 1,344       =  US$1.00 (December 31, 1987 appraisal estimate)
Din 5,100       =  US$1.00 (December 31, 1988 base cost estimate)
Din 9,000       =  US$1.00 (April 15, 1988)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km         = Kilometer (0.621 miles)
1          = Liter (0.264 US gallons)
1/cd       = Liters per capita per day
1/sec      = Liters per second (15.8 gallons per minute)
m3          = Cubic meter (264 US gallons)
m3/sec      = Cubic meters per second (22.8 million
gallons per day)
tn         = Tourist overnight
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BWW        = Butoniga Water Works
IWW        = Istrian Water Works
ICI        = Infrastructure Community of Interest
PWW        = Pula Water Works
RWW        = Rizana Water Works
SDK        = Social Accounting Service
SFRY       = Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
WCI         = Water Community of Interest
YUGOSLAVIAN GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLI
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA ANY) SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTFITS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..........................................                 i
I.  PROJECT ORIGIN AND SETTING .................                               1
The Project and its Origin ......          .........................       1
Country Background ........................................                2
The Project Area    ....................................                   2
Bank Assistance Strategy ....................      .. ...........          2
Rationale for Bank tnvolvement              ...........................    3
II.  THE TOURISM SECTOR .......................................                 4
Tourism and the Economy ..................................                4
Sector Organization ....... .................                             5
III.  THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR .....            ................     7
Sector Organization .....          .................................       7
Water Supply and Sewerage Se-vice Levels ..............      ...          8
Sector Investment and Financing .................      .........          8
Constraints to Sector Development .           .......................     9
World Bank Involvement in the Sector ..............       ...             9
Bank Goals in the Sector ......        .......................           10
IV. TOURISM AND THE DEMAND FOR TOURISM FACILITIES IN THE
PROJECT AREA          .............................................      11
Existing Development ..................                                  11
Potential for Future Development ......         ...................      11
The Effect of Water Supply Shortages on Present Earnings
and Future Development ........          .........................     12
Other Constraints to Tourism Development .            ................   12
Projected Tourism Growth ........          .........................     13
V. WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICE AND THE DEMAND FOR WATER IN
THE PROJECT AREA        .........................................        14
Water Supply        .............................................         14
Sewerage   .................................................             16
Demand for Water          .........................................      17
This report was prepared by Mr. Richard A. MacEwen, Engineer, Mr. John B.
Creasor, Financial Analyst and Ms. Ann E. Elwan, Economist. Secretarial
support was provided by Ms. Jennifer M. Thomas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may bV used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise o&. disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont!d)
Page No.
VI.   THE BORROWERS AND IMPLEMENTING ORGANIZATIONS  .............                             20
Introduction  ...................               ..................                     20
The Three Water Works  (the Borrowers)  ...................O                            20
The Implementing Agencies  ..*.......... ....s............                             22
VII.   THE PROJECT  ....................-.,..................                                   24
Introduction  .................. .........................0..                          24
Project Objectives  ..... ........ ................ ...........                        24
Project Description  ......... ... .... ............ ..........                        24
Project Cost  .............................................                            29
Bank Lending Agreements  .........  ............  . . . ........ .   .... .            30
Availability of Foreign Exchange for Loan Repayment
and Assumption of the Foreign Exchange Risk  ............                            30
Counterpart Financing  . ................. ........ ..      ,. 33
Pi.oJect Implementation  ........................................ ***....              34
Status of Preparation  ............................                                     36
Interim Measures  to Limit Water Shortages  ................                           36
Operation of the Completed Works  ............                   .............         37
Procurement                .........                  9o.ooo    .   o                  37
Environmental  Impact                            ......                                39
Disbursements  .....................................                  ......           40
Monitoring and Evaluation  .. ... .......                                              41
VIII.   FINANCE  ...............................................                                 42
Introduction  *.        ............           .....        **********.                42
Rizana Water Works  (RWW) ...... .................    ..........                       42
Istrian Water Works  (IWW)    .              ........................                  45
Pula Water Works  (PWW) .................****.......              .........            48
Audit  .... .       ....................... ............                               51
Monitoring and Evaluation  ... ..............  ............... .                       52
IX.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND RISKS  ............................                             54
Benefits  ........................................................                     54
Rates of Return  .....0.....   0ooo..*............... ....................             54
Long Run Average  Incremental Cost of Water                  ...............           54
Risks ....................... ..........................                 ....          55
X.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...................                             56
LIST OF ANNEXES
2.1  Basic Tourism Statistics  . ................................  .                           59
4.1 Tourism in Project Areas in Relation to Yugoslavia and
the Republics,  1986  ..*a*              ..............*...............               60



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
4.2    Number of Beds in the Project Area ......................        61
4.3    Tourist Arrivals and Overnights
in the Project Area .................................          62
5.1    Water Demand and Production Requirements ................        63
5.2    Action Plan for the Rizana Water Works to Reduce
Unaccounted-for Water ..... .. .......... .   ..............   70
5.3    Action Plan for the Pula Water Works to Reduce
Unaccounted-for Water . ................ .............. ..     72
6.1   Organization Chart - Rizana Water Works        .................  73
6.2    Organization Chart - Istrian Water Works  ................       74
6.3    Organization Chart - Pula Water Works  ...................       75
7.1    Outline Terms of Reference for a Central Istria Master
Plan Sewerage Study              I ...... ..*............      76
7.2    Project Cost Estimates .........    ........    ..*o..o....      78
7.3    Project Implementation Schedule - Slovene Coast
Component .... ........................ oo..o... ... -" .o ... ..o.  87
7.4    Project Implementation Schedule - Istria Component ......        88
7.5    Water Works Monitoring Indicators .......................        89
7.6    Contract Procurement Schedule for Slovene Coast Component        90
7.7    Contract Procurement Schedule for Istria Component   ......      91
7.8    Outline Terms of Reference for a Management Study of
Water Supplies in Istria ......o.......................        92
7.9    Allocation of Loan Proceeds for the Slovene Coast
Component    . ............  -o ....o ..... o ....v **        94
7.10   Allocation of Loan Proceeds for the Istria Component ....        95
7.11   Loan Disbursement Schedule for Slovene Coast Component           96
7.12   Loan Disbursement Schedule for Istria Component                  97



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
8.1    Rizana Water Works Investment Program and Financing Plan          98
8.2    Rizana Water Works Income Statement ............ * .........      99
8.3    Rizana Water Works Balance Sheet ......................          100
8.4    Rizana Water Works Statement of Source and
Application of Funds ...................... ...........        101
8.5    Istrian Water Works Investment Program and Financing Plan        102
8.6    Istrian Water Works Income Statement .......      ........      103
8.7    Istrian Water Works Balance Sheet    .      .............        104
8.8    Istrian Water Works Statement of Source and
Application of Funds ....so ......* .............              105
8.9    Pula Water Works Investment Program and Financing Plan  ..       106
8.10   Pula Water Works Income Statement       .      .........         107
8.11   Pula Water Works Balance Sheet          .      .........         108
8.12   Pula Water Works Statement of Source and
Application of Funds .......... . ...................         109
8.13   Accounting Practices in Yugoslavia         .........             110
8.14   Expianation of the Accountr Reflected in the Financial
Statements and Assumptions for the Financial
Projections ......     ... 0.. ......            .......      111
8.15   Outline Terms of Reference for a Tariff Study                    118
9.1    Economic Analysis    ..     .......... ...................       120
A     Selected Documents and Data in the Project File ...127
MAP
IBRD No. 20580



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
E;TRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:               Rizana Water Works (RWW), Istrian Water Works (IWW),
and Pula Water Works (PWW)
Guarantor:               Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Loan Amnounts:           RWW - $32 million equivalent; IWW and PWW - $28
million equivalent
Terms:                   Fifteen years, including 5 years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Project Description:     The Project comprises two components, the Slovene
Coast component and the Istria component, financed by
two separate Bank loans. Both components include
water and sewerage werks. The water works would be
implemented and financed by the three Borrowers, and
the sewerage works would be implemented and financed
by eight of the nine communities in the project area
and a regional water communitiy of interest. Bank
loan funds would not be used for the sewerage works.
The Project would in the Service Areas of the
Borrowers: (i) eliminate existing water shortages;
(ii) provide additional water supply capacity needed
for expansion of the tourism industry and growth in
domestic and industrial/commercial demand; (iii)
reduce unaccounted-for water; (iv) protect existing
water sources and coastal tourist areas from
pollution; and (v) increase efficiency in the delivery
of water supply and sewerage services.
Benefits:                The water works in the Project would provide a safe
and sufficient water supply to the households, tourism
facilities, productive enterprises and social
facilities in the project area; all of which have
experienced shortages during the past three summers.
The sewerage works would insure that the increased
sewage resulting from the Project would be disposed of
in an environmentally sound manner. Justification for
the Project is based on the foreign exchange earnings
of tourism in the project area, which would decline
without the Project, and on the positive impact of the
sewerage works in the Project on the environment.
Riskm                    There are two potential risks.  One is the risk of
possible damage to the area's tourism development if
the water shortages are not managed properly until the
Project is completed. At the present timo, the
available water is being distributed equitably and



- ii -
efficiently. The Bank would try to minimize this risk
by mmnitoring operational procedures of the three
Water Works as part of its supervision. The other is
a risk that the overall investment climate in
Yugoslavia could deteriorate further and become a
constraint to tourism development in the project
area. However, the demand for tourism services is
likely to remain strong even in the presence of
negative macro-economic trends.
Estimated Project Cost:                        Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ Million…
Water Supply and Treatment                 29.0       20.4      49.4
Transmission and Storage                   64.5      39.1      103.6
Water Distribution                          1.8        1.7       3.5
Institutional Strengthening                 0.5       0.9        1.4
Sewerage                                   37.3       9.0       46.3
Base Cost                             133.1      71.1      204.2
Physical Contingencies                     11.9       7.0       18.9
Price Contingencies                        12.3       4.6       16.9
Total Project Cost                     157.3      82.7      240.0
Interest During Construction on
Bank Loan                                   -        3.9        3.9
Total Financing Required               157.3      86.6      243.9
Financing Plan Sources:
IBRD Loan                                   -        60 0       60.0
Contributions and Taxes                    57.0      26.6 a"   83.6
Water Revenues                             77.4        -        77.4
Sewage Revenues                            22.9        -        22.9
Total Financing Required               157.3      86.6      243.9
Estimated Disbursements:
World Bank Fiscal Year
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
----------------US$ Million--------------…-
Annual                         7.8    10.8    15.0    13.8       9.8     2.8
Cumulative                     7.8    18.6    33.6    47.4    57.2    60.0
Economic Rate of Return: 15%
a/   Foreign exchange components of reserved procurement.



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. PROJECT ORIGIN AND SETTING
The Project and Its Or 0
1.01     The proposed Project would expand water and sewer system capacity in
seven coastal communities and two inland communities in the northern Adriatic
Coastal region of Yugoslavia. Three of the Communities are located in the
Republic of Slovenia and the other six are in the Istrian peninsula of the
Croatian Republic. There are two independent project components (The Slovene
Coast component and the Istria component), three Borrowers (the Rizana Water
Works, the Istrian Water Works and the Pula Water Works), and twelve
implementing agencies (the Rizana Water Works, the Butoniga Water Works, two
community infrastructure works enterprises, six local infrastructure
communities of interest and one regional water community of interest).
Separate loans are proposed for each of the two project components. Two of
the proposed Borrowers (the Istria Water Works and the Pula Water Works) would
be jointly and severally responsible for one of the loans. The main purpose
of the Project is to provide water and sewerage services in support of the
growing tourism industry in the region, which is a major foreign exchange
earner for Yugoslavia.
1.02     The Project has been in the planning and development stage by local
authorities since about 1983 when water shortages during the summer tourist
season first became noticeable. Bank involvement began with a request from
the Federal Secretariat for Finance in August 1987 to review the Project for
possible Bank lending. In response to this request, a Bank identification
mission visited the two implementing agencies, the Rizana Water Works and the
Butoniga Water Works, in September 1987. Project preparation began with a
mission in December 1987. Due to the critical nature of the shortage, project
implementation is already in progress, having started in mid-1987 for both
project components. The Bank will only participate in the financing of water
works contracted after June 1, 1988.
1.03     The sewerage works were added to the Project during preparation at
the suggestion of the Bank to insure that the sewage resulting from the
additional water supply capacity would be disposed of in an environmentally
sound manner. Most of the sewerage works were already in the investment
programs of the benefitting communities. For the most part, they will be
implemented and financed by them. One high priority works would be financed
and implemented by the Republic of Croatia because of its regional importance
and high cost. The Bank loans would not be used to finance the sewerage works
since local funds for these works have alLeady been committed and the Water
Works, who are the Borrowers and are not responsible for sewerage, chose not
to borrow from the Bank on behalf of the communities.



-2-
Country Background
1.04     The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia consists of six
republics: Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia-Hercegovina, Macedonia and
Montenegro and two autonomous provinces, Vojvodina and Kosovo which are part
of Serbia. Total area is 255,800 sq. km with 2,092 km of coastline along the
Adriatic. The population of Yugoslavia at the end of 1987 was 23.4 mill:on,
with 48% living in urban areas. The population growth rate is 0.7% per annum.
1.05     Yugoslavia is a middle income country with a per capita GDP vf
approximately US$2,477 in 1987. During the 1970s the economy grew rapidly,
with the growth of GDP averaging 6% per year. This performance was supported
by large investments but insufficient attention was paid by policy-makers and
investors to their quality and cost-efficiency. The increasing burden of
debt-service, the recession in OECD countries and the increasing reluctance of
international creditors to lend to Yugoslavia in the 1980s forced Yugoslavia
to initiate measures to reduce domestic demands and improve the efficiency of
resources. However, these measures were not consistently implemented. GDP
more or less stagnated between 1980-1987 and domestic inflation (as measured
by the ;rowth of the retail price index) rose from an average rate of 202 in
the 1976s to 118% in 1987. Faced with a critical foreign exchange liquidity
crisis, stagnant growth and accelerating inflation, in May 1988 the Government
initiated a strong program to cantrol inflation and to correct important
structural weaknesses in the economy. The IMF supported this program with a
Standby Arrangement in June 1988. A second structural adjustment loan from
the Bank in support of the adjustment program is in an advanced stage of
preparation.
The Project Area
1.06     The project area is located at the northern end of the Adriatic
adjacent to the Italian border. One-third of the area is in the Republic of
Slovenia and two-thirds in the Republic of Croatia. It includes the Slovene
Coastal Region consisting of the communities of Koper, Izola and Piran and the
west coast of the Istrian peninsula consisting of the Croatian communities of
Buje, Porec, Rovinj, Buzet, Pazin and Pula. The permanent population numbers
242,000; however, during the summer months, the population doubles with the
arrival of temporary residents and tourists. The area's economy is dominated
by tourism and the shipbuilding industry, with tourism providing about 25% of
the gross domestic product. The area is popular with foreign tourists because
of its proximity to Western Europe, its competitive prices, its modern
facilities, and natural assets which so far have not been overdeveloped.
Bank Assistance Strateg
1.07     The main thrust of the Bank's assistance strategy in Yugoslavia is to
support the country's ongoing economic reform. Since the early 1980s, the
Government has embarked on a long-term economic adjustment and reform program
intended to give the economy a greater market-based orientation, with a view
to the Europe of 1992 and beyond. This effort was supported in FY83 by the
Bank's first SAL to Yugoslavia, as part of an international financial support



pi,ckage which also included two IMF Standby Arrangements. However, since the
implementation of the early reform efforts was uneven and lacked sufficient
determination, the economy slipped back into a state of stagflation. In late
1987, the Yugoslav authorities announced   iew program of stabilization and
adjustment in an effort to reactivate the reform drive and give it more
substance and direction. By mid-1988, a new IMF Standby Arrangement in
support of this program was approved and rescheduling agreements were reached
with the Paris Club and Yugoslavia's najor commercial creditors. In the
context of the preparation of a second SAL, the Bank participated actively
with the Fund and the bilateral and commercial creditors in the discussion of
the Government's stabilization and adjustment program.
1.08     The proposed SAL II is expected to assist the reform drive by
deepening the adjustment measures already being implemented under the ongoing
Standby and by including several other important measures that would gernerate
and accelerate the required supply response by the real economy. It is
intended to be one of a series of policy-based operations in support of the
reform which together would cover a wide range of complementary policy areas
including price and trade liberalization, financial and fiscal sector reform,
the foreign exchange allocation system and enterprise reform. As such, the
proposed SAL II is seen as the linchpin of the Bank's strategy for intensified
assistance to Yugoslavia. Its approval and successful implementation would
pave the way for subsequent policy-based operations and would justify an
enlarged overall lending envelope to Yugoslavia which would also include
several sector and investment loans in industry, transport and power and
smaller investment projects in environmental improvement, water resource
management and possibly other areas of infrastructure. The operations in
industry would be primarily in support of promoting a supply response through
increased flexibility in the productive apparatus, focusing on
Lxport-orientation, small and medium-scale enterprise development and
enterprise rehabilitation on a selective basis. Subsector and investment
operations in transport and power would support the improvement of sectoral
policies, particularly pricing, investment choice and operational efficiency.
The smaller investment projects would consist of projects which essentially
stand on their own merit and whose developmental impart is not critically
dependent on overall policy reform. The proposed Project fits into this last
category.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.09     The Project would fill three important needs.  First, it is essential
to the tourism industry in an area where tourism is a major foreign exchange
earner. Second, pollution control works and studies included in the Project
would ensure that sewage resulting from increased water use made possible by
the Project would be disposed of in an envi:ronmentally sound manner. Third,
it would promote improvement in system operation and management through
studies, action plans for the reduction of unaccounted-for water and technical
assistance. The Bank's presence is essential since under Yugoslavia's present
economic environment, it would be difficult for the Water Works to secu.re
foreign financing for the Project without the Bank. More importantly, the
Bank would ensure that the pollution control issues associated with the
Project are adequately addressed.



11. THE TOURISM SECTOR
Tourism and the Economy
2.01     Since the early 1950s, when the first attempts to attract foreign
tourists were made, tourism has evolved into an important economic sector, a
major earner of foreign exchange, and an important generator of income and
employment. Over the last five years, tourism has accounted for close to 32
of Yugoslavia's social product, about 42 of employment, and about 10% of the
total value of exports.
2.02     Yugoslavia's share in European tourist traffic, measured in terms of
overnights, is about 4X, and it ranks fairly high among European destinations
in terms of nights spent by foreign tourists, with only Spain, Italy, Austria,
France, and the Unitad Kingdom registering more nights. Of these leading six
countries, Yugoslavia has one of the highest growth rates in foreign tourist
overnights, (at over 6.5% over the last decade).-/ The only other European
destinations with comparably high growth rates are Turkey and Portugal, which
still attract relatively small numbers of foreign overnights in comparison
with Yugoslavia (about 4.5 million and 15 million, respectively, versus 27
million).
2.03     Yugoslavia has competed successfully in the European tourism market
as a low-cost summer resort destination for group travel from Western Europe.
The major determinants are the relatively low cost of accommodation and
services, and low travel costs because of its geographical proximity to the
expanding European markets. Yugoslavia's attractions include 6,000 kmw' of
Adriatic coast, a Mediterranean climate, and an interesting variety of
cultural and historical assets.
2.04     Relatively few non-Europeans visit Yugoslavia, probably because of
the comparative attractiveness of destinations in France, Italy, Greece, and
the United Kingdom. West Germany has always been the dominating country of
origin, and demand from the neighboring countries of Austria and Italy has
been consistently strong. In recent years, tLere has been rapid growth in
tourists from the United Kingdom, which has now surpassed Austria, to become
the second country of origin.
2.05     Seasonality is particularly marked in Yugoslavian tourism, as is the
concentration of tourist overnights along the coast. Well over 90% of all
foreign tourism takes place in the three coastal republics of Slovenia,
Croatia and Montenegro, with about 80% in Croatia alone. Efforts are being
made to extend the tourism season and to diversify, but most activity will
probably continue to take place between May and October. Winiter tourism is
confined to specific centers.
1/ Annex 2.1 shows basic tourism statistics for Yugoslavia. Additional
background information on tourism is in the Project Files.
2/  Including islands.



2.06     Demand for toutrist accommodation in Yugoslavia still exceeds supply;
much of the coastline is still relatively undeveloped, and there is
considerable scope for further growth in nearly all kinds of accommodation.
Sector Organization
2.07     The larger tourist facilities in Yugoslavia, including most hotels
and apartment complexes and campsites, are constructed and operated by work
organizations. The number of rooms and apartments available to tourists in
private homes is increasing, however, and legislation is under consideration
which would encourage private investment in small boarding houses. The
organization and management of tourism sector enterprises is similar to that
of other work organizations in Yugoslavia; i.e., workers are members of the
organization, participating in planning, management, and economic
decision-making. There are, however, some joint venture hotels operating
successfully in Yugoslavia, and there are plans to allow a more diversified
range of ownership/management options in the future.
2.08     Work organizations in the sector generally consist of at least
several hotels. The larger ones include hotels, apartment complexes, and
campsites, usually in several different qua'Lity categories; some also act as
agents for private room or apartment rentals. Tourism work organizations are
often part of a larger enterprise, undertaking, for example, agricultural
production as well as tourism.
2.09     In addition, there are three different types of organizations which
influence the development of tourism in Yugoslavia; the government committee
at the community, republic, and federal levels, the chambers of economy, and
the tourist associations. Government committees for tourism are concerned
primarily with planning and legislative matters. Primary governmental
responsibility for tourism is at the republic level; tiowever, committees for
tourism only exist in republics where tourism is a major activity; in other
republics, tourism is subsumed within the committee for trade.
2.10     Tourist associations are non-governmental; at the commune level, they
include individuals, business enterprises, and other organizations interested
in tourism development in their areas. Members are volunteers, and represent
hotels, restaurants, handicraft shops, design and printing organizations,
etc. Their activities include tourism promotion, and making recommendations
to communes regarding, for example, improvement of tourist amenities and
infrastructure. Combinations of the commune level associations form the
regional associations, with similar activities, but with a regional focus; for
example, promoting regional entertainment events.   At the Federal level, the
Yugoslavia Tourist Association operates tourist offices in foreign countries,
and carries out publicity programs overseas.
2.11     Tourism planning is an integral part of macro-economic planning in
Yugoslavia. General guidelines are prepared at the republic level, and these
are transformed into operational plans at the commune level. Where
communities share common characteristics, there may be an additional
coordinating level. In Slovenia, for example, there is a coastal Community



Group, which has a research and coordination role in certain areas of concern
common to the three coastal communities, including water resources and roads.
In Croatia, the six communes of the project area fall under the larger Rijeka
planning region. Land-use planning and regulations are the responsibility of
local government, and is usually carried out in cooperation with Republic or
regional institutes or planning bureaus. Planning incorporates environmental
concerns; both project areas are part of a regional physical plan which
includes environmental protection as an essential element.



- 7 -
m. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Sector Organizationi
3.01     The water supply and sewerage sector in Yugoslavia is organized by
government level and function. In general, regulatory requirements are
established at the federal level, water resource management and planning is a
republic and provincial responsibility, and the provision of services is a
local responsibility. There is no national water and sewerage authority.
3.02     The establishment of standards and guidelines is a federal function
that is carried out by the Federal Secretariat for Agriculture, Forestry and
Water Resources and the Federal Secretariat for Work, Health and Welfare. The
former is responsible for establishing guidelines for the classification
according to water quality of rivers, streams and lakes; the establishment of
wastewater discharge guidelines; and the settling of water rights issues that
may develop between two or more Republics or between Yugoslavia and its
neighbors. The latter is responsible for setting guidelines for potable water
quality. The establishment of regulations and their enforcement is a republic
function. The setting of specific standards for drinking water quality and
the monitoring of compliance are local functions.
3.03     The development and use of water resources is controlled mainly at
the republic level. In each republic, there is one organization with overall
responsibility for coordination and review of all water and sewage sector
investment. In Croatia, this organization is the Republican Committee for
Water Management. In Slovenia, it is the Republican Committee for the
Environment. Another type of republic organization is the water economy
enterprise. It is organized to implement and operate drainage, irrigation and
flood control schemes which benefit more than one community or interest
group. The Sava River Drainage Authority, established to implement an
irrigation and drainage project financed by loan 1756-YU, is an example of
this type of organization. This is the only organization of its type in
Croatia, There is none at present in Slovenia.
3.04     In between the republic level and the local level are water
organizations established to coordinate the allocation and development of
water resources within river basins. In Slovenia, they are Water
Associations, and in Croatia, they are Water Communities of Interest (WCI).
Each organization has a master plan for the development of water resources
within its area, and it must approve all investments to ensure they are in
keeping with the master plan. In Croatia there are eleven regional WCIs and
in Slovenia there are eight regional Water Associations.
3.05     Water is supplied to the public for domestic, industrial and
commercial purposes by self-managed enterprises, usually know as "vodovods"
(water works). These enterprises follow Yugoslavia's normal commercial
management principles and are financially autonomous. However, their
investment programs and tariffs are controlled by the communities they
serve, - and as mentioned above, the development of new water sources and
1/ A community in Yugoslavia is an administrative area, normally covering a
town and its surrounding rural area. It has an assembly and executive
council.



major investments must be approved at the association and republic level.
Typically there is a vodovod for each community, with a ceparate water source
being developed by each. However, as local sources become fully utilized, the
vodovods and community seek to develop water sources further afield. For this
purpose they find it necessary to enter into self-management agreements with
other communities and vodovods to form water communities of interest in order
to develop joint supplies. The communities of interest provide financing by
taxing the beneficiaries.
Water Supply and Sewerage Service Levels
3.06     Water supply and sewerage service levels in Yugoslavia are higi in
comparison with the Bank's other Borrowers, Average figures for 1986 are in
Table 3.1. Water supply coverage in urban areas averages 902. Sewerage
service levels in urban areas average 70X. Despite the high coverage, many
water systems lack capacity to meet peak summer demands and most sewerage
systems discharge waste water with little or no treatment to the nearest
stream, river or drainage channel.
Table 3.1: Water Supply and Sewerage Service
Levels (1986) ai/
Political             Water Supply       Sewerage
Subdivision                   (X)              (X)
Yugoslavia                    76                60
Serbia                        72                58
Bosnia-Hercegovina           70                 55
Croatia                       76                67
Montenegro                   68                 56
Macedonia                     77                64
Slovenia                     95                 80
Kosovo                       44                 28
Vojvodina                    81                 58
a/  Source:  Federal Institute for Health Protection
Sector Investment and Financin
3.07     Investment in the sector in 1986 was estimated at about US$167
million, about 0.3% of GDP and 1.1% of gross investment. These percentages
have been fairly constant during the past five years with expenditures for
water supply averaging about 50% more than sewerage. Increased expenditures
for sewerage are expected in the future as the concern for the environment
grow.,.
3.08     The sector is unique in that it is self-financing.  Almost all
investment is financed by the users. Most financing originates from water
communities of interest (WCI). These are user groups which are formed to
raise financing for new investment, and in some cases, actually carry out the
works. Other common sources of financing are tariffs, self-imposed taxes
voted by the benefitting community, special funds raised through fines
collected from polluters and republic water communities of interest. Tariffs
are set normally only to cover operation, maintenance, depreciation and debt
service; however, for major investments, the beneficiaries through a WCI may



- 9 -
vote to add an investment surcharge to the tariffs for a fixed period of
time. Republic WCI funds are only available for investments serving more than
one community or that are judged to benefit the republic. Funds raised
through the collection of pollution fines are only available for the upgrading
of water treatment facilities using poiluted sources. Less common financing
sources are export credits, World Bank loans and tourist taxes. Loc:al,
republic and federal budgets are rarely used to finance investment.
Constraints to Sector Development
3.09     The main constraint to development of the water sector in Yugoslavia
is the shortage of financing for projects. Prior to 1982, there was little or
no problem of securing the approval of the population for a payroll assessment
for water supply system improvements. That willingness has diminished as a
result of recently accelerating inflation and restricted wage increases.
Also, there is a shortage of local long term credit so that project size is
restricted by the amount of cash that can be raised during proiect
implementation.   Other constraints are overly bureaucratic procedures for the
approval of new projects at all levels of government, and an artificial
constraint on the development of water resources involving more than one
republic imposed by the autonomy of the republics. Long lead times are needed
to develop projects in order to obtain local political support and the
required republic approvals. On occasion, uneconomic investments are made
because the least-cost solution would require the transport of water across
republic boundaries. None of these constraints are unique to the water sector
and the solutions are not apparent. The Bank's loans have helped overcome
these constraints through financing, pressing for approvals at the republic
and federal levels for projects and refusing to finance projects that are not
the least-cost solution.
World Bank Involvement in the Sector
3.10     The Bank has made the following loans in Yugoslavia for water supply
and sewerage:
Loan                                                  Amount         Date of
Number           Name                              (US$ Million)     Signing
777   Ibar Multipurpose Project                       45.0          6/30/71
1066   Dubrovnik Water and Wastewater Project           6.0         12/24/74
1262   Morava Region Development Project               20.0          6/17/76
1263   Sarajevo Water and Wastewater Project           45.0           6/8/76
1360   Metohija Multipurpose Project                   54.0           2/3/77
1371   Macedonia Multipurpose Project                  24.0          3/10/77
2005   Kosovo Water Supply Project                     23.0         12/14/81
2233   Tuzla Region Waver and Environmental             5.7          2/10/83
Project
All projects have been completed and project completion reports issued with
the exception of Loan for the Tuzla Region Water Supply and Environmental
Project which is expected to be completed this year (1988). Several of the
projects had benefits outside the water and sewerage sector. Three of the
projects were multipurpose, and included irrigation, power and flood control



- 10 -
benefits. Others evolved as necessary complements to the solution of problems
outside the sector. Thus, the Dubrovnik project was associated with tourism
and the Tuzla project with air pollution control.
-.11     Bank experience has been that most projects are implemented -well and
require minimum supervision of the technical aspects. Contracting and
consultancy capability is very good, at all levels of project size. Technical
expertise provided by the Bank and outside consultants has been limited to a
few specialists where local consultants have not yet developed sufficient
expertise. Most of the Bank's assistance has focused on assisting with the
development of institutions, and preparing sound financial strategies. Bank
intervention, with substantial financing contributions, has often acted as a
catalyst in securing required local finance, which hitherto has been difficult
to obtain.
Bank Goals in the Sector
3.12     Past lending in the sector focused primarily on meeting basic needs
and improving health and has been limited to the lesser developed republics
and provinces where these needs are the greatest. This strategy was
successful and the basic water and sanitation needs of Yugoslavia's population
are by and large satisfied (para. 3.06). Emphasis in the future will be to
support -rojects that help to accelerate economic growth and improve the
environment. The proposed project falls in these categories.



- 11 -
IV. TOURISM AND THE DEMAND FOR TOURISM
FACILITIES IN THE PROJECT AREA
Existing Development
4.01     The project area is an important contributor to tourism, accounting
for about 32% of foreign tourist overnights spent in Yugoslavia. The project
area accounts for about 20% of the country's total tourist accommodations.
Hotels, motels, inns, and other permanent tourist settlements make up about
272 of the beds, another 42% are in campsites, and about 162 are in private
rooms. The reffaining beds are in youths' and workers' holiday camps, used
mostly by domestic tourists. Boat berths account for a small but growing
proportion of tourism capacity. The marinas in the area are considered to be
particularly profitable, but are already operating at capacity.
Potential for Future Development
4.02     There is a great deal of potential for further tourism development in
the project area. It is planned to keep the larger tourist facilities
generally grouped into settlements, rather than dispersed along the coast, in
orde- to leave some areas undeveloped, for the use of future generations.
Long-term plans are based on projections of the capacity of the region's
beaches as well as its infrastructure and manpower.  The plans for both the
Rijeka region (which contains the six Croatian project communities) and the
Slovene coastal region (containing three project communities) project growth
in capacity at just over 2% per year to 'he year 2000. This figure appears
reasonable in the light of past growth in supply (bed capacity), averaging
2.4% per year since 1980.
4.03     Growth in both demand and supply in the project area has been
consistently strong over the last twenty years, fo'llowing the pattern observed
for the country as a whole; with very rapid growth in the project area at
first, and steadying in the more recent period. Annex 4.1 gives recent
tourism statistics for the project area in relation to the country as a whole,
and Annexes 4.2 and 4.3 show growth in demand and supply in the project area
in recent years. Table 4.1 shows that demand in the project area (tourist
arrivals and overnights) has grown faster than supply, with rates around 5.5%
per year over the 1980-1986 period. Demand has also grown substantially
faster than in Yugoslavia as a whole, while growth in supply has been slower.
Table 4.1: Tourism Annual Growth Rates (1980-1986) a/
(Percent)
Tourist             Tourist           Bed
Arrivals           Overnights       Capacity
Project Area              5.7                 5.4             2.8
Yugoslavia                4.0                 4.6             3.6
a/ At registered accommodations only. Does not include private
homes that take in guests unofficially.



- 12 -
4.04     Decisions regarding the type of facilities to be constructed in the
near future in the project area have already been made and sites cho&ien; for
example, there are plans for, inter alia, 1,600 additional berths for boats in
marinas in Koper and Izola, an additional casino/hotel at Portoroz (in
Slovrenia), as well as three new complexes in Pula, several A-category hotels
and an apartment complex to be built in the Croatian part of the project area.
4.05     However, no new construction of tourist accommodation is being
permitted until the water supply problem has been solved. The lack of an
adequate water supply is the most serious constraint to further expansions of
capacity, as well as the most urgent problem affecting utilization of present
capacity.
The Effect of Water Supply Shortages on Present Earnings and Future Development
4.06     Water supply shortages in 1986 and 1987 had an impact on all the
tourism-related organizations in the project area, and caused problems for
many of the local industries. The most severe water shortages occur during
the dry summer months in the peak of the tourist season. Water rationing was
carried out in various steps, according to the severity of the shortage. At
20% water shortages, hotels are the fourth category in priority to receive
water; higher priority is given to the old towr. centers,l hospitals, and
workers' kitchens. When shortages reach 30X, they are experienced by all
categories in all areas. This was the case in 1987, and interruptions in
supply were long, with some areas receiving water for only a few hours every
other day.  Hotels at higher elevato*ns were particularly hard hit:
insufficient pressure prevented water reaching the guest rooms, even during
the few hours of water service. One of these hotels reported employing
several people to carry water to the rooms, and estimated that there were 12%
fewer overnights in 1987 than in 1986 because of the water shortages.
4.07     All managers in the project area attributed significant losses to
water shortages in both 1986 and 1987. These were estimated to be in the
order of 5-10% of total revenues for the summer of 1987 by two of the large
tourism organizations. Tourist dissatisfaction was widespread and was
manifested in complaints to management, visits being cut short, and in
discounts being negotiated in hotel bills. Campers, who use relatively large
quantities of water, tended to leave after encountering water shortages.
Several managers interviewed felt that some of the decreased demand in 1987
was because of water problems encountered in 1986. There is some worry that
adverse publicity regarding water problems in the project area may affect
tourism in the country as a whole because of returning tourists associating
the problems with Yugoslavia, rather than with the particular area where the
problems occurred.
Other Constraints to Tourism Development
4.08     Inadequate water supply is by far the most pressing constraint to
further tourism development in the region. There are no major inadequacies in
1/ Due to the poor condition of water pipes, inadequate pressure if allowed
could result in contaminated water entering the system.



- 13 -
other infrastructural services. Planned infrastructure investments focus on
improving access to the area. Road improvemsnts in the region will emphasize
upgrading the main roads into the Istrian peninsula in order to increase
access to the interior tourist attractions. However, road traffic does not
constitute a major constraint in the short-term; at most, some improvements in
existing surfaces may be indicated. A cooperative agreement with Italy is
designed to improve sections of major roads north of the Istrian peninsula,
with potential positive effects on the traffic near the border at Trieste.
Any delays encountered in the Italy-Slovenia traffic are more likely to be
attributable to the border check-point than to road conditions.
4.09     Acceesibility by air will be increased when the Pula international
airport improvements are finished. The airport, which currently receives 35%
of the area's 'packaged' tours, will be able to handle wide-bodied jets,
thereby increasing the capacity for this kind of tourism in the area. Sea
access will be improved through several new marinas; these are considered
particularly profitable since marina clients tend to spend more than average
tourists.
Projected Tourism Growth
4.10     Tourist overnights will increase as a result of both the additional
accommodation to be constructed, and of the increased utilization of existing
capacity. Projected growth in overnights averages 3% per year for the total
project area, and 3.0% and 2.9% for Istria and the Slovene Coast, respectively.



- 14 -
V. WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICE AND THE DEMAND FOR
WATER IN THE PROJECT AREA
Water Supply
5.01    There are six sources owned and operated by the three Water Works.
The largest and most important supply is the Gradole System which is owned
jointly by the three and operated by IWW. The remaining five sources are
owned and operated by the three Water Works and used exclusively for their
respective service areas. The ownership and detailed statistics on the six
sources are listed in Table 5.1. Four of the six sources are naturally
occurring springs which have been enclosed and improved. Spring water is
chlorinated and filtered year round and is chemically coagulated and settled
for four to six weeks out of the year during periods following heavy rains
when the water is turbid. Usually, ground water emerging from springs
requires only chlorination and sometimes treatment for the Iemoval of
dissolved iron or other minerals, but not treatment for turbidity removal.
The karstic geology of the area accounts for the numerous springs and also for
the high turbidity of spring water after heavy rains, because ground water
flows quickly through limestone channels and cavities without being filtered
naturally. Pula's wells are in a non-karstic area and require only
chlorination.
Table 5.1: Water Supply Sources
Safe Yield
Capacity
Source                              (1/sec)         Treatment        Owner
Rizana Spring                             300           C,S,F,Chl         RWW
Secovlje Wells                            100           C,S,F,Chl         RWW
St. Ivan Spring                           200           C,S,F,Chl         IWW
Pula Wells                                150                 Chl         PWW
Rakonek Spring                            190           C,S,F,Chl         PWW
Gradole Spring                          1,000           C,S,F,Chl      Shared
C = Coaguiation; S - Settling; F = Filtration; Chl = Chlorination
5.02     The capacity of the Gradole system source is allocated by special
agreement among the three Water Works. Capacity allocations under the
agreement vary with time and are as follows:
Capacity Allocations (1/sec)
Through       Through         After
Water Works              1995           2005           2005
RWW               220 1/sec       150 1/sec         --
IWW              580 1/sec       607 1/sec      710 1/sec
PWW               200 1/sec       243 1/sec      290 1/sec



- 15 -
When the yield drops below 1,000 1/sec, which happened in 1987, the
available water is shared in the same proportion as the full capacity
allocations.
5.03       Under the agreement, RWW will be compensated for their share
of the Gradole Supply System based on its original Dinar cost less
depreciation. Inflation is not to be taken into account. RWW has tried
to change the agreement from time to time, first, to allow them to retain
their o-iginal allocation and second, to change the compensation clause
to take inflation into consideration. It is unlikely that they will win
the first point, but since relations between the three Water Works are
good, agreement on the second is possible.
5.04       RWW's Secovlje source is also subject to special agreement.
This source constructed in 1950, is located in Croatia. In order to get
permission to develop it, RWW agreed to stop withdrawals in 1995 and turn
the remaining facilities over to IWW. The Republic of Croatia and iWW
are holding RWW to this agreement.
5.05       Capacities available to each of the Water Works now and in the
future from existing sources are as follows:
Existing Capacity (1/sec)
Through       Through         After
Water Works              1995           2005           2005
RWW                 620             450            300
IWW                 780             907         1,010
PWW                 540             583           630
For the past three years, all three water works have been unable to meet
their peak summertime demand. The result has been customer
inconvenience, lost revenue from tourism and the instigation of costly
water trucking operations. Additional capacity is clearly needed now.
5.06     There are four major trunk main systems bringing water from the
region's sources of supply to its scattered distribution networks. All
four systems distribute water by gravity from a tank to which water has
been pumped at the source. RWW has a single trunk main system serving
networks in each of the three communes it serves. The trunk
system is supplied at one end by the Rizana Spring source and at the
other end by the Gradole and Secovlje sources. IWW has its own trunk
main system supplied from Buzet, connected to two commune networks. The
other four communes in its area are served by the Gradole system. PWW
has only one network, but it also supplies water to the island of Brojni
by a submerged pipeline. Its networks are supplied by the Gradole system
in addition to the two local sources. The Coastal Region terrain is
hilly, requiring numerous small pumping stations and storage tanks.
Table 5.2 gives information on the distribution systems of the three
Water Works. In general, the existing trunk main systems lack sufficient
capacity to deliver the additional water required to meet the growing
demand of the networks and must be augmented. Some of the distribution
networks, especially parts of the Piran network, are old and leak
heavily, and are in need of rehabilitation and replacement.



- 16 -
Table 5.2: Water Distribution Systems in the Project Area
Water              Length of               Area             Maximum Pipe
Works              Pipe (km)           Served (km2)         Diameter (mm)
RWW                   620                    80                    800
IWW                   850                   200                 1,000
PWW                   701                   120                    800
Sewerage
5.07     Water-borne sewage collection is provided in all developed areas
along the coast and in the community centers. Rural areas and areas
outside the sewerage service areas for the most part are provided for
adequately with septic tanks, cess pits and latrines. The population
provided with water-borne sewage collection is estimated at 65%. New
sewers are designed to carry only sanitary wastes; however, some of the
older sewers are combined and carry sanitary wastes and storm water.
5.08     Treatment and disposal, either in place or proposed for the
coastal corn-unities, consists mainly of mechanical screening, grit
removal and disposal by sea outfall. Koper and Piran have primary
treatment plants, and two tourist complexes in Porec are provided with
secondary plants. The discharge pipes for the Por,c plants are at the
sboreline and the results are not as satisfactory as with systems that
provide a lower level of treatment but discharge through properly
designed outfalls which range in length from 0.5 to 3.0 km. Secondary
treatment is provided for the inland community centers of Buzet and Pazin
and is proposed for Buje center. The Pazin plant serves only 50% of the
population, does not operate satisfactorily, and is too small to serve
the local industries. Most industries provide their own treatment to a
level satisfactory for disposal to the community systems but not for
direct discharge. The few plants that do not treat adequately are
located near Pazin.
5.09     Marine disposal of waste water by sea outfall from community
centers close enough to the coast to make it a practical option has only
been practiced for the past 10 years. Before then, coastal communities
had multiple outlets discharging at or near the shoreline. The design
and construction of proper marine disposal systems began only after beach
conditions deteriorated to the extent that it was noticeable by tourists
and vacationers. The new systems are adequately designed and constructed
and have proved effective. Experts believe that marine organisms can
assimilate untreated domestic wastes that are adequately dispersed in the
marine environment, but not wastes that are given more advanced
treatment. For the systems to work, industrial wastes must be either
kept out of the systems or adequately pretreated to remove toxic
substances. Proper treatment is beIng provided by all industries located
close to the coast; but some still discharge to the nearest water course
or drainage ditch.



- 17 -
5.10     The treatment and disposal of waste water from Pazin in central
Istria and its surrounding industries is the most serious environmental
pollution problem in the project area and has been recognized as such by
both local and Republic of Croatia authorities. Waste water from Pazin
in recent years has been detected in the underground water source for
approximately 50,000 persons in the communities of Pula and Labin. A
solution to the problem has the highest level priority in the Republic's
Social Plan for 1986-1990. The Republican Committee for Water Management
has designated all water community of interest contributions in 1989 for
use in solving the Pazin problem with implementation of the recommended
solution to begin in 1990. A study of the problem was undertaken in 1987
and several alternative solutions recommended, none of which were
completely satisfactory to local interests. A follow-up study to address
the concerns raised in the review of the first study is included in the
Project as well as implementation of the solution (para. 7.14).
Demand for Water
5.11     The demand for water has been calculated separately for the
three Water Works (Annex 5.1). The basis for the calculations are
projections of future permanent population, population served and tourist
overnights. Average annual production requirements were calculated by
multiplying the projected values by estimates of per capita and per
tourist overnight water use based on historical values and adding an
allowance for "unaccounted-for water". Production capacity requirements
were obtained by multiplying average consumption by peaking factors based
on historical values adding unaccounted-for water. The calculation
indicates the following for the year 2005 in comparison to existing
capacities:
Peaking      Production Capacity (1/sec)
Water Works     Factors    Existing a/    Required in 2005
RWW             2.0         300                1,000
IWW            2.3        1,010                1,800
PWW            1.7          630                1,100
Total                 1,940                3,900
a/ After reallocation of Gradole system capacity in the year 2005.
Production requirements by year are also in Annex 5.1.
5.12.    Population. The permanent service area population remained
relatively stable since the end of the Second World War until 1980.
Since 1980 there has been a moderate increase. The major factor limiting
the growth in permanent population is the availability of housing. More
housing is planned in the service areas of all three Water Works and
planners are projecting average annual growth rates of 1.5% for the area,
mainly as a result of migration. This compares to current annual growth
rates of 0.4% for Slovenia, 0.3% for Croatia and 0.7% for Yugoslavia.
The projected resident populations for the three water works service
areas are:



- 18 -
Year-end
Water Works                   Permanent Population
Service Area               1987       2000       2015
RWW                    84,000   102,000   127,000
IWW                    90,000   109,000   136,000
PWW                    82,000   100,000   125,000
5.13     Population Served. Currei , estimates of the permanent population
served are as follows:
Permanent
Water Works                     Population Served
Service Area                    Year-end 1987 (%)
RWW                                  92
1WW                                  91
PWW                                  91
Persons not served by the public systems are served by private well or rain
water collected in cisterns and augmented as required by trucked water. Many
of the privately dug wells go dry during the summer and, as a result, there is
pressure on the three Water Works to extend their systems to the unserved
areas. The population served is expected to increase to 95% in RWW and PWW
service areas by 1995 and IWW service areas by 2000 and remain constant
thereafter. At 95% served, most of the population wantine connections would
be supplied.
5.14     Tourist Overnights have been projected to the year 2000 based on
planned expansion of tourist facilities (paras. 4.02-4.04). These projections
which have been used to forecast water demands to the year 2000 are listed
below. Slightly lower estimates have been used for 2001-2015:
Water
Works                 Annual Increase in
Service              Tourist Overnights (%)
Area                1988-2000    2001-2015
RWW                     2.9           2.0
IWW                     3.0           2.5
PWW                     3.0           2.5
5.15     Industry.  Industrial/commercial water demand is expected to grow at
the same rate as the permanent population. Forecasts are based on 1980-87 per
capita use rates and population served.
5.16     Unit Water Demand Rates. The following unit water demand rates have
been assumed for projecting future water consumption:



- 19 -
1981-87
Maximum    1990    1995    2000    2005-2015
RWW
Tourism (;/tn) a/               591        550      550     550       550
Domestic (1/cd)                 154        150      150     150       150
Industrial (1/cd)              175         120      120     120       120
Iww
Tourism (1/tn)                  307        315      354     400       400
Domestic (1/cd)                 208        208      208     208       208
Industrial (1/cd)               65          60       60      60        60
PWW
Tourism (1/tn)                  308        315      354     400       400
Domestic (1/cd)                 236        240      240     240       240
Industrial (1/cd)              158         150     150      150       150
a/ tn = tourist overnight.
The tourism unit demand rate is higher for RWW service area because a higher
percentage of the tourists stay at permanent accommodations in comparison with
the IWW and PWW service areas where 50Z of the accommodation is now in camp
grounds. The tourism unit demand rate for the RWW service area is expected to
remain unchanged in the future. However, the rates for the IWW and PWW
service areas are expected to increase to 400 by the year 2000 and remain at
that level from then on. The increase is expected since most new tourist
development will be for permanent accommodatinn. Per capita domestic and
industrial/commercial demand rates are not expected to change with time.
5.17     Unaccounted-for Water.  RWW has the highest rate of unaccounted-for
water at 402 of production and IWW the lowest at 222. PWW's unaccounted for
water is 31% which is also high. RWW and PWW agreed in negotiations to carry
out action plans to reduce their unaccounted-for water to 25% by December 31,
1994 (Annexes 5.2 and 5.3). Technical assistance would be provided under the
Project to assist RWW and PWW in carrying out the plans (paras. 7.04 and
7.10). For proj3cting future production requirements, it was assumed that the
IWW unaccounted-for water would remain at current levels and that the RWW and
PWW action plans would be successful.



- 20 -
VI. THE BORROWERS AND IMPLEMENTING ORGANIZATIONS
Introduction
6.01     Fourteen entities would have financing and/or implementation
responsibilities for the Project. RWW, IWW, and PWW, the three Water Works
responsible for water service in the project area would finance, own, and
operate the water supply components and would be the Bank's Borrowers. RWW
would implement its component. IWW and PWW, along with six benefitting
communities, have joined together to form the Butoniga Water Works (BWW) to
implement their water supply component. Six infrastructure communities of
interest, a regional water community of interest and two community
infrastructure works enterprises would implement the sewage works. The
Committee for Water Management of the Republic of Croatia would carry out a
sewerage master plan study.
The Three Water Works (the Borrowers)
6.02     The Water Works are independent organizations responsible for the
planning, construction and operation of water supply facilities in their
respective service areas. RWW serves the communes of Koper, Izola and Piran
through 22,000 service connections from two exclusively-owned sources and with
water purchased from the Gradole System, which it owns jointly with IWW and
PWW. IWW serves the communities of Buje, Porec, Rovinj, Buzet and Pazin
through 23,000 connections from one exclusively owned source and water from
the jointly-owned Gradole System, which it operates for the benefit of itself
and the other two owners. PWW serves only the community of Pula through
20,000 connections from 12 deep wells and a spring source, which it operates
exclusively for itself, and with water from the Gradole System. The three
Water Works are autonomous except that their investments, annual budgets,
tariffs and borrowings must be approved by the communities they serve. RWW
obtains the community approval through the Association of Coastal Communities
which represents the three communities it serves in matters of joint
interest. IWW must deal with each of the five communities it serves
individually.
6.03     OrganizationandStaffin .  The organizational structure of the three
Water Works are all similar (See Annexes 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3). The highest
decision making authority is vested in the workers' council whose members are
elected for a 2-year term. The principal functions of the council are to:
(i) appoint the managing director, his deputy and department heads; (ii)
approve all changes to the organize'ional structure; and (iii) approve
investment plans, annual budgets and financial statements. Responsibility for
planning and operation of the water works is vested in the managing director
whose term of office is four years and who may be reappointed any number of
times.
6.04     IWW is the largest of the three Water Works with 221 employees.  RWW
has 146 employees and the PWW has 170. The number of employees in each
organization gives the following ratios for employees per 1,000 water
connections:



- 21 -
Employees
per 1,000
Water Works                  Connections
RWW                           6.6
IWW                           9.6
PWW                           8.5
The IWW ratio is higher than the others since the operates the Gradole water
supply system which serves bulk water to the other Water Works. All the
ratios are satisfactory.
6.05     The top positions in all three organizations are held by experienced,
university trained professionals, most of whom have worked their way up from
junior positions or have transferred from similar positions in other
organizations after having proven themselves to be effective managers or
technicians. Employee turnover is negligible and it is fairly easy to recruit
new employees when needed because of the pleasant living conditions in the
area and shortage of professional type jobs.
6.06     l         is informal at all three Water Works.  All staff are
encouraged to pursue higher education through Water Works grants for books and
tuition; however, since there are few technical schools in the area, the
opportunities for this type of training are limited. Training is also
provided by equipment suppliers for selected staf 2 through training seminars
and on-the-job training whenever new equipment is purchased. This is an area
where the three Water Works cooperate. Recently, for example, all three Water
Works made a joint purchase of leak detection equipment and coordinated the
visit of the supplier's representative to run seminars on leak detection. The
Project would provide for training in leak detection and funds for overseas
training and the purchase of training materials (para. 7.13). Because of the
high level of education of most employees and the low turnover, formal
training programs are not considered necessary.
6.07     Operation and Maintenance. Although all three Water Works have well
maintained facilities and carry out good routine maintenance, the program of
IWW appears to be the best as evidenced by their low unaccounted-for water
(22% as compared to 40% for RWW and 31% for PWW).  IWW has achieved its
success by assigning responsibility, measuring results, and rewarding good
performance. Networks are assigned to specific crews who are responsible for
operation, maintenance, as well as reading of meters. Master meters measure
delivered water to assigned networks so unaccounted-for water by network can
be measured. Crews that maintain low levels of unaccounted-for water in their
assigned networks receive salary bonuses.
6.08     BiliM and CoUection. The sales of all three Water Works are fully
metered, and by the end of 1988, all three will have computerized billing.
PWW currently prepares all its bills by hand but is in the process of
converting to computerized billing. All three water works read meters and
bill monthly and are able to collect over 95% of their billings. RWW has the
best results with a 992 collections record. The receivables for the three
Water Works are all below two months billings, which is satisfactory.



- 22 -
6.09     Insrance. RWW, IWW and PWW carry comprehensive insurance coverage
for fire, floods, natural and other disasters, damage to assets, machinery
failure, staff injuries, public liability, automobiles, inventories, theft,
and construction in progress when not covered by contractors. Insurance
coverage for assets is at replacement cost less depreciation. The insurance
coverage carried by the three Water Works is satisfactory.
The Implementing Agencies
6.10     Twelve independent implementing agencies would carry out the
Project. The Water Supply components would be implemented by RWW, a borrower,
and the Butoniga Water Works (BWW), a special project implementation unit.
The sewerage works would be implemented by six infrastructure communities of
interest, two community infrastructure works enterprises and a regional water
community of interest. The sewerage master plan study would be implemented by
the Committee for Water Management of the Republic of Croatia.
6.11     The Butoniga WaterWorks (BWW). In order to implement the Istria
component of the Project quickly and efficiently, IWW and PWW have formed
BWW. This organization is charged with complete responsibility for the Istria
component of the Project and would be the legal owner until it is turned over
to the two Water Works, at which point BWW will cease to exist. BWW is
charged with not only designing and constructing the works, but also obtaining
the financing. The new organization was felt necessary so that the two Water
Works and six communes would feel equally represented in the effort. A
temporary organization also has certain legal advantages, the most important
being that it has no workers' council which must approve personnel
appointments, budgets and investment plans; and the director and key personnel
have no fixed limit to their terms of office. Difficulties and delays in the
1970s with implementation of the Gradole Water Supply System, a project
jointly owned by the three Water Works, are one reason the new organization
was formed.
6.12     BWW has three levels of authority.  At the highest level is the
Butoniga Committee, consisting of 24 republic and community leaders. The
Committee meets at least once a year and is responsible for establishing
policy. Decisions at the working level, such as the approval of contract
awards and the filling of staff positions, are made by the Butoniga Council.
The Council has 12 members, six Butoniga Water Works staff, and one
representative from each of the six beneficiary communes.  The BWW Director is
a member of both the Committee and the Council.
6.13     At the working level, BWW has three departments whose heads report to
a managing director. The staff will eventually total 16, but only eight
positions have been filled so far. The organization is large for the size of
the Project in comparison to similar organizations for other Bank projects.
The reason for its size is that it is a completely independent organization
with its own personnel and administrative functions and it does not rely on
assistance from the two founding water works. Even so, the staff is probably
larger than necessary. However, the positions are being filled slowly and
only as the need arises, e.g. none of the construction supervision staff has
been hired yet. Most of the staff were previously employed by IWW and PWW and
are well qualified and experienced in the water supply field and in
implementing projects.



- 23 -
6.14     Infrastructure and Water Communities of Interest (ICI). ICIs are formed
in Yugoslavia whenever several groups or organizations have a common problem
that needs to be solved. They can be formed at any level--community, region
or republic. All the communities in the project area have ICIs to arrange
financing for roads, drainage and sewerage. In seven of the communities in
the project area (Koper, Izola, Piran, Buje, Buzet, Rovinj and Pazin) the ICIs
implement the works required in addition to arranging financing. In the other
two, they only arrange financing and the conmunal works organizations
implement the works. The ICIs in six of the communi'ties would implemel't the
sewerage works included in the Project. Because of its regional importance,
the sewerage works in Pazin would be financed and implemented through the
Rijeka Region Water Community of Interest.
6.15     Community Infrastructure Works Enterprises are similar to a community
public works denartment in most member countries of the Bank. All communities
in Yugoslavia have them to operate and maintain the local infrastructure and
provide community services. Some organizations are also responsible for
constructing new works. The communal works organizations in Pula and Porec
will implement the sewerage works included in the Project for their
communities.
6.16     Committee for Water Management of the Republic of Croatia is
responsible for the planning and implementation of water projects of Republic
importance, monitoring compliance with federal and republic discharge
requirements and controlling inter-basin transfers of water among the eight
water regions in Croatia. The Committee also sets priorities for the use of
contributions to the Republic of Croatia Water Community of Interest. At the
policy level, the committee consists of representatives from each of the eight
regions who meet regularly to set priorities and discuss inter-basin issues.
The planning and engineering functions of the committee are carried out by a
staff of 50 located in Zagreb under the direction of the Committee's President.



- 24 -
VII. THE PROJECT
Introduction
7.01     The Project comprises both water supply and sewerage works.  The
water works represent 80% of the planned investments of the three Borrowers
from 1987, when the first project expenditures were made, until project
completion in 1994. The remainder of the Borrowers' planned investments
include trunk main extensions to allow for expanded service, rehabilitation of
existing networks and long range planning. Local networks and service
connections are paid for by the agencies requiring the service as part of the
facilities being constructed; therefore, the costs do not appear in their
investment programs. The sewerage works consist of 21 independent projects to
be implemented and financed by the nine communities in the project area. Bank
loan proceeds would not be used for the sewerage works. They are included in
the Project to ensure that the additional waste water generated as a result of
the Project would be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner.
Project Objectives
7.02     The Project objectives are:  (i) to eliminate existing water
shortages in the project area; (ii) to provide additional water supply
capacity needed for expansion of the tourism industry and growth in domestic
and industrial/commercial demand in the project area; (iii) to reduce
unaccounted-for water in the Rizana and Pula Water Works distribution network;
(iv) to protect existing water sources and coastal tourist areas from
pollution; and (v) to increase efficiency in the delivery of water supply an
sewerage services in the project area.
Project Description
7.03     The Project is divided into the Slovene Coast component and the
Istria component. Each component is described below as a separate project.
The Project parts and their relationship to each other are shown on Map No.
IBRD 20580 attached to this report.
7.04     Slovene Coast Component. This component consists of the following
parts:
Part A: Water Supply and Treatment
1.   Source works to increase the available supply at Rizana from 300
1/sec to 650 1/sec.
2.   Expansion of the Rizana treatment plant from 200 1/sec to 800
1/sec with provision for expansion in the future to 2,600 1/sec.
3.   Planning and investigations for future source development.
Part B: Water Transmission and Storage
1.   5.0 km raw water pipeline from the Rizana source works to the
Rizana water treatment plant.



- 25 -
2.   10.6 km treated water pipeline from the Rizana water treatment
plant to Koper, including modifications to the Pobegi pump
station.
3.   8.0 km treated water pipeline and tunnel from Koper to Izola,
including the St. Mark's Hill pumping station.
4.   Distribution storage totaling 15,000 m3.
5.   A supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system.
Part C: Water Distribution
1.   Rehabilitation and replacement of networks in the old town
centers of Koper, Izola and Piran.
2.   Improvement of pumping station control systems.
3.   Establishment of waste control districts.
Part D: Institutional Strengthening of the Rizana Water Works
1.   Technical assistance for the reduction of unaccounted-for water.
2.   A study of the Borrower's tariff structure.
3.   Operation and maintenance equipment, incldding instrumentation
for water loss control.
4.  Training courses and materials for the training the staff of RWW.
Part E: Sewerage
1.   In the Community of Piran, a pumping station and forcemain for
connecting the old town of Piran sewerage network to the Piran
Sewage Treatment Plant.
2.   In the Community of Izola:  (a) a 2.0 km relief sewer in the old
town of Izola connecting the new town area with the main sewage
pumping station; and (b) rehabilitation and expansion to 270
1/sec of the main sewage pumping station in the old town of
Izola.
3.   In the Community of Koper:  (a) upgrading and expansion of the
Koper Sewage Treatment Plant from a preliminary treatment plant
to a primary treatment plant with a population equivalent
capacity of 100,000; (b) a 0.5 km sea outfall for the disposal
of treated sewage from the Koper sewage treatment plant; and (c)
a 2.0 km collector sewer from the Iplas and Lama factories to
the main sewerage network.
7.05     The works in Parts A and B of the component are the first phase of a
two phase plan to expand the Rizana River supply system to its potential



- 26 -
average safe yield of 1,600 1/sec (maximum day capacity of 2,400 1/sec).
Until 1987, the Rizana source consisted of an enclosed spring with safe yield
of 200 1/sec. In 1987, the Water Works constructed two deep wells with a
combined pumping capacity of 350 1/sec which tap the same aquifer as the
spring. The pumps are oaily used when the flow from the spring drops below the
required system demand. Three additional wells with a combined capacity of
450 1/sec have already been drilled and tested. Under Part Al pumps would be
instailed in these wells and a collection system constructed to convey well
water to an existing central raw water pumping station. In the future, a
storage reservoir would be constructed to store the surface water flow of the
Rizana River. The reservoir would increase the safe yield of the system to
800 1/sec which could support a maximum day capacity of 1200 1/sec.
Eventually, the Rizana system would be combined with the system of a
neighboring water works, and a second surface water reservoir would be
constructed for the combined service area of the two systems (see Map).  The
treatment plant expansion under Part A2 would consist of the addition of rapid
sand filters, mixing and settling tanks and the addition of more treated water
storage to the existing treatmei.t plant.  The existing treatment process is
satisfactory and would not be changed under the Project. Part A3 would
consist of drilling and testing for the construction of new wells in the
Rizana drainage area.
7.06     The transmission system under Part B of the component would transmit
the raw water from the source works to the treatment plant and from the
treatment plant to the areas of greatest demand in the water works service
area. The transmission main is sized for the saturation demand expected in
2015. Constructing the transmission main in a single stage was determined to
be the least-cost solution. The distribution storage is being staged with
only 50% of the ultimate reqiirement being constructed under the Project. The
first half of the transmission main in Part B2 was completed and put in
service in June 1988. The second half is scheduled for completion by June
1989. The Bank will not participate in the financing of these parts of the
Project.
7.07     Part C of the component would reduce water wastage and improve the
efficiency of distribution system operations. Most of the system's leakage
occurs in the networks of the three old town centers of Koper, Izola and
Piran. RWW currently has a program for replacing the older pipes in these
networks. Under the Project, this effort would continue but at an accelerated
rate so that by the end of the Project all the old pipe would be replaced.
The network replacement in the old town centers is a part of RWW's overall
waste control program.  Another part is the establishment of the waste control
districts in Part C2. Part C3 would reduce the number of personnel required
to operate the system's 36 pumping stations.
7.08     Part D of the component would provide consultants, equipment and
training for the institutional improvement of RWW. Consultants would provide
technical assistance for the reduction of unaccounted-for water (para. 5.17)
and for carrying out a tariff study (para. 8.05) under Parts Dl and D2. Part
D3 would make available instruments and special equipment not available
locally for the reduction of unaccounted-for water and genera: maintenance of
the water system. The training in Part D4 is designed to allow water works
personnel to attend training courses and seminars outside Yugoslavia and to
obtain foreign training materials.



- 27 -
7.09     Parts El, E2 and E3 of the component are sewerage works that would be
carried out by the three communities in the project area to provide the
capacity necessary to adequately collect, treat and dispose of the additional
waste water resulting from the Project. All the works are included in the
five year plans for the three communities and are justified on the basis of
adequately prepared master plans.
7.10      stria Component. This component consists of the following parts:
Part A. Water SuplAy and Treatment
1.  Sanitary protective zone for t.e Butoniga Reservoir.
2. The Butoniga water treatment plant with a capacity of 1,000
1/sec, expandable in the future to 2,000 l/sec, including a raw
water pumping station and a treated water pumping station.
Part B. Transmission and Storage
1. 12.0 km of raw water and treated water pipeline from the Butoniga
rr,servoir to the Butoniga treatment plant (0.8 kim) and from the
Butoniga treatment plant to Beram (11.2 km).
2. 46.0 km treated water pipeline from Beram to Loborika with 32.7
km of branching trunk mains connecting the community centers of
Rovinj, Pazin and Pula, and a pumping station at Pazin.
3. Distribution storage totaling 19,000 m3.
4. Telemetering and controls for system operation.
Part C. Institutional Strengthening of the Butoniga, Istrian and
Pula Water Works
1. Technical assistance for the reduction of unaccounted-for water
in the Pula Water distribution system.
2. A study of the feasibility of combining the Istrian and Pula
Water Works and the operation of the Butoniga water supply system.
3. A study of the Borrower's tariff structures.
4. A sewerage master plan for Central Istria.
5. Equipment for the implemnentation, operation and maintenance of
the Butoniga water supply system and instrumentation for water
loss control in the Pula water distribution system.
6. Training courses and materials for the training of the staffs of
IWW, PWW and BWW.
Part D. Sewerage
1. In the Community of Pula: (a) the Valbandor sewerage system
consisting of the Valbandor-Fazana collector, the Valbandor
sewerage network, and two pumping stations; (b) the



- 28 -
Verudele/Pjescana uvala sewerage system and the Pula town
interceptor connecting to the Trafo stanica pumping station; (c)
completion of the Banjole sewage system, including 4.0 km of
collector; and (d) the Medulin sewerage system consisting of a
0.7 km sea outfall, 220 1/sec sewage treatment plant, 7.0 km of
sewers and 3 pumping stations.
2. In the Community of Rovinj: (a) the Rovinj center 2.3 km
interceptor, including three pumping stations (Skver, Valbanolon,
and Kino) and a 0.3 km forcemain; and (b) the Polari pumping
station and the 2.0 km Polari-Kuvi collector.
3. In the Community of Porec, an interceptor and three pumping
stations connecting the existing sewage treatment plants at
Cervar, Lanterna and Ulika with the existing sewage treatment
plant at Materada and the extension of the Materada sea outfall
from 1.5 km to 2.0 km.
4. In the Community of Buje: (a) a secondary treatment plant for
the old town of Buje to serve an equivalent population of 7,000;
(b) a preliminary sewage treatment plant and 1.5 km sea outfall
for the old town of Novigrad to serve an equivalent population of
10,000; (c) a preliminary sewage treatment plant and the
extension of a 0.3 km outfall to 1.5 km for Savudreja to serve an
equivalent population of 15,000.
5. In the Community of Buzet, sewage networks in Buzet center to
extend service to an existing unserved population of 800 (20% of
total).
6. In the Community of Pazin, a sewage treatment and disposal system
for the old town of Pazin and the nearby industries.
7.11     The works in Parts A and B of the component, known locally as the
Butoniga water supply system, would withdraw water from the existing Butoniga
reservoir, treat it in a conventional rapid sand treatment plant, and pump it
to a distribution reservoir on a hill near the treatment plant. From the
treatment plant, water would flow through an 87 km transmission system to the
distribution networks of IWW and PWW. The transmission system consists of
steel pipe ranging in diameter from 1,200 mm to 250 mm, three large
distribution reservoirs, four smaller break-pressure tanks and one booster
pumping station. The treatment plant and transmission system is designed for
and ultimate capacity of 2,000 1/sec. The Bank Project consists of the first
stage construction, with the treatment plant, distribution reservoirs and
in-line pumping station sized for 1,000 I/sec. The pipeline is sized for the
ultimate capacity which is the least-cost solution. The capacity of the
system has been allocated between the two Water Works as follows: IWW - 57X;
PWW - 43a.
7.12     The Butoniga Reservoir was originally designed as a flood control and
irrigation reservoir by the Republican Committee for Water Management, and was
constructed with pooled funds from water communities of interest (WCI)



- 29 -
throughout Croatia. Construction began in 1985 aid was completed in 1987.
When water shortages first occurred in 1983, IWW and PWW obtained the
approval of the Republican Comnittee for Water Management to use the
irrigation storage capacity for domestic and industrial water supply. The
reservoir at present belongs to the Republic of Croatia; however, IWW has
assumed responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the reservoir and
has requested the Republic to transfer ownership to them. Legal ownership is
not a requirement for its use nor is it considered an issue. The cost of the
reservoir, including the intake tower in current prices was $12.0 million
equivalent. La.ad acquisition for a protective zone around the reservoir will
cost an estimated $0.6 million equivalent in December 1987 prices. This cost
is included in the project cost; the construction cost of the dam and
reservoir is not.
7.13     Part C of the component would provide consultants, equipment and
training for the institutional improvement of BWW, IWW and PWW.  Consultants
would provide technical assistance for the reduction of unaccounted-for water
in the PWW water distribution network (para. 5.17), tariff studies for IWW and
PWW (paras. 8.13 and 8.21) and a water management study (para. 7.31) under
Parts Cl, C2 and C3. Part C4, the sewerage master plan, is discussed in para.
7.14 below. Parts C5 and C6 would provide equipment and training to assist in
the implementation of the Butoniga water supply system and its operation upon
completion.  The training in Part C6 is designed to allow BWW, IWW and PWW
personnel to attend training courses and seminars outside Yugoslavia and to
obtain foreign training materials.
7.14     The sewerage works in Parts Dl through D6 of the component would be
carried out by the six communities in the Istria component project area and
have the same objective as the sewerage works in the Slovene Coast component.
Parts Dl through D6 are well defined by feasibility studies, and in some cases
final designs, and are in the respective community five-year plans. When
complete, they will meet the area's projected sewage collection, treatment and
disposal needs until the year 2000 with the exception of Pazin. Only Part D6
a sewage treatment and disposal system for the old town of Pazin, requires
further study and definition. The proposal is for a secondary treatment plant
based on the assumption that the treated effluent would be disposed of in the
Lim River. Tourist enterprises in Istria have objected to the disposal of any
sewage effluent in the Lim River. Consequently, further study is needed,
which would be undertaken as part of a master plan study of waste water
disposal in Central Istria, Part C4. The four coastal communities already
have adequate master plans which are being implemented and additional studies
are not required. Outline terms of reference for the study agreed in
negotiations are included in Annex 7.1.
Project Cost
7.15     The combined cost of the two components including the sewerage works
is $244 million; $103 million for the Slovene Coast component and $14i million
for the Istria component. Allowances for customs duties of $3.1 million for
imported equipment and materials is included.  Enginee.ing costs include only
the cost of consultants. The in-house costs of water works and community
works organization personnel administering the Project are not included.
These costs are reflected in the financial statements of the Borrowers.



- 30 -
Consulting services for design, construction supervision, technical assistance
and studies are estimated at $15.8 million ($14.8 million in base costs).
These costs do not include the cost of design and engineering work completed
prior to 1987. Man-month requirements for the consulting services are
estimated at 5,000 man-months, of which 20 man-months would be foreign
consultants engaged for technical assistance and studies. It is probable that
the remaining design work and construction supervision will be carried out by
Yugoslav engineering organizations already engaged in preparing the final
designs, since the officials responsible for implementing the Project are
satisfied with the engineering work already completed. These consultants are
satisfactory to the Bank, and there is no reason why they should not be
retained to finish the work they have started.
7.16     The project cost estimates for the two components are summarized in
Tables 7.1 and 7.2. Base costs are in December 31, 1988 prices. The grand
total for both components of the Project include physical contingencies of
$18.9 million (10% of base osts for equipment, materials, and civil works)
and price contingencies of $16.9 million (8% of the dollar base cost plus
physical contingencies; the assumed annual rates of inflation of dollar prices
are 3.0% for 1989, 3.5% for 1990, and 4.0% thereafter). The estimated foreign
exchange requirement is $82.7 million (35% of the total cost). The bases for
the cost estimate and further breakdowns of costs are presented in Annex
7.2. More detailed figures are in the Project File.
Bank Lending Arrangements
..17     The Bank would lend $60 million equivalent--$32 million to RWW for
the water works (Parts A, B, C and D) in the Slovene Coast component and $28
million to IWW and PWW for the water works (Parts A, B and C) in the Istria
component. IWW and PWW would be jointly and severally responsible for their
loan. The loan to RWW would finance an estimated 31% of the Slovene Coast
component.  The loan to IWW and PWW would finance an estimated 20% of the
Istria component including $3.9 million in interest and other charges accruing
on the Bank loan during construction. Justification for the financing of
interest is based on the need for IWW and PWW to improve their cash
requirements during project implementation.
Availability of Foreign Exchange for Loan Repayment and Assumption of the Foreign
Exchange Risk
7.18     RWW, IWW and PWw are not foreign exchange earners; therefore, under
the foreign currency relations law they must make special arrangements in
order to borrow from the Bank. The options under the law are as follows: (a)
they can be granted an exception through special federal legislation, or (b)
they can obtain a commitment of a foreign exchange earning enterprise to make
the foreign exchange available to them when it is needed for repayment of the
Bank loan. The Water Works would use the latter approach, with the tourist
enterprises in their respective service areas providing the foreign exchange.
The Water Works would assume the foreign exchange risk and would purchase the
foreign exchange from these enterprises at the official exchange rate. The
Water Works have submitted documentation confirming the agreement of
organizations who would make foreign exchange available for loan repayment.



- 31 -
TABLE 7.1: Summary of Project Cost Estimate - Slovene Coast Component
Foreign
Local     Foreign    Total   as % of
---     US_ Million      --     Total
A. WATER SUPPLY AND TREATMENT
1.  Source Works                          5.3         2.5       7.8        32
2.  Water Treatment Plant Expansion    10.2           7.1      17.3        41
3.  Source Works Planning                 0.2         0.1       0.3        33
Subtotal                          15.7        9.7       25.4        38
B. TRANSMISSION AND STORAGE
1.  Raw Water Pipeline                    6.8         3.6      10.4        35
2.  Rizana-Koper Transmission             8.3         4.7      13.0        36
3.  Koper-Izola Transmission             13.1         7.2      20.3        35
4.  Distribution Storage                  3.6         1.5       5.1        29
5.  SCADA System                          0.7         1.2       1.9        63
Subtotal                          32.5       18.2       50.7        36
C. WATER DISTRIBUTION
1.  Network Rehabilitation                1.4         1.1       2.5        44
2.  Pump Station Controls                 0.3         0.4       0.7        57
3.  Waste Control Districts               0.1         0.2       0.3        67
Subtotal                           1.8        1.7        3.5       49
D. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1.  TA, Studies & Training                 -          0.2       0.2       100
2.  0 & M Equipment                       0.1         0.5       0.6        83
Subtotal                          0.1         0.7        0.8       88
E. SEWERAGE
1.  Piran Sewerage Works                  0.9         0.3       1.2        25
2.  Izola Sewerage Works                  0.7         0.2       0.9        22
3.  Koper Sewerage Works                  2.6         0.7       3.3        21
Subtotal                             4.2        1.2        5.4        22
Total Base Cost                             54.3        31.5      85.8        37
Physical Contingencies                    4.9         3.1       8.0        39
Price Contingencies                       6.0         2.9       8.9        33
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  65.2       37.5      102.7        37



- 32 -
TABLE 7.2: Summary of Project Cost Estimate - Istria Component
Foreign
Local     Foreign    Total   as X of
-------US$ Million     -        Total
A. WATER SUPPLY AND TREATMENT
1.  Sanitary Protective Zone              0.4          -        0.4         0
2.  Water Treatment Plant                12.9        10.7      23.6        45
Subtotal                             13.3        10.7      24.0        45
B. TRANSMISSION AND STORAGE
1.  Butoniga-Beram Transmission           6.2         4.3      10.5        41
2.  Beram-Pazin-Rovinj-Pula
Transmission                      21.8       14.4       36.2        40
3.  Diatribution Storage                  3.1         0.9       4.0        23
4.  Telemetering & Controls               0.9         1.3        2.2       59
Subtotal                             32.0        20.9      52.9        40
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1.  TA, Studies & Training                0.3         0.1       0.4        25
2.  0 & M Equipment                       0.1         0.1       0.2        50
Subtotal                              0.4         0.2       0.6        33
D. SEWERAGE
1.  Pula Sewerage Works                  11.9         2.8      14.7        19
2.  Rovinj Sewerage Works                 3.4         0.8       4.2        19
3.  Porec Sewerage Works                  1.3         0.3       1.6        19
4.  Buje Sewerage Works                   2.6         0.6        3.2       19
5.  Buzet Sewerage Works                  1.3         0.3       1.6        19
6.  Pazin Sewerage Works                 12.6         3.0      15.6        19
Subtotal                             33.1         7.8      40.9        19
Total Base Cost                             78.8        39.6      118.4       33
Physical Contingencies                    7.0         3.9      10.9        36
Price Contingencies                       6.3         1.7       8.0        21
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         92.1        45.2      137.3       33
Interest During Construction on
Bank Loan                                 -          3.9       3.9       100
TOTAL FINANCIAL REQUIRED                    92.1        49.1      141.2       35



- 33 -
Counterpart Financing
7.19   The coutnterpart requirements, estimated at $184 million equivalent,
would be financed from charges to customers, tourist taxes and contributions
from local and republic WCIs. Counterpart funds for the water works, Parts A,
B, C and D in the Slovene Coast component and Parts A, B and C in the Istria
component are fully committed and the commitments documented. Commitments are
based on a percentage of project cost which assures their availability, even
in the existing environment of high inflation. The financing of the sewerage
works, Part E of the Slovene Coast component and Part D of the Istria
component involves nine different financing plans, one for each of the
communities in the project area. At appraisal, the sources of financing were
identified but not fully committed. About 40% of the financing for both the
water works and the sewerage works would come from tariffs charged during
project implementation. The remainder of the financing would come from
contributions from er.terprises, contributions from republic WCIs and tourist
taxes.
7.20   The proposed financing plans for the two components are summarized in
tables 7.3 and 7.4.
Table 7.3: Project Financing - Slovene Coast Component
Local   Foreign   Total       Percent
-- US$ Million -----         of Total
Parts A, B, C and D
World Bank Loan                         -      32.0      32.0         31
Contributions                                                         18
Republic WCI                         7.6       -        7.6
Coastal WCI                          2.7       -        2.7
Local Enterprises                    3.9      4.1A'    8.0
Tourist Taxes                                                          3
Koper                                0.4       -        0.4
Izola                               0.4        -        0.4
Piran                                2.3       -        2.3
Water Revenues                        42.5        -      42.5         43
Subtotal                            59.8     36.1      95.9         93
Part E
Contributions and Tourist Taxes        2.7      1.4A1    4.1           4
Sewage Revenues                        2.7       -        2.7          3
Subtotal                             5.4      1.4       6.8          7
Total.                              65.2     37.5    102.7         100
a/ Foreign exchange component of reserved procurement.



- 34 -
Table 7.4: Project Financing - Istria Component
Local   Foreign   Total       Percent
US$ Million -----      of Total
Parts A, B and C
World Bank Loan                         -       28.0     28.0         20
Contributions                                                         14
Buje                                  -       2.5a/    2.5
Buzet                                0.7       _        0.7
Pazin                                1.5       -        1.5
Porec                                 -       2.1 A     2.1
Rovinj                                -       1.5 a     1.5
Pula                                 0.1      5.3A'    5.4
Republic WCI                         6.3       -        6.3
Tourist Taxes                                                          5
Buje                                 1.1       -        1.1
Buzet
Pazin                                0.1       -        0.1
Porec                                0.7       -        0.7
Rovinj                               0.5       -        0.5
Pula                                 5.3       -        5.3
Water Revenues                                                        25
iww                                 17.6       -       17.6
PWW                                 17.3               17.3
Subtotal                            51.2     39.4b'   90.6         64
Part D
Contributions and Tourist Taxes       20.7      9.7a'   30.4          22
Sewage Revenues                       20.2       -       20.2         15
Subtotal                            40.9      9.7      50.6         37
Total                               92.1     49.1b'  141.2b'       100
a/ Foreign exchange component of reserved procurement.
b/ Includec $3.9 million of interest during construction.
Proiect Implementation
7.21     Each component of the Project would be implemented independently of
the other and in accordance with the schedules in Annexes 7.3 and 7.4. There
are ten implementing agencies other than RWW, IWW and PWW who would be
responsible for implementing parts of the Project. The responsibilities of
these agencies would be detailed in ten separate agreements between them and
the Water Works. IWW and PWW already have a signed agreement with BWW
satisfactory to the Bank. RWW, IWW and PWW agreed in negotiations to enter
into agreements satisfactory to the Bank with the nine implementing entities



- 35 -
for the sewerage works as a condition of loan effectiveness. The completion
date for the Project would be December 31, 1994.
7.22     Slovene Coast Component.  The Slovene Coast component would be
implemented by four organizations with RWW, the Borrower for the component,
being responsible for overall project coordination. The water works, Parts A,
B, C and D of the component, would be implemented by RWW's Department of
Research and Investment. The sewerage works, Parts El, E2 and E3 of the
component, would be implemented by infrastructure communities of interest in
the three benefitting communities (Koper, Izola and Piran). All four
implementing organizations have engaged, or plan to engage, consultants or
engineering organizations for detailed design, construction supervision,
inspection and studies. RWW has already appointed a project coordinator,
satisfactory to the Bank, to oversee the work of the four implementing
organizations and to see that all Bank requirements are met.
7.23     The detailed engineering and construction supervision would most
likely be carried out by Yugoslav organizations. Part Dl, unaccounted-for
water control technical assistance, would be the only engineering work
requiring foreign firms. Engineers for Parts A and B of the component have
already been selected. They are the Water Resources Institute of Ljubljana
for design, ZRMK Consulting of Ljubljana for the inspection of pipe
installation, and Investbiro in Koper for the inspection of civil works. All
three firms have prior involvement in the Project, and RWW is satisfied with
their work. These organizations are acceptable to the Bank. RWW would do its
own engineering for Part Cl and C3 of the component (distribution system
rehabilitation and establishment of waste districts), but would hire
engineering services for Part C2 (pump station controls), most likely from a
Yugoslav organization. The communities of Koper, Izola and Piran plan to use
engineering organizations that they have worked with in the past to assist
them with implementation of the sewerage works in Part E of the Project.
ThIese organizations are also satisfactory to the Bank.
7.24     Istria Component.  The Istria component would be implemented by
eight organizations with overall coordination provided by BWW which would also
implement the water works, Parts A, B and C (except C4) of the component. The
sewerage works, Parts Dl through D6, would be implemented by: the
infrastructure communities of interest of the communities of Buzet, Rovinj and
Buje; the community infrastructure works enterprises of Pula and Porec; and
the Rijeka Region Water Community of Interest (WCI). The Rijeka Region WCI
would implement the sswerage works in Pazin (para. 6.14). IWW and PWW agreed
in negotiations to carry out through the Committee for Water Management of the
Republic of Croatia the Central Istria Master Plan Sewerage Study, Part C4, in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank no later than
December 31, 1990. BWW has already appointed an individual satisfactory to
the Bank to be the project coordinator. All the implementing organizations
have engaged or plan to engage consultants or engineering organizations for
detailed design, construction supervision, inspection and studies.
7.25     The Consultants and engineering organizations who will assist in the
implementation of the component would most likely be Yugoslav. The
engineering and final design for the water works, Parts A and B of the
component, was carried out by Energoprojekt of Belgrade, a large Yugoslav
engineering organization with a reputation for good work locally as well as
internationally. BWW plans to use them to supervise the construction. The



- 36 -
Ruder Institute of Zagreb, who inspected the manufacture of the pipe that has
already been purchased and delivered, would inspect the installation of the
pipe. Both firms have performed well on the work accomplished to date and are
satisfactory to the Bank. The engineering for the sewerage works (Part Dl
through D6 of the component) would be carried out by Yugoslav organizations
that have worked for the communities in the past. These organizations are
also satisfactory to the Bank. The Committee for Water Management of the
Republic of Croatia would most likely engage the Rijeka Planning Institute to
carry out the Sewerage Study (Part C4) since the Institute did a satisfactory
job with the initial study undertaken in 1987.
Status of Preparation
7.26     The status of preparation for the procurement cf works, govds and
studies to be carried out under the Project is well advanced. Final designs
and terms of reference have been prepared for 69% of the value of these items
for the total Project. Final designs are available for 56X of the value of
the sewerage works. Procurement, including procurement for sewerage works,
would be carried out through 90 contracts: 49 for the Slovene Coast component
and 41 for the Istria component. The status of each of these contracts is in
Annexes 7.6 and 7.7. The status of procurement preparation as of March 22,
1989, in terms of number of contracts and value of procurement, is as follows:
Contract                                        Value         Percent of
Status                       Number        (US$ Million)   Total Value
Identified                     90              223.7            100
Preliminary Design             84               222.5             99
Final Design                   55               155.1             69
Bidding Documents              38                90.6            40
Bids Invited                    23               52.7             24
In progress or completed a/   26                85.9             38
a/ Consists of US$78.9 million equivalent of reserved procurement and US$7.0
million equivalent of advance contracting.
7.27     Land acquisition is well advanced and is not expected to cause delays
in project implementation. Land for the water treatment plants for both
Project components and for the source works under the Slovene Coast component
has already been acquired. An estimated 2,200 easements are required for the
transmission mains--200 for the Slovene Coast component and 2,000 for the
Istria component. About 80X of these have been obtained. Land for the
distribution tanks still must be obtained. About 70X of the land required for
the sewerage works is already owned. Legal means are available to all
implementing organizations if agreement with property owners can not be
reached through negotiation. Land for all the sewage plants has been obtained.
Interim Measures to Limit Water Shortages
7.28     A major focus of the Bank's supervision will be to ensure that
existing resources are managed so that water shortages before completion of
the Project are minimized and that the phasing of the Project is such that the



- 37 -
completed works can be put into use as soon as possible. Both RWW and BWW
have undertaken measures to reduce water shortages in the interim. These
measures include early construction of project parts that can be immediately
ucilized upon completion and the construction of temporary works. So far,
measures by both Water Works have proved successful. Water shortages during
the 1988 summer season occurred only in the PWW service area and were not
nearly as severe as during the summer of 1987.
7.29     RWW completed the first 5.6 km of the Rizana-Koper transmission main
in June 1988 and has under construction of the remaining 5.6 km. Completion
of this section of transmission main will eliminate the most critical capacity
restriction in the RWW distribution system and allow utilization of recently
developed capacity at the Rizana source. This added capacity should eliminate
summertime shortages until the Slovene Coast component is completed in 1994.
7.30     BWW has undertaken two measures to ensure an adequate raw water
supply for the Gradole water supply system. The Gradole spring, which until
July 1988 was the only raw water source for the Gradole water treatment plant,
during the height of the tourist season in 1987 yielded only 50% of its rated
safe yield and the design capacity of the system. As an emergency measure to
ensure a raw water supply for the Gradole system, BWW has constructed a
pipeline and pumping system to deliver 80 1/sec from a previously untapped
spring at Cize and constructed a temporary pumping station at the Butoniga
reservGir. It has constructed the Butoniga-Beram section of the Butoniga
transmission main (Part B2 of the Istria component) to pump reservoir water
into a sink hole which studies show will augment flows from the Gradole spring
20 km distant. The capacity of the diversion scheme is 400 1/sec. These two
measures are designed to prevent a recurrenice of the shortages which occurred
in the summer of 1987.
Operation of the Completed Works
7.31     The Slovene Coast water component would be operated by RWW and the
sewerage works would be operated by the beneficiary communities; however, it
is not clear who would operate the Butoniga water supply system. A number of
alternatives have been suggested. These include: operation by IWW under an
arrangement similar to the one for the Gradole water supply system; operation
by BWW; privatization; and the combining of IWW and PWW into a new regional
system which would operate all systems in the project area including the
Butoniga system. These alternatives would be studied under Part C2 of the
Project. IWW and PWW agreed in negotiations, not later than December 31,
1992, to carry out the study on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, consult the Bank before March 31, 1993 on its findings and
recommendations and promptly thereafter take measures necessary to obtain the
approval of the agreed recommendations by the appropriate authorities.
Outline terms of reference for the study are in Annex 7.8.
Procurement
7.32     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 7.5.  Procurement
valued at $146 million equivalent would be carried out in accordance with
World Bank Procurement Guidelines. The remaining $94 million equivalent of
project costs is reserved procurement and land. Reserved procurement consists



- 38 -
of contracts already awarded at appraisal that did not qualify for advance
contracting and the sewerage works in the Project for which Bank financing was
not requested. The foreign cost of the reserved procurement was not included
when calculating the amount of the Bank loans, and the proposed reserved
procurement will not affect the Project adversely. The Bank loan would only
be used to finance procurement carried out in accordance with its Procurement
Guidelines and interest and other charges accuring on the Bank loan for the
Istrian component during its grace period. Of the procurement tha would be
subject to the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, 92% of the goods and 79% of the
works would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The
remaining 8% of the goods would be low cost items of operation and maintenance
equipment and specialty items needed to complete work already in progress
(contracts under $200,000) which would be procured through international and
local shopping. The remaining 21% of the works would be for the construction
of the distribution reservoirs and short sections of pipeline (contracts
smaller than $1,500,000) which would be procured using Local Competitive
Table 7.5: Project Cost Estimate by Procurement Method a/
(Current US$ Milion Equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Element              ICB    LCB   Other b/  Reserved c/   N/A        Total
Goods                        40.1      -      3.3         27.2         -      70.6
(28.8)    -     (2.5)        (0.0)        -     (31.3)
Civil Works                  73.6   19.8  /'   -          59.0         -     152.4
(16.4)  (4.0)     -          (0.0)        -     (20.4)
Consultants                    -       -      8.7          6.8         -      15.5
-      -     (4.3)        (0.0)        -      (4.3)
Training                       -       -      0.1           -          -       0.1
_      _     (0.1)          -          -      (0.1)
Land Acquisition               -       -       -            -         1.4      1.4
-  -       -                -        (0.0)    (0.0)
TOTAL               113.7   19.8    12.1         93.0        1.4    240.0
(45.2)  (4.0)   (6.9)        (0.0)      (0.0)   (56.1)
a/  Figures in parentheses are the estimated amounts for financing from the
proposed Bank loans.  Interest during construction is not included.
b/ International shopping and World Bank Guidelines for selection of consultants.
c/ Sewerage works and water works awarded prior to June 1, 1988.
d/ Includes $7.0 million in advance contracting and up to $2.0 million in
retroactive financing.



- 39 -
Bidding (LCB) satisfactory to the Bank.-" Consultants for technical
assistance would be engaged in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
selection of consultants.
7.33     Approval of US$7.0 million equivalent of advance contracting (4.8% of
procurement following Bank Guidelines) of which the Bank would retroactively
finance US$2.0 million equivalent (3.3% of the loan amounts) (para. 7.42) is
recommended for civil works contracts for pipe installation under Part B2 of
the Slovene Coast component and for pipe installation and the construction of
a water tank under Parts Bl and B3 of the Istria component. The contracts
were awarded after June 1, 1988 using LCB procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. The largest contract is less than the US$1.5 million equivalent
contract limit agreed to in negotiations for use of LCB for awarding civil
works contracts. Justification is based on the fact that the works in
question can be put into service immediately and are an important part of the
Borrower's plan to manage water shortages before completion of the Project
(para. 9.06). Therefore, they could not be delayed until after loan signing.
7.34     An estimated $38 million equivalent in contracts (26% of the
Bank-financed procurement) is expected to be won by foreign suppliers and
consultants (See Annexes 7.6 and 7.7). Goods contracts for the supply of
water treatment plant equipment, large pumping equipment and most of the
operation and maintenance equipment are likely to be awarded to foreign
suppliers since these are items not manufactured in Yugoslavia. Yugoslav
suppliers, who would be competitive, are likely to be awarded contracts for
goods manufactured locally, such as steel pipe. Qualifying local
manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the CIF
price or the prevailing import duty, whichever is less. All of the civil
works contracts are expected to be won by local contractors who are qualified
and difficult to underbid in Yugoslavia. Of the consulting assignments, only
the technical assistance for the control of unaccounted-for water for RWW and
PWW is expected to be awarded to a foreign consultant. Local engineering
organizations already involved in the preliminary design and construction
already completed or in progress are likely to be awarded the design and
construction supervision work still remaining.
7.35     Draft tender documents and proposed awards for goods having an
estimated contract value of more than $200,000 equivalent and for civil works
having an estimated value of more than $500,000 equivalent would be subject to
prior review by the Bank. Contracts for lesser amounts would be subject to
ex-post review. These limits would result in prior review of contracts
representing about 801 of all procurement to be financed by the proposed loans.
Environmental Inpact
7.36     The sewerage works in the Project would ensure that the overall
environmental impact of the Project will be positive. By increasing the water
1/ LCB procedures in Yugoslavia are generally consistent with the need for
economy and efficiency in the execution of the proposed Project. There
are, however, a few procedures which are inconsistent with the Procurement
Guidelines of the World Bank, and there are others which require
clarification. The Government and Borrowers agreed in negotiations on the
changes needed to make the procedures acceptable to the Bank.



- 40 -
supply to the project area, the Project would increase the volume of sewage
flows discharged to the Adriatic. Minimum increase is expected inland since
it is only in coastal areas that the water demand is increasing. Marine
disposal and natural treatment by mixing and diffusion, the current practice
in the project area, is adequate according to experts. An estimated 70% of
the wastewater is currently being disposed of by this method through
adequately designed sea outfalls. Included in the Project are works that
would provide proper treatment and disposal for all sewage now being disposed
of improperly and a study that would provide a master sewage disposal plan for
Central Istria where none now exists. The most serious pollution problem in
the project area, the disposal of domestic and industrial sewage from Pazin
(para. 5.08), would be solved.
Disbursements
7.37     Disbursements from the proposed loans would be made for:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures and 30% of local expenditures for
civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures, 1002 of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 85 X of local expenditures (off-the-self)
for goods;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures for
consultants, training and project related travel of the
Borrower's personnel; and
(d) interest during construction (loan for Istria component only).
7.38     Withdrawal applications would be supported by standard documentation
with the exception of applications for expenditures against contracts valued
at less that $200,000 equivalent, which would be submitted on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOE). Use of the SOE procedure is justified based
on the appraisal mission's evaluation of two implementing organizations'
accounting and administrative procedures, which were found to be
satisfactory.
7.39     Special Accounts would be opened, one for the Slovene Coast component
of the Project at the Ljubjanska Bank and one for the Istria component of the
Project at the Rijeka Bank. The initial deposits for both accounts would be
$3.0 million from the proposed loans which is equivalent to four months of
disbursements during the period with the highest rate of loan drawdown. The
Borrowers would make withdrawals from the respective accounts for the Bank's
share of their components based upon appropriate documentation. IWW and PWW
have authorized BWW to make withdrawals in their behalf. When disbursements
from either account would total one-third the initial deposit, the
organization responsible would apply to the Bank for replenishment of their
Account.
7.40     RWVI, IWW and PWW agreed in negotiations that they would cause their
SOE and Special Accounts to be audited annually by the SDK. The report on the
audit for the Slovene Coast component would be submitted to the Bank by RWW at



- 41 -
the time of submission of the audit report of their financial statements
(para. 8.27). The report on the audit for the Istria component would be
submitted to the Bank by BWW after being approved by IWW and PWW. Both
reports would be due eight months following the close of the fiscal year.
7.41     The proposed allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement category for
each of the two loans is shown in Annex 7.9 for the Slovene Coast component
and Annex 7.10 for the Istria component. The disbursement period for each
would be six years, which is the same as the disbursement period for
investment-type loans for all sectors in Yugoslavia. A schedule of expected
disbursements by quarter for each loan is presented in Annex 7.11 for the
Slovene Coast component and Annex 7.12 for the Istria component.
7.42     Retroactive financing up to US$2.0 million (equivalent US$1.0 million
for each loan) is recommended for expenditures incurred on contracts signed
after June 1, 1988 (para. 7.33). The closing date for each loan would be
December 31, 1995.
Monitorinj and Evaluation
7.43     RWW, IWW and PWW agreed in negotiations to submit to the Bank
semiannual reports (by March 15 and September 15) on the progress of project
implementation during the preceding semesters ending December 31 and June 30,
respectively. BWW would submit the report on the Istrian component on behalf
of IWW and PWW. The reports would measure performance against the
construction and procurement schedules (Annexes 7.3 and 7.4) and the
monitoring indicatcrs (Annex 7.5), and they would include progress reports on
the sewerage works being implemented by others. The agreemenns between the
Water Works and the implementing agencies for the sewerage works (para. 7.21)
would include reporting requirements. The report would be submitted together
with the report on the finances of the Water Works (para. 8.27). The three
Water Works also agreed to submit to the Bank a project completion report on
each component six months after the closing dates for the two loans.



- 42 -
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Ikttroduction
8.01     This section reviews the past financial performance of the three
Borrowers and presents projections of their future performance and their
financial capacity for carrying out their proposed investment programs,
including the Bank Project. Historical and projected financial statements
have been reclassified and are presented in accordance with international
accounting standards. However, for definitions of some items which remain in
accord±.ice with the Yugoslav accounting practice, see Annex 8.13. The
detailed financial statements, upon which the review is based, are included in
Annexes 8.1 to 8.12.
8.02     Historical and future costs are presented on different bases as a
result of the high inflation rates being experienced in Yugoslavia at the
present time (170% in 1988). Historical data presented in this section and in
the Annexes are in current Dinars. All projection costs are based on the
prevailing prices in December 1987. For purposes of consistency, the proposed
project costs and the related Bank loan and debt service are included in the
projected financial statements at base cost (including physical contingencies
but excluding price contingencies).
Rizana Water Works (RWW)
8.03     Past Performance and Present Position. The actual and projected
Investment Program and Financing Plan, Inco¢i Statements, Balance Sheets, and
Statements of Source and Application of Funds, from 1983 through 1996, are set
forth in Annexes 8.1, 8.2, 8.3 and 8.4, respectively. Explanations of the
accounts reflected in the financial statements and assumptions for the
projections from 1988 to 1996 are provided in Annex 8.14.
8.04     During the period 1983 to 1985, the operating ratio averaged about
931. This high ratio was attributable to tariffs not being increased
sufficiently to offset the impact of inflation on operating costs. Water
tariffs, however, were increased sufficiently in 1986 and 1987 to compensate
for inflation of the prior years and resulted in achieving a reduction of the
operating ratio to a level of about 73% for 1987. Although net income after
taxes was very low for the years 1983, 1984, and 1985 (3, 11, and 14 Dinar
million, respectively), the financial position and self-financing of capital
expenditures of RWW was satisfactory for these years and for the ensuing years
1986 and 1987, as indicated in the balance sheet (Annex 8.3), and statement of
source and application of funds (Annex 8.4). For the year 1987 the ratio of
debt to debt plus equity was 2X, and the debt service was covered 252 times by
internal funds generation due to the low level of past borrowing, and the
current ratio was 2.0. Accounts receivable, however, amounted to about 4.9
months of average 1987 sales. This was attributable to a substantial increase
in tariffs in NovemDer and December of 1987 which were reflected in the
year-end balance of receivables and not in the average year's sales used for
calculating this indicator. Accounts receivable adjusted to. average 1987
tariffs would represent about 1.5 months average sales which is satisfactory.
The self-financing ratio of capital expenditures, including customer
(community) contributions, was 87.71 (Annex 8.4).



- 43 -
8.05     Water Tariffs. RWW tariffs in effect at appraisal are shown in Table
8.1. All customers are charged for a minimum quantity of 5 m3 per month.
The three communities served by RWW are charged uniform tariffs which are
calculated to cover O&M costs, payments to workers, depreciation, and a
contribution to new investments. Changes in tariffs must be approved by the
Workers' Council at the Water Works and the Executive Council of the
Association of Coastal Communities. Tariffs are frequently increased to
compensate for the impact of inflation on operating costs. The tariff
structure does not sufficiently reflect the scarcity of water during the peak
summer months nor the fact that tourism is responsible for most of the new
investment in capacity. RWW agreed in negotiations, not later than December
31, 1990, to undertake a study of its tariff structure on the basis of terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank; to consult with the Bank on the
findings and recommendations before March 31, 1991; and promptly thereafter to
take measures to put into effect a revised tariff structure. The study,
amongst other considerations, would address the following:
(i)  seasonal surcharge on industrial/commercial, and residential
customer tariffs during the period of annual peak-demand in
order to suppress the level of demand during this period; and
(ii)  separate tariff for establishments providing tourist
accommodation and services.
Outline terms of reference for the tariff study are provided in Annex 8.15.
Table 8.1: RWW Tariffs (EfGective March 31, 1989)
Customer Category
ind./Com.     Residential
Basic Charge for 5 m3 (Din/month)             72,100          36,050
Use Charge for 6 m3 & more (Din/m3)           14,400           7,200
8.06      Future Finncia Performance. RWW's projected financial performance
(Annex 8.2) is satisfactory. The operating ratio is projected to decrease
from about 73% in 1987 to about 63% in 1992, and subsequently to return to
about the 1987 level by 1996 which is projected to be 72%. The 1472 increase
in average revenue per cubic meter of sales shown for 1988 is in line with
inflation during 1987; the size of this increase reflects the large difference
between December 1987 prices (used thereafter as the base price for the
projections), and the average price for 1987. Average revenue per cubic meter
of sales, in constant prices, is subsequently expected to increase by about
48% in 1989 and by 402 in 1991. Thereafter, to 1996, average revenue per cm
is projected to remain relatively unchanged. The rate of return on net
revalued fixed assets is projected to increase from 18.3% in 1987 to 26.62 in
1991, and thereafter decrease to 10.3% in 1996. This is attributable to the



- 44 -
increasing fixed assets base, and to the increasing depreciation, debt
interest, and relatively constant tariffs, from 1992 to 1996. Debt service
(Annex 8.4) is projected to be covered by internal resources by ratios ranging
from about 25:1 to 4:1 during the forecast period 1988 to 1996, and is
satisfactory. The financing of capital expenditure from internal resources
(including customer contributions) is satisfactory for the 1988 to 1996
projection period, as indicated by the self-financing ratios (Annex 8.4).
This indicator increases from about 88% in 1987 to 90% in 1994, and
subsequently to over 1002 in 1996. The excess over 1002 in the years 19&),
1991, and 1995-96 represents the relative amount available for an increase in
the investment program during the 1989-96 period, and for the ensuing years,
with no necessity for reliance for financing from external sources or customer
contributions.
8.07      RWW's indicators reflecting the financial position of the
organization over the 1988-96 forecast period, as presented at the foot of the
balance sheet (Annex 8.3), are satisfactory and demonstrate that RWW' will
maintain a healthy financial position. The ratio of debt to debt plus equity
is projected to be in a range of about 12 to 24, the current ratio in a range
of about 6 to 18X, and the number of months of average sales reflected in the
accounts receivable is projected to decrease from about 4.8 in 1987 to under
one month's average sales from 1991 to 1996.
8.08      RWW agreed in negotiations to maintain tariffs at a sufficient level
to produce an operating ratio of not greater than 80 each year beginning with
1989. An operating ratio of 802 would ensure sufficient operating revenue to
cover operating costs, debt service, taxes, allocations to the reserve and
staff welfare funds and provide the required internal r0sources for the
investment program, taking into account customer contributions and external
finances. Although the RWW's projected Income Statements (Annex 8.2) show
lower operating ratios in some years, analysis by the appraisal mission
confirmed that at an operating ratio of 80% in each of the years 1989 through
1996, RWW's generation of internal resources would exceed the amounts required
by their financing plan (Table 8.2).
8.09      A detailed schedule of RWW's investment program and financing plan,
for the actual period 1983 to 1987, and for the projected period 1988 to 1996
is set forth in Annex 8.1. A summary of RWW's overall investment program and
financing plan from the start of expenditures for the Bank Project through the
implementation period (1987-1996), in December 1987 Dinars, is provided in
Table 8.2. During the period 1986-1996, annual investment expenditures other
than Bank Project expenditures are projected to average $4.4 million. The
projected external, customer, and internal financing is sufficient to meet
therequirement of the projected investment plan and, consequently, the
financing plan is satisfactory. RWW agreed in negotiations to agree with the
Bank before introducing any increase in a given year's projected expenditures
for investments other than the Bank Project that would cause the annual
average of such expenditures for the period from 1989 through the year in
question to exceed $5.0 million equivalent (15% more than the amount projected
at appraisal).



- 45 -
Table 8.2: Rizana Water Works Investment Program
and Financing Plan
(Dinars Million)
1988-96 At Constant Oec.1997 Prices
ACTUAL ---------------------------     PROJECtED                        -.---- .......... TOTAL
FISCAL YEAR ENDINS DECEMIIER 3t             1987      1988       1989      1990      1991      1992       1993      1994      1995      1996  1937-96   1
INVEI EINT PROGRAM,
PROPOSED PROJECT                           2,805    9,701   14,907   16,369   22,796   26,044   15,984    6,359                  0         0  114,965  69.7t
OTHER PROJECTS I/                              0          0         0         0         0          0         0    5,284    6,429    7,454   19,167  11.61
RELCENT   RENEUAL OF ASSETS               35,21           0    2,625    2,500    2,510    1,899    2,814    2,606    6,500    6,000   30,070  18.71
..... .  .......  ..... .... ....  .......  .  ..... .......   .......  ..... . .......
TOTAL CAPITAL EIPENDITURE                  6,021    9,701   17,732   18,869   25,306   27,943   18,799   14,249   12,929   13,454  165,002 100.01
*Vugl"8  s ..8"asags$    vaamim82882agassa  *asoass MtsS  glsses  Vaassa"   asusass  aswaxxv   a*w as san g "a ............................ ss
1 P IPE R POTJA (SORC I TO RIZAMI; PUMP STATION AT POSTOJNAI
*,REEVXOiR ITATRIVRH.
FIMAICN8 PLANt
38338383338333
THE uLO BANK                                   0          0    4,323    8,719   11,120    8,767    3,906    1,429                0          0   38,10   23.
IC TlICSEN          LOi-TERII LOANS     1,535          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0    1,535   0.91
SLOEIA ASSOCIATIO     AT ER
COIKIITIES                                 2,484    2,500    3,000            0    5,500    2,000            0         0         0          0   15,484   9.41
CUSTOMER CONTRIUTIONS
FRM  CUSTOMERS THRU6H COIUJNITIESs
TOURIST TAIES                              242       750       765       780        794       810       821          0         0         0    4.966   3.01
INDUSTRIAL I COMMERCIAL CUSTOME    1,2.4           2,986    2,887        174    5,162       3,697       571         O          0         0   16,698  10.21
MTER COUITIES OF KOPER                    352        910       810       399    1,480         810        10          0         0         0    5,671   3.41
TOTAL CUSTOMER CONTRIIUTIONS               2,008    4,546    4,462    1,353    7,436    5,317    2,213                 0         0         0   27,335  16.61
. ............
RIZAM  INTERNAk  RESOURCES                     (6)   2,655    5,947    8,797    1,250   11,859   12,779   12,820   12,929   13,454   82,484  50.02
b.........
TOTAL FINACINS OF INVEST.PROSAN            6,021    9,701   17,732   18,969   25,306   27,943   18,798   14,249   12,929   13,454  165,002 100.01
88838883888838338888838832338338    63"38888  33338.8  3s3883           33*8383   3883   388*838  383333   3u33           338s  E    8383"  3s3338 ns     8 3"
Source. Rluana later  orke  & I  nk  iuica  estiutn
Istrian Water Works (IWW)
8.10                 Past Performance and Present Position. The actual and projected
Investment Program and Financing Plan, Income Statements, Balance Sheets, and
Statement of Source and Application of Funds from 1983 through 1996, are set
forth in Annexes 8.5, 8.6, 8.7, and 8.8, respectively. Explanations of the
accounts reflected in the financial statements and assumptions for the
projections from 1988 to 1996 are provided in Annex 8.14.
8.11                During the period 1983 to 1987 the operating ratio averaged about
731, ranging between 68% and 79% (Annex 8.6). The self-financing ratio (Annex
8.8) averaged about 55%, varying widely over the 5-year period.  From 731 in
1983, the ratio changed to 262 in 1984, to -31 in 1985, to 111 in 1986, and to
167% in 1987. These wide variances were largely due to large increases in
working capital and debt service (1984-86) relative to the internal funds
generation. In calcu ating the self-financing ratio, increases in



- 46 -
debt-service and working capital are deducted from internal funds generated.
In the case of the year 1985, which reflected a negative self-financing ratio,
debt-service and working capital increases exceeded internal funds
generation. The high self-financing ratio of 167% in 1987 was attributable to
a large increase in customer capital contributions and operating income
resulting from a large increase in tariffs (156%). The rate of return on ,iet
revalued assets amounted to about 7% in 1987, ranging from 5% to 9% over the
1983-87 period. Debt-service coverage ranged between 2.1 and 3.8 for the
period. Overall, the financial performance of IWW was satisfactory for the
1983-87 period.
8.12      The financial position of IWW at the end of 1987 as reflected ir; the
Balance Sheet (Annex 8.7), waE satisfactory. The ratio of debt to debt plus
equity was 11%, while the current ratio was 0.4% due to short-term loans
incurred as bridging finance for the high level of capital expenditure in that
year. The number of months average sales reflected in the 1987 balance of
outstanding accounts receivable amounted to 1.5 months. Owing to the large
tariff increases in the latter peat of 1987, the average month's sales for the
year is considerably lower than the average for November and December of which
the year-end accounts receivable figure is comprised. Consequently, this
indicator is not a valid measure of the conditions of accounts receivable for
this particular year.
8.13      Water Tariffs.  IWW's tariffs in effect at appraisal are shown in
Table 8.3. Customers are billed the basic charge regardless of the amount
consumed; the charged amount loes not cover any partisular quantity of water.
Industrial/commercial customers are granted a discount on the total water
consumed for the calendar year, provided their consumption over ten months of
the year exceeds an average of ,,O0O cu meters per month over the ten-month
period. The discount amounLs to 20% of the Operations charge, and does not
apply to the surcharge for investments. It is rebated at the end of the
calendar year. All five communities served by IWW are charged a uniform
tariff, as shown below. The tariff surcharge for investments is in accordance
with an agreement which terminates December 31, 1991. The operations portion
of the total tariff is frequently increased each year to compensate for the
impact of inflation on operating costs, as well as being seasonally adjusted.
IWW's tariff structure includes a surcharge but lacks a separate charge for
tourism facilities. IWW agreed in negotiations not later than December 31,
1990 to undertake a study of its tariff structure on the basis of terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; to consult with the Bank on the findings
and recommendations before March 31, 1991; and promptly thereafter to take
measures to put into effect a revised tariff structure. The study, amongst
other considerations, would address the following:
(i)  separate tariff for establishments providing tourist
accommodation and services; and
(ii)  the discount structure for industrial/commercial customers
and to what degree it oftsets the benefit of the seasonal
surcharge in suppressing demand during the period of annual
peak-demand.
Outline terms of reference for the tariff study are provided in Annex 8.15.



- 47 -
Table 8.3: IWW Tariffs (Effective January 1, 1989)
Customer Category
Jan.-Mar.       ADr.-Sept.          Oct.-Dec.
Ind./Com. Res. Ind./Com. Res. Ind./Com. Res.
Basic Charge (Din/month)      4,140  1,500    16,000  5,200    16,000  5,200
Use Charne (Din/m3)
Operations                  1,100    770      3,670  2,570      2,190  1,540
Investments                 1,600    800      1.600    800      1,600    800
Total                  2,700  1,570      5,270  3,370      3,790  2,340
8.14     Future Financial Performance.  During the 1988-96 period covered by
the projections, IWW's operating ratio (Annex 8.6) is projected to decrease
from about 712 in 1987 to 382 in 1988, and to increase to 74% in 1996. This
indicator reaches a peak of 77% in 1994 owing to an increase of about 1581 in
depreciation attributable to the transfer of the proposed Bank Project assets
from Butoniga, the project implementing organization, to IWW's assets in
operation during that year. Due to start-up of the new production facilities,
and the gradual increase in customer demand, the full sales income potential
of the added production capacity will not be realized during the projected
period. The operating ratio, however, is projected to fall to about 741 by
1996. The rate of return on net revalued fixed assets (Annex 8.6) is
projected to increase from about 7% in 1987 to 29% in 1988 and thereafter to
decrease to about 4% by 1996. The self-financing ratio (Annex 8.8), measuring
the percentage of capital expenditure covered by internally generated funds
and customers contributions, is projected to be about 621 in 1988, decreasing
to 27% in 1994, and increasing to 86% in 1996, owing to the signiticant
decrease in the investment program.  Debt service coverage, by internally
generated resources, is projected at about 13 (times debt service) in 1988,
decreasing to 1.4 by 1996.  Although the rate of return on net revalued assets
is somewhat low for the latter three years of the nine year projected period,
the self-financing ratio indicates a significantly high level of internal cash
generation to ensure that the internal funding of the investment program is
adequately covered, to ensure that the Reserve Fund and Welfare Fund
allocation requirements are met, and to permit an expansion of the investment
program in the future, if needed. The projected financial performance of IWW
is satisfactory.
8.15     The projected financial position of IWW, as reflected in the balance
sheet (Annex 8.7), indicates a satisfactory condition. The ratio of debt to
equity plus debt reaches the high point of 251 in 1992, attributable to the
drawdown of the proposed Bank loan, but decreases eacii year thereafter
reaching the level of 171 in 1996. The current ratio ranges between 1.8 to
8.4 over the 1988-96 period. Accounts receivable in terms of number of
months' average sales range from a high of 1.5 months in 1987 to 1 month in
1996.



- 48 -
8.16     IWW agreed in negotiations to maintain tariffs at a sufficient level
to ensure an operating ratio of not greater than 80% each year beginning with
1989. An operating ratio of 80% would ensure sufficient operating revenue to
cover operating costs, debt service, taxes, allocations to the Reserve and
Staff Welfare Funds and provide the required internal resources for the
investment program, taking into account customer capital contributions and
external financing. Although the IWW's projected Income Statements (Annex
8.6) show lower operating ratios in some years, analysis by the appraisal
mission confirmed that at an operating ratio of 80% in each of the years 1989
to 1996, IWW's generation of internal resources would exceed the amounts
required by their financing plan (Table 8.4).
8.17     A schedule of IWW's investment program and financing plan, for the
actual period 1983 to 1987 and for the projected period 1988 to 1996, is
provided in Annex 8.5. A summary of IWW's overall investment program and
financing plan, from the start of capital expenditures for the Bank Project in
1987 until 1996, priced in December 1987 Dinars, is provided in Table 8.4.
During the period 1989-1996, annual investment expenditures other than Bank
Project expenditures are projected to average $2.2 million. The projected
external, customer, and internal financing is sufficient to meet the
requirement of the projected investment plan and, consequently, the financing
plan is satisfactory.  IWW agreed in negotiations to agree with the Bank
before iatroducing any increase in a given year's projected expenditures for
investments other than the Bank Project that would cause the annual average of
such expenditures for the period from 1989 tlrough the year in question to
exceed $2.5 million equivalent (15% more than the amount projected at
appraisal).
Pula Water Works (PWW)
8.18     Past Performance and Present Position. The actual and projected
Investment and Financing Plan, Income Statements, Balance Sheets, and
Statements of Source and Application of Funds from 1983 to 1996 are provided
ir. Annexes 8.9, 8.10, 8.11 and 8.12, respectively. Explanations of the
accounts reflected in the financial statements and assumptions for the
projections from 1988 to 1996 are provided in Annex 8.14.
8.19     During the period 1983 to 1987, PWW's after tax income was low.  This
was reflected in their operating ratio (Annex 8.10) which was 92%, 891, 87%,
73X and 801 for each year, respectively. This was due to an insufficient
level of tariffs. With a substantial increase in tariffs in 1987, PWW
generated a net after tax income of Dinar 510 million and achieved an
operating ratio of 80X. The rate of return on net revalued assets ranged from
1.42 to 3.1% from 1983 to 1985 but increased substantially to 8.1% and 6.6% in
1986 and 1987 respectively owing to a large increase in tariffs in both of
these years. PWW's self-financing ratio was high from 1983 to 1986, averaging
611, attributed to a very low level of capital expenditures. This indicator
was 240% for 1987, due to the increase in tariffs and an infusion of
contributed capital of Dinar 12 billion from customers. Debt service was
satisfactorily covered during the entire period 1983-87 due to a low level of
borrowed capital.  The financial performance was not satisfactory in the years
1983, 1984 and 1985, however, with the increase in tariffs and additional
equity capital the financial performance in 1986 and 1987 is considered
satisfactory.



- 49 -
Table 8.4: Istrian Water Works Investment Program
and Financing Plan
(Dinars Million)
1989-94 At Constant Dec.1997 Prices
ACTUAL .-                ......... -  PROJECTED    -----…---               ----------- TOTAL
FISCAL YEAR ENDIN6 DECEIIER 30th          1997      1999     196,      1990      1991      1992     1993      1994      1995     1996 1997-96    t
INVESTMENT PROBRAJ:t
PRWODW  PROJECT                         14,194    4,103    9,963   17,066    5,699    2,123          420        17         0         O   53,494  61.52
OTHER PROJECTS 1/                        1,922    4,529    1,137    2,125    1,902    2,200    3,462    1,474    1,499               0   20,251  23.3%
REPLACENENT I RENEVAL OF ASSETS            994       223      250       214    1,506        512      5U6    1,422        493    2,399    8,561   9.91
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE               17,100    5,954   11,250   19,405    9,106    4,935    4,450    2,915    1,992    2,399   92,296  94.6t
ilRD INT.1 CONIIIT.FEE CAPITALIZE            0         0      212       694    1,076    1,289    1,430           0         0        0    4,701   5.42
OtME  INTEREST CAPITALIZED                  30         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0       so   0.02
....... ...                                                 ...... .......
TOTAL INVESTMNT PROGRM                  17,130    9,954   11,462   20,099   10,192    6,124    3,890         2,913    1 992    2,389   97,027 100.02
w  m msa   ~~~~~~~.*.a**s   Jssess    ssamaga    sasunas  asunses   sea*sos  &mm"  message  *                        mmun    asssssax *gsous
11  III PIPELINES RESEVOIRS,IUILOINSS,CHLORINE MEASUIRINS STATIONSjNEU   REECONSTRUCTED PUlP STATIONS;
6RADOLES0  IklREASE   IN FILTERING CAPACITV,I NEW CHLORINE STORAGEIPUJP STATIOUIS;CAOA TELEMETRIC STATIONS I  SYSTEM CENTER.
FINIACIN PUN
TIE iOuLD UAlK                               0         0    5,199    6,291    2,696        797       348        17         0         0   13,346  17.6:
OMSTIC CUREICY LOUTERN LOANS             2,636    2,193       87a    1,034        193       932    1,403    1,213        t97       636   11,814  13.61
CROATIA ASSOCIATION
ii IATER C41UITIES                           0       270        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0      270   0.32
cusTOME CORNTRIIUTS
FRON CUSTOM TERS-TOH COMITIESt
TOURIST TAlES                              0     2160      5257      1653     1240         0         0         0        0         0   10.310  11.92
INDSTRIAL I COIUERCIAL CUSTONMS    73            2360         0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0    9,699  11.12
TOTAL CUSTOE  CONtRIIUtOlS               7,3      4,520    5,257    1,653    1,240            0        0         0         0         0   20,008  23.01
ISTRIA INTERL RESOURCES                  7,126    1,971       (791  10,427    4,977    3,106    2,697    1,693    1,295    1,753   34,856  40.12
-                   -                  ona. * n b l                                                -                -- --                        -
TOTAL CAPITAL EPENITRE                  17,100    9,954   11,250  'i,405    9,106    4,935    4,450    2,915    1,992    2,39   92,26  U94.62
INTEREST & COMIITI     FEE
DURINO  CONSTRUCTION CAPITALIZED:
THE WORLD USl                                0         0      212       694    1,076    1,289    1,430           0         0        0    4,701   5.42
ISTRIA INTERAL RESOURCES                    30         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0        0        30   0.02
.. _-:                -i-.   ...    --.                   .         __ ..         ...    ._^.. o.. .. - --.. ------  ------. _
TOTAL FINAIIICIEIB If INVESt,OSR        17,130    9,954   11,4l 2   20,099   10,192    6,124    5,980    2,915    1,992    2,399   97,027 100.02
w _ n    m       _         s~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ **        monoo $gls *sus    sami    son"     *ama  s a_s  *eggs   *s ego  *Seoul
ource: Istria later Marks I lak ai1ssm estiates
8.20             The financial position of PWW, as reflected in the balance sheet
(Annex 8.11), was satisfactory from 1983 to 1987. The ratio of debt to debt
plus equity was 0.51 in 1987, the current ratio averaged 4.5 for this period,
and the number of months average sales reflected in the outstanding acccunts
receivable amounted to 0.9 months of sales at the end of 1987.
8.21            Water Tariffs.  PWW's tariffs in effect at appraisal are shown in
Table 8.5. There are no basic or minimum charges, nor discounts for large
volume customers. The tariffs below are applied to all customers in the Pula
Conmmunity which PWW serves. Tariffs are increased frequently to compensate



- 50 -
for the impact of inflation on PWW's operating costs, and are seasonally
adjusted to discourage excessive consumption during the period of
peak-demand. The seasonal increase, however, applies to the investment
surcharge and not to the operations part of the tariffs. As with RWW and IWW,
PWW's tariff structure could be improved also. PWW agreed in negotiations,
not later than December 31, 1990, to undertake a study of its tariff structure
on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; to consult with
the Bank on the findings and recommendations before March 31, 1991; and to
promptly thereafter take measures to put into effect a revised tariff
structure. The study, amongst other considerations, would address the
following:
(i) seasonal surcharge on the operations part of the
industrial/commercial, and residential tariffs;
{ii) Separate tariff for establishments providing tourist
accommodations and services; and,
(iii) a minimum monthly charge to all classes oi customers.
outline terms of reference for the tariff study are provided in Annex 8.15
TabLe 8.5: PWW Tariffs (Effective January 1,1989)
Customer Category
Jan.-May         Jun.-Sept.         Oct.-Dec.
Ind./Com. Res. Ind./Com. Res. Ind./Com. Res.
Operations (Dinar/m3)         2,050    880      2,050    880      2,050    880
Investments (Dinar/m3)          800    400      1,200    800        800  _400
Total (Dinar/m3)           2,850  1,280      3,250  1,480      2,850  1,280
8.22     Future Financid Performance.  During the 1988 to 1996 period, PWW's
operating ratio in 1988 through 1990 is projected to remain constant at about
47%. It is projected to increase to 61% in 1991, largely due to dropping the
surcharge for investments from the tariff in that year, while in 1992 and 1993
it decreases to 52%. In 1994 this ratio is projected to increase to 791 due
to the considerably higher depreciation resulting from the assets of the
proposed Project being taken over from Butoniga and transferred to assets in
operation. For 1995 and 1996, the operating ratio remains at about 79%. The
rate of return on net revalued fixed assets is projected at 271 to 28% from
1988 to 1990, 18-241 from 1991-93, and 41 to 31 from 1994 to 1996, reflecting
the impact of depreciation on the assets of the proposed Project. The debt
service coverage ratio is projected at 489 in 1988, decreasing to a level of
about 2 from 1994 to 1996 due to the commencement of debt service payments for
the proposed Bank loan. The high debt service ratio from 1988-93 (489-570) is
due to the very low projected level of loan financing during this period. The
projections reflect a self-financing ratio ranging from a low of 431 in 1988



- 51 -
to a high of 1022 in 1996. With the exception of 1988 and 1991, in all nine
years of the period of projections the self-financing ratio is 622 or higher.
The financial performance as projected for the period 1988 to 1996 is
satisfactory.
8.23     PWW's projected financial position from 1988 to 1996, as reflected in
the balance sheet (Annex 8.11) is satisfactory. The ratio of debt to debt
plus equity reaches its high point at about 201 in 1992, and thereafter
decreases consistently each year to 1996 at which time it is projected to be
13%. The current ratio ranges between 3 and 11 over the nine year period of
projections. Outstanding accounts receivable measured in terms of avurage
months' sales is projected to be under one month average sales for each of the
years 1988 to 1996. The projected financial position of PWW is satisfactory.
8.24     PWW agreed in negotiations to maintain tariffs at a sufficient level
to ensure an operating ratio of not greater than 801 each year beginuing with
1989. An operating ratio of 80% would ensure sufficient operating revenue to
cover operating costs, debt service, taxes on income, allocations to the
Reserve and Staff Welfare funds and provide the required internal resources
for the investment program, taking into account customer capital contributions
and external financing. Although the PWW's projected Income Statements (Annex
8.10) show lower operating ratios in some years, analysis by the appraisal
mission confirmed that at an operating ratio of 801 in each of the years 1989
to 1996, PWW's generation of internal resources would exceed the amounts
required by their financing plan (Table 8.6).
8.25     A schedule of PWW's investment program and financing plan, for the
actual period 1983 to 1987 and for the projected period 1988 to 1996, is set
forth in Annex 8.9. A summary of PWW's overall investment program and
financing plan, from 1987 until 1996, the start of capital expenditures for
the Bank Project in 1987, priced in December 1987 Dinars, is provided in Table
8.6. During the period 1989-1996, annual investment expenditures other than
Bank Project expenditures are projected to average $1.7 million. The
projected external, customer, and internal financing is sufficient to meet the
requirement of the projected investment plan, and, consequently, the financing
plan is satisfactory. PWW agreed in negotiations that they would agree with
the Bank before introducing any increase in a given year's projected
expenditures for investments other than the Bank Project that would cause the
annual average of such expenditures for the period from 1989 through the year
in question to exceed $2.0 million equivalent (151 more than the amount
projected at appraisal).
Audit
8.26     The annual financial statements of RWW, IWW, and PWW are subject to
audit by the Federal Social Accounting Services (SDK). A special accounting
group with SDK is able to translate and reclassify the financial statements of
the three Water Works in accordance with the International Accounting
Committee Standards. The three Water Works agreed in negotiations that,
beginning with the 1989 fiscal year, they would have SDK's special accounting
group translate and reclassify their financial statements. Furthermore the
three Water Works agreed that all audited statements and the related audit
reports would be submitted to the Bank within eight months of the end of each
fiscal year.



- 52 -
Table 8.6: Pula Water Works Investment Program
and Financing Plan
(Dinars Million)
1"8-96 At Constant Dec.19t7 Prices
ACTUAL   --   ---        -------                PROJECTED ---------------------                        TOTAL
FISCAL YEAR ENDI6N0 DECEINBER 30th           1987      19BB       1989      1990      1991      1992        1993    1994       1995      19g6  1907-96   2
INVESTHENT PROSRAR:
...........:ga....
PR0OSED PROJECT                           17,632    3,137    6,706   14,397   11,992    3,122             619       237          0         0   57,732  72.21
OTHER PROJECTS                                  0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0  0.01
REPUCEIIElNT L RENEMAL OF ASSETS              738       690    1,068    1,119    1,000    3,345    2,604    2,651    2,158    2,723   19,096  22.62
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                  19,370    3,827    7,774   15,506   12,992    6,467    3,223    2,89              2,159    2,723   75,828  94.92
ISRD INT.; COIINIIT.FEE CAPITALIZED             0         0       220       526        893    1,169    1,321           0         0          0    4,129   5.21
OTHER INTMREST CAPITALIZED                      0          0         0                                       0          0         0         0         0   0.02
.... ... _ .... ..._ ..____. _
TOTAL IVESTET PR06RA1                      10,370    3,927    7,994   16,032   13,785    7,63            4,54      2,M       2,158    2,73   79,957 100.02
FINAIIING PLANt
ass"
TiE NORLD tlU                                   0          0    3,465    4,981    4,283    1,317           339         13         0         0   14,400  I8.0S
ESTIC CMIE Y LOi6S-IERI LOWIS                   2          9         5         0         0         0         0          0         0         0        16   0.01
CUSTIIER CONTRIDUTION
iSTOIERDIRECT COITRIIUTIOS                    758          0         0         0         0          0         0         0        -0         0       758   0.92
FROM CUSTOIEUS-TNROU6N COIM ITIESB
TOLRIST TAXES                                 0    1,349    4,200    2,579             0         0         0         0          0         0    9,328  10.4I
INDUSTRIAL I C0 IAERCUL CUSTOIERS   I,3           4,211         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0   13,54   19.42
TOTAL CUSTONER CCNTRIIIJTIONS              12,091    5,760    4,200    2,579             0         0          0         0         0         0   24,630  30.8 
PUU INTERNAL RESOURCES                      6,277   (1,942)        104    7,946    8,607    5,130    2,984    2,875    2,156    2,723   36,782  46.01
TOTAL CAPITAL EIPENDITURE                  18,370    1,927    7,774   15,506   12,2    6,467    3,223    2,99                2,158    2,723   75,829  94.02
IEREST A CO'ITEIIT FEE
DINII     CONSTRUCTION CAPITALIZED0
TIK  muSRLDW                                    0          0       220       526       593    1,169    1,321            0         0         0    4,129   5.2%
PUU IIINTNAL RESWRCEiS                           0         0         0                                        0         0         0         0         00,0?
TOTAL FINWCINS OF INVEST.PROSRAN          18,370    3,827    7,4   16,032   13,785    7,636    4,544    2,83                 2,158     2,723   79,937 100.02
33323333m    33 3                       3a  3 *m    3333383 3ss                                 3333     3 3          3      3
ourcel Pull Miter  ork`s and lnk eission etimates
Monitoring and Evaluation
8.27              The three Water Works agreed in negotiations to submit to the Bank
semiannual reports (due March 15 and September 15) on their financial
performance during the preceding semesters ending December 31 and June 30.
The reports would be in the formats of the financial statements included in
this report (Annexes 8.1 to 8.12) and would compare actual performancewith
projections. Explanations of variances of the actual figures from the
projections would be provided, together with analysis of the causes of the
differences from projections of the following monitoring indicators:



- 53 -
(i) Operating ratio
(ii) Rate of return on net revalued fixed assets
(iii) Debt service coverage
(iv) Self-financing ratio
(v) Ratio of long-term debt to debt plus equity
(vi) Accounts receivable in number of months average sales
These reports would be in addition to the audit reports prepared by SDK
(para. 8.26), and would be submitted together with the report on project
implementation (para. 7.43).



- 54 -
DC. ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND RESKS
Benefits
9.01     The proposed water supply investments to be made under the Project
are necessary to provide an adequate supply of potable water to the
households, productive enterprises, and social facilities, including
hospitals, in the project area; all of which have experienced insufficiencies
since 1983. Because of the importance of tourism in the area to both the
local and national economies, however, the economic justification for the
Project is based primarily on the foreign exchange earnings of tourism. The
proposed investments in water supply are necessary to avoid decreases in
occupancy in existing hotels, and to allow further development of hotels and
other tourist facilities according to the development plans for the area.
9.02     Since the project is only part of a larger program of investments
required to expand tourism capacity, the economic evaluation has been made in
terms of this larger program. The gross benefits of the investments consist
mainly of the additional revenues earned or "saved" 1' by hotel and other
facilities used by tourists. Investment costs include not only the capital
required to construct the proposed water investments, but also the costs of
other necessary infrastructure (primarily sewage disposal facilities), and the
construction costs of the additional tourism facilities. The net benefits of
the program of investments would be the additional revenues generated or
"saved" as a result of increased tourism in the project area, less the costs
of operating the facilities and services to be provided (Annex 9.1 gives
details on the assumptions underlying the economic rate of return
calculations.)
Rates of Return
9.03     The estimated economic rate of return on the tourism-related
investment program, including the proposed Project, is 15X. The results of
sensitivity tests, carried out for the effects of changes in occupancy rate,
exchange rates, and delays in hotel construction, indicate that the returns
are not expected to drop below 10% under a combination of adverse conditions.
Log) Run Average Incremental Cost of Water
9.04     The long run average incremental cost (AIC) of water for each of the
Water Works was calculated for comparison with their tourism tariff at the end
of the Project (see Table 9.1 and Annex 9.1). The results show that the AIC
of water exceeds the tariff projected for IWW and PWW but is less than the
tariff for RWW. The reason for the RWW tariffs and AIC being significantly
higher than the IWW and PlWW tariffs and AIC is the two phase transfer of the
RWW's Gradole system capacity from RWW to IWW and PWW in 1995 and 2005. The
current tariff structures for IWW and PWW need to be adjusted so that the
1/ "Saved" means revenues of existing hotels which in the absence of the
Project might be lost through lower occupanciec.



- 55 -
tourism industry pays the AIC of water. Tariff studies to be undertaken by
the three Water Works would consider the AIC as one factor in establishing a
new tariff structure (paras. 8.05, 8.13 and 8.21).
Table 9.1: Comparison of Projected Water Tariffs
with Average Incremental Costs a/
Tourism
Water         Tourism              AIC     Tariff as a
Works     Tariff (Din/m3)        (Din/m3)    X of AIC
RWW           4,000              2,504        160
IWW             910             1,133          80
PWW             830               873          95
a/ Tariffs are for 1994, the year the Project is completed.
b/ Assumes current tariff structure which sets the tourism tariff at
two times the domestic tariff.
Risks
9.05      There is a high degree of confidence the Project will provide the
desired benefits and will be implemented on schedule. There is little
physical risk involved with the implementation of the program. Most of the
project works are of conventional design and well within the capability of
local contractors who are most likely to win the civil works contracts. The
project also has some financial risks, principally possibilities of failure of
the Borrowers to adjust tariffs unward with inflation, and of cost overruns in
program implementation. These risks are minimal because of the substantial
effort that has gone into the technical preparation and the financial planning
of the Project and the importance attached to it by the beneficiaries and the
governments of the two republics.
9.06      There are only two risks of real concern.  One is the risk of
possible damage to the area's tourism development if the water shortages are
not managed properly until the Project is completed. At the present time, the
available water is being distributed equitably and efficiently. The Bank
would try to minimize this risk by monitoring operational procedures of the
three Water Works as part of its supervision. The other is a risk that the
overall investment climate in Yugoslavia could deteriorate further and become
a constraint to tourism development in the project area. However, the demand
for tourism services is likely to remain strong even in the presence of
negative macro-economic trends.



- 56 -
X. AGREEMENIS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
10.01    RWW, IWW and PWW agreed in negotiations that they would:
(i)    enter into agreements with the entities implementing the
sewerage works included in the Project (para. 7.21);
(ii)    carry out tariff studies included in the Project on the basis of
teams of reference satisfactory to the Bank not later than
December 31., 1990, consult the Bank on the recommendations and
findings before March 31, 1991 and take measures for their
implementation promptly thereafter (paras. 8.05, 8.13 and 8.21);
(iii)    maintain annual operating ratios of not greater than 80%
beginning with 1989 (paras. 8.08, 8.16, and 8.24);
(iv)    agree with the Bank before including in a given years investment
program for investments other than the Bank Project expenditures
that would cause average annual expenditures in the 1989-1996
period to exceed $5.0 million equivalent for RWW, $2.5 million
equivalent for IWW and $2.0 million equivalent for PWW (other
investment expenditures for each Water Works projected at
appraisal plus 15X) (paras. 8.09, 8.17 and 8.25); and
(v)    submit to the Bank reports on their financial performances
(para. 8.27), project implementation (para. 7.43),
administration of Special Accounts (paras. 7.39 and 7.40), use
of Statements of Expenditures (paras. 7.38 and 7.40), project
completion (para. 7.43) and their annual audit (para. 8.26).
10.02    Furthermore, IWW and PWW agreed that they would:
(i)    through the Committee for Water Management of the Republic of
Croatia complete a Sewerage Master Plan Study for Central Istria
on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank not
later than December 31, 1990 (para. 7.24); and
(ii)    except RWW, carry out a management study of water supplies in
Istria component project area (including the Project water
works) on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank not later than December 31, 1992, consult the Bank on the
recommendations before March 31, 1993 and take measures to
obtain the approval of the agreed recommendations by the
appropriate authorities promptly thereafter (para. 7.31).
10.03    And RWW and PWW agreed that they would carry out action plans for the
reduction of unaccounted-for water by December 31, 1994 (para. 5.17).
10.04    As a condition of effectiveness, RWW, IWW and PWW agreed to provide
the signed agreements referred to in 10.01(i).



- 57 -
10.05    With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed ProJect would
be suitable for Bank loans totalling $60 million equivalent ($32 million to
RWW and $28 million to IWW and PWW). Each loan would be for a period of 15
years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.



- 58 -
ANNEXES



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Basic Tourism Statistics
1965          1970              1975            1980             1985                1986                1987
A.  Foreian and Domestic VisStor Arrivals
and Iedniahts (at registered
accorodations)
1. Foreign tourist arrivals (000)                   2,658           4.748           5.835          6.410             8.436               8,464                8.907
2. Domestic tourist arrivals (000)                 5284            7.112           9,711         11.679            13.573              13,712               13.349
3. Foreign tourist overnights (000)                11,240          22.560          31 622         36.978            50.816              51,400               52,299
4. Domestic tourist overnights (000)               21,411          25.943          38,80S         50.128            58.322              59,734               57,684
S. Average length of stay of foreign
tourists (nights)                                   4.2             4.8              5.4           5.8               6.0                 6.1                  S.9
6. Average Length of Stay of Domestic
(nights)                                         4.1             3.6             4.0            4.3              4.3                  4.4                  4.3
13. Seasonalitv
(June-Sept/April. May,
Oct/Nov-March)                                                                                                                                                                   \n
1. Foreign visitor nights by                                                                                                                                                           \0
season (% of total)                     83.8/11.6/4.6  83.4/12.0/4.6  23.4/12.0/4.6  84.0/11.7/4.3             83.3/12.9/3.8   82.6/13.3/4.1  82.8/13.8/3.4
2. Average length of stay, foreign
visitors (nights)                       4.6/3.1/2.5       5.3/3.5/2.4    6.4/4.0/2.7    6.5/4.1/2.9            6.7/4.4/3.2       6.7/4.6/3.2    6.5/4.3/2.9
C. Foreian Exchanae Earninas from
Tourism (SUS millionl                                 81             275             768           1115             1061                 1337                1668
D.  Supplv of Accomodation (number of beds)
1. Total Hotel Industry                            93,455         176,415         236.420        271,662          324,131              337.994              351,438
2. Total Supplementary                            279,640         359,012         473,652        497,689           593,614             630,020              659.973
3. (of which private)                            (144.605)       (202,740)       (288,561)      (309.344)        (383,736)            (419.229)            (448.791)
4. Campsites                                         71364        161.874         226.981        291,452            347996             353.887              357.453
5. Total Beds - All Accomodations                 444.459         697,301         937.053       1.060,803          1,265741          1.321,901            1,368,864
Source: Federal Statistical Office.
DOC. 4796U. P27
x



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Tourism in Project Areas in Relation to Yugoslavia and the Republics, 1986
(Arrivals and overnights at registered accomodations.
Figures are in thousands except where otherwise indicated.)
Foreign Tourist        Foreign Tourist        Domestic Tourist    Domestic Tourist            Total Tourist         Total Tourist
Bied Capacitv            Arrivals               Overniahts              Arrivals               Overnights             Arrivals              Overnights
(no. of beds)
Yugoslav1a                            1,321,901                  8,464                  51,400              13,712                 59,734                  22,176                 111.124
Croatia                               849.334                 5.573                  41.505               4.57                  26.711                   10.151                 68.21
(as 2 of Yugoslavia)                   (64.3)                (65.8)                  (80.7)              (33.4)                 (44.7)                   (45.8)                 (61.4)
Protect Area in Croatia           234.6i                   1.429               14.710.                                        6.64                      .29                 21.358
(as 2 of Croatia)                  (27.6)                (25.6)                   (35.4)             (19.0)                  (24.9)                  (22.6)                 (31.3)
(as 2 of Yugoslavia)               (17.7)                (16.9)                   (28.6)              (6.3)                  (11.1)                  (10.4)                 (19.2)
Slovenia                               89,251                 1.051                    3.664              1.770                  5549                     2.821                  9.213
(as % of Yugoslavia)                    (6-7)                (12.4)                    (7.1)             (12.9)                  (9.3)                   (12.7)                  (8.3)
Proiect Area in Slovenia           284.41                  2.574                   1525                  12Q                                          L 4.474                 2Z471
(as X of Slovenia)                 (31.9)                (24.5)                   141.6)             (10.7)                 (17.0)                   (15.9)                 (26.8)
(as 2 of Yugoslavia)                (2.2)                 (3.0)                    (3.0)              (1.4)                   (1.6)                   (2.0)                  (2.2)
Croatia and Slovenia                  938.58                  6.624                  4.169                6.348                 32.260                   12.972                 77.33
(as 2 of Yugoslavia)                   (71.0)                (78.3)                  (87.9)              (46.3)                 (54.0)                   (58.5)                 (69.6)
Total Proiect Area                 W M2                    1.686                  16.236                  59                  7.593                   2Z745                 23.82
(as % of Croatia & Slovenia) (28.0)                      (25.5)                   (35.9)             (16.7)                 (23.5)                   (z1.2)                 (30.8)
(as 2 of Yugoslavia)               (19.9)                (19.9)                   (31.6)              (7.7)                 (12.7)                   (12.4)                 (21.4)
Source:   Federal Statistical Office.
AE LIUAN . CHA
(4796U:41 )



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Number of Beds in the Project Area
------------------Average Annual Growth Rates  M -----------------
1965       1970       1975      1980       1985        1986      1987        1965-70       70-75     75-80       80-85    85-86       86-87       85-87
Croatia:              286908   453071    614640    692000   820251            849334   8S85770           9.6         6.3       2.4        3.5       3.6        4.3        3.9
Buje                    36        108      43698       50724     56577       58513     57723         24.6       232.2        3.0       2.2        3.4      -1.4        1.0
Buzet                  165        180        358         :26        551        5i7        542
Pazin                   34        142        116         116        116        116        116
Pula                  9419     27387       40787       37699    45686        50092     47502         23.8         8.3       -1.6       3.9        9.6      -5.2        2.0
Porec                 8243     36900       59939       81270     88028       89995    91297          35.0        10.2        6.3        1.6       2.2        1.5       1.8
Rovinj                9302     17511       24950       30206     32805       35346     38137          13.5        7.3        3.9        1.7       7.8        7.9         .8
Project area in
Croatia             27,199   82,228   169.848   200,341  223,763   234,619  235,317                  24.8        15.6        3.4       2.2        4.9        0.3       2.6
As % of Croatia          9.5       18.2       27.6        29.0       27.3       27.6      26.6
Slovenia:              49181      69819      72551       71872     82779       89251   89664             7.3         0.8      -0.2        2.9       7.8        o.S       4.1
Izola                 1076      2768        3248        2682      3500        3623      3372         20.8         3.3       -3.8       S.S        3.5      -6.9       -1.9
Koper                 2609      4618        4805        4784      ¶593        5345       5187         12.1        0.8       -0.09     -0.81      16.4      -3.0        6.3
PSrau                 8150     14957       13774       14732     17934       19483     19297         12.9        -1.6        1.4       4.0        8.6      -0.96       3.7
Project area in
Slovenia            11.835   22,343       21,827     22,198   26.027        28,451   27.856           13.6       -0.47       0.34      3.2        9.3      -2.09       3.5
As X of Slovenia        24.1       32.0       30.1        30.9       31.4       31.9       31.1
TOTAL PROJECT
AREA                39.034  104,571    191.675   222,539  249.790   263,070  263,173                 21.8        12.9        3.0       2.3        5.3       0.04       2.6
Source: Federal Statistical Office.
AELWAN: CHA
DOC  4796U. P 36



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Tourist Arrivals and Overnights in the Project Area
(At registered accomodation in thousands)
-------- Average Annual Growth Rates---------
ARRIVALS                               19i6       1970    19i7        1980       1985        1986       l9E8         62-tO    70-75   7S-80   80-85   85-86   86-812  887
Foreign Tourist Arrivals
Project Area - Croatia          143        383        777       976      1.362       1,429      1,420
Project Area - Slovenia          92        164        168       184        256         257   -   261
Total Project Area              235        546        945     1.160      1.618       1.686      1.681       18.3     11.6    4.2       6.9       4.2      -0.3   1.9
Domestic Tourist Arrivals
Project Area -Croatia           117        158       453        633        823         869        857
Project Area -Slovenia           89        140        206       176        187         190        180
Total Project Area              207        298       659        809      1.010       1,059      1,037       7.6      17.2    4.2       4.5      4.8       -2.1    1.3
Total Tourist Arrivals
Project are - Croatia           261        541     1.230    1.608        2,185       2.298      2,276
Project area - Slovenia         182        304        374       360        443         447        441
Total Project Area              442        845      1.604    1.969       2.628       2.745      2,717       13.8     13.7    4.2       S.9       4.5      -1.0   1.7                 o
OVERNIGHTSI
Foreign Tourist Overnights
Project area - Croatta        1,224      3.646    8,059   10.408        14.176    14,711       14,176       24.4     17.2    5.2       6.4       3.8      -3.6   0
ProJect area - Slovenia         508        790        901     1,147      1,583       1,525      1,507
Total Project Area            1,732      4.436    8,960       1.SSS    15,759    16,236       15.683       20.7     15.1    5.2       6.4       1.7      -2.1    -0.2
Oomestic Tourist Overnights
Project area - Croatia          920      .ll1S    3,163    4,907         6,186      6,647       6.382       3.9      23.2    9.2       4.7      7.5       -4.0   1.6
ProJect area - Slovenia         469        547       917        886        837         946        921
Total Project Area            1.389      1.661    4,080    5.793         7.023       7.593      7.303       3.6      19.7    7.3       3.9      8.1       -3.8   2.0
Total Tourist Overnights
Project Area - Crostia    2,144          4.760   11.222   15,315    20.362         21,358    20.558         17.3    18.7    6.4        S.9      4.9       -3.7   0.48
Project Area - Slovenia         977      1,337    1.818    2,033         2,420       2.471      2.428        6.5      6.3    2.3       3.5      2.1       -1.7   0.17
Total Project area            3,121      6,097   13,040   17.348    22,782    23.829    22,986              14.3     16.4    5.9       5.6      4.6       -3.5   0.45
Source: Federal Statistical Office.
AEL WAN: C HA
479S6/37



- 63 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 1
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBIIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Demand and Production Requirements
1.       Detailed historical and projected water production for the RWW, IWW
and PWW in table and graphic format are presented in this Annex. The tables
include all the indicators used in projecting water consumption and production
requirements and making comparisons with other water companies. Superimposed
on the graphs are lines showing historical production capacity since 1980 and
the capacity available after the project is complete.
2.       The graphs demonstrate the adequacy of the production by comparing it
with maximum day requirements. Future increases in production capacity even
though planned are not shown in order to emphasize when additional capacity
would be needed with the Project. In all cases the works under the Project
are expandable to meet future needs until 2015. According to the graphs,
capacity provided under the Project would meet projected production
requirements for the RWW until 2005, the IWW until 1998 and the PWW until
1997. The small changes in production capacity occurring in 1995 and 2005 in
all three graphs are the result of reallocation of the Gradole water source
capacity which takes place in these years.



- 64 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 2
Table A5.1: Historical and Projected Water Production and
Related Indicators for Rizana Water Works
.......... .... ................ . . ...... ............ ..... ....... ........................ .................................................
Year                                                       1991      1982      1983      1994      1993     1996      1997      1998      1989
Year end population ('000)                                76.30    79.00    79,64    90.96    91.79    82.57    83.81    85.07    06.34
Population change (2)                                      0.92      1.95      2.10      1.67      1.02      1.50     1.50      1.50      1.50
Year end population served ('000)                         54.93    59.93    61.79    65.63    69.06    74.45    76.20    77.95    79.70
Year end population served (2)                             71.9      75.4      77.6      91.1     93.2      90.2      90.9      91.6      92.3
Year end total connections ('000)                         16.10    17.23    19.10    19.21    19.91    21.75    22.26    22.77    23.29
Tourist overnightv ('000)                                 2,115    2,191    2,268    2,344    2,420    2,471    2,428    2,498    2,571
Tourist overnight change (1)                               3.60      3.48      3.36      3.25     3.15      2.06    (1.77)    2.90        2.90
Domestic consumption per person (I/cd)                      149       150       145       134       154       147      150       150       1SO
Ind.& sun. consumption per person 11/cd?                    165       146       117       126       115       is        95       120       120
Consumption per tourist overnight (I/tn)                    550       550       550       550       550       591      506       550       550
Oomestic consumption (11.3)                                2.91      3.12      3.19      3.11     3.77      3.82      4.13      4.23      4.32
Industrial & municipal consumption (1&3)                   3.24      3.03      2.58     2.92      2.90      2.55      2.60      3.39      3.45
Hotel & tourius consumption (11W3)                         1.16      1.21      1.25      1.29      1.33     1.46      1.23      1.37      1.41
Total conumption (Nm3)                                     7.31      7.35      7.01      7.33     7.89      7.93      7.96      8.98      9.19
Total production 4 transfers (1d)                         11.02    10.96    11.10    11.90    12.63    12.99    13.27    14.96    15.07
Unaccounted-for  ater (12)                                 33.7      32.9      36.9      37.9     37.5      39.7      40.0      40.0      39.0
_**-   *^*@^-  - -    w -  **s  - "@- - ^----------------- -  - - -  ----------------- - ----- - ----vv***- -  -  -  --------------
Year                                                       1990      1991      1992      1993      1994     1995      2000      2005      2i1S
Year end population ('000)                                97.64    88.95    90.29    91.64    93.02    94.41   101.71   109.57   127.16
Population change (2)                                      1.50      1.50      1.50      1.50      1.50     1.50      1.50      1.50      1.50
Year end population served ('000)                         91.45    93.20    94.95    96.70    99.10    99.50    96.50   104.30   120.93
Year end population served (2)                             92.9      93.5      94.1      94.6     94.7      94.8      94.9      95.3      95.0
Year  nd total connetions ('0001                          23.91    24.34    24.86    25.39    25.90    26.22    29.35    30.73    35.74
Tourist overnights ('0001                                 2,645    2,722    2,901    2,892    2,966    3,052    3,521    3,907    4,739
Tourist overnight change (2)                               2.90      2.90      2.90      2.90     2.90      2.90      2.90      2.00      2.00
Domestic consumption per person (I/cd)                      150       1SO       150       150       10S      1SO       150       150       150
Ind.A  eon. consumption per person (I/cd)                   120       120       120       120       120      120       120       120       120
Consuation per tourist overnight (I/tn)                     550       550       550       550       550       550      550       550       550
Domestic consumption (1dl)                                 4.42      4.52      4.61      4.71      4.79     4.97      5.26      5.60      6.59
Industrial A  municipal consumption  Hin)                  3.53      3.61      3.69      3.76     3.93      3.69      4.20      4.54      5.25
Hotel & tourius consumption (113)                          1.45      1.50      1.54      1.59      1.63      1.69     1.94      2.14      2.61
Total consumption (13)                                     9.40      9.62      9.94    10.05    10.25    10.44    11.39    12.36    14.44
Total production I transfers (1m31                        15.17    15.27    15.13    14.78    14.24    14.30    15.19    16.49    19.25
Unaccounted-for water (2)                                  39.0      37.0      35.0      32.0      28.0      27.0     25.0      25.0      25.0



- 65 -
ANAl EX 5.1
Page 3
Table A5.2: Historical and Projected Water Production and
Related Indicators for Istrian Water Works
.… ......…....…... .--..--------------.--------...                                                             --     - -
Year                                                     1981     1992      1993     1984      1985     1986      1987      1988     1989
Year end population ('0001                              85.55    86.00    86.50    86.93    87.48    88.23    89.55    90.89    92.25
Population change (2M                                    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00      1.50     1.50      1.50
Year end population served ('000)                       62.90    65.54    68.90    71.67    74.32    78.52    81.80    83.55    85.30
Year end population served (2)                           73.5     76.2      79.7     82.4      85.0     89.0      91.3     91.9      92.5
Year end total connections ('000)                       20.17    21.04    22.15    23.01    23.91    25.20    26.16    26.77    27.38
Tourist overnights ('0001                              13,740   14,538   15,336   16,134   16,932   17,398   16,552   l,O49   17,560
Tourist overnight change (1)                             6.17     5.81      3.49     5.20      4.95     2.75    (4.8b)    3.00       3.00
Dosestic consumption por person (lIcd)                    191      199       207      192       207      208       193      209       209
in.& tun, conwsuption per person (I/cd)                    65       56        55       47        49       50        45       49        50
Consuption per tourist overnight (I/tnl                   254      260       264      270       307      306       276       300      308
ometic conumption (ll31)                                 4.41     4.C       5.09     4.93      5.51     5.81      5.64     6.30      6.43
Industrial I municipal consueption (e3S)                 1.45     1.32      1.35     1.21      1.32     1.41      1.32     1.46      1.54
Hotel a tourism consueption (Ih3)                        3.49     3.79      4.04     4.36      5.20     5.33      4.57     5.11      5.41
Total consumption (lhb)                                  9.35     9.77    10.48    10.51    12.03    12.35    11.52    12.88    13.38
Total production I transfers  INS)                      13.39    13.90    14.38    14.06    15.65    16.04    14."        16.31    16.94
Unaccounted-for aster (2)                                30.1     29.7      27.1     25.3      23.1     21.8      22.0     21.0      21.0
Year                                                     1990     1991      1992      993      1994      1995     2000     2005      2015
................ ............................_. _..................................... ...................... ............................... ...... __._... ..................
Year end population ('000)                              93.44    95.04    96.47    97.92    99.38   100.98   108.67   117.07   135.86
Population change (2)                                    1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50      1.50
Year end population served (t000)                       87.05    88.80    90.55    92.30    94.05    95.62   103.45   111.33   128.66
Year end population smrM  (2)                            93.0     93.4      93.9     94.3      94.6     94.8      95.2     95.1      94.7
Year end total connettions ('000)                       27.99    28.61    29.24    29.87    30.50    31.10    34.13    37.32    44.78
Tourist  vernights ('I00)                              19,087   18,629   19,180   19,764   20,357   20,968   24,307   27,501   35,204
Tourist ovenight change (1)                              3.00     3.00      3.00     3.00      3.00     3.00      3.00     2.50      2.50
Doometic consumption per person (l/cd)                    209      209       209      209       209      208       208      208       209
Ind.  sun. consuption per parson (1/cd)                    60       60        60       60        60       60        60       60        60
Conumption per tourist overnight 11/tnt                   315       323      331       338      346       354      392       400      400
Dometic consueption (Wl3)                                6.57     6.70      6.83     6.96      7.09     7.21      7.81     8.40      9.71
Industrial i municipal consueption (IllS)                1.89     1.93      1.96     2.00      2.04     2.08      2.25     2.42      2.60
Hotel I tourism consumption (HaS)                        5.70     6.02      6.35     6.68      7.04     7.42      9.53    11.00    14.08
Total consmption (HaS)                                  14.15    14.64    15.15    15.64    16.18    16.71    19.58    21.82    26.59
Total production I transfers (HaS)                      17.91    19.53    19.17    19.90    20.48    21.15    24.79    27.62    33.66
Unaccouted-for water (21)                                21.0      21.0     21.0      21.0     21.0      21.0     21.0      21.0     21.0



- 66 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 4
Table A5.3: Historical and Projected Water Production ane
Related Indicators for Pula Water Works
..---  --------------------- . .. ... _ . _ ............. -. -.. ----------- -.. -------------------
Year                                                     1981     1982      1983      1984     1905      19l6     1987      1988     1989
Year end population ('000)                              77.28    79.05    78.83    79.62    80.42    91.22    02.44    83.67    84.93
Population change (I)                                    1.02     1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00      1.00     1.50      1.50     1.50
Year and population served ('000)                       63.78    66.92    68.23    69.04    70.11    73.40    75.42    77.67    79.92
Year and population served (2)                           82.5     85.7      86.5     06.7      87.2     90.4      91.5      92.8     94.1
Year end total connections (p000)                       12.96    13.59    13.97    14.04    15.83    16.57    17.01    17.52    18.04
Tourist overnights I 0001                               2,616    2,559    3,101    3,344    3,587    3,960    4,006    4,126    4,250
Tourist overnight change (1)                            10.23     9.28      8.49     7.83      7.26    10.40      1.16      3.00     3.00
Doaustic consumption per person (I/cd)                    225      226       236       220      234      224       219       235      235
Ind.1 aun. consumption per person 1I/cd)                  151      151       139      136       129      130       128      140       140
Consusption per tourist overnight (1/tnl                  272      252       242       297      29       3l8       295       300      308
Domotic consuaption (ha)                                 5.08     5.39      5.81     5.51      5.94     5.97      5.96      6.55     6.74
Industrial I municipal consumption (ll3)                 3.41     3.60      3.42     3.42      3.27     3.40      3.46     3.91      4.03
Hotel A tourits consusption (Wa3)                        0.71     0.72      0.75     0.99      1.07     1.22      1.18      1.24     1.31
Total consumption (HS)                                   9.20     9.71      9.98     9.92    10.23    10.49    10.60    11.70    12.09
Total production G transfer# (lb)                       13.31    13.85    14.17    14.01    14.88    15.14    15.27    16.72    17.01
Unaccounted-for mater (I)                                30.1     29.9      29.6     29.2      30.9     30.7      30.6     30.0      29.0
_.__....... ...........  ... .. .._ ....   ......._ . _. ..... . .... . .... .. -   ------------------ -.. --.  -----------
Year                                                     190     1991      1992     193       1994     1995      2000     2005      2015
............ . . . .  .. . ...... . ..... . ... . ..  .  ..... . ..... . .. ....... . ..................
Year end population ('000)                              86.20    87.50    89.81    90.14    91.49    9..31   100.04   107.77   125.08
Population change (71                                    1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50      1.50      1.50     1.50
Year end population served ('000)                       60.34    82.54    04.30    86.06    87.39   80.70    95.30   102.34   11).71
Year end population  erved (1U                           93.2     94.3      94.9     95.5      95.5     95.5      95.3     95.0      14.9
Year end total ConnKtions ('000)                        18.55    19.06    19.48    19.89    20.21    20.52    22.09    23.76    27.63
Tourist overnights (I000)                               4,377    4,509    4,644    4,783    4,927    5,075    5,883    6,656    8,520
tourist overnight change (71                             3.00     3.00      3.00     3.00      3.00     3.00      3.00     2.50      2.50
Domestic consumption per pWron (1/cd)                     237      240       240      240       240      240       240       240      240
Ind.t sun. consuption per perso  (1/cd!                   140      140       140      140       140      140       140       140      140
Consuption pie tourist overnight (I/tn)                   315      323       331      338       346       354      392       400      400
Dometic consumption (11)                                 6.94     7.13      7.30     7.46      7.59     7.71      8.29      8.89    10.32
Industrial I municipal consumption (Ha3)                 4.09     4.16      4.26     4.35      4.43     4.50      4.84     5.19      6.02
Hotel I tourius consumption (HaS)                        1.38      1.46     1.54      1.62     1.70      1.80     2.31      2.66     3.41
Total consmption (H3)                                   12.41    12.75    13.10    11.43    13.73    14.00    15.43    16.75    19.75
Total production I transfers (Ib3)                      17.24    17.46    17.71    17.90    16,30    18.67    20.57    22.33    26.33
Unaccounted-for voter (Tl                                29.0     21.0      26.0     25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0      25.0     25.0



- 67 -
AN1NEX 5.1
Page 5
Figure A5.1: Historical and Projected Water Demand Versus
Production Capacity for Rizana Water Works
1.2 -
1.1-                       II        I
1.0 -
h 0.9 t--   lie  
0.8  __         _ 
Maximu i Day
cn0.6
1980    1985    1990    1995;   2000    2005    2010    2015
Year
Leg~end:
-Existing and Project Capacity
~~Future Capacity



- 68 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 6
Figure A5.2: Historical and Projected Water Demand Versus
Production Capacity for Istrian Water Works
2.2 -
2.0- -     /     _/        _                ___-
1.8 -
U) 1.6-
1.4 -
c. 1.    Maximur  Day_ __ _
1.2 -  Requir ent
O.Z -1.
0.8 -
06-
0.4 -      0
1980    1985    1990    1995    2000    2005    2010    2015
Year
Legend:
and Project Capacity
=             R Future Capacity



- 69 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 7
Figure A5.3: Historical and Projected Water Demand Versus
Production Capacity for Pula Water Works
1.5 -
1.4 -                                   --
1.3 - 
-  1.2-
0  1.1
i) 1.0
Maximum Day
0.8 _ -.Raurnm_ _  <
~0.7 
e0 6 - ged:verage
,0.6    FequreuCpcmet
0.2-
0.1-
1980    1985    1990    1995    2000    2005    2010    2015
Year
Legend
~Existing and Project Capacity
~1' Future Capacity



- 70 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page I
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
LSTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Action Plan for Rizana Water Works to Reduce Unaccounted for Water
Completion Date
1.   Establish a daily and weekly control                 December 1989
program to monitor changes in the
system that could indicate water loss.
2.   Establish a program for the weekly                   December 1989
inspection of large meters and the
repair of meters that are found to
be malfunctioning.
3.   Evaluate existing large meters for                   June 1990
accuracy and adapt new standards for
procurement if justified.
4.   Carry out a water balance of the                     December 1990
distribution system to identify
the major source of wastage and
set priorities for its reduction.
5.   Design a leak detection program and                  December 1991
organize and equip a leak detection
team.
6.   Establish 30 metered waste control                   December 1992
districts for the monitoring of distri-
bution losses and design and implement
a program for monitoring water sales
by district.
7.   Install new control systems at                      December 1992
pumping stations to control pump
operation by tank water levels.
8.   Inspect all customer connections for                 December 1993
leakage and replace fittings that have
performed poorly in the past.
9.   Install a control center to monitor                  December 1994
and operate the distribution network.



- 71 -
ANNEX 5.2
Page 2
Completion Date
10.  Replace 40 km of old and leaky pipes.              December 1994
Monitorina Indicators
1.   Number of waste control districts established.
2.   Number of leaks found and repaired.
3.   Km of water main replaced.
4.   Number of customer connections inspected.
5.   Number of pump station controls systems installed.
6.   Percent unaccounted-for water.



- 72 -
ANNEX 5.3
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Action Plan for Pula Water Works to Reduce Unaccounted for Water
Completion Date
1.   Establish a daily and weekly control                December 1989
program to monitor changes in the
system that could indicate water loss.
2.   Establish a program for the weekly                  December 1989
inspection of large meters and the
repair of meters that are found to
be malfunctioning.
3.   Evaluate existing large meters for                  June 1990
accuracy and adapt new standards for
procurement if justified.
4.   Carry out a water balance of the                     December 1990
distribution system to identify
the major source of wastage and
set priorities for its reduction.
5.   Design a leak detection program and                 December 1991
organize and equip a leak detection
team.
6.   Establish 30 metered waste control                  December 1992
districts for the monitoring of distri-
bution losses and design and implement
a program for monitoring water sales
by district.
7.   Replace 40 km of old and leaky pipes.               December 1994
Monitoring Indicators
1.   Number of waste control districts established.
2.   Number of leaks found and repaired.
3.   Km of water main replaced.
6.   Percent unaccounted-for water.



- 73 -
ANNEX 6.1
Istria End Slovene Coast WSS Project
Organization Chart
Rizana Water Works
Director
Research                M Maintenance             Operations                 Administration                 F innce
lnvettmnts
_  Plenning    |                           _    Production                     Persomel                  Co..rcial
Design                                            Stores                        Legal                   Accounting
Construction                                        Networks                    F aoilities                Procurement
Supervision                                                                    Management
Operations
Construction
Waste Control



- 74 -
ANNEX 6.2
Istria and Slovene Coast ISS Project
Organization Chart
Istrian Water Works
_Firaceial
Teclnicet                Acsinistratio                    F  aeDistribution                                      ProdLiction
operations          ~operations
Plamins &                    Personsl      l             Accounting                      But                        Gredote
Oavelopnt                                                                             Division                     Oivi Sion
-Investiptions                Facilities                   Co resl                _            t                     St. Ivan
Control                  Management                                                Division
Procurement                     Legal                  Date Processing                   PNlfn                    maintenance
Division              ~~~Shops
Poree    
4   RovinJ       l
D ivision 



- 75 -
ANNEX 6.3
Istria and Stovene Coast WSS Project
Organization Chart
Puta Water Works
D irector       l
Technical                                  Adfinfstrat                   Ffiance                  SpeciaL
Engineering             Network                Water Works                                                                   Purchasing
Otperations             lOperations   I             l               l        ll                          & Stores
l _Facilities               _Counmrcial
_Operations                   PulaMngeetsortrn
Water Works
M Zaintenance  |kRakonc                I
Water Works
Meclhanicat
Maintenance
Vehicle
Mfaintenanco



- 76 -
ANNEX 7.1
Page 1
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for a Central Istria Master Plan Sewerage Study
Backgrund
1.       Central Istria has lagged behind the rest of Istria in adequate
provisions for the disposal of sewage. The coastal communities all have
adequate master plans and most of the works design to protect the tourism
areas from marine pollution have already been implemented. Pollution from
combined sewer overflows and sanitary sewers not connected to interceptors
still exists in the waters near the old city centers of Novigrad, Rovinj and
Pula. Improvements to correct the problems in these places have been
identified and included in the 1986-1990 plan. Whereas the city center of the
inland community of Buzet has a secondary treatment plant with 80% of the
service area population connected and the Buje city center has an adequate
system planned, the treatment and disposal of sewage from Pazin city center
remains an unsolved problem and the smaller town centers either rely on septic
tanks or direct discharge to the nearest water course after only preliminary
treatment. The Pazia problem is the most serious since some of the local
industries do not pretreat their sewage. Traces of their sewage has been
detected in the potable water source dowrstream of Pazin Center which serves a
total population of 60,000 in Labin and Pula. A study carried out in 1986
recommended a solution which was not acceptable to the neighboring communities.
Objectives
2.       The objectives of the study are:  (a) determine the adequacy of
existing treatment and disposal methods in Central Istria; (b) recommend a
solution for the Pazin Center sewage disposal problem that is both acceptable
and affordable; and (c) estimate the sewage disposal needs for the rest of
Central Istria.
Study Area
3.       The study area is Central Istria which is defined as the area
comprising the communities of Buzet and Pazin and the non-coastal areas of the
communities of Buje, Porec, Rovinj and Pula.
Scope of Work
4.       The study has the following scope of work:
(a) Based on existing development plans and past trends, project the
sewage treatment End disposal requirement of the study area to
the year 2015.
(b) rake a reconnaissance of sewage disposal practices and facilities
for urban centers with 500 population or more in the study area
and determine where improvements are required to meet current and



- 77 -
ANNEX 7.1
Page 2
(c) Make an industrial waste survey of the study area to determine
the extent of industrial pollution.
(e) Recommend solutions for areas where there is a need for new or
expanded facilities to meet (i) current needs, and (ii) future
needs.
(f) Determine the extent to which the sewage from Pazin is polluting
the water supply sources for Pula and Labin.
(g) Review past recommendations for the treatment and disposal of
sewage from the Pazin city center and the nearby industries and
propose alternatives, including the optior of primary treatment
and marine disposal by sea outfall.
(h) Make an assessment of non-point source pollution in the study
area and recommend control measures.
(i) Recommend and plan for meeting the waste disposal needs of the
study area. Include costs and proposals for financing and
implementation.
(j) Propose a program for the monitoring and control of waste
discharges in the study area including both domestic and
industrial wastes.
(k) Study institutional arrangements for the treatment and disposal
of sewage in the study area, including the coastal communes.
Include as one alternative a regional organization.
(1) Review existing waste water discharge regulations in the study
area and propose new regulations if the existing ones are not
censidered adequate.
(m) Review existing procedures for the monitoring and enforcement of
existing waste water discharge regulations in the study area and
recommend changes that may be required to enforce any new
regulations recommended in item (1) or ensure compliance with
existing regulations if the review of the existing regulations
finds them to be sufficient.



- 78 -
ANNEX 7.2
Page 1
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SITPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
1.       Summary cost estimates by expenditure category, year and financing
source are included in Tables A7.1 through A7.8 of this Annex. All costs are
presented in US dollars. Projections of current costs in Dinars is difficult
because of the high inflation rates being experienced in Yugoslavia. Detailed
estimates are included in the Project File. All cost estimates were prepared
using December 31, 1987 prices and an exchange rate of Din 1,344 to 1. The
base costs in the tables have been updated to December 31, 1988 prices.
2.       Bid prices have been used where available.  The civil works cost
estimates are based on preliminary quantity estimates and unit prices of
similar work in Yugoslavia and other countries in the Region. Pipe,
equipment, and material costs are based on supplier quotations. Land costs
are based on estimates furnished by Water Works' estimators.
3.       The cost of consultants for design, construction supervision, and
technical assistance are based on man-month estimates and rates chargea by
foreign and local consultants in Yugoslavia. Local staff eosts have not been
included.
4.       Taxes consist of import duties on equipment expected to be imported.
An average rate of 21X h6'. been used. Rates vary in practice, but past
experience has shown that 21% is the normally expected average for water works
projects. No other taxes would be charged to the Project.
5.       Physical contingencies are 0 percent for consultants, staff salaries
and land and 10 percent for equipment, materials and civil works. Price
contingency factors and factors for updating base costs estimates assumed the
following inflation rates:
Year                Inflation (%)
1988-89                 3.0
1990                    3.5
1991-95                 4.0



Table A7.1: Project Cost for Slovene Coast Component by Part
and Year Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
1987    1988     1989     1990     1991      t992     1993    1994    Total
A. WATER SUPPLY & TREATMENT
________________________
t. Source Works                                -       -        -        -    268.5  2,888.4  6,609.6    70.5   9,837.0
2. Water Treatment Plant Expansion             -       -    451.8  2,695.1  4,697.8  5,381.5  4,651.7 3,529.7  21,407.6
3. Source Works Planning                       -       -        -         -        -     36.0    311.8    39.0      386.9
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY S TREATMENT                -       -    45X.8  2,695.1  4,966.3  8.305.9 11,573.1 3,639.1  31,631.4
S. TRANSMISSION & STORAGE
______________________
1. Raw Wate- Pipeline                          -   131.1  5,817.1  5,837.6     36.4         -        -       -  11,822.2
2. Rizana-Koper Transmission             2,087.4 7,195.1  4.848.1         -        -        -        -        -  14,130.6
3. Koper-lzola Transmission                    -       -    197.7  3,464.4 10,957.2  9.647.9      76.4        -  24.343.6
4  Distribution Storage                        -       -    82.9    364.8  1.604.5  1.572.3  1.372.2 1.427.1   6.423.7
5. SCADA System                                -       -        -     55.7      57.7  1,615.8    337.0   350.5   2,416.7
Sub-Total TRANSMISSION & STORAGE            2.087.4 7.326.2 10,945.8  9,722.5 12.655.8 12,836.0  1.785.6 1.777.6  59,136.8
C. WATER DISTRIBUTION                                                                                                                  -I
__________________
1. Network Rehabilitation                      -       -     27.0    324.3    742.9    772.6    772.3   457.2   3,096.3
2. Pump Station Controls                       -       -        -     25.0    376.6    391.7         -        -     793.3
3. Waste Control Districts                     -       -     55.4     57.2      59.3     61.7     64.2    66.7      364.4
Sub-Total WATER DISTRIBUTION                      -       -     82.3    406.5  1,178.8  1,226.0    836.5   524.0   4,254.1
D. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
______________________ ____
1. TA tor Unaccounted-for Water
Reduction                                   -       -     92.8     95.8         -        -        -        -     188.6
2. Tariff Study                                -       -     23.2     24.0         -        -        -        -      47.2
2. 0 & M Equipment                             -       -        -    171.5    177.9    185.0    192.4         -     726.9
3. Traiiing                                    -       -        -      31.9             -        -            -      31.9
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING             -       -    116.0    323.2    177.9    185.0    192.4         -     994.6
E. SEWERAGE
1. Piran Sewerage Works                        -       -     27.4     28.3    340.4    354.1    368.2   382.9   1,501.3
2. Izola Sewerage Works                        -       -     20.5     21.2    255.3    265.5    276.2   287.2   1,126.0
3. Koper Sewerage Works                        -       -     75.4     77.8    936.8    974.3  1,013.3 1,053.8   4,131.4
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                                -       -    123.3    127.3  1,532.6  1,593.9  1,657.6 1,723.9   6,758.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                           2.087.4 7,326.2 11,719.2 13,274.6 20,511.4 24,146.8 16,045.2 7,664.7 102,775.6
=======3 a=8=== ====S=== SCOSCUaC 8=u=,==- c==c=c== ==m==-=-  sw=c==c ====s3==s      
..
______-._ __ __ __ __ _______________________________________________________________________________-_____________________________-



Table A7.2: Project Cost for Slovene Coast Component by Expenditure
Category and Year Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
1987    1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993    1994    Total
e====== ======= ======== ======== ======a== ======== ======== =====~= = =====
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. Civil Works                     - 4.a.-6.9  7.355.8  5.674.0 11.201.2 18.i20.4 14,834.3 7,235.7  69.790.2                    1
B. Materials & Equipment   1.622.0 1.955 i 2,8C.l.3  6,1i5.8  7,969.5  4,829.3    589.3    66.7  25,961.2                      co
C. Consultants                465.3   ?01.7  1,342.1  1.339.5  1.329.0    797.1    621.7   362.2   6,558.7                     0
D. Tuition 6 Travel                -                 -     31.9         -         -        -        -      31.9
E. Land Acquisition                -    96.5    212.1    113.3       11.6         -        -        -     433.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          2.087.4 7.326.2 11.719.2 13,274.6 20.511.4 24,146.8 16,045.2 7,664.7 102,775.6
~====== = ====  ======= ===== .=,==  =========   ===  ====
Total PROJECT COSTS              2.087.4 7,326.2 11.719.2 13.274.6 20.511.4 24,146.8 16.045.2 7.664.7 102,775.6
=====e= ======= =.====== ======== ======== =======U ======== ======= =========
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _   - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - _ _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
t10



Table A7.3: Project Cost for Slovene Coast Component by Part
and Expenditure Category
(Us$ '00)
WATER SUPPLY & TREATMENT
2. Water                                      TRANSMISSION & STORAGE
Treatment 3. Source --------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Source   Flant      Works    1. Raw Water 2. R1zana-Koper 3. Koper-Tzola 4. Distribution 5. SCADA
Works   Expansion Planning       Pipeline    TransAission    TransmiSsion         Storage       System
aSflStOUa ....       *...C..    = ...=..faa. t.a...=C.SS.SS ...fbm...ac..  .b....... a..t.t  .s.s..s.
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A;  Civil Works                 5.604.9   9.551.2       196.5       7.078.6           8,546.6        13.700.7          3.975.1    412.1
19. Materials & Equipment       1.442.5   6.057.8           -       2.394.8           3.229.3         4.666.3            657.7  1.237.7
C. Consultants                    479.5   1.044.1       103.1         649.7             796.6         1.260.7            317.1    232.0
0. TUition & Travel                    -          -                        -                -                                          - 
E. Land Acquisition                    -     17t.2          _          63.4              63.4            63.4             52.0         -
oa NS NCT72   16--824.-  299.6__    -- .-186.4 ____________     -- 9--- 691----0         5,001.9_______  1,881.8-
lotal INVESTMENT COSTS             7.526.9  16.824.3       299.6       10.186.4         12.635.9        19.691.0          5,001.9  1,881.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                7.526 9  16.824.3       299.6       10.t86.4         12.635.9        19,691.0           5.00t.9  1,881.8
Physical Contingencies             704.7   1,560.9        19.7         947.3           1.177.6         1.836.7            463.3    165.0
Price Contingencies              1.605.3   3.022.4        67.6         688.5             317.1         2.BlS.B            956.6    37t.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                 9,837.0  21.407.6       386.9       11.822.2         14.130.6        24.343.6          6.423.7  2.416.7
................= ......... . ....... ............................ ................ ............... ..,=... .a...- I
Taxes                               136.1     519.6          -          37.8              43.9            18.3              16 2    206.2              co
Foreign Exchange                 3.145.9   8.701.0        73.5       4.121.7           5.072.9         8.5S4.9          1.844.7  1,546.0               F
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
WATER OISTRIBUTION           -----------------------------------------------                SEWERAGE
---------------------------------    1. TA for                                           --------------------------
2. Pump  3. Waste  Unaccounted-for                                       1. Plran 2. Izola 3. Koper
1. Network   Station   Control         Water       2. Tariff 2. 0 & N                  Sewerage Sewerage Sewerage
Rehabilitation Controls Districts    Reductfon          Stucdy   Equipment 3. Training   Works    Works    Works
.............. ........ ......... ....... = ............... . .......  ................... *  .... ....... ....==
I  INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                       1,179.2    562.2                              -                                -   1,048.1    786.1  2.884.3
B  Materials & Equipment               998.6         -     288.9                 -          -     577.7             -         -         -         -
C. Consultants                         257.8      77.3          -            177.5      44.4           -           -      115.3      86.5    317.3
0. luition a Travel                        -         -          -                -          -          -        25.6          -         -         -
E  Land Acquisition                        -         -          -                -          -         -
TtlI_TE_CT_245     639.5---   288.9---- ____5              44.4     577.7         29- 6   1,163.4    8726  3
Total INVE5ThENT COSTS                  2.435.5    639.5       288.9            177.5       44.4     577.7          29.6   1.163.4    872.6  3.201.6
Total BCSotNE  COSTS                     24435.5    639.5       288.9            177.5       44.4      577.7         29.6   1.1633.     174.8   4201.6
Physical Contingencies                  217.8      56.2       28.9                -          -      57.8             -     104.8      78.6    288.4
Price Contingencies                     443,0      97.6       46.7             11.1        2.8      91.4          2.4      233.1    174.8    641.4     
Total PROJECT COSTS                      3.096.3    793.3       364.4            188.6       47.2     726.9          31.9   1.501.3  1.126.0  4,131.4
Taxes                                       -         -       36.4                -          -      72.7             -          -        -      75.4
Foreign Exchange                      1.359.8    493.3      280.0             188.6      47.2      558.5         31.9      322.6    242.0    887.3
_________--_ ____________________________________________________________- .____________________________________________________________________



Table A7.4: Project Cost for Slovene Coast Component by Part
and Source of Funds
(US$ '000)
World Bank        Other      Local Sources       Total
_-- ----------  -------------  --------------  ---------------               Local (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %       Amount   %      Amount      %    For. Exch.     Taxes)       Taxes
A. WATER SUPPLY S TREATMENT
1. Source Works                          3,249.2  33.0         -     -  6.587.8  67.0    9,837.0   9.6       3.145.9       6,555.0     136.1
2. Water Treatment Plant Expansion       8.954.2  41.8         -     -  12.453.3  58.2   21,407.6  20.8      8.701.0      12,186.9     519.6
3. Source Works Planning                    117.7  30.4        -     -     269.2  69.6      386.9   0.4         73.5         313.4          -
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY &'TREATMENT          12,321.1  39.0        -     -  19.310.2  61.0   31,631.4  30.8    11.920.4        19,055.3     655.7
B. TRANSMISSION & STORAGE
1. Raw Water Pipeline                    3,940.1  33.3         -     -  7.882.1  66.7   11.822.2  11.5       4,121.7       7.662.8      37.8
2. Rizana-Koper Transmission               998.6   7.1         -     -  13.131.9  92.9   14.130.6  13.7      5.072.9       9,013.8      43.9
3. Koper-lzola Transmission              8,716.8  35.8         -     -  15,.626.8  64.2   24,343.6  23.7     8,594.9      15,730.3       18.3
4. Distribution Storage                   1,904.1  29.6        -     -  4,519.6  70.4   6,423.7   6.3        1,844.7       4,562.8       16.2
5. SCADA System                           1,650.3 68.3         -     -     766.4  31.7   2,416.7   2.4       1,546.0         664.6      206.2
Sub-Total TRANSMISSION 6 STORAGE            17,209.9  29.1        -     - 41,926.9  70.9   59,136.8  57.5    21,180.2        37,634.3      322.3             co
C. WATER DISTRIBUTION                                                                                                                                        PO
1. Network Rehabilitation                  977.3  31.6         -     -   2,119.0  68.4    3.096.3   3.0      1.359.8       1.736.6          -
2. Pump Station Controls                   526.8  66.4         -     -     266.5  33.6      793.3   0.8        493.3         300.0          -
3. Waste Control Districts                 280.0  76.8         -     -      84.4  23.2      364.4  0.4         280.0          48.0       36.4
Sub-Total WATER DISTRIBUTION                 1,784.2  41.9        -     -  2.469.9  58.1    4.254.1   4.1       2.133.1       2.084.5       36.4
D. INSTITUTIONAL S:AENGTHENING
___________________ _______
1. TA for Unaccounted-for Water
Reduction                                94.3  50.0         -     -      94.3  50.0       188.6   0.2       188.6              -         -
2. Tariff Study                                 -     -        -     -      47.2 100.0       47.2   0.0         47.2              -         -
2. 0 & N Equipment                         558.5  76.8         -     -     168.4  23.2      726.9  0.7         558.5          95.7       72.7
3. Training                                 31.9 100.0         -     -         -     -       31.9  0.0          31.9              -         -
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING         684.7  68.8         -     -     309.9  31.2      994.6   1.0        826.2          95.7       72.7
E. SEWERAGE
1. Piran Sewerzge Works                        -      -  1,501.3 100.0       0.0   0.0    1.501.3   1.5        322.6       1.178.7          -
2. Izola Sewerage Works                         -     -  1,126.0 100.0         -     -     t.126.C   1.1       242.0         884.0          -
3. Koper Sewerage Works                         -     - 4,055.9  98.2       75.4   1.8   4,131.4   4.0         887.3       3,168.6       75.4
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                                 -     - 6,683.2  98.9       75.4   1.1   6,758.7   6.6       1,451.9        5,231.3      75.4
Total Disbursement                            32,000.0  31.1 6,683.2   6.5  64,092.4  62.4  102,775.6 100.0    37,511.8        64,101.1   1.162.6
S-nUfl 2asO   CCe"SCbfU   Snsa    a-sSS*S SSCfl  =SUOSESS  SgtUn  5S5s"" Sfl="au= SSSUSOflflfSfl             X
____________ ____________ ____________ ___________ ____________ ____________ ____________ ___________ ____________ ____._______ _________..
-- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - - -- - - - - - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- - - -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - -- - - -- -- -



Table A?.5: Project Cost for Istria Component by Part and Year
Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
1987    1988      1989      1990     1991      1992      1993     1994    Total
A. WATER SUPPLY S TREATMENT
________________________
i. Sanitary Protective Zone                              -        -    129.6    179.5    138.9          -         -         -     447.0
2. Water Treatment Plant                                 -        -  7,161.5 11.469.5  5,995.6  2.586.7    125.2            -  27,338.6
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY S TREATMENT                          -        -  7,291.1 11,648.0  6.134.5  2,586.7    125.2            -  27,785.6
8. TRANSMISSTON & STORAGE
______________________
1. Butoniga-Beram Transmission                    5,820.3 5,387.7          -         -         -        -         -         -  11.208.0
2. Beram-Pazin-Rovinj-Pula Transmission           17.859.9    80.4  4.792.3 11.202.7  5.174.3  1.099.3         66.8         -  40.275.8
3. Distribution Storage                                  -        -    804.9  2,243.4  1.539.0        14.6        -         -   4,601.9
4. Telemetering S Controls                               -        -        -      74.4  1.421.6    547.3    541.6        28.6   2,613.5
Sub-Total TRANSMISSION & STORAGE                     23.680.2 5,468.1  5.597.3 13.520.5  8.134.9  1.661.2    608.4          28.6  58,699.2              Co
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                                                                                                                          W
i. TA for Unaccounted-for Water Reduction                -        -        -         -     61.7         -         -         -      61.7
2. Management Study                                      -        -        -         -      19.3         -        -         -       19.3
3. Tariff Studies                                        -        -        -         -       7.7         -        -         -        7.7
4. Master Plan Sewerage Study                            -        -         -    185.9    192.9          -        -         -     378.8
5. 0 S M Equipment                                       -        -         -     71.7      74.3    103.1         -         -     249.1
6. Training                                              -        -         -     22.3      38.6         -        -         -      60.9
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                       -        -         -    279.9    394.6    103.1           -        -      777.5
D. SEWERAGE
1. Pula Sewerage Works                                   -        -  2,930.0  3,025.3  2.780.1  2,891.3  3,007.0  3.089.8  17,723.7
2. Rovinj Sewerage Works                                 -        -     97.2    100.4  1.208.3  1,256.6  1,306.9  1.359.2   5,328.6
3. Porec Sewerage Works                                  -        -     36.0    554.8    716.0    558.5           -         -   1,865.3
4. Buje Sewerage Works                                   -        -     73.8      76.2    917.4    954.1    992.3  i,032.0   4,045.8
5. Buzet Sewerage Works                                  -        -    871.5    899.8          -         -        -         -   1,771.3
6. Paz1n Sewerage Works                                  -        -    360.1    371.8  4,436.6  4.614.0  4,798.6  4,990.5  19,571.7
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                                          -        -  4,368.7  5.028.4 10.058.4 10,274.6 10,104.8 10,471.5  50,306.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    23,680.2 5,468.1 17,257.1 30,476.7 24,722.4 14,625.7 10,838.3 10,500.1 137,568.7
---==---======-------------------- --------------   ========--=======--=======--=======-- =======--=======- ======



Table A7.6: Project Cost for Istria Component by Expenditure
Category a;  Year Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '0°°)
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-
1987    1988      1989      1990      1991      1992     1993      1994    Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                     Co
________________
A. Civil Works                       - 4.894.2  7,224.3 21,117.5 18,171.3 12,745.1  9,621.7  9,971.0  83,745.1
B. Materials & Equipment   23,645.8   143.8  7,569.3  6,307.4  4,837.4    544.4    459.0                 -  43,507.1
C. Consultants                       -   356.6  2,013.4  2,739.5  1,540.1  1,336.1    757.7    529.1   9,272.5
0. Tuition & Travel                  -        -         -     22.3      34.7         -         -         -      57.0
E. Land Acquisition               34.4    73.4    450.1    290.0    138.9            -         _         _     986.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          23,680.2 5,468.1 17,257.1 30,476.7 24.722.4 14,625.7 10,838.3 10.500.1 137,568.7
=====   ==== ===========            ====== ========- ==========   ====
Total PROJECT COSTS               23,680.2 5,468.1 17,257.1 30,476.7 24,722.4 14,625.7 10.838.3 10,500.1 137,568.7
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --=                  =   ======== =          …===========Y==--- -- -- -- = = = = = = = = - = = = = = = = = -=
1rn
-.X



Table A7.7: Project Cost for Istria Component by Part
and Expenditure Category
(US$ lo00)
WATER SUPPLY 8. TREATMENT
------------------------                                  TRANSMISSION & STORAGE
1. Sanitary 2. Wate-r ----------------
Protective   Treatment  1. Butoniga-Beram 2. Ber.e-Pazin-Rovinj-Pula 3. Distribution 4. Telemstering
Zone         Plant       Transmission              Transmission              Storage         & Controls
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                              -    9.429.6               4.515.1                      i5.569.0           3.006.5
B. Materials & Equipment                    -   13,090.4               5.550.3                      18.264.6             393.1           1.855.6
C. Consultants                              -    1.135.3                 354.8                       2.199.7             274.6             305.1
D. Tuition & Travel                         -            -                    -                             _                 _
E. Land Acaulaition                     425.7           -                 35.5                         t49.0             347.7
Total_NvESTMNT-COSS-425.     2-,6-5.3---_-----                       36.282_3 ___----  --- .---             60------
Total INAESTNENt COSTS                     425.7   23.655.3              10.455.7                      36.282.3           4.021.9           2.160.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                        425.7   23 6SS.3              10.45S.7                      36,282.3           4.021.9           2.160.7
Physical Continge.ncies                      -    2,252.0               1.006.5                       3.393.4             340.0             185.6
Price Contingencies                       21.3     S,43i.3               -254 2                         600.2             240.0             267.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                         447.0   27,338.6              ti.208.0                      40.275.8           4,601.9           2,6t3.5
.axes                                        -       789.6                     -                         59.2                  -            224.9                             co
Foreign Exchange                             -   12.282.9               4.593.2                      15.806.4           1.068.1           1,568.8
INSTI7UTIONAL STRENGTHE%NING
-------------------------------- ---------------------------------------                                  SEWERAGE
..  master                           -    -     -     -     -      -    -     --           -
1. TA for                                  Plan                              1. Pula  2. Rovinj 3. Porec 4. Buje  S. Buz-t 6. Pazin
Unaccotnted-for 2. Management 3. Tariff Sewerage  S. 0 S M                      Sewerage Sewerage  Sewerage Sewerage Sewerage Sewerage
Water Reduction       Study       Studies    Study   Equp.%ent 6. Training   Works           Works    Works    Works    Works    Works
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                                -               -                     -          -             -  13,198.2   3,831.7  1.419.2  2.909.3  1.419.2 14.191.6
S. Nat.r1a;s a Equ.iment                       -              -                     -      207.2                  -           -                   -              -         -
C. Consultants                             56.8             7.1        7 l      354.8          -          14.2   1.451 8      421.5    156.1    320.0    156.1  1,419.2
D. Tuition 8 Travel                           -            10.6          -          -          -         42.6                -          -              -         -         -
E. Land Acquistion                                   -                              - on
Toa_ -ESMN   OSS5. 1__7-7 ___                   354.8       207.2         56.8  -4,650.0   4,253.2  1,575.3  3,229.3  1,57-.3 --------
Total INAEStIMENT COSTS                       56.8            17 7        7 1      354.8      207.2          56.8  14.650.0   4,253.2  1.575.3  3.229.3  1,575.3 15.610.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                           56.8            17 7        7.1      354.8      207.2          56.8  14.650.0   4,253.2  i,575.3  3.229.3  1,575.3 15,610. 8                 S1
Physical Contingencies                          -              -          -          -       20.7             -   1.319.8       383.2    141.9    290.9    141.9  1.419.2
Price Contingencies                          5 0             1 5        0 6       24 0       21.2           4.1   1,753.9       692.2    148.1    525.5        54.1  2.541.7
-------------_                 - --- --- ---- -- -- -- - - - -- - - --- -   -- - - - -  -- -- -   -- - - -   -- -- -   --- ---   --- - - _-_ ------------
lotal PROJECT COSTS                            61.7            19 2        7 7      378.8      249 1          60.9  17.723.7   5,328.6  1.865.3  4,045.8  1.771,3 19.571.r ,0
Taxes                                           -              -          -          -       35.8             -          -          -         -      73.9         -    720.8
Foreign Exchange                             6 2            12 3        0 8       37.9      160 0          47.0   3.388.5   t.019.4    356.b    774.0    338 2  3.7S9.2
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



Table A7.8: Project Cost for Jstria Component by par.t
and Source of Funds
(us$ '000)
World_Bank_(IWUI  World_Bank_(PWWI   Local_(1MW)          Otther       Locakl (PWW)        Total
----- ----   ----  ----   ---    - ---   - ----   ----- ----- ----- --  -- ----- ----  ----L---al--(Eoal i. c DutDeies 8
Amount    %       Amount    %      Anmount  II    Amount    %       Amount   %      Amount      %    For. Exchl.    Taxes)        Taxes
A. WATER SUPPLY 8 TREATMENT
1. Sanitary P.rotective Zone                       -      -           -      -     253.7 56.98                      193  ~3.2        447.0   0.3            -447.0-
2. Water Treatment Plant                     7.505.2  27.5      5.717.5  20.9   8,012.2 29.3           -      -6,103.1' 22.3   27,338.6  19.9    12,282.9           14.266.0     788.6
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY 8 TREATMENT              7.505.2  27.0      5.717.5  20.6   8.265.9 29.7           -      -   6.297.0 2".7   27.785.6  20.2    12.282.9         14,713.0      789.6
B. TRANSMISSION 8 STORAGE
1. Butoniga-Ber-as Transmiasion                478.4   4.3        364.4   3.3   5.883.5 52.5           -     -   4.481.7 40.0   ti.208.0   6.1        4.593.2       6,614.8 
2. Boras-I azin-Rovlnj-pu la                                                                                                                                                                    c
TrenSIaon                                2.604.2   6.S      4.142,5  10.3  12.906.6 32.0           -      - 20,622.15 5t.2   40.275.5  29.3   is5.06.4          24 4i0.2       59.2
3.1 Ditrlbutan Storage                         631.4  13.7        693.2  15.1   1,562.9 34.0           -     -   1r,714.4 37.3    4.601.9   3.3       1,068.1        3.533.9 
4. Telemeterlng 6 Controls                     968.2  37.0        737.6  28.2      515.2 19.7          -            392.5 15.0    2.613.5   1.9       1,568.8          819.8     224.9
Sub-Total TRAUNSMSSION 8 STORAGE                4,682.2   8.0      5,937.7  10.1  20.B68.2 35.6           -      -27.211.1 46.4   58.699.2  42.7    23,036.5           35.378.6     284.1
C. INSTITUTION4AL STRENGTHENING
1. Th for Unaccounted-for Water
Reduction                                       -      -        30.9  90.0          -    --               -       30.9 50.0        61.7   0.0          6.2          55.6          -
2. management study                              8.8  45.4          6.7  34.6        2 .2  1.4         -     -        1.7  8.6        19.3   0.0         12.3           6.9          -
3. Tariff Studios                                         -           -      -       3.9 50.0          -     -        3.9 50.0         7.7   0.0          0.:           6.9          -
4. Manter Plan Study                               -      -           -      -         -    -      378.8 100.0          -    -       378.8   0.3         37.9          340.9         -
5. 0 8 M1 Equipment                             90.8  36.4         69.2  27.8       50.8 20.3          -     -       38.5 15.5       249.1   0.2        160.0           53.3      35.8
6. Training                                     30.2  49.6         23.0  37.8        4.4  7.2          -     -        3.3  5.5        60.9   0.0         47.0           13.9          -
Suib-Total INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING            129.7  16.7        129.7  16.7       61.0  7.8      376.9  48.7       78.3 10.1       777.5   0.6        264.1          477.6      35.8
0. SEWERAGE
I.Pula Sewerage Worka                             -     -            -     -          -    -  17,723.7 100.0          -    -   17,723.7  12.9       3,398.5       14,335.2          -
2. ROvlnj SeweraeS  Worka                          -      -           -      -         -    -   5,328.6 .00.0           -    -    5,328.6   3.9       1,019.4       4, 309.2-
3. Porec Sewerage Works                            -      -           -      -         -    -   1,865.3 100.0         0.0  0.0    1,865.3   1.4         356.5        1,506.8-
4. Bule Sewerage Worke                             -      -           -      -         -    -   3,971.9  98.2        73.9  1.8    4,045.8   2.9         774.0       3,197.9       73.9
5. Buz*t Sewerage Works                             -     -           -      -         -    -   1,771.3 100.0           -    -    1,771.3   1.3         338.2        1,433.1          -
6. Pazln Sewerage Works                             -     -           -      -         -    -  18,850.9  96.3       720.8  3.7   19,571.7  14.2       3,759.2       IP.091.6     720.8   P
Sub-Total SEWERAGE                                     -     --                           -     -49.511.6  98.4        794.7  1.6   50.306.3  36.6       9,635.8       39.875.8     794.7
Total OIsb,urseement                             12,317.1   9.0    11.784.9   9.6  29,195.2 21.2  49.a8o.4  36.3  34.301.1 25.0  137.568 7 1oo00    45.219 4             90.445 0   1.0.
........  ...   ...... ...   ..........  ......  .......... ............   ........
.......... .....                                                                                           CZ)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 87 -
ANNEX 7.3
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule - Slovene Coast Colnponment
(Cumulative completion, percent)
.d/          1 6       1987  1 1988   1989         IQl   I l911   1 1992  1 19913    1 1994
.Cantract (Prolret componnnt)                 1    2   1 1    2         1    2 1 1   2     1  2    1    2- 1   _ 1   2 1    2   2
Source Works (Al)                                                         -   _ la  ._._5 70                Q I   _   -
Source Works Pine & Eou1oment (All           _  _._   _   _   _    _                      i 519n          I 9  1
.Water TatIment Plant (A21                    _                  _         _       5      40 _60       Ion
Watear..Treatment Plant Eautpment (A2   _  _   __           _   _   _           C    an  Mi_ …_
Future Source Plannina CA3)……                                                                  . j%i   __ IC n 38'      I _
Future Source Investloations  MA3             _    ……    _                                  BC  3I0l            Io 100  _    -
RW Transmission (Bl)                                                  … _S    30 1 0 fo
RN Transmission PVF&A (Bl                                                                                   - _
.  Rzna-Bertk  TWT (B2}                      _   _B         S0  0   _ _ _ _                      _ _ _               _   
.Rizana-Bertoki Vf&A  02                              lat  I0  _   _   _    _   __
Bertoki-Koner TWT  B31                       __ BC  100                                 _ __
Bertoki-Kooer VFAA (B3)                      __                          la_…
Rizana-Ko_er -WT Pipe _82.1                             SO _In           I
Kooer-Izola tWT 104)                         _                                          ini- w' …           …       …-        -
Koper-Izola TR  PVF&A (484                                          R_     C  5s      an  _
Distribution Storaae tBS…-2A                                                                      .     11 Ion            -   -
istrbution Storage Accessories CBS) __               + -         _   _        B -       IOQ  _   _          _D
SCAOA System (066                                                                            -  L _   _  +  _   _   _  4010 
Network Rehabilitation (CC        __                _…                   _          10              20 30  4 Q       50  _ i6 90 | 100 .
Network Rehabilitation PVF&A (Cl             _       +………_ l                                 20 _   40  So  60 29   .     2a mm
Pump Station Controls (C2           …        _+                                              60 .10 I91'.
Waste Control District V&H CC3           …                                               D  i _         D  t    - _   in
|o    Eau1nment  MI_                                                                          40 _………  80   IQna
TA for unaccounted-for Water (Oil                           - _       -   -             IC   10_
I Tar1tf Study l021                                    ………_i19                                              _…
I Seweraae Works  CEl-32                            _         - _ _               1   3   419            15 23  20S764 7 1 7 1   .
B a Bids advertised; C = Contract signed; I = Proposals invited.
1/ Includes goods, works, technical assistance and study contracts only.



- 88 -
ANNEX 7.4
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
LSTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule - Istria Componment
(Cumulative completion, percent)
A /         186    1 197    1 98    1 1989          12      1.91   1 1992    - 1992        1994. 
Contract (Proiect Component.)                  L   2         2   1   ..2  1     ..2   1   .2_  1    2   1  2  1   1 -2L    '2L
Water Treatment Plant (IA_2)2    40                                                                            go Ion
Water Treatment Plant Eauioment (A21    _                            I_  _   _  C-    -A   Jm I00             _ -   - 
Buto.wiga-Beram ThT (811                          -          _   Q-     Q  _C    -   _    _                   -    - _
Beram-Kanfanar TWT (821                       _          _    _   _    -  8           70 100l _    _ -        _    _    _   _
Beram-Pazin TWT & PS  (821                                                            la _   -   _   _ _ _ BC 10             -    -
Kanfanar-Rovinj TWT (821                                     -   -          -  BC   JO 100                    _
Pula TM (821                                                                    a   C        1-   -      _   _    -        
Pipe (11.21                                               lO           _        _l                  __…
Valves. Fittings & Accessories (82)   _   _  _                   8   C      30 _55 1Q_  -   _    _            - _        _
Pula TM PVF&A  MB2I                                               -                        no
Distribution Storaae (831                     _   -   _           _ -      a   C    10   30  60              100
n   tr,ibution Storaae Eq,u,1pment (B3)                                  BC   _   0    lO_            _ _ _      _   
Telemetering 8 Controls (a4l                                                    B   C      5    0l1            
TA for Unaccounted-for Water (C11             _ _ _               _                       IC  10   _ _ _                _ __  
Manaaemnt Study (C21                                                                     l
Tariff Study (C3                                                                     D           C  -20  4 60 --6  AM 0_ _  
.Seweraae Master Plan (C41                     _ _ _               __I                 S0100Q         _ _ _         _     _ _      _
0&M Equinment (CS)                                   l                                                       2 0  60  8 010  _!   _ _ .
Sewerage Works (01-61                            i      _    _ _        5  10 _]S A 1     Q_Q6             01 B01 901 95 155  _ 
B = Bids advertised; C = Contract signed.
A/ Includes goods, works, technical assistance and study contracts only.



- 89 -
ANNEX 7.5
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Water Works Monitoring Indicators
Operations
Water Produced (Tm3iyr)
Water Transfered (Tm3/yr)
Domestic Water Sales (Tm3/yr)
Industrial/Commercial Water Sales (Tm3/yr)
Tourism Water Sales (Tm3/yr)
Unaccounted-for Water (2)
Year End Water Connections ('000)
Year End Employees (Nr)
Finance
Average Revenue per m3 (Din)
Average Domestic Revenue per m3 (Din)
Average Industrial/Municipal Revenue per m3 (Din)
Average Tourism Revenue per m3 (Din)
Operating Income (Din million)
Operating Expenses (Din million)
Operating Ratio (2)
Rate of Return on Net Revalued Assets (%)
Self-Financing Ratio (X)
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (Nr)
Ratio of Long-Term Debt to Long Term Debt plus Equity (%)
Accounts Receivable (month's sales)
Total Capital Expenditure (Din million)
Project Expenditure (Din million)
Economic
Inflation Rate (%/yr)
Excharige Rate (Din/US$)



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Contract Procurement Schedule for Slovene Coast Component
Amount
Contract    Financed                                                                           Bids/
Value 3/ mby  ank A/   Type of    Procurement   Nubter of   Designs          Documents   Proposals   Contract   Contract
Contract (Project Component)              1USi          11enl----   Contract  Method      Contracts  Cogmleted b/ Ready bh    Invited b/  Sioned bi CMleted ei
Source Works (Al)                          7.4         1.6         Works       ICB                1       10/91           11/91       05/92        09/92      12/93
Source Works Pipe & Equipment (Al)         1.8         1.4         Goods       ICB                1       10/91            11191      01/92        04/92      12/92
WTP (A2)                                  12.6         2.7         Works       ICB                1       08/91           09/91       13j91        02/92      12/94
WTP Equipment (A2) _/                      7.4         5.7          Goods      ICB                1       08/89           01/90       02/90        06/90      12/91
Future Source Investigations (A3)          0.3         0.1         Works       LCB                1       02/93           02/93       04/93        06/93      10/93
RW Transmission (B1)                       8.3         1.8         Works       ICS                1       01/89           04/89       05/89        08/89      12/90
RW Transmirsion PVF&A (81) d/              2.8         2.0         Goods       ICe                1       01/89           04/89       05/89        07/89      02/90
Rizana-Bertoki TWT (82)                    5.0          -          Works       Reserved           1       06/87           08/87       10/87        P1/88      06/88
Rizana-Bertoki VF&A (82) d/                0.2          -          Goods       Reserved           1       01/87            2/87       03/87        06/87      02/88
Sertoki-Koper TwT (83) C/                  4.7         1.0         Works       LCB                3       09/88            wI/68      11/88        01/89      06/89
Bertoki-Koper VFBA (83) d/                 0.2          -          Goods       Reserved           1       09/88            10/88      11/88        C1/89      03/89
Rizana-Koper TwT Pipe (82-3)               3.2          -          Goods       Reserved           1       01/88           03/88       04/88        06/88      12/88               1
Koper-Izola TWT (84)                      17.2         3.6         Works       ICB                1       04/89           08/89       09/89        01/90      06/92
Koper-Izola TWT PVF&A (84) _/              5.6         4.4         Goods       ICe                1       06/89           01/90       02/90        06/90      06/91              'I
Distribution Storage (BS)                  5.2         1.1         Works       LCB                S       06/89           07/90       08/90        01/91      12/94               0
Distribution Storage Equipment (BS)        0.8         0.6         Goods       Shopping           3       06/89           01/90       02/90        06/90      06/92
SCADA System (86) 4/                       2.1         1.5         Goods       ICs                1       06/90            11/90      12/91        03/92      10/94
Network Rehabilitation (CI)                1.5          -          Works       Reserved           S       01/89           09/89       10/89        01/91      12/94
Network Rehabilitation PVF&A (C1)          1.3         1.0         Goods       ICe                1       01/89           02/89       03/89        06/89      06/93
Pump Station Controls (C2) _/              0.7         o.S         Goods       Shopping           1       03/89           09/89       10/89        01/91      12/92
Waste Control Districts V&1 (C3) _/        0.4         0.3          Goods      Shopping           3       01/89            03/89      04/89        06/89      12/94
TA for Unaccounted-for Water (D1) d/    0.2            0.1         Service    Guidelines g/    1          n.a.            02/89       03/89        06/89      06/90
Tariff Study (D2)                           -           -          Service    Guidelines          2       n.a.            02/90       03/90        03/90      06/90
O&M Equipment (D3) _/                      0.7         0.6         Goods       Shopping           2       01/90           03/90       04/90        06/90      12/93
Piran PS & FM (El)                         1.4          -          Works       Reserved           1       06/88           06/88       07/88        09/88      09/90
Izola Relief Sewer (E2)                    0.5          -          Works       Reserved           1       01/89           01/89       03/89        05/89      12/90
Izola PS Rehabilitation (E2)               0.4          -          Works       Reserved           1       06/89           06/89       06/89        08/91      08/9?
Koper STP Upgrading (E3)                   1.4          -          Works       Reserved           1       02/88           03/88       04/88        06/88      12/91
Koper Sea Outfall (E3)                     1.3          -          Works       Reserved           1       02/89           03/89       03/89        06/92      12/94
Iplas & Lama Collector (E3)                1.1          -          Works       Reserved           1       09/89           09/89       10/89        12/90      06/92
Total                              2A.z f/    30s0
a/  Including contingencies.
h/  Dates refer to first contract when there is more than one contract.
G/  Dates refer to last contract when there is more than one contract.
4/  Contracts expected to be awarded to foreign suppliers, contractors or consuiltants.
a/  Advance contracting eligible for retroactive financing.
f/  Procurement costs for goods. works, technical assistance and studies only.  Other project costs include land acquisition, tuition, travel and
engineering.
9/  'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency.'                                                                 03



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
LSTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Contract Procurement Schedule for Istria Component
Amount
Contract    Financed                                                                           Bids
by Bank g/   Type of    Procurement   NLwber of   Designs         DocLuents   Proposals   Contract   Contract
Contract (Prolect Comoonent)       =    &fUS  milionl----   Contract        Hethod       Contracts  Comoleted b/ Ready b/    Invited b/  Sinned bi  Cranoleted c/
WTP (A2)                                 11.2          2.7        Works    ICa                 1           12/87         06/89        01/90        06/90      06/92
WTP Equioment  MA2) d/                   14.9          9.9        Goods    ICB                 1            12/87        06/89        06/89        12/89      03/91
Butoniga-Beram TWT (81)  /                4.9          0.8        Works    LCB                3            12/87         12/87        0/U88        03/B8      12/88
Beram-Kanfanar TWT (B2)                   6.3          1.S        Works    ICa                1            12/87         12/88        v4/89        08/89      06/90
Beram-Pazin TWT 9 PS (82)                 0.6          0.1        Works    LCB                1            12/87         12/88        04/89        08/89      10/89
Kanfanar-RovinJ TWT (82)                  3.1          0.7        Works    iCD                 1           12/87         06/89        08/89        12/89      06/90
Kanafanar-Pula TWr (82)                   7.5          1.8        Works    1CB                 1           12/87         01/90        02/90        06/90      06/91
Pula TM (82)                              0.6          0.1        Works    LCB                1            06/87         04/90        06/90        10/90      06/91
Pipe (91-2)                             23.6            -         Goods    Reserved           1            10/86         10/86        11/86        02/87      07/87
VF&A (82) _/                              0.9          0.6        Goods    ICB                1            12/87         12/88        01/89        03/89      01/90
Pula TM PVF&A (82)                        1.0         0.7         Goods    ICa                1            06/89         12/88        02/90        06/90      12/90
Distribution Storage (93) g/              3.5          0.8        Works    LCD                5            12/87         L2/87        01/88        03/88      12/88
Distribution Strrage Equipment (83)    O.s             0.3        Goods    Shopping           3            12/87         12/87        01/8U        02/88      06/88
Telemeteri g & Controls (84) d/           2.3          1.S        Goods    IC8                1            12/89         01/90        02/90        06/90      06/94
TA for Unaccounted-for Water (C1) dI   0.1            0.1         Service  Guidelines 9/    1              n.a.          01/90        02/90        06/90      06/91
Management Study (C2)                     0.1          0.1        Service  Guidelines         I            n.a.          11/90        12/90        03/91      09/91              F
Tariff Studies (C3)                        -            -         Service  Guidelines         2            n.a.          02/90        02/90        03/90      06/90
WtS Equipment (C4) d/                     0.2         0.2         Goods    Shopping           4            08/90         09/90        10/90        12/90      12/92
Valbandor Sewerage (DI)                   1.8           -         Works    Reserved           1            06/88         06/88        02/89        03/89      12/89
V/P & Pula Sewerage (01)                 10.9           -         Works    Reserved           1            10/88         11/88        05/89        07/89      07/91
Banjole Sewerage (DM,                     1.4           -         Works    Reserved           1            02/88         03/88        03/88        0S/88      05/89
Medulin Sewerage (01)                     2.6           -         Works    Reserved           1            05/89         06/89        08/89        10/89      04/91
Rovinj Center Int. 4D2)                   3.2          -          Works    Reserved           1            10/87         03/89        04/89        06/89      06/91
Polari PS & Kuvi Coll. (02)               1.6           -         Works    Reserved           1            1087         10/89        10/89        01/90      12/90
Porec Int. & PSs (03)                     1.7           -         Works    Reserved           1            12/88         01/90        02/90        04/90      06/81
Euje Center STP (04)                      1.2           -         Works    Reserved           1            12/87         05/88        06/88        08/88      12/89
Novigrad STP & Outfall (04)               1.1           -         Works    Reserved           1            12/87         01/89        02/89        04/89      04/90
Savudreja STP a Outfall (04)              1.4           -         Works    Reserved           1            12/87         01/90        02/90        04/90      04/91
8uzet Sewerage Networks (05)              1.6           -         Works    Reserved           1            12/88         01/89        03/89        06/89      12/90
Pazin Sewage System (DS)                17.9           -          Works    Reserved           2            12/91         01/92        01/92        04/92      04/94
Master Plan Sewerage Study (C4)           0.3           -         Service  Reservee           1            n.a.          01/90        01/90        03/90      12/90
Total                            128Lf f/        .7iZ
a/  Including contingencies.                                                                                                                                                  ii
k/  Dates refer to first cortract when there is more than one contract.
r/  Dates refer to last contract when there is more than one contract.                                                                                                         X
d/  Contracts expected to be awarded to foreign suppliers. contractors or consultants.                                                                                         -4
g/  Advance contracting eligible for retroactive financing,
f/  Procurement costs for goods, works, technical assistance and studies only.  Other project costs include land acquisition, tuition, travel. Bank-financed
interest and engineering.
g/ *Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency.'



- 92 -                         ANNEX 7.8
Page 1
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENTE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for a Management Study of Water Supplies in Istria
Backgound
1.       Three water works provide water supply to seven communities in the
Istria peninsula, the Istrian Water Works, the Pula Water Works and the Labin
Water Works (LWW). The Istrian Water Works (IWW) and the Pula Water Works
(PWW) already share a c^mmon supply and transmission system, the Gradole
system; and after completion of the Project, will share the Butoniga system.
The Gradole system is operated and maintained by the Istrian Water Works. The
situation with the new system is not clear. It is being constructed by the
Butoniga Water Works, a special project organization with legal responsibility
only to construct the system, not operate it. When it is complete, it would
be turned over to the owners, the IWW and the PWW. The LWW has no shared
facilities with the IWW and PWW and is expected to remain independent of them
in the foreseeable future.
2.       Several alternatives exist for the operation of the Butoniga System.
These are: (a) have one of the two water works operate the system as with the
Gradole system; (b) let the Butoniga Water Works remain in existence and
operate the system as a separate organization, selling water to the two water
works and possibly taking over the Gradole system also; (c) privatize the
system; and (d) combining the Istrian and Pula Water Works into a single
organization that would own and operate all water facilities in the two
service areas under a single authority. Alternative (d), the combining of the
two water works has been considered in the past and is still under discussion.
Objectives
3.       The objectives of the study are:  (a) to determine the costs and
benefits of combining the IWW and PWW to decide if such an objective is worthy
of further consideration; and (b) to determine the best method of operating
and maintaining the jointly owned water supply systems in Istria in the long
term and the Butoniga system in the short term.
Scope of Work
3.       The study would have the following scope of work:
(a) Design alternatives for the future organization and management
of water supplies in the service areas of the IWW and PWM' For
each alternative: (i) determine personnel required; (ii) new
facilities; and cost of operation over a 10 year period
beginning in 1990. The alternatives should include, but not be
limited to the following the alternatives listed in paragraph
2. Each alternative should consider the immediate operational
requirements of the Butoniga system.



- 93 -
ANNEX 7.8
Page 2
(b) Compare the discounted costs and benefits of the various
alternatives.
(c) Analyze the legal aspects of the alternatives to determine if
the proposals are in conflict with any existing laws or
regulations and if so, could they be changed.
(d) Identify and analyze the political constraints to each
alternative.
(e) Recommend an the best alternative and prepare an implementation
plan and schedule.



- 94 -
ANNEX 7.9
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds for the Slovene Coast Component
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                  % of
(Expressed in Dollar           Expenditures
Category                     Equivalents)             to be Financed
(l' Works (except for               11,0)0,000          100% of foreign expendi-
Part E of the Component)                            tures and 30% of local
expenditures
(2) Goods (except for               16,000,000          100% of foreign expendi-
Part E of the Component)                            tures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85X of iocal
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3) Consultants' services,           2,000,000          1002 of foreign expendi-
training and project-                               tures and 50% of local
related foreign travel                              expenditures
(except for Part E of
the Component)
(4) Unallocated                      3,000,000
TOTAL                      32,000,000



- 95 -
ANNEX 7.10
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds for the Istria Component
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                  % of
(Expressed in Dollar          Expenditures
Category                     Equivalents)             to be Financed
(1) Works (except for                8,000,000          100% of foreign expendi-
Parts Al, C4 and                                    tures and 30% of local
D of the Component)                                 expenditures
(2) Goods (except for               12,000,000          100% of foreign expendi-
Parts Al, C4 and                                    tures, 100% or local
D of the Component)                                 expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85 percent of
local expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3) Consultants' services,           2,000,000          100% of foreign expendi-
training and project-                               tures and 50% of local
related foreign travel                              expenditures
(except for Parts Al, C4,
and D of the Component)
(4) Interest, fees                   3,900,000          Amount due
and other charges on the
Loan accrued on or before
December 31, 1995
(5) Unallocated                      2,100,000
TOTAL                     28,000,000



- 96 -
ANNEX 7.11
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule for Slovene Coast Componentl'
............................ ......................................................
Quarterly        Cumjlative Disbursement
8ank fiscal Year         Diabursement   -------------------------
and Quarter Ending        (USS million)  (USS million)    X of Total
........ ............... _.................................................. ........ ...
FY1990
September 30, 1989             3.2 /b          3.2              10          a/  Based on disbursement profile
Oecegber 31, 1989              0.2             3.4              11              for all sectors in Yugoslavia.
Narch 31, 1990                 0.3             3.7              12
Jiun  30, 1990                 0.3             4.0              13          b/  Includes payment of US*3.0
to establish a "Special
rt1991                                                                          Account."
Septeber 30, 1990              1.3             5.3              17
Deccater 31, 1990              1.3             6.6              21          c/  Beginning of "Special Account"
Narch 31, 1991                 1.6             8.2              26              repayment.
Jima 30, 1991                  1.6             9.8              31
v1992
S.pteber 30, 1991              2.4            12.2              38
Deceber 31, 1991               2.4            14.6              46
March 31, 1992                 1.6            16.2              51
Jurn  30, 1992                 1.6            17.8              56
FP1993
S.ptoer 30, 1992               1.9            19.7              62
Dee dbr 31, 1992               1.9            21.6              68
March 31, 1993                 1.8            23.4              73
Jur  30, 1993                  1.8            25.2              79
P11994
S ptWaer 30, 1993              2.1            27.3              85
DecaeWr 31, 1993 /c            1.9            29.2              91
Parch 31, 1994                 0.7            29.9              93
Jum 30, 1994                   0.7            30.6              96
FP1995
& pteaber 30, 1994             0.4            31.0              97
Oecemer 31, 1994               0.4            31.4              98
March 31, 1995                 0.3            31.7              99
Jiu  30, 1995                  0.3            32.0             100
............................... ... .... .... ....... ....................................



- 97 -
ANNEX 7.12
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
_STIA AND SLOVENE COAST WITER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule for Istria Componentik'
Quarterly        Cumulative Disbursement
Bank Fiscal Year          Disbursement 
and Quarter Ending        (USS million)  (USS million)    X of Total
FY1990
September  30, 1989            3.1 /b           3.1              11          a/  Based on disbursement profile
December 31, 1989              0.1              3.2              11               for all sectors in Yugoslavia.
March 31. 1990                 0.3              3.5              13
June 30, 1990                  0.3             3.6               14          b/  Includes payment of USS3.0
to establish a "Special
FY1991                                                                           Account."
Septomber 30, 1990             1.1              4.9              18
0eceffber 31, 1990              1.1             6.0              21          c/  Begimwing of "Special Account"
March 31. 1991                 1.4              7.4              26              repayment.
June 30, 1991                  1.4             8.8               31
FY1992
Septeober 30. 1991             2.1             10.9              39
Deceffber 31, 1991             2.1             13.0              46
March 31, 1992                  1.4            14.4              51
June 30, 1992                  1.4             15.8              56
FY1993
September 30. 1992             1.7             17.5              63
Deceffer 31, 1992              1.7             19.2              69
March 31, 1993                 1.5             20.7              74
June 30, 1993                  1.5            22.2               79
FY1994
September 30, 1993             1.8             24.0              86
Decemiber 31, 1993 /c           1.4            25.4              91
March 31, 1994                 0.6             26.0              93
June 30, 1994                  0.6            26.6               95
FYt199
September 30, 1994             0.4             27.0              96
Deceaber 31, 1994              0.4             27.4              98
March 31, 1995                 0.3             27.7              99
June 30, 1995                  0.3             28.0             100



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPU0LIC OF YUSSLOVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WAIER SUPPLY PROJECT
RIZANA MATER WORKS
INVESTMENT PROGRAM & FINANCING PLAN
---------   -----------  --------1983-87  At  Current  Prices
(Dinars Million)                        1988-96 At Constant Dec.1987 Prices
TOTAL YEAR  -- - ------- ACTUAL --------------  --------------------------------- PROJECTED --------------------------------
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31st   1983-96     1993     1984      1985     1996     1997     1988    jqg9      1990     1991     1992      1993     1994     1995     1996
==  = ==  :  =   ==== ===  ==   ==   ===    ======   ==    =====   =     :==   =   ====----==== ==-------
INVESTMENT PROGRAM:
PROPOSED PRWECT                    114,965        0        0         0        0    2,805    9,701   14,907   16,369   22,796   26,044   15,984    6,359         0        0
OTHER PROJECTS 1/                   19,167        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0    5,294    6,429    7,454
REPLACEMENT & RENEWAL DF ASSETS     32,722      111      219       296    1,227    3,216        0    2,825    2,500    2,510    1,999    2,914    2,606    6,500    6,000
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE          166,854      111      218       296    1,227    6,021    9,701   17,732   18,869   25,306   27,943   18,798   14,249   12,929   13,454
==Z==.=======              == =====  =======  =======  =======  =======  ========= =======  =======  =======  ====== ==:===  ==Z===
It  PIPELINE-POSTOJNA (SOURCEI TO RIZANA; PUMfP STATION AT POSTOJNA;
&,RESEVOIR AT STARI VRH.
FINANCING KLM:N
THE WORLD BANK                      3B,164        0        0         0        0        0        0    4,323    8,719   11,120    9,767    3,806    1,429         0        0
DOMESTIC CURRENCY LOh6-TERM LOANS    1,815        4       57        78      141    1,535        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0
SLOVENIA ASSOCIATION OF WATER
COWEUNITIES                         15,791                                  307    2,484    2,500    3,000             5,500    2,000
CUSTOMER CONTRIBUTIONS
FROM CUSTOMERS THROUGH COMMUNITIES:
TOURIST TAIES                                                                      242      750      765      790      794      810      825
INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS              93      125      193      175    1,214    2,996    2,887       174    5,162    3,697      518
WATER COMMUNITIES OF KOPER                                                497      552      91C      810      399    1,490      810      910
TOTAL CUSTOMER CONTRIBUTIONS        28,409       93      125      193       662    2,00B    4,546    4,462    1,353    7,436    5,317    2,213         0        0        0
RIZANA INTERNAL RESOURCES           82,676       14       36        25      117       (6)   2,655    5,947    8,797    1,250   11,859   12,779   12,820   12,929   13,454
TOTAL FINANCING OF INVEST.PROGRAM  166,954      111      219       296    1,227    6,021    9,701   17,732   18,969   25,306   27,943   18,798   14,249   12,929   13,454
========                    ======  ======= ==…==…===… ====  ==…====  ====== =======  ===                    ===        ===       =
Source: Rizana Water Morks & Dank sission estimates
00



SOCIALIST FDERAL REPLC OF YUssliA
- ------ - - -- -- -- -- -- -.- -- -- -- -- ----
ISTRIA AUP SLOYENE CDAST 1ATER SUPPY PRWECT
RIZA NA ATER VORKS
INCE  STATEINT
-~~--~~~--------         1993-87 At Current Price
lUinrs  illiol                           IM8-96 At Constant De.1987 Price,
-------------------- ACTUAL -----------------  --------------------------------- PROJECTED ---------------- --------- --
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECODER 31st                 1993      1984     1995     lob       1997     19       1989     190       19I      IY2      193       194     10s      Ifb
= an M =2 v: .a::: :: :=:  =s uZa:5:t=st==as *==Ts C=Zt  .C C=-_:s: ZU1 2B=2 s: anussSr Isr rVC       anrr :rwss  ans as s muzzax*: 22to5g  =5w2Zvvvm==2s:zs= 2r_ "BUZZ Manass s 6 r=9=s#rWe
MATER      PRDUCTION                          11,095   11,801   12,629   12,985   13,270   13,690   13,900   13,990   14,190   14,150   13,920   13,500   13,650   13,910
,e000 co  oDsrRIBrION LOSSES                   4,084    4,474    4,729    5,155    5,310    5,470    5,390    5,310    5,240    4,950    4,460    3,790    3,680    3,590
SALES-INDUSTRIAL I COIAERCAL        3,629    4,213    4 130    4,010    3,930    3,990    4,090    4,260    4,420    4,590    4,750   4,20    5,0lo          5,270
-RESIDENTIAL                   3,192    3,114    3,770    3,920    4,130    4,230    4,320    4,420    4,520    4,610    4,710    4,790    4,970    4,950
- - - -- -- -- ---  -- -- ---   ------  -- -----  -- -----  -- -- ---  -- -----  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -----  -- -- ---  -- -----  - - -- --
TOTAL WATER SALES                   7,011    7,327    7,900    7,830    7,960    8,210    8,410    9,680    9,940    9,200    9,460    9,710    9,970   10,220
c:.::::  ccc::::  ===.a=.            =..::::  : c2:  ====a ruzst: :=.c:x ccx:::.:  s.c.:::  xs=c=::   NuSracs  Csmc.:    utsast.
AVERAGE            INDUSTRIAL  1 COMMERCIAL        17       25       50      164      950    1,902    2,920    2,826    3,934    3,994    4,028    4,Ol    3,m9    4,021
REV.PE             RESIDENTIAL                     13       21       29       95       315      951    1,410    1,413    1,967    1,997    2,014    2,005    M,995    2,010
cm(dinarsl         TOTrAL AVERAGE REVENUE         15        23       40      125       573    1,412    2,095    2,107    2,940    2,93    3,025    3,022    3,015    3,047
OPERAT INS REVENUE
MATER SALES: INDUSTRIAL I CIERClAL                66       107      29       659    3,257    7,570   11,532   12,039   17,399   19,333   19,134   19,734   20,346   21,189
RESIDENTIAL                          42       65      109       323    1,301    4,022    6,091    6,246    9,691    9,207    9,486    9,606    9,714    9,951
------   -----                                --   ----      ---------   ----   ---   ---      ---      ---      
TOTAL WATER SALES                   108      172      316       992    4,558   11,592   17,623   19,285   26,290   27,540   29,620   29,340   30,60   31,140
SERVICE INCOE                                     50       8        127      301      906    1,751    1 751    171    1            1,751    1,751    1,751    1,751    1,75 
OTHER OPERATING INCONE                             5        23       57      140      125         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                          163      276       500    1,423    5,489   13,343   19,374   20,036   28,031   29,291   30,371   31,091   31,811   32,991
:s:s::cssus.c:usc:u:u==                      =======  =Sc:::=  5::::::  u=sc::.  cuss:.:  s=CuSuc   Sd:st :,    S2 CEsu    55s:2  5:3:srs  flfldc.  ,:::: r  5:::..:  5:::...
WPERATINS ENPENSES
SALARIES MKAES I STAFF kENEFITS                   34        58      115      309      747    1,725    1,725    1,736    1,760    1,70    1,796    1,920    1,920    1,920
ELECTRICIV                                        13        27       50      105      269       726      740      755       770      796      902      934       934      950
HATERIALS CHEHICALS SUPPLIES,& SPARE PARTS        29        39       74      111      299       665      668      672       676      680      684       705      720      730
,ATER PURbIASES FRa  ISTRIA                       12       22        46       96      230       600      603      606       608      610      612      613       600      601
NAINTENANCE CONTRACTED                             0         0        9       37      135       445      698      810      1022     1075     1360     2162      2156     2193
PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION                        42        52       75      230      974    2,292    4,84    5,949    9,013    9,237   10,204  1,096   12,029   12,454
OBL16ATORY CONTRJZJTZON TO CODUNITIES              12       24       47      147      519    1,379    1,930    1,900    2,900    3,100    2,800    2,400    2,500    2,700
OTHER OPERATING EXPENES                           I5        27       54      113      939    2,055    2,095    2,126    2,171    2,165    2,305    2,361    2,374    2,382
TOTAL OFERATING EIPENSES                         157      249       470    1,139    4,009    9,977   13,023   14,454   17,920   19,413   20,563   22,000   23,033   23,720
55:5555:::5:55:5555::::           cs::.u:5ssG::55   :5:.:::  cc:::::t  :5cc:::  S5:::::  c55n.s  *SSttC3c  .uu555    g5 fl3 5s5:3cc  usu5:nu   5mus:::   u=.s...
NET OPEVATING INCOME                               6        20       30      295    1,490    3,466    6,351    5,582   10,111   10,979    9,80       9,091    9,779    9,171
cs:sc5:s:sssssc:::::                          s::::::  cc:s::: 5::::::  5:c.sc5  Sc:.::.  :3.5:::5  *3::u   us:::::  :3::.:.  us:::..  cuc:unss : cuss   .trc...   .st.n.
TOTAL INTEREST ON LOANS                            3        16       15       25         3      152      373      989    1,585    2,172    2,396    2,333    2,141    1,895
LESSsINTEREST MING CONSTRUCTION                    0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0
NET INTERESI CHARGED TO OPERATIONS                 3        16       15       25         3      152      373      899    1,565    2,172    2,396    2,333    2,141    1,895
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES                            3        12       15      260    1,477    3,314    5,978    4,694    9,526    9,706    7,422    6,759    6,637    7,276
=::=::::::::::::r::::::                      =:=:Z=:  ::::::s:::::::  5::::::= M= ...:  =s:t=  =   =:5:.:  = c:u:  =:::.:  c:=::=: ::::5:5= :=  =======  cc:::: := :::..
TAlES QN INCONE                                    0         I        1       19       92       175      270      255       420      440      400      J33       360      380
NET INCOME AFTER TAIES                             3        11       14      241    1,395    3,139    5,709    4,439    6,106    9,266    7,022    6,425    6,277    6,996
sss::s::SSs::s:c: 5 =:=:==:                      ==: ::c:s:c  c.:::s:  5::::::t  5:53:::us..:.. st an :2:...:  .5:sflC  tusc:  . u  5::::=rr  2.:2C3   Bnas. 3:a5css=:0
ALLOCATED TO: BUSINESS FUND                     0         0        0       76       701    1,500    3,450    2,400    2,600    2,700    1,650        900    1,000    1,500
RESERVE FUND                      2        4        8        30      110      263       400      365      590      630       576      495      524       950                         X
STAFF WELFARE FUND                1        7        6        53       89      356       356      359      363      363       370      375      375       375
SOLIDITARY FUND                   0        0        0        92      495    1,020    1,502    1,316    4,553    4,573    4,426    4,655    4,378    4,471
OWERATINS RATIO                                 96.31    899.9     94.02    90.01    73.01    74.03    67.2t   72,12    63.91    62.91    67.71    70.92    72.4'    72. 1
RATE OF RETURN ON NET REVALUED FIIED ASSETS      0.71      2.4t     1.62      7.81    18.3?    21.80    26.62    16.61    26.6?    22.51    12.61       9.42     9.12    10.32
Source: Rizana Mater Worts  , Bank mission estimates



fltl1.IST  PEDEE  WIUIC W  suMola
ISTRUa A- £89E cu  mia UPPLI PIOWE
- -                           198347~~~umAt Cinrrot Pricin
(Iturs NLIIiml                 II"19-4 At Custat hc.1917 PriceS
1102*A  9133 ODIN  IECB   list          I91       1904     193      134       1937     1983     1919      199      1991     1992      19       1994     199       1994
roIco ASicto IN OPETIGU-WVILE          1,612    2,310    4,17      8,444   20,644   32,191   43,304   a227 VI 4,329   99,261  143,684  153,8   1644,GI  170,4a1
PRISII    FOR KDCATII-FEVIE            _665       99      1,9       ,4      941 1,9  114,277   22,224  _30,239   33,476   43,60   59774   71,30S   34,259
MET F110 asici  a1 OPE'll-U1LUES         97     1-,351    2,379   4,3   -11,255   20,502   27,229   40,045   34,090   40,M8   95,006   99,203   92,474   34,222
8-13-FIOBS-IE91.1D             198~~~I  330      74    1,91       7,72     S,39    12,313   12,422   33,470   23,6151    3,050    2,0010   9,437   16,891
TOTAL. IET F11  ASSSETS-VMALIEU        1,175    1,701    3,135    4,363   18,980   24,399   39,507   52,447   69,760   19,466   91,040  101,213  102,113  103,113
113N6-1E1NK  POSITSIIU9ESTINTS            42        51       83      148      335       301    1,321    3,034    4,341    3,723    7,144    83,57   10,193   11,532
033W W5T;
CANl 6 gm3                                34        14       29      112      495       554    1,302    1,921    4,259    3,814    3,297    2,720    2,482    3,013
S33T9-TE3N DEMSISILOINS                                                      1,69     1,738    3,203    1,555   11,704   11,004   10,445   10,215   10,074    9,944
ACC13T5 3111383                           19       47        45      130    2,190    2,130    2,130    2,330    2,130    2,130   12,180    2,180    2,130    2,130
louE1t  311                               13       21        49      102      274       21       23       23        23       291      294       21;7     300      303
0133 DAM   Am11                           20        27       41      210    1,413    1,751    2,131    2,514    3,104    3,73        4,312    4,307    5,331    5,691
M01L COWi  ASSETS                         34       II       203      434    4,319    4,502    9,119    8,457   21,539   21,107   20,518   20,219   20,347   21,321
M01L ASSETS                            1,303    1,947    3,421    7,447   25,434   33,402   30,184   43,933   95,440  114,294  132,744  129,999  132,673  135,944
E39117 & LIaIILITIEO                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
mlSES  Foe1                            1,033    1,410    2,660    3,610   16,143   111,34    21,813   24,213   24,813   29,513   31,143   32,043   33,03   34,U33
NEff Ff33                                  5         9       1?       44       154      41?      817    1,182    1,772    2,402    2,970    3,3473    3,997    4,547
S1AFF EWLF    FU11                         a        14       14      113       20      3IN       354       33      3u3       343       370      37       375       375
19111. C83131UT16B-COI3ITIES             177       234      444     1273     4142    11200    18470    20023    32M5       40276    42489    42489    42439    04249
S1.133311  FUN                             0         0        0       75       545     156      303       4403     89U     1352      1795     22410    2493      31459
MAL*1 EUJITI                           1,223    1,719    3,135    7,115   21,952   31,92    44,743   30,179   70,843   34,083   94,955  103,010  104,912  113,433
Lai*3LITIES:
103113  L33I                               0         0        0        0        0         0    4,323   13,042   20,M3   26,549   27,195   25,444   22,264   19,004
gam10ic   l3.m      l Lo32                          24        0      130       440      404      352       299      247      194       144       91       43         0
431Al1 E3-9UEM1O4TION                      0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0-  0 ---     - 0           0
101*1. 1.19-1133  1*311.2lES-U91.0 12    24        5       30       44        06    4,7    1331 2,229   24,745   27,341   25,541   22,312   19,084
TOTAL LWEIMLITBILS.        KWD540                                                       0        73 1,4
*C15i3T AYSP**1E                           3        15       20       41       139      135      134       137      138      139       140      141      142        43
MUM  P03o1 31 O  L.6TIM  9373           20       45      102         4    I'20        50        54       53    3,232    3,231    3,230    3,229    3,229    3,220
11111-11iM1LOWIt CIITS                    21         2       36       10        t   10        10       10            t 10     10        10       10       1030      3
01IcNE1TCY"LIa311L1IEB                    24        42      123      343    1JI1        la3      53        28       i4n       61       6a        68       a8        6
AM  1AT91a3-0 REUEuLM1UAT                  0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0
r0rAL      17W 1.1ABI1.317                68       124      231      40     3,22      1,047      768      46      3, 3,    3,4 3,   3, 3,4    3,44     3,449'   3,449
TOTL0.      IIE                           so   --143        236      532    3,682    1,473    3,443   13,909   24,77    30,213   30,73       29 ,93    25,741   22,533
TOTAL ECUlt? A L.1*31.31ES             1,303    1,8347    3,421     ,6447   25,634   33,482   30,134   43,93   95,640  114,294  125,744  129,999  132,473   35,944                                                   OD
RATIOS OF FIN3EI1L MITION
I 1.N&-TEM  OU3T TO 1..T.81T#E11'        1.02      1.41     0.21     1.82     2.11      1.31     9.51    21.02    23.31    23.7?    22.41    20.21    17.32    14.41
03313  RATI0(13.ASSE7TS/CUR.1.RS)        1.3      0.9       0.7      1.4       2.0      6.1     11.?      18.1      6.1      4.1      6.0       5.9      5.9       4.2
*CC0LUS  W1I'AI91E-10JITHS.SAL.1S      1.44      2.23     1.76     1.40      4.33     1.96     1.35      1.31     0.93     0.89      0.34     0.04     0.912     0.80
Swmrc.i EiageS batr lbrs A Iank gasio, ntjutan



SOCIALIST FEDERA  REPIJIC OF TUSSLVIA
ISTRA  AND SLOVNE COAST NATOR SIfL  PMJECT
RIZAILI NATER VWN
STATEMENT OF SiiR  I APLICATION OF FlUIMS19-7AtCrt  nc
Doie,s Haillioel                          IM8-96 At Coegtet Dec.1987 Pricn,
---------   --  AC             T    UA-L------    --------------------   PROJECTED -------------     ---
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBE  31st                  1993      1914      599      1986      1997      1989     1999      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994     1995      1996
SOIia ff FUNDS;
OPERATING INCOM                                      6        29        30      295    1,490    3,464    6,351    5,592   10,111   10,979    9,909    9,091    8,779    9,171
ADO,  DEPRECIATION                                  42        52        75      230       974    2,29      4,504    5,949    9,0113    9,237   10,204   11,094   12,029   12,4154
DISPOSAL OF FIREDASSETS                        0         1        2         1       11)        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0
CUSTONER CAPITAL. CONIRJIBIITONS(CORMUNITIES)       93       125       193      969    4,492    7 046    7 462    1 353   12 936    7 317    2 213              0        0         a
LESSi TAlES ON INCIN                                 0        (11       II)     £19)      £92)    1175)    1270)    1255)    1420)    14401    14005    (3331    (3601    (3101
MOAL INTERNAL FlUNDS SEIRATION                     141       205       299    1,466    4,763   12,419   18,127   12,629   30,440   25,992   21,9125   19,354   20,447   21,245
FOREIGN LON-TERhN LOAN                                0        0         0         0        0         0    4,32.3   8,719   11,120    0,767    3,306    1,429            0         0
DSESTICCU-RREU:LOII-TERMS LOWN                        4       57        7a      141    1,535          0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0
TOTAL EITERNAL SOURCE OF FUNDS                       4        57        79      141    1,535          0    4,323    9,719   11,120    9,767    3,906    1,429            0         0
TOTAL SOURACE OF FIND                              145       262      377    1,407    9,299   12,419   22,430   21,348   41,740   34, 159   25,431   21,283   20,447   21,245 
:22  2  2   ~~~~~~~~=22222Z2  ZM=x:22   2::::::  2222222  --=*ac   =:2:3:   22=2*3:22 2SzM=                   s2   :22:22  :222.22  =Z22=2  2322232  :222cns 
APPL CATION OF FMNDS
CAPIIAL. EIPENDtTURE-IaR PROECT                      0         0         0        0     2 2,05    9,701   14,907   14,349   22,794   24,044   15,904    6,359            0         0
-OTHER                 111~~~~il  219     296    1,227    3,216          0    2,925    2,500    2,510    1,9199   52,914    7,990   12,929   13,454
TOTAL CAPITAL EIPEJIDITURE                         ill       219      294    1,227    6,021    9,701   17,732   11,949   25,306   27,943   19,79    14,249   12,929   13,454
LOAN INTEREST ChARGED T0 INCIN                        3       14        is       25         3       152      373         8    1,595    2,172    2,394    2,333    2,141    1,99
REPAYTIENT OF LONGi-TERN LOAN PRINCIPAL              11       20        45      107         6    1,205        54        54       53    3,232    3,231    3,230    3,229    3,229
DEBT SERVICE                                        14        34        40      1!?         9    1,357       427       942    1,439    5,404    5,617    5,563    5,370    5,124
SOINS-TEN  DEPITS                                    0         0         0        0     1 1,80     £ 1421   1,445   (1,4111  10,121      (6201    16411    12301    1141?    £1301
OTHER CtURET ASSETS                                 10        29        99      431    3,905        325    1,151       997    2,931       in         52       (491     269    1,064
CHANG  IN MORING CAPITAL-INCR/(DECR) I/             13        (21      f 121    214    4,04    1,197    2,915         £3321  13,151      (3331    (5905    (300)       547       gm3
LONG-TERM DEPOSITS/INVESTIENT5-INCUIIDECR)           6         9        32       45       197       166    1,020    1,513    1,307    1,392    1,443    1,401    1,424    1,339
DIRECT TRANSACTIONS TO EQUIJTY FIENDS                          1        1       (31)  ( 1,993)     209       356       356      358       363       363      370       375       375
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                         145       262       377    1,607    8,298  1.2,619   22,450   21,348   41,740   34,759   25,631   21,293   70,447   21,245 
…2..                 2:22:22  22232~~====~_       3223    22:2    22          2222 ==z=    z22   z_3   =222222   222222  =2222222  =222222  =222222  222223=22.
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE (TIMES)                      3.4       2.2       1.5      3.8    252.3       4.1      25.0      12.0     10.9       3.5       3.5      3.6       3.9       4.1
SELF-FINANCIKS RATIO (Z):3-YEAR AVERAGE           76.01    72.5?    45.7?    47.91    87.71    89.6?   110.1?    53.4?   117.8?    82.7?    76.9%    90.0?   107.4?   119.0?
1, Excludes short-term  portion o90n;tradb
Source: Rtian. Mater Voris I Bank sission est:uates



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUSL.: !'
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST HATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ISTRIA HATER WORKS
INVESTMENT PROSRAM & FINANlCIN  PLAN
---------------------------------                1983-97 At Current Prices
(Dinars Millioni                      1988-96 At Constant Dec.1Q87 Prices
TOTAL - - -- - - ----              --- ACTUAL  --------AC--- ---UAL…        ------…- -- I  PROJECTED ---   ------------------
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 30th  1983-96      193      1994     1995     1996    1987      1999    1999     1990     1991     192      1993     1994     1995    1996
INVESThENT PROSRAM:
PROPOSE  PROJECT                    53,484        0       0        0        0   14,194    4,103    9,863   17,066    5,698    2,123      420       17        0        0
OTHER PRMJECTS 11                   21,348      102     135      305      555    1,922    4,528    1,137    2,125    1,902    2,200    3,462    1,476    1,499        0
REPLACEMENT t RENEWAL OF ASSETS      9,767       52      71       590     493      984      223      250      214   1,506       512      569    1,422      493    2,389
TOTAL CAPITAL EIPENITURE           U4,599       154     206      995    1,048   17,100    8,854   11,250   19,405    9,106    4,935    4,450    2,915    1,992    2,359
I0RD INT.4 COHMIT.FEE CAPITALIZED    4,701       0        0        0        0        0        0      212      694    1,076    1,289    1,430        0        0        0
OThER INTEREST CAPITALIZED              72       3        6       12       21       30        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
TOTAL INVEST1I6T PRORAM             89,372      157     212      907    1,069   17,130    8,854   11,462   20,099   10,182    6,124    5,850    2,915    1 °92    2,389
1/ NEI PIPELINES RESEVOIRS,BUILDINBS,CHLORINE MEASIJRINS STATIONS;NED & REECONSTRUCTED PUMP STATIONS;
GRAOULE-50  IACREASE IN FILTERING CAPACITY,A HEM CHLORINE STORASEIPUMP STATIONS;SCADA TELERETRIC STATIONS 5 SYSTEM CENTER.
FINANCING PLAN: 
THE IORLANK                         15,348       0        0        0        0        0        0   5,19      6,291    2,696      797      348       17        0        0
DOMESTIC CURRENCY LONG-TERN LOANS   13,638      73      163      657      931    2,636    2,193      873    1,034      193      932    1,405    1,215      697      636
CROATIA ASSOCIATION
QF HATER COiOIUNITIES                 848       76       30      236      236               270
CUSTOMER CONTRITIQIONS
FROM CUSTMIERS-THROUSN CONMUNITIESt
TOURIST TAXES                    10,310                                                 2,160    5,257    1,653    1,240
INDUSTRIAL & COMERCIAl CUSTOMERS  9,699                                        7,338    2,360
TOTAL CUSTOMER CONTRIBUTIONS       20,008        0        0        0        0    7,338    4,520    5,257    1,653    1,240        0        0        0        0        0
ISTRIA INTERNAL RESOURCES          34,757        5       13        2     (119)  7,126    1,8971      (79) 10,427    4,977    3,106    2,697    1,693    1,295    1,753
TOTAL CAPITAL EIPENDITURE          84,5W        154     206      895    1,049   17,100    8,854   11,250   19,405    9,106    4,935    4,450    2,915    I,9      2,389
INTEREST   COMIMITMENT FEE
DURING C ONSTRUCTION CAPITALIZED:
THE NURLD 4                         4,701        0        0        0        0        0        0      212      694    .,076    1,289    1,430        0        0        0
ISTRIA IITERL RESOURMES                72        3        6       12       21       30        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
TOTAL FINANCING OF INVEST.PROGRAN   99,372     157      212      907   1,069   17,130    9,854   11,462   20,099   10,182    6,124    5,88    2,915    1,992    2,389               M
Sources Istria later Marks I Bank i5SiCdi estizat'j 
Eo
a'



SOCIALIST FEDERL   LIC OF YU6SLOVIA
ISTRIA AD SLOVEME COAST iiTER sumi PROJECT
ISTRIA NATER NMRiS
IN      STATEN0T
-----C --------- ST TIM3-97 At Current Price
(liners lilliona                        IM8-96 At Constant kec.1987 Prices
---------------  ACTA -------------------  -------------------------------- PEcTED            -
FISCAL YEAR ENDINs DECENBER 31st                1913      1914     1995     1916      197      1998     19m       IWO      I91I    1992       I93      1m4      1995      I6
MATER      PRODUCTION (ISTRIA ALLOCATION)    14,38O    4,060   15647   16,036   14,770   16,310   16,910   17,320   17,6150   i,390   19,940   19,520   20,090   20,40
1,000 c: DISTRIBUTION LOSSES                   3,897    3,553    3,617    3,496    3,250    3,430    3,530    3,640    3,750    3,960    3,980    4,100    4,220    4,350
SALES-INDUSTRIAL I CORCIAL          7,171    7,215    9,230    9,620    7,670    0,660    9,970    9,280    9,610    9,950   10,300   10,670   i,t040   I1,420
-RESIDENTIAL                   3,312    3,292    3,800    3,930    3,950   4,220    4,310    4,400    4,490    4,590    4,660    4,750    4,830    4,910
- -- -- ---  -- -----   -- -----  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -----  --- - - - -- ----  -- -- ---  -- -----  - -          
TOTAL MATER SALES                  10,483   10,507   12,030   12,550   11,520   12,980   13,290   13,680   14,100   24,530   14,960   15,420   15,970   16,330
= ==2====  ==:===:  =2:Y===   m:22222 M :2::: =C::to:  a:m:ons  2=22222   :2==222=  22=222=  22:==.W ==,=  .   Somme  sta,   aC,
AVERAGE            INDUSTRIAL * CONERCIAL       33.2      41.6     60.1    140.1    350.7    1,245    1,249        96       741      897       921     9sO       991       912
REV.PER            RESIDEKNIAL                   25.4     36.9     48.2    109.7    300.0       623      624       443      370      449       460      454      445       456
cm(dinnrsI,        TOTAL AVERAGE REVENUE        30.7      40.1     54.4    130.6    333.8    1,041    1,045        743      623      756       777      767      755       775
OPERATING REVENIE
MATER SALES: INDUSTRIAL A CIERCIAL               238       300     4*f    1,208    2,690   1C,786   11,193    8,221    7,11        8,s930    9,484    9,679    9,935   10,420
RESIDENTIAL                          84      122       193      431    1,155    2,628    2,689    1,949    1,663    2,055    2,146    2,155    2,151    2,240
- - - --  -- -----   -- ----  -- -----  -- -----  -- -----  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  - - - - - - -            _ 
TOTAL WATER SALES                   322      421      671    1,639    3,845   13,414   13,892   10,170    8,791   10,985   11,630   11,834   11,98    12,60                               o
SERVICE INCKOE                                    56       145      310      544       781      770      793       817      966      919      982    1,041    1,109    1,134                           LA
OTHER OPERATING INCOUE                             6        i8       38      106       355      155      158       161      166      170       176     L18       197       192 
TOTAL OPERATINS REVENU                           384       594    1,026    2,299    4,981   14,339   14,933   11,149    9,813   12,073   12,799   13,056   13,281   14,036
OPERATING ESPENSES
SALARIES WAGES 6 STAFF BENEFITS                   84       120      223      514    1,131    1,539    1,585    1,633    1,93    I,98    1,944    2,003    2,063    2,125
ELECTRICI?                                         45       90      179      366      9M      1,531    1,570    1,610    1,959    2,039    2,236    2,353    2,460    2,575
NATERIALS,CHEIN'CALS SUPPLIES,4 SPARE PARTS       63       135      295      459       951    1,443    1,494    1,546    1,946    2,013    2,133    2,219    2,292    2,367
PROVISIONl FOR DEPRECbATI01                       93       106      155      292       793    1,247    1,303    1,362    1,416    1,573    1,669    4,306    4,373    4,42
OBLIGATORY CONTRIBUTION TO COIJITIES                7       11       17       39        70      112      115       119      154      159       164      168      174       179
OTHER OPERATING EIPENSES                            7       1o       21       41       103      150      155       159      197      192       199      203      209       216
LEQS:RECOVERY OF COSTS FRO  PULA & RIZANA         222      137)     172)    1144)    1330)    (5971    16051    (6231  (1,0141  (1,0651  11,1 9)  11,263)  (1,3431  (1,427)
- - - --   -- -----  -- -----  -- -----  -- -----  -- -- ---  -- -----  -- ----   -- -- ---  ----- --- -- -- -_ - -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---
TOTAL OPERATINS EXPENSES                         267       443      80     1,557    3,536    5,435    5,617    5,906    6,491    6i,7B    7,153    9,9l   10,229   10,477
=C=m=t===============                                 =======  ====  z====   ===a.==  =*zU2cz, =2==n  =- =a3n.  =aDvans  ======  =Ss=Zz   nou  C u3g   =3w~v   a   eD
NET OPERATING INCONE                              117      141      219      732    1,445    9,904    9,216    5,342    3,332    5,275    5,635    3,065    3,053    3,559
TOTAL INTEREST Ol LOANS                           31        41       65      153       362      330      554    1 048    1,440    1,664    1,926    1,905    1,778    1,651
LESS:INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION                  (31      (6)     (121     (211      (301       0     12121    16941  21,0761  11,299)  21,430)         0        0         0
-  - - - --   - -- ---   -- -----  -- -----  -- -----   -- ----  -- ----   -- ----  - -- ---  - -- ---    - -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---
NET INTEREST CHARGED TO OPERATIONS                 28       35       73      132       332      330      342       354      364      375       396    1,905    1,779    1,651
NET INCONE BEFORE TAXES                           B9       106      145      600    1,113    9,574    9,974    4,998    2,965    4,900    5,239    1,160    1,275    1,906
TAXES ON INCONE                                   20        29       58      152       322      447      456      465       522      538       554      571      589      606
NET INCONE AFTER TAXES                            69        79       97      448       791    9,127    9,419    4,523    2,446    4,362    4,685        589      687    1,342
2==== 222          2 ===  ==2====2  222=22=  22=3222  2222222  2222222  22222=======  ===:2 =2 2 2=22222 22 ====                        ======   :x2 =.2   22ca.2 >2
ALLOCATED TO: BUSINESS FUND                    52        51       57      347      653    7,991    8,274    4,270    2,156    4,000    4,310         203      289      993
RESERVE FtND                      6        9       16        37      6N       104       107      11o      129       194      200      204      209       212
STAFF WELFARE FUND               11       19       14        64       70      132       137      143      162       169      175      102      190       197
OPERATING RATIO                                 69.51    75.95    78.62    68.02    71.0S    37.92    37.92    52.11    66.02    56.32    55.91    76.51    77.02    74.62
RAFE OF RETURN ON NET REVALUED FIXED ASSETS       6.22     5.42     5.02     9.62      7.-2    29.32    27.92    15.6Z      9.42    13.72    13.42      4.42      3.22     3.92
Source: Istria Mater Works I Rank *Lssion estiiates



SOCIALIST FDL REPIlIC OF  ISSOVIA
ISTRIA No am     coS   ATER SMYL FRCT
isrmiA MTV km
MIAC s gE
398-87 At Current Price
(laiu   Rihlliwil                       1933-96 At Crtat Ikc.19t7 Pries
ACT-- -   - __               _T                                             ---------------- POETED
FiSrA  YIM  EN8DI3  1EIX     SIt       1983      1984     m5       198W     17       18       1989      199      1991     1992     I3       1994     195      1996
-75
F11  ASSETS IN WRTINi-EI              3,364    4,an      ,842   17,78    43,96   49,127   51,651   54,257   5631   62,903    6,714  123,077  124,946  126,905
MUVISI  FOR 3EN T1-HEVUiI             1,197    1,16   3:,24    6,333   15 ,537   16,713   17,972   19,231   20,602   22,097   23,677   27,377   32,042   36,374
nI  F1KE  ASS IN OE o    N40ALUED   2,167    3,079        ,5    11,447   2,449   32,414   33,679   34,976   36,239   40,06   43,037   95,200   92,864   90,531
-134913-EVALIID                     224      27n       377     m99     2619    2,113    1,173    3,533 3,270    I,I          2,700    2,514    2,497    2,740
eAL MET FIm  ASSTS-EvAu               2,39l    3,354      ,435   12,445  31,063   34,572   34,357   36,114   39,559   41,967   41,737   97,784   95,361   93,271
- - ., ~~~--               -- -- - - -
LOMI-TEtM  DEOSITSIIM BTS    s           63        9       1    n        n   76       414      4n 39     4         s11     597      615      635      60         0
CONSTtlTIN  AIICES MT IUTUISA                                         0   14,194   11,297   23,160   41,226   10,924   13,047   53,467         0        0        0
CMiREKT ASSETS:
.. .......
cmAS    M                                74       106      116      291    1,076    2,045    2,05    1,526    1,091    1,915       ,73    1,585    I,n4        ,U3
SM1-TEIM  DEPOSITS                       12        75      71       s0                       3,017    3,038    3,31    3,357       ,l3    5,467    4,e33    4,714
ACCITS  EEIVAE                           32       143      104      191      579      I6       El       915       920    1,043    1,060     ,120    1, 160    1,195
139E1T331                                41       72       153      23       313      313      363      39        370      483      45       105      513      121
amlE  tlNT  ASSETS                       133      223      it       624      37    1,149    1,164    1,240    1,301    1,649    1,31    2,131    2,613    23112
O01U3. 0tlt011 ASSETS                  292      629       966    1,9o    2,95    4,n37    12,510    7,008    7,084    3,447   11,303   10,300   10,883   11,103
OAL ASSE                              2,746    4,077    7,130   L4,433   4,333   57,661   75,96   S9,24   98,125  104,013  111,322  109,227  106,904  101,059                                                          1
MUIT? A 1141LITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                     °
3I1151331 FMID                        2,096    3,034    1,656   11,462   35,946   48,U27   62,050   67,981   71,37    7,37?   79,u7   79 ,o0    0,179   61,072
REERII FMD                               21        30       45       It      141      253       36       470      sn       72       m      1,196    1,404    1 61
STAFF ELFARE FMU                         6        117      139      2        2V1      341      40       4SO        61      645        2       22      912    lIii
TTAL E0U                              2,133    3,131    1,40   11,7       36,366   49,221   62,82?   0,941   72,S1    76,314   81,411   31,906 o    2,495    3,63"
-~~~~~~~~~. . .                    - -- -__- -   - -          _____ __    _____
LIUILITIES:
IB-TIM  IUILITIEs:
FOREIGN LOWI                              0         0        0        0        0        0    5411   12,396   16,146   13,254   is,027   16,039   14,034   12,029
uESIC    3 t      LoUISw                4        546    3,        2131     4        6,018    6 244    6,52      7 473    7 324    7,362    7,063    4,197    5,093
AM  EAT VEAt-K .EMh3M                     0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0
rOTS LONI114U- 1 LIAILITIES-ffVPLD      US9      1       1,438    2,131    4,353    6,018   11,657   18,916   23,641   25,173   25,339   23,102   20,231   17,122
C_T11  L14ttlIT1ES:
ACCOAIS PA TAIL                          it        23       12       39      216      204      207       211      223      275      230      215      29        296
OmET P1lPOION OF LONSrTEM DET             54       79       96      238      409      53       645       760      970    1,081    3,37     3,519    3,51    3,745
SNT-TEJI LOW  It CRITS                    3        86        6        1   6141        623
OTm  tl I    LIA3ILITIES                 46       142       93      225     1043     1057      f30       43       750      310      670      413       315     1m
ANED  AT IEM        WLITI                 0            0              0        0             0             0        0        0        0        0        0         0
TOTAL rIIT tLIAILITIES                114      330      252       523    7,s09    2,422    1,4R2    1,429    1,941    1,6       4,322    4,217    1,178   4*,29
TOTAL LIASILTIES                        163      896    1,690    2,654   12,167    8,440   13,139   20,345   25,189   27,244   29,711   27,319  24,409   21,361
_      .. ...                    -- - -    -         _.  ..---_                         __-                              _   _    _         
TOTAL EDIUIT A LIA3ILITIES            2,746    4,0f    7,530   14,433   48,533   57,061   75,966   89,286   98,125  104,053  111,122  109,227  106,904  105,059
.... .. ......--..-s- -=1-. --|  ..-=X =st. S |--- --- ---. gl  --.lgm- IX$   glA=aB   tl1l 
RATIOS OF FIPU3t1 POSITION:
2 LIW-TEVA  UIT TO L.T.OD1.E131T1    17.17    15.11    19.83    15.31    1o07        lo.9     15.71    21.5S    24.61    25.01    23.8?    22.01    19.71   17.01                                                CO
CURET RATIOICUJ.ASSETSICUBR.LIABS       2.6       1.9      3.8      3.6      0.4      1.8      8.4       5.0      3.6      5.1      2.6      2.6       2.6      2.6                                              .
ACcITS REEIVABLE-.NIITHS.SALES          1.0       3.1      1.3      1.0      1.5      0.7      0.7       1.0      1.1      1.1      1.0      1.0       1.1      I.C
Source: Istria Vater Marks I Maia e:ssi6uc tietates



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF TUSSLOVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVEN COAST RATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ISTRIA NATER WORKS
STATEMIENT OF SOURCE I APPLICATION OF FUNDS
-----------------  ----               ~~1983-87  At Current  Prices
(Dinars Million)                       1981-96 At Constant Dec.1987 Prices
----  ---  ACTUAL -              - --------------------------PROJECTED - - ----------…---------
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31st              1963    1984      1995     1986    1917      1966     1969    1990    1991       1992    1993    1994    1991    1996
SOURCE OF FUNDS:
OPERATING iNCOfIE                              117      141      218      732   1,445   890"4    9,216    5,342    3,332    5,275    5,635    3,065    3,053    3,559
ADD: DEPRECIATION                               63      106      155      262      763    1,247    1,303    1,362    1,416    1,573    1,666    4,308    4,373    4,442
DISPOSAL OF FIXED ASSETS                  is        0        0        0        0        0       11      14       23       20       22       27       42       37
CUSTOMER CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS(COMMUNITIES)     76       30      236      236    7336    4 790    5 257    1 653    1 240        0        0        0        0        0
LESS., TAXES ON INCOME                         (20)    (26)      (58)    (152)    1322)    14471    1456)    1465)   1522)   (538)   (554) --(5711    (598)    (606)
TOTAL INTERNAL FUNDS GENERATION                271      249      551    1,096    9,244   14,494   15,331    7,906    5,489    6,330    6,771    6,629    6,880    7,432
FOREIGN LONG-TERM LOANS                          0        0        0        0        0        0    5,411    6,985    3,772    2,086    1,776      17        0        0
DOMESTIC CURRENCY LONG-TERMS LOANS             104      194      969      931    2,636    2,193     873    1,034    1,923      932    1,405    1,215      697      636
TOTAL EXTERNAL SOURCE OF FUNDS                 104      196      968      931    2,636    2,193   48,284    8,019    5,695    3,018    3,163    1,232     697      636
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUNDS                          375      445    1,519    2,029   11,860   16,617   21,615   15,925   11,184    9,348    9,954    8,061    7,577    6,068 
APPLICATION OF FUNDS:
PRJECT CONSTRUCTION ADVANCES TO BUTONIGA         0        0        0        0   14,194    4,103    9,663   17,066    5,698    2,123     420       17        0        0
OTHER CAPITAL EXPENDITURE (INCLUDING IDC)      157      212      907    1,069    2,936    4,751    1,599    3,033    4,464    4,001    5,460    2,696    1,992    2,389
LOAN INTEREST CHARGED TO INCOME                 28       35       73      132      332      330     342      354      364      375      396    1,905    1,776    1,651
REPAYMENT OF LONG-TERN LOAN PRINCIPAL           45       54       79       96      236     409       533     645      760      970    1,081    3,372    3,519    3,568
DKBT SERVICE                                    73       69      152      228      570      739     675      999    1,124    1,345    1,477    5,277    5,297    5,219
SHOT-TERM DEPOSITS                              12       63        0      434    (509)       0   8,017   (4 979)    360        (41)  2,762      (652)   (629)    (124)
OTHER CURENT ASSETS                            110      274      337      500    1,504    1,483      115    1443)   (364)   1,404        94      157      704      349
SHORT-TERN LOANS                                28      (83)      60        5   (6 1401   5,513     628        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES                      (17)   (108)       15    (134)    19751       (2)    424      168    (309)    393    (365)    252           88      116
CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL-INCR!(DECR) I/       133      146      432      805  (6,120)  6,994    9,184   (5,254)    (313)   1,756    2,491      (243)    163       341
LONG-TEO  DEPOSITS/INVESTRENTS-INCRi(OECR)      16       31       35      (41)    288       36       25       19      100       39       1s       20       25       20
DIRECT TRANSACTIONS TO EDUITY FUNDS             (4)    (33)       (7)    (32)       12       62      69       62       91       84       88       92      100       99
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNS                      375      445    1,519    2,029   11,890   16,687   21,615   15,925   11,164    9,348    9,954    8,061    7,577    8,068
22222222222222222222222222      222===  2222222  2222222  2222222  2222222  222222   22222222222  2222222  222222   222222   2222232 3222322  2222
DEOT SERVICE COVERAGE (TINES)                  2.7      2.5      2.!      3.8      3.3    13.1    11.5        6.3     3.6      4.7      4.6      1.3      1.3      1.4
SELF-FINANCING RATIO (11:3-YEAR AVERAGE       72.62    25.61   -3.21   10.61   167.1%    61.91    98.92    47.62    37.92    54.32   108.7    27.01    38.22    66.12 
- -------------------------------------- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     0
1l Excludes short-term portion of lonl- term debt                                                                                                                                              9
Source: Istria Water Works & Banik mission estimates                                                                                                                                           0



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUSSLOVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST MATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PULA MATER WORKS
INVESTMENT PROSRAM I FINANCING PLAN
-----------------------------------                 1983-87 At Current Prices
(Diners Nlillionl                        1988-96 At Constant Dec.1987 Prices
TOtAL  ------------------- ACTUAL ------------------  -------------------------------- PROJECTED -----------------------------------
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 30th   1983-96       1983     1984     195       19b86    1987     1988      1989     1990     1991      I2       1993     1994      1995    IY96
INVESTMENT PROSRAN:
PROPOSED PROJECT                     57,732         0        0        0         0   17,632    3,137    6,706   14,387   11,992    3,122        619      237         0        0
OTHER PROJECTS                            0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
REPLACEMENT I RENEMAL OF ASSETS      19,322       100       96       69       961      738      690    1,068    1,119    1,000    3,345    2,604    2,651    2,158    2,723
…_                                                        … _  _  _  _   __  _  ___   _  _          _   _         _  _             -------
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE            77,054      100        96       69       961   18,370    3,927    7,774   15,503   12,S92    6,467    3,223    2,888    2,159    2,723
IBRD IINT .  COIIIMIT.FEE CAPITALIZED    4,129     0         0        0         0        0        0      220       526      893    1,169    1,321         0         0        0
OTHER INTEREST CAPITALIZED                0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
TOTAL INESTMENT PROGRAM              81,183       100       96       69       961   18,370    3,827    7,994   16,032   13,755    7,636    4,544    2,888    2,158    2,723
=======================:=============:55=::==========5=r=  =======  ===-==zz  .======  ==r==:-z  .=:=z= =z ==- ===zz    mrz==  =s=:=z=  =====  ==_=cs
FINANCING PLAN:                                                                                                                                                                                        1
=   =======                                                                                                                                                                                       o
THE IORLD BANK                       14,400         0        0        0         0        0        0    3,465    4,981    4,285    1,317        339        13        0        0
DOMESTIC CULEICY LONG-TERN LOWlS         84        13       13        14       28        2        9         5        0        0         0        0         0        0        0
CUSTOMER CONTRIBUTIONS
CUSTOMER DIRECT CONTRIBUTIONS                      37       71      241       676      758        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0
FROM CUSTOMERS-THROU6H COMMUNITIES:
TOURIST TAXES                                                                               1,549    4,200    2,579
INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL CUS7OMERS                                                 11,333    4,211
TOTAL CUSTOMER CONTRIBUTIONS         25,655        37       71      241       676   12,091    5,160    4,200    2,579         0         0        0        0         0        0
PULA INTERNAL RESOURCES              36,915        50       12      11861     257    6,217   (1,9421      104    7,94b    8,607    5,150    2,884    2,975    2,158    2,723
…-- -    - - -   --_                                                                           … _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _  _  __  _  _  __                             -------
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE            77,054       100       96       69       961   18,370    3,827    7,774   15,506   12,892    6,467    3,223    2,988    2,159    2,723
INTEREST I COMMITHENT FEE
DURING CONSTRUCTION CAPITALIZED:
THE YORLD BANK                        4,129         0        0        0         0        0        0       220      526      893    1,169    1,321         0         0        0
ULA DITERNAL RESOURCES                    0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
TOTAL FINANCINS OF INVEST.PRO0RAM   81,193       100        96       69      961   18,370    3,827    7,94   16,032   13,785    7,636    4,544    2,98B9  2i,5           2,723
…:=: :…2a:=====:=              =    =::::::- a:::   :::::::   :::::22:::::   :2:::::   :=::::=  2:::::::  :::::ea  -:==   ====   =======                      22i==  :=2  ==:::r. :
Source: Pula later Morks and Bank mission estimates                                                                                                                                                  Z
X0



SX^ALIST FE,,nIC OF YWRIA
ISTRI              C        ER S Y PROJECT
PUA WATER  MS
IllIUM-1ST7TEEI                           9       At Currut Pricn
IDinar. Nillion)                         1909-96 At Constant DK.1987 Pricsn
---  ACTUA-P-----------------O---------------------------  PROJECTE   --------               ---      -----
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DEKCE1ER 31st                1983      1984     1995     1996      1997     1998     199       3990     I99      1992     1993      194 t     995     196
IATER      PRODUCTION (PULA ALLOrCATION)      14,170   14,009   14,894   15,139   15,270   17,100   17,070   19,370   19,970   19,340   19,770   20,460   21,170   21,EO
1,000 co: DISTRIUTION LOSSES                   4,190    4,089    4,594    4,640    4,660    5,130    5,190    5,150    5,100    5,030    4,950    5,110    5,290    5,470
SALES-INDUSTRIAL I CUIIHERCIAL      4,170    4,410    4,350    4,620    4,650    4,030    5,330    5,66O    6,000    6,350    6,690    7 050    7,410    7,790
-RESIDENTIAL                  5,910    5,510    5,940    5,970    5,960    7,140    7,350    7,56O    7,770    7,960    9,130    9,300    9,470    96030
TOTAL VATER SALES                  9,910    9,920   10,290   10,49    10,610   11,970   12,680   13,220   13,770   14,310   14,820   15,350   15,90   16,410
Mt= ::.::=:.:                    ======  2===:2  =======    2 2: ==S==2= =====2=     S2s2:-::  S22=2=2  :2::::.  z22:2=   C=: Czxn Z:2S22=  323S:l  22,2223
AVERAGE             INDUSTRIAL A CIIIERCIAL       29        57      89       137       481      971      924      093       719      052      0tl       933      917      907
REV.PER            RESIDENTIAL                    10        20       23      102       174      496      462      U7        359      426      430       416      406      404
caldinars)         TOTAL AVERASE REVEINUE         18        27       51      117      300       692      656      638       516      615      624       609      599      5n
OPERATING REVENUE
-- - -- -- -- -- ---
WATER SALES: INUSTRIAL I COMERVIAL               121       161      387      631    2,238    4,692    4,926    5,056    4,314    5,410    5,757    5,970    6,053    6,279
RESIDENTIAL                          59      111      139       600    1,035    3,468    3,397    3,376    2,793    3,391    3,498    3,456    3,460    3,482                              1
- - ---  - - - -    - - --  - - -- ---  --- - -     -- -- ---  -----  z     -- ----  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -----  - -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- --
TOTAL WATER SALES                   179      272      525    1,231    3,273    9,160    9,323    9,432    7,107    9,901    9,255    9,326    9,513    9,761                              H
0
SERVICE INCOE                                     36        59       61     1il       317       431      435      439       443      447      452       456      460      44 6
OTHER OPERATINS INOIE                             10        23       0o      201      539       550      556      561       567      572      579       594      590      596
-----   -- -- --- -- ----  -- -----  -- -- ---  -- -----  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- ----  -- -----  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- ---  -- -- - --
TOTAL OPEATING REVENtIE                          225      353       666    1,543    4,129    9,141    9,314    9,432    0,117    9,920   10,205   10,366   10,56    10,021
OPERATING EIPENSES
SALARIES VASES I STAFF BENEFITS                   55       93       165      355      972    1,263    1,291    1,319    1.345    1,400    1,428    1,456    1,435    1,515
ELECTRICtY                                        20       64       121      231      938       900      984      90        m        996    1,000   11,004    1,00      1,012
NAIERIALSOCNF  CAE&LSSATPIES It SPARE PARTS       so        72      122      209      644       923      929      932       987      93       99    1,002    1,o1o    1,016
PROVISION1 FOR  EPRE*IIATOH                      Ub2        79      145      263      710       963      992    1,002    1,022    1,157    1,223    3,919    4,053    4,133
OBLIGATORY CONTRIBUTION TO CON ITIES               0        10       14       29       59        95       87       99        91       93       94        9        99      too
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES                           4        6        14       35       99       130      130      131       131      132      132       132      133      133
OPERATING EIPESES BUTONIGA                         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0       373      404      510       562      621       T33
- -- ---   - -- - --   --- - --   - -- - --   - -- - --   - -- - --   - -- - --   - -- - --   - - --  -- -- - --  -- -- - --  -- -- - --  -- ---
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                         207      314       581    1,122    3,311    4,344    4,402    4,461    4,941    5,175    5,395    9,171    9,40e    1,5
.=====:2:22:   2  22                         2222:32  2:222==  =2=2===    = = =2222  22::tzs  2322232 5== 22   3 2  323t:2t  fUSUSt   2  22s32  2322223  :   3     3  22322S
NET OPERATING INCOME                              19        39       95      421      919    4,797    4,912    4,971    3,176    4,645    4,900    2,195    2,155    2,229
….22222222                            --~~~~~~==2m  :2...2:::  222=::  :::::::3:2:2           V:: . an::   2,222:22  :2522:"  azz::28  .ns:ts  9233322   2322
TOTAL INTEREST ON LOAO                             S                  5        6        2         3      223      530       097    1,173    1,326    1,371    1,228    1,065
LESS:INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION                  0         0        0        0        0         0     (2203    (5261    (993)  11,1691  (1,321)         0        0        0
- - - - - - -------- -------  -- ------   --   - - - --- - ------  -- -----  -- -- ---  - - - - - -   -  - - -- -          
MET INTEREST CHARGED TO OPERATIONS                 5        6         5        t        2         3        3        4         4        4        5    1,371    1,229    1,065
NET INCOMNE  EFORE TAlES                          13       33        0O      415      016    4,794    4,909    4,967    3,372    4,641    4,995        124       927    1,144
2=222222222222222222222     = = = =              :::  2:2222: ::..s.~  :232.:.  =323.:  2:3:2:2  2232223  f23  3             3==  22322 2222222  22322222Ssaw  . ss222 . 1  * =   a2SC
TAES ON INCtE                                      c       13        36      105      306      379       307      394       402      410      419      427       435      444
NET INCOME AFTER TAlES                             5       20        44      310      510    4,415    4,522    4,573    2,770    4,231    4,477        397       492      70i
2=2::=zz ::::2:2=::                          =          222==2: ::23 3222 ===:::223  :22233- =======                                                         232223   >3:2:=:
ALLOCATED TO: BUSINESS FUND                     0        3 5      1       129      297    4,110    4,210    4,255    2,447    3,901    4,141         54       142      343
RESERVE FUNID                     3        5       11       28        58       s8       9*        93       93       95        97       99      101       103
STAFF WELFARE FUND               2        12       23      153       155      217      221       225      230      235       239      244      249       254
PERATING RATIO                                  92.02    99.0?    07.21    72.7?    80.2?    47.5?    47.3?    47.3?    60.9?    52.7?    52.41    79.8?    79.61    79.4?
RATE OF RETURN ON NET REVALUED FIXED ASSETS      1.42     2.32      3.12     9.11     ;.6Z    27.3n    29.1    29.31    19.3?    23.9?    22.01        4.32     2.92     2.9?7
Source: Pula Water Voris and Bank mission estimates



mu10m mm am am uwm,V mm
m min m
193317 At Crst Prunes
issrs 3 il2Am                           I t1-9  At Cmtmt J.117  rics
-  MJEL1D~~~~~~onTE                                                        
FISuEl.9     EM1G  EC E  31st           13       lip       19       16       17        i2      1i95       199      19       1I92      1993   1994       I9M       1990
P110 *6111  IN OPERTIE914E3LE          2 524    3,050    1,444   J2,108   34,53    34,612   36,233   31,951   37.73    43,291   45,754  105,922   10133  110,741
Uh3IEI  93 KIEPfCAflU-10114           1,109    1,659    I,1m      5,110  1UP4    17,569   11,547   19,524   20,120   21,050   22,145   21, 735  3,0,75    34,61
T PFSBI  ASlS N OPEfl3l-EVALUED   1,415    I',? 3 ,40 '             ,       17',339   17, 73 17,11   17 427   17,210   21,144   22,909   79,17   77,425   75,311
hIK-1i-211ESo-uoua                        40       32        39      225      63      1,275    1,013    2,97      3,056    1,979    3,418    3,W       3,471    3,100
TT.L IE  FIIEI Ai -EL0ED               1,455    2,029    3,        7,213   26,72     13,44    13,754   19,39?   20,2U1   23,125   21,327   62,791  81,391   79,466
LIWs-TERI KPOSITS/IINESINEITS             U7                133      215       470     550       50         lo      00 4               815      U47      on0       90
CUSTlCIO3 a8vI    T0 IITSA                                             0   17,U12   20,719   27,475   41,3U2   53,754   56,876   57,45            0        0         0
CU1RRET SMTS:
CISRlfS  £AK2                                       13        5       29       82       112       15       217      123     n7         743      750     n77 
GMT-TMU  ff3617                           31       47        79      374       715    1,074    1,040    3,260       417              1,959    1,1Los     027       372
ACCI6IS   EiVmu                           21        33      115       61       231      382      339       394      400      416       419      430      441       445
ZU9EJITES                                 23       43       t06      IV7      37A       538      543       549      571      s4o       553      559      504       570
OME1  ainUi ASSETS                       142      22        404      12      1,710    2,31     2,700    3,072    3,529    3,394    4,208    4,U43    5,575    0,010
TOTAL CRIT  ABSETS                       234      343       77M    1,507    3,14    4,419    9,787    1,2    5,051    5,51           7,942    7,2    7, 90        ,155
TOITL *55TS                            1,750    2,471    4,397    1,93    31,967   44,16   50,N5   69,261   79,713  U6,65   92,519   91,140   69,740   3,546                                                            I
EQUITY1A LIMILITIEI                                                                                                                                                                                                      C
E60tTYsI
USIIIES  FMU                           1,48U    2,117    3,0       7,753   31,02    41,41   49,901   51,735   01,t82    5,563   09,n4   09,M7    9,920   70,2U3
EEIIWI  FUND                              14        29       30       5        II!      204      295                481      57        i3n      m        6         97t
STAFF ELhIIE fU         D                 92       123      20       50       1233     1450     1071      139      2126     231       2M0      2144     3093      3347
POlTL 14IT1                           2,392    2,259    4,145    3,371   32,70   43,145   51,867   59,0o1    4,23         8,520   72,99    73,394   13,1    714,5
LIUN-TJEK 8 L
FeES LOW                                        0        0         0        0             0    3,o06     9,192   £4,370  I,lfA   10,0n   14,143   13,000   11,257
OIESTIC CIU&J     Low                    130      135       140      £10      154       150      155       150      145      140       131      132      12        124
an  a TW*-13E96L237O3                      0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0
ZIEG~~~~~~~~~~~ l- T                                 e O           O              O so oi  o--  -- o                               - o--ow
ToiL  OI-TElW  LIUILITI-                 13O       13       140     2U0       15        I      3,040      ,342   14,515    0,99    10,09   14,975   13,122   11,231
OmI LIAOILITIE3
6C    l TM PAYABLE                         0        13       10       72n    1t         256      257       264      207      270       270      27    212          265
OUiP3FI2mOFfU1.116-fEl   a                 3        8         9        3         6        1        1         5        5        5    1,647    1,141    1,347    1,647
SW-TM-U         a0 LI ~T3                  0         0        0        0    0,231         0                                  430
0T11 1U.11        ILUWTIEO                1o        5        P       324       435      i2       1         031      037       44 uo  u45                 597       547
AM    AT 121-IEKVM0T£                     0         0        0        0         a        0        0         0        0  -i 0  -         0        0  --0             0
TOTL     131 LUSLITIEI                    34       n7       112     404    0,30         1 U               9         90t       1,349    2,1    2,m77    2,720    2,17
MAL3. LIUJLITIE                          14       212       252        4    7,017    1,041    4,12P   10,242   15,424   2,345   19,92   17,746   15,654   13,90
TOTAL EQUITY I LtIALITIES              1,150    2,471    4,397    3,935   39,937   44,130   51,591   09,211   19,713   U,3   92,57n   91,140   3,140   33,
11^110 Of FINKCUL POSITIONI
I .ll-TEll 1131 TO L.T.IT#EOQUITY        7.11     5.0       3.3       .91      0.511    0.41     6.n9   13.n       16.41    19.9?    I8.n      10.9?    15.22    13.31
mUmIIT 361191C.sSETSIOIU51               0.9      4.5       6.9      3.7       0.5      5.0      I.0       B.,      s.2      4.1       2.9      2.7      2.9       3.0
*C3ITS RECEIVAKEI-.KTHS.£ALS            2.27      1.20     3.51     0.78     0.94      0.53     0.53      05'    0.45       0.54      0.52     0.53     0.53      0.52
Sotre3 Phb  IbWt UrkIb     i Ilki MIS1SO  ltitft



SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUSSLOVIA
ISTRIA aND SLOVENE COAsT WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PULA WATER WORKS
STATEMENT OF SOURCE I APPLICATION OF FUNDS
------------------------------------------             1983-87 At Current Prices
(Diner, Nillion)                         198-96 At Constant Dec.1997 Prices
---------------  ACTUAL  -------------------  --------------                       PRJECTED  ----------------------------------
FISCAL YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31st                 1983     1984      1985     1986     19B7      198B     1999     1990      1991     1992     1993      1994     1995      1996
SOURCE OF FUNDS:
GPERArl#S INCOME                                   18       39       85       421      818    4,797    4,912    4,971    3,176    4,645    4,900    2,195    2,155    2,229
ADD: DEPRECIATION                                  62       79      145       263      710      963       992    1,002    1,022    1,157    1,223    3,919    4,053    4,133
DISPOSAL OF FIIED ASSETS                     0         0        1       17         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
FROI CUSTOMERS-THROUSH COMNUNITIES                  0        0        0         0   11,333    5,760    4,200    2,579    2,500          0        0         0        0         0
CUSTOMlER DIRECT CONTRIBUTIONS                     37       71      241       676      758        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
LESS: TAXES ON liNCOME                             (el     (131      (361    (1053    (3061    (379)    (397)    1394)    (4021    (410)    (4181    (427)    (435)    J4441
TOTAL INTERNAL FUNDS GENERATION                   109      176      436    1,272   13,313   11,141    9,707    8,158    6,296    5,392    5,705    5,697    5,773    5,918
FOREIGN LONG-TERN LOANS                             0        0        0         0        0        0    3,695    5,507    5,178    2,486    1,660          13        0        0
DOMESTIC CURRENCY LONG-TERNS LOANS                 13       13       14       26         2        9         5        0        0         0        0         0        0        0
WELFARE FUND-STAFF HOUSING RENTS                   41       24       73       223      605       65        67       69        71       73       75        77       79       8l
TOTAL EXTERNAL SOURCE OF FUNDS                    54        37       87      251       607       74    3,757    5,576    5,249    2,559    1,735         90        79       81
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUNDS                             163      213      523    1,523   13,920   11,215   13,464   13,734   11,545    7,951    7,440    5,777    5,852    5,999                                   H
APPLICATION OF FUNDS:
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION ADVANCES TO BUTONIGA           0        0        0         0   17,632    3,137    6,706   14,387   11,892    3,172        619      237         0        0
OIHER CAPITAL EXPENDITURE (INCLUDINS lDCI         100       96       69       961      738      690    1,208    1,645    1,893    4,514    3,925    2,651    2,158    2.72J
LOAN INTEREST CHAR6ED TO INCOME                     5        6        5         6        2        3         3        4        4         4        5    1,371    1.228    1,035
REPAYMENT OF LONI-TERM LOAN PRINCIPAL               6        B        8         9        8        9         7        6         5        5        5    1,847    1,647    1,847
DEBT SERVICE                                       11       14       13        15       10       11        10       10        9         9       10    3,218    3,075    2,932
SHORT-TERN DEPOSITS                               22        11       32       297      339      359    4,966   (2,7801  (2,943)    1417)   1,959        (851)    14811    (255)
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                               26      103      391       439    1,319      896       402      385      502       945      404      411       943      446
SHORT-TERN LOANS                                   0         0        0         0   16 231)  6231           0        0        0      (430)     430        0         0        0
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 1I                      (221     (43)     134)    (2931    1228)    12541        (5)     (12)       (91     (10)     (12)        2       45       47
CHANGE IN WORKIN6 CAPITAL-INCR7IDECR)              26       71      389       443   (4,802)   7,232    5,363   (2,407)  12,350)        BB   2,781       (438)     507      238
LONG-TERN DEPOSITS/INVESTMENTS-INCRI(DECR)          8       27       39        82      255       80        30       30       30       145       30        32       33       25
WELFARE FUND-STAFF WELFARE PAYMENTS                18        5       13        22       87       65        67       69       71        73       75        77       79       81
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                        163      213      523    1,523   13,920   11,215   13,464   13,734   11,545    7,951    7,440    5,777    5,B52    5,999                          X
00
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE (TINES)                    6.5       7.5     15.0      39.7    122.2    489.2    550.7    557.9    421.8    599.1    570.5         1.8      1.9      2.0
SELF-FINPACING RATIO 123:3-YEAR AVERAGE          92.92   116.6l    15.51    17.61   239.61    42.62   100.2l   61.71    46.52    63.32    97.52    64.72    66.12   102.21 2
If Excludes short-term portion of long-term debt
Source; Pel& Mater #orts and Bent mission estimstes



- 110 -
ANNEX 8.13
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Accounting Practices in Yugoslavia
1.       Operating Expenses represent all cob-s and expenses incurred in the
production process and for services rendered during each applicable fiscal
year.
2.       Operating Revenue.  In accordance with Yogoslav accounting
regulations, sales and related credits are only recorded as revenues when
payment, or a guarantee of payment, is received by December 31 of the current
year or, in respect of goods dispatched and services rendered within the last
15 days of the financial year, when payment or a bill of exchange is received
within the first 15 days of the following year. In all other instances the
amounts billed but not received are carried forward and treated as revenue in
the period in which they are collected.
3.       Interest Income and Investment Income are not accrued but are
credited to income when received.
4.       Interest Payable is accrued, to the balance sheet date, and charged
against revenue.
5.       Net Fixed Assets and Construction in Progress are revalued annually
to approximate replacement cost. Revaluation coefficients are applied to both
gross fixed assets and to accumulated depreciation. Revaluation coefficients
are annually established by Government for a wide range of asset
classifications, based upon current market prices, and are appropriately
applied and are satisfactory. The net surplus resulting from revaluation is
credited direct to the Business Fund component of equity.
6.       Accounts Receivable include all amounts owing for sales and services
rendered, including those which cannot be recognized as sales under Yugoslav
law (para. 2).
7.       Losses Arising from Revaluation of Foreign Currency Loans, and
repayment of principal of such loans, are included as a part of the
revaluation of the fixed assets for which they were incurred.



- 1'1 -
Annex 8.14
Page 1
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Explanation of the Accounts Reflected in the Financial
Statements and Assumptions for the Financial Projections
RIZANA WATERWORKS
Income Statement
1.       Water Production - after project demand forecasts (Annex 5.1).
2.       Water Distribution Losses - after project demand forecasts
(Annex 5.1).
3.       Tariffs - increased each year 1988-91, and held relatively constant
from 1992-96.
4.       Service Income - represents water connections and other works
chargeable to customers, and is projected to remain constant from 1988 to 1996
at the 1988 figure of Dinar 1,751 million.
5.       Salaries, Wages and Staff Benefits - includes RWW salaries and wage
related costs, and is projected to increase to in the ratio of increase in the
number of employees but at the same cost per employee that prevailed in
December 1987.
6.       Electricity - projected to increase at about 2% per year, at December
1987 prices, from 1988-96.
7.       Materials, Chemicals and Spare Parts - projected to increase by about
1% per year at December 1987 prices.
8.       Water Purchases from Istria - represents water purchases from Istria
(Gradole system), and is projected at quantity required to meet customer
demand up to the allocated limit established by the Gradole Agreement with
Istria Water Works. RWW's costs reflect the ratio of operating cost sharing
established by the above agreement, which are priced in the projections at
December 1987 costs.
9.       Maintenance Contracted - represents maintenance work performed by
outside contractors, and is projected to meet RWW's maintenance program.
Projections reflect a substantial increase from 1994 to 1996 which is due to
the planned renewal of segments of the distribution system (para 2).



- 112 -
Annex 8.14
Page 2
10.      Provision for Depreciation - projected at the minimum rates
prescribed by Government plus supplementary arbitrary amoun.s determined by
the investment program needs for internal financing. The purpose for this
practice is that capital expenditure from internal resources is restricted to
the annual provision for depreciation, plus the annual allocatioa of net
income after taxes to the Business Fund.
11.      Obligatory Contribution to Communities - includes premiums for RWW's
insurance coverage, contribution and levies for civil defense, social welfare,
education, health services, science, culture, social security, unemployment
insurance, environmental agencies, communal activities, and Self-Management
Communities of Interest (SIS). Projections are proportionate to the increase
in the "Income Base." The "Income Base" is defined in Yugoslavia as operating
income plus salaries and wages, and obligatory contribution to communities.
12.      Other Operating Expenses - represents travel expenses, inventory
shortages, bank service charges, computer software and supplies, contractor's
charges related to Service Income (para. 4), purchases of assets of small
value, laboratory analysis costs, inventory revolution, revaluation losses,
interest on short-term loans and credits,and other miscellaneous expenses.
Projections reflect nominal increases of about 1.92 per year, December 1987
prices.
13.      Interest on Loans and Interest During Construction - self-explanatory
and projected according to the terms of the proposed Bank loan and domestic
currency long-term loans, as reflected in loan schedules.
14.      Taxes on Income - represents income taxes levied by the Republic of
Slovenia, and is projected at approximately 2.7% of the "Income Base"
explained in para. 11 above.
Balance Sheet
15.      Fixed Assets and Provision for Depreciation - are revalued annually
to approximate replacement costs (Annex 8.13, para 5).
16.      Long-term Deposits/Investments - represents a large number of loans
and deposits ad-;anced to various institutions involved in such areas as power
generation and development, telephone services, underdeveloped areas, civil
defense, culture, etc. Projections are based on arbitrary judgment.
17.      Cash & Bank, and short-term deposits/loans - projected to meet
liquidity needs and to absorb liquid surplus generated by projected operations.
18.      Accounts Receivable - represents outstanding invoices for water
sales and services rendered. Due to RWW's stringent and effective collection
practices accounts receivable are projected to remain at the 1987 level, in
absolute terms, throughout the 1988-96 projection period.



- 113 -
Annex 8.14
Page 3
19.      Inventories - Projected to continue at approximately the 1987 level
from 1988 to 1996.
20.      Other Current Assets   represents housing and other loans to staff.
Projections based on past experience and arbitrary judgment of availability of
resources and staff future needs.
21.      Reserve Fund - represents a reserve of earned "after tax" income to
protect the Equity of RWW in the event of operating deficits in future years
and to absorb losses on the disposal of assets. Net income after taxes is
allocated to the Reserve Fund at the rate of 4% of the "Income Base" (para.
11) up to the level where Reserve Fund balance equals the average "income
base" for the previous three years.
22.      Staff Welfare Fund - represents an annual allocation of net after tax
income and establishes the level of funding available to pay staff welfare
benefits, such as staff seniority allowances, holiday allowances, retirement
allowances, staff vacation houses and caravans, and electric, water, etc.
services related to vacation accommodation, regular (non-vacation) staff
housing, and community housing (non-staff). The calculat'ons of the
allocation to this fund are many and complex. Projections for 1988-96 have
been calculated applying the approximate formulae.
23.      Capital Contributions: Communities - represents contributions from
the Slovenia Association of Water Communities, and customer contributions
collected and forwarded through the communities operating on a lower-than
republic level. The original source of such non-republic contributions is
from tourist taxes, industrial and commercial water consumers, and the
Community of Interest for Water of Koper, whose contributions are derived from
industrial and commercial enterprises.
24.      Solidarity Fund - represents annual allocations of net after tax
income segregated to provide funding for community and republic emergencies
and natural and not-so-natural disasters. The projections are based on
complex esoteric formulae.
25.      Business Fund - represents the remaining net income after taxes,
after allocations to the Reserve, Staff Welfare and Solidarity Funds, losses
resulting from the revaluation of assets and accumulative depreciation, and
direct contributions from water customers. Capital expenditure financed from
RWW's internal resources is restricted by law to the net after tax income
allocated to this fund, plus the annual provision for depreciation charged to
revenue.
26.      Accounts Payable - is self-explanatory and has been projected in
proportion to change in inventories and the increase in materials, chemicals,
supplies and spare parts consumed in operations.



- 114 -
Annex 8.14
Page 4
27.      Short-term Loans & Credits - represents short-term borrowing for
working capital needs. Projections have been made on the assumption that this
liability will remain at the 1987 level for the 1988-96 period projected.
28.      Other Current Liabilities - represents accrued payroll and other
accrued expenses, and many small loans to water customers, community
associations, etc. Projections are based on arbitrary judgment for this item.
29.      Added at Year-end Revaluation - This item, under both long-term
liability and current liabilities represents the increase in both categories
of liabilities resulting from the planned revaluation of loans payable,
expected to be mandatory by law in Yugoslavia before the end of 1988. The
balance sheet reflects no figures for this item as the revaluation requirement
did not exist for the actual period 1983 to 1987, and for the 1988 to 1996
projected period it does not apply as projections based on December 1987
prices, consequently, excluding inflation from these figures. This item has,
nevertheless, been included in the balance sheet so that the format will
provide for revaluation which will be included in the actual operating results
which should be submitted by RWW to the Bank for the years 1988-96.
ISTRIA WATER WORKS
Income Statement
30.      Water Production - after project demand forecasts (Annex 5.1)
31.      Water Distribution Losses - after project demand forecasts (Annex 5.1)
32.      Tariffs - increased in 1988 and 1989; decreased in 1990 to reflect
the elimination of the tariff surcharge for investments; and, held
approximately at the same level from 1991 to 1996.
33.      Service Income - projected to increase at about an average of 4.72
per year for new customer connections.
34.      Salaries and Wages - projected to increase by an average of 4.1% per
year to reflect additional staff and seniority salary increases.
35.      Electricity - estimated to increase by an average of 6.7% per year
due to purchases of additional electrical equipment.
36.      Materials, Chemicals and Spare Parts - projected to increase by 6.52
per year to meet requirements of increasing water production.
37.      Obligatory Contributions to Communities - increased in proportion to
"Income Base" on which these contributions are based. Refer to para. 11.
38.      Other Operating Expenses - projected to increase at about 4.7% per
year based on arbitrary judgment and past trends.



- 115 -
Annex 8.14
Page 5
39.      Recovery of Costs from Pula and Rizana - represents Pula'a and
Rizana's share of operating costs related to water purchases from Istria,
determined by the formulae established according to legal agreements.
40.      Interest on Loans and Interest During Construction - projected in
accordance with projected loan schedules.
41.      Taxes on Income - approximately 2.7% of the "Income Base" as defined
in para 11.
Balance Sheet
41.      Fixed Assets in Operation, Provision for Depreciation, and
Work-in-Progress - refer to para. 15 and Annex 8.13, para. 5.
42.      Long Term Deposits/Investments - Refer to para. 16.
43.      Construction Advances to Butoniga - Butoniga is the project
implementing organization for the proposed Bank project. Projections are
based upon the capital expenditure reflected in the Investment Program.
44.      Cash & Bank and Short-tem Deposits/Loans - refer to para. 17.
45.      Accounts Receivable - projected to remain relatively constant in
terms of number of average months of sales.
46.      Inventories - projected to increase in line with consumption of
materials, chemicals, etc., but by a lower average rate of about 4.8X.
47.      Other Current Assets - projected at an average annual rate of about
12.4% based on experience from the past.
48.      Business Fund - refer to para 25.
49.      Reserve Fund - refer to para 21.
50.      Staff Welfare Fund - refer to para 22.
51.      Accounts Payable - projected to increase in proportion to the
estimated increase in inventories and materials, chemicals and spare parts
consumed in operations.
52.      Short-term Loans and Credits - estimated at approximate1y a constant
level from 1988 to 1998.
53.      Other Current Liabilities - projected to decrease by Dinar 828
million in 1988, to zero from 1989 to 1996, owing to cash generation exceeding
the financing requirements of capital expenditure during this period.



- 116 -
Annex 8.14
Page 6
54.      Added at Year End Revaluation - refer to para 29.
PULA WATER WORKS
Income Statement
55.      Water Production - after project demand forecasts (Annex 5.1).
56.      Water Distribution Losses - after project demand forecasts
(Annex 5.1).
57.      Tariffs - projected to increase by 121% in 1988, remain at about the
same level to 1990, and to decrease from 1990 to 1996 by approximately 7%.
58.      Service Income - projected to increase by aii average of about 1% per
year from 1988 to 1996.
59.      Salaries and Wages - projected to increase by 2.3% from 1988 to 1996
to reflect a small increase in number of workers, and seniority salary
increases.
60.      Electricity - estimated to increase by an average of 0.4% per year
from 1988 to 1996.
61.      Materials,Chemicals and Spare Parts - projected to increase from
1988-96 by an average of 1.2% per year to meet requirements of increased water
production.
62.      Obligatory Contribution to Communities - increased in proportion to
the "Income Base" on which these contributions are based (Refer to para 11).
63.      Other Operating Expenses - estimated to increase by an average of
about 0.3% per year to 1996.
64.      Operating Expenses - Butoniga - represents the Pula Water Works'
share of operating costs for their water production allocation from the Bank
Project facilities which would be operated by Istria Water Works.
65.      Interest on Loans and Interest During Construction - projected in
accordance with loan terms and projected loan schedules.
66.      Taxes on Income - projected at the prescribed rates applied to the
"Income Base" as defined in para. 11.
Balace Sheet
67.      Fixed Assets in Operation, Provision for Depreciation and Work-in-
Progress - refer to para. 15 and Annex 8.13, para. 5.



- 117 -
Annex 8.14
Page 7
68.      Long-term Deposits/Investments - refer to para. 16.
69.      Construction Advances to Butoniga - refer to para. 43.
70.      Cash & Bank and Short-Term Deposits/Loans - refer to para. 17.
71.      Accounts Receivable - projected to remain relatively constant in
terms of number of months' sales.
72.      Inventories - projected to increase with increase in consumption of
materials, chemicals and spare parts, but at a lower average yearly rate of
0.7X.
73.      Other Current Assets - projected to increase at an average rate of
about 13% per year to 1996.
74.      Business Fund - refer to para. 25.
75.      Reserve Fund - refer to para. 21.
76.      Staff Welfare Fund - refer to para 22.
77.      Accounts Payable - projected to increase approximately in proportion
to the increase in inventories and materials, chemicals and spare parts
consumed in operations.
78.      Short-term Loans and Credits - projected to be zero for the period
1988-96, w;th the exception of 1992, when dinar 430 is estimated to be
required for bridging finance for capital expendituce.
79.      Other Current Liabilities - projected to cecrease by an average of
about 1.6% per year to 1996.
80.      Added at Year-end Revaluation - refer to para 29.



- 118 -
ANNEX 8.15
Page I
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1STRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Outline Terms of Ref -,ene for a Tariff Study
Background
1.       The          Water Works is undertaking a program of expansion of its
water supply capacity inorder to meet the continuing growth in water demand
for its service area. E.cisting capacity is sufficient for average
requirements but is insufficient for the peak summertime use which results
mostly from the influx of tourists and vacationers. Economic analysis has
demonstrated that the income from tourism justifies meeting the demand rather
than discouraging its growth so as not to have to invest in the additional
capacity. Having made this decision, tariffs should be set so that there is
equity in the distribution of the cost of service between the different
categories of consumers in terms of capital.
Objctive
2.       The objective of the study is to develop a tariff structure that
would take into consideration but not be limited to the following:
(a) The long run average incremental cost of water.
(b) Affordability. The domestic water and sewerage charge should be
less than 5S of the minimum household income for the resident
population.
(c) Equity in the distribution of cost of service between the
various categories of userr in the economy (industry, commercial
and tourism).
(d) Financial needs of the water works to cover the cost of
providing the service, full debt service payment, legal and
contractual taxes and contributions, appropriate increases to
working capital, and capital requirements for minor expansion of
facilities not financed by developers, the eventual consumers,
or by other means.
(e) Water conservation. Because of limited sources of supply and
the high level of unaccounted-for water (RWW and PWW only),
consideration should be given to systems of charges that would
both discourage excessive usage and encourage user system
maintenance.
(f) Seasonality of demand. Systems of charges should encourage a
more even use of water and discourage use during the peak summer
months.



- 119 -
ANNEX 8.15
Page 2
(g) Other potential forms of revenue generation that may reduce the
revenue requirement from tariffs.
Scope of Work
3.       The study would have the following scope of work:
(a) Calculate the average incremental cost of water based on Butoniga
and future sources of supply.
(b) Calculate the unit cost of capacity for Butoniga and future
source development.
(c) Allocate capital and operating cost per cubic meter sold
according the time of year.
(d) Meters are read monthly. Determine the cost of meter reading and
the benefits of more frequent reading during the peak summer
months (Theoretically, peaks recorded for summer time users
should be higher if meters are read at shorter intervals of time).
(e) Design a computer model for testing the yield of alternative
tariff structures based on historical consumption patterns.
(f) Propose other methods of revenue generation such as connection
fees and taxes from frontage assessment to recover benefits from
increased land values.
(g) Design and test alternative tariff structures taking into account
the results of (f) and recommend one that best meets the
objectives of the study.
(h) Estimate the cost of implementation and develop an implementation
plan and schedule for the recommended tariff structure.



- 120 -
ANNEX 9.1
Page 1
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ISTRIA ANID SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.       This Annex includes cost, benefit and water consumption streams used
for calculating the economic rate of return (ERR) of the Project and the long
run average incremental cost (AIC) of water for the three water works. Also
covered are the assumptions made. Data to back up the calculations are
included in the Project File.
Economic Rate of Return
2.       The investments in water supply in the project area will (a) allow
tourism facilities in the project area to regain their former levels of
occupancy; (b) allow additional tourism facilities to be constructed; and (c)
provide residences and industry in the area with additional water, for which
they will be willing to pay through regular water tariffs. Benefits therefore
include the tourism revenues accruing both from occupancy of new facilities to
be constructed and from improved occupancy of existing facilities, and tariffs
from incremental water sales to residential and commercial consumers.
3.       The cost and benefit streams used in the calculation are presented in
Table A9.1. Estimated cost streams include (a) the cost of the water
investments included in the Project, net of taxes and interest during
construction; (b) capital costs of new tourist accommodation (also net of
taxes and interest during construction); and (c) operating costs of the new
accommodation.l'
3.       Assumptions Undertving the Estimated Cost Stream.  The number of rnew
tourist beds to be constructed is based on the long-term plans for the Slovene
coastal region and for the Rijeka planning area. Although construction of
additional tourism facilities has not been allowed because of the water
constraint, it is assumed that once the Project is under way, construction of
the additional facilities would be permitted to begin. It is also assumed
that some additional rooms would be ready as early as the summer of 1990,
since efforts would be made to accelerate construction of those facilities
which are already at a relatively advanced design stage.2- The number of
beds projected for completion each year includes a constant number of beds
from 1993 to the year 2000 (the long-term planning horizon), after the
accelerated construction projected for the 1990-1992 period.
1/ Revenues and costs associated with international air travel have not been
taken into account, since the benefits would mostly accrue to foreign airlines
and travel agents.
2/ The interim measures undertaken for the 1988 summer season would be in
place by this time.



- 121 -
ANNEX 9.1
Page 2
4.       Construction costs per bed are estimated on the basis of information
supplied by IFC regarding proposed hotel investments in Yugoslavia, adjusted
for the mix of tourist accommodation found in both project areas.
Construction costs are spread over four years in proportions based on
observed expenditures for other hotels in Yugoslavia, with an accelerated
schedule in the 1990-1992 period.
5.       Operating costs are assumed to be equivalent to two-thirds of to al
revenues; this assumption corresponds to the propsrtion used in appraisal of
tourism projects in the past, and is borne out by figures supplied by a large
tourism work organization in the project area.
6.       Assumptions Underlvma the Estimated Benefit Streams. Occupancy of
existing tourism facilities in the project area is assumed to regain the
levels experienced in 1985 by 1992 (about 93 overnights per bed in Slovenia,
and about 91 in Croatia), increasing gradually from 1987 levels of about 87
overnights per bed in both areas. It is assumed that, without the Project,
occupancy would not increase from the 1987 levels, but would remain
constant.   Benefits therefore are the revenues from the incremental
overnights per bed over :he 1987 levels.
7.       Revenues arising from the additional tourism facilities are also
based on ovenights per bed. These are expected to be relatively low during
the first season, and to build up to the "trend" levels of 93 and 91
overnights/bed by the third year. Revenues per overnight are estimated at $
U.S. 58 in Croatia, and $ U.S. 65 in Slovenia. These are based on a survey of
tourist expenditures carried out in 1987, total tourism revenue figures for
Slovenia, and price schedules provided by tourism work organizations.
8.       Estimates of the benefits accruing to residential and commercial
consumers of water supplied under the Project are based on water tariffs.
9.       Estimated Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analyss.  The estimated ERR on
the tourism-related investment program, including the proposed project is
16%.'/ The cost and benefit streams used in the calculation are shown in
Annex Table A9.1. The estimated ERR is relatively sensitive to changes in
assumptions regarding tourism revenues, and is less affected by changes in
investment costs. The estimated ERR under the reduced revenues and increased
costs scenarios and under the two combined are:
Estimated ERR
Base case                                            15.5
Revenues reduced by 10%                              11.2
Investment costs increased by 10%                    13.8
Revenues reduced 10% and                              9.8
investment costs increased 10%
1/ Rates of return are not given for separate project areas because the
transfer of substantial water resources under long-term agreements between
areas, but within the total project scheme, makes the overall ERR the most
appropriate measure of the returns to the Project.



- 122 -
ANNEX 9.1
Page 3
Long Run Average Incremental Cost of Water
11.      A separate long run average incremental cost was calculated for each
water works rather than for the Project or its components. This was done for
primarily to make it possible be compare the results with projected tariffs.
However, it was also necessary since the operating costs which enter into the
calculation differ among the three water works.
12.      The incremental cost streams and waLer production streams used in the
calculations are in Annex Tables A9.2, A9.3 and A9.4. The assumptions used
are included in the tables. Additienal data is included in the Project File.



- 123 -
ANNEX 9.1
Page 4
Table A9.1: Cost and Benefit Streams for Caleulating
Economic Rate of Return
Economic Rate of Riturn Calculation. (figures are in iUS  illions)
TOTAL PROJECT
1997     1999    1999     19       1991      M2      1993    1994    1995       196
Costs                                                         -       -          _       _-_
Nis tourist Accosodatins,capitel costs    0.00      0.00    80.68   163.01   131.43   109.51   109.51   109.51   109.51   109.51
Ne accoodations operating costs            0.00     0.00     0.00    59.98   63.51    71.04   110.73   152.44   193.72   215.00
ProjKet invntoents                        25.76    12.77    28.55    43.12    44.44    39.07    26.64    21.45    5.79     6.54
ProjKct operating costs                    0.00     1.80     2.66     3.4U     4.31     5.14    5.97     6.91     7.64     9.48
Total costs                         25.76    14.57   112.09  269.59   243.69   223.76  252.85   290.21   306.65   339.53
Benfits
Toujiss revenue  froo nev accoeoations.    .00    0.00       0.00    13.19   42.95   106.12   165.44  227.76  274.53   321.30
Increnntal reven    from misting accom    0 00    15.46   28.19    36.82    44.69   55.01    56.92    58.19   50.19    51.1U
Industrial and household
illngness-to-pay                  0.No    2.90      4.35     5.72     7.09     9.43    9.76    11.08   12.34    13.43
Total bulits                         0.0    18.3    32.54    55.72    94.71   169.57   232.02   297.02   345.05   392.91
nt benefits                     -25.76     3.79   -79.55  -213.86  -143.9   -54.19  -20.4        6.31    33.40    53.33
1991    1991     19       2000    2001      2002    2003    2004    2005    200
Costs  
ke  tourist accoeodatlOs,caltal tcsts   109.51   9.56   70.09    23.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.00    0.00     0.00
NW accumodte owrating costs              246.28   27756   308.84   340.98   357.63   367.95   367.95   3.   .95 367.9   3.95
Project inMt.ts                             1.74    7.74    7.74      1.74     1.74     4.72     9.44     8.4      4.72     1.74
Project oprating cots                       9.35   IO..05   11.17   12.10    8.05    14.03    15.02    16.03    17.09   91.17
Total costs                         366.88   394.1\  397.94   37.92   367.42   386.70   391.41   392.42  3W.76   387.96
Benfits
Tourisa revnus  from ne  ucdatim.  3.06   412.83   461.59   509.66   534.53   549.97   549.97   549.97   54. 97   549.97
Incremontal revene  from nisting Kcc       9.3    53.39    58.39   59.19   58.18    59.19    58.19   58.18    59.18    58.18
Industrial and household
uillingnmss-to-pay                14.93    16.29    '7.66    19.03    20.43    21.84    23.26    24.68    26.16    27.67
total benfits                       441.17   489.30   537.43  586.87   613.4   629.99   631.41   632.93   634.31   635.92
Net befits                        74.29   95.19   13L.59   209.05   245.73   243.29   240.00   240.41   244.55   247.96
2007    2009    20t9    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014           2015
Costs
Kw tourist accoseatisn,capitul costs        0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
Nw  accmoates *watneg costs               367.95   367.95   W7.95   367.95   367.95  367.95   367.95   367.95   367.95
Project iswstits                            1.74     1.74     1.74     1.74     1.74     1.74     1.74    1.74     1.74
ProjKct orItile  costs                     19.29    20.43    21.59    22.79    23.99    25.23    26.51    27.83    29.16
Total costs                         386.91   390.12   391.28   392.47   393.68   394.92   396.20   397.52   399.95
Benefits
Touariu reveus  frome accintlons.   549.97   549.97   549.97   549.N?   549.97   549.97   549.97   549.97   549.97
Incremental rna  from oisting accoS 58.39    58.19    58.19    59.11   59.19    58.19    59.19    58.18   58.18
Industrial and houseold
williagnes-to-pay                 29.22    30.73    32.34    33.91    35.49   37.09    39.n    40.35    41.99
total mNefits                       637.37   631.93     .n49  642.06   643.64  645.24  646.87   649.50   650.14
Net beefits                      248.39   248.91   249.21   249.59   249.96   250.32   250.67   250.98   251.29
Econmic Rate of Return                   0.1547



- 124 -                                                              ANNEX 9.1
Page 5
Table A9.2: Incremental Cost and Water Sales Streams for Average
Incremental Cost of Water of the Rizana Water Works
Project         other     CustOemr            Not                Incresntal           Total                      Sales
Capital      Capital    Contibu-         Capital    Operating    Operating  Incroental    Sale  Wet               with  Increetal
Casts         Costs         tionn        Costs         Costs         Costs         Costs       Project       Project         Sales
Year       (DinBnl      (Dminn)       lOinn)        (Dinin)       (Dinflal      (DinSnl       (Dininl       (in  31     (In o31        iMn U3S
(a.hb*c                   (e-7.30)         (dSfl                                     ti-h)
........................ ....................................... _.............. ........................ ....................................... ....... ...... ..._.__...  _._ . _._ 
19M7         2.95                        2.00          0.93          7.30          0.00          0.95          6.34          6.34          0.00
1988         9.66                        4.55          5.11          7.60          0.29          5,41          6.34          6.34          0.00
1989        14.846                       4.46         10.40          8.44          1.14         11.54          6.34          6.34          0.00
1990        16.04                        1.35         t4.69          8.51          1.21         15.89          6.34          8.00          1.66
1991        22.47                        7.44         I5.03          9.91          2.61         17.64          6.34          9.62          3.:
1992        25.49                        5.32         20,17         10.18          2.88         23.04          6.34          9.94          3.50
1993        15.94                        2.12         13.82         10.36          3.06         16.87          6.34         10.05          !.71
M4           6.33          5.23                       11.61         10.90          3.60         15.22          6.34         10.25          3.91
1795                       6.43                        6.43         11.00          3.70         10.13          6.34         10.44          4.10
1996                       7.45                        7.45         11.27          3.97         11.42          4.26         10.63          6.37
197                       1.00                        1.00         11.52          4.22          5.22          4.26         10.81          6.55
199                        1.00                        1.00         11.77          4.47          5.47          4.26         11.00          6.74
199                        1.00                        1.00         12.02          4.72          5.72          4.26         11.20          6.94
2000                       1.00                        1.00         12.27          4.97          5.97          4.2t         11.39          7.13
2001                       1.00                        1.00         12.52          5.22          6.22          4.26         11.57          7.31
2002                       5.00                        5.00         12.77          5.47         10.47          4.26         11.77          7.51
2003                      10.00                       10.00         13.02          5.72         15.72          4.26         11.96          7.70
2004                      10.00                       10.00         13.27          5.97         15.97          4.26         12.16          7.90
2005                       5.00                        5.00         13.52          6.22         11.22          4.26         12.36          8.10
2006                       1.00                        1.00         13.77          6.47          7.47          2.84         12.56          9.72
2007                        1.00                       1.00         14.04          6.74          7.74          2.84         12.76          9.92
2008                        1.00                       1.00         14.30          7.00          8.00          2.84         12.95         10.11
2009                       1.00                        1.00         14.58          7.28          8.28          2.84         13.16         10.32
2010                       1.00                        1.00         14.85          7.55          8.55          2.84         13.36         10.52
2011                       1.00                        1.00         15.13          7.83          8.83          2.84         13.56         10.72
2012                       1.00                        1.00         15.42          8.12          9.12          2.84         13.77         10.93
2013                        1.00                       1.00         15,71          8.41          9.41          2.84         13. "         11.15
2014                        1.00                        1.00        16.01          8.71          9.71          2.84         14.22         11.38
2015                       1.00                        1.00         16.32          9.02         10.02          2.84         14,44         11.60
2016                       1.00                        1.00         16.63          9.33         10.33          2.84         14.66         11.82
..... .. _._ ...... ............. ................. ...... - --------- - -----... - -- - _--.-----_--- ... , ._
Assumptions                                                                      Results
1.  The opportunity cost ot capital equals 101.                                  MN of increental costst                         100.8  Oinen
2.  Costs are epreud in constant Dian At O  eceeber 31, 1987                     Discounted volume of witer:                      40.3 *S Mln
lUSh     Dm01,344).                                                         Average incromtal cost of water:                 2,504 Din/n3
3.  Capital cats are net of tae  and include physical
contingencies.
4.  Incrental oprating costs are operating cost increases
abo   the level of 1987.
5.   Other  capital cats are costs related to the ntension of
the distribution network, the construction of additional source
capacity and the spansion of the Riuant water trestent plant.
6.   Custoeer contribution' are capital  peYnnts eade by the
bnefitiaries and are dductd so that the resulting AlC
is coeparable to the tariffs being charged.
7.  The reduction in capacity  withOut  the  Project reults
from the transfer of IW's allocation iradole systts capacity to
the 1N  and P33 in m     and 2005.
8.  Vater sales without the Projet assum  a reduction in
customers to level that could be served adequately during peak
per;ods with eiisting capacity.



- 125 -                                                              ANNEX 9.1
Page 6
Table A9.3: Incre,mental Cost and Water Sales Streams for Average
Incremental Cost of Water of the Istrian Water Works
,... . .....             .  .. . ............. ....................... .. ..... ..... ....... . .... . .... .....................................
Project        Other     Cuetow ert                            lncruntal          Total
Capital      Capital    Contribo-       CapitAl    Operating    Operating  Incr untal    Sales W/o   Sales mith. lncreentAl
Costs        Costs        tions         Costs        Costs         Costs        Costs      Project       Project        Saln
Year      (Oingn       I Dmine rs      inln       IDintn)       (Din)        (OD)nin       (ODinh)      Iln e3)      (Rn n3)       inn .3)
(a)          lbi          (c)           (d)          (ei           (f           (gi          (hi           (ml          U)
(ab-cl                   (e-2.961         (d#fl                                   (I-hi
.._.. ... .. . __.........  ... __ ._....  . ... .....                    _  .  ..... ... ..._ .  ...... ... . ..... -  - ----._ -----------
1987        14.97         1.92          7.34         9.55         2.96          0.00         9.55          8.45         8.45         0.00
1M18         4.02         4.53          4.52         4.03          4.01         1.12         5.15          9.45         8.45         0.00
1919         9.54         1.14          5.26         5.42         4.20          1.24         6.66          8.45        10.00         1.55
im          16.73         2.13          1.65        17.21         4.33          1.37        18.51          8.45        11.00         2.55
1991         5.50         1.90          1.24         6.16         4.91          1.95         9.12          6.45        14.64         6.19
12           1.96         2.22                       4.18         5.07          2.11         6.29          8.45        15.15         6.70
1993         0.33         3.46                       3.79         5.32          2.36         6.15          9.45        15.64          7.19
19"4         0.00         1.48                       1.48          5.52         2.56         4.04          8.45        16.16         t.7 
1995                      1.00                       1.00          5.69         2.72         3.72          9.45        16.71         8.26
199                       1.00                       1.00         5.69          2.72         3.72          9.82        17.26          7.44
1"7                       2.00                       2.00         6.23          3.27         5.27          9.82        17.90          7.98
I19                       5.00                       5.00         6.44          3.48         0.48          9.92        1.39          8.57
1999                      5.00                       5.00         6.65          3.69         9.69          9.82        18."          9.17
M000                      2.00                       2.00          6.85         3.90           .90         9.82        19.59          9.76
2001                      1.00                       1.00          7.06         4.10         5.10          9.82        20.18         10.36
2002                      1.00                       1.00          7.20         4.24         5.24          9.82        20.58         10.76
2003                      1.00                       1.00          7.35         4.39         5.39          9.82        20."          11.17
2004                      1.00                       1.00          7.49         4.53         5.53          9.92        21.40         11.58
2005                      1.00                       1.00         7.64          4.68         5.68          9.82        21.82         12.00
2006                      1.00                       1.00          7.7N         4.83         5.93         10.94        22.25         11.31
2007                      1.00                       1.00         7.95          4."          5."          10.9         22.70         11.76
200a                      1.00                       1.00         8.11          5.15         6.15         10.94        23.16         12.22
200                       1.00                       1.00         8.27          5.31         6.31         10.94        23.63         12.69
2010                      1.00                       1.00          8.44         5.48         6.48         10.94        24.10         13.16
2011                      1.00                       1.00         8.60          5.65         6.65         10.94        24.50         13.64
2012                      1.00                       1.00         8.78          5.82         6.82         10.94        25.07         14.13
2013                      1.00                       1.00          8.95         5.99         6.99         10.94        25.57         14.63
2014                      1.00                       1.00         9.13          t.17         7.17         10.94        26.07        1(.13
2015                      1.00                       1.00         9.31          6.35         7.35         10.94        26.59         15.65
2016                      1.00                       1.00         10.34         7.38         8.39         10.94        29.54         18.60
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. . . ..... ....... ..
Ansueptlons:                                                                  Results
1. The opportunity cost of capital euals 101.                                 NFV of incrn  ttl costs:                       69.2 DinOn
2. Costs are spreusse  in constant Diners of Deceeber 31,                     Discounte  vlue of mater:                      60.2 e3 tn
19P IIIS   * Dln1,344.                                                    Averae incrwntal cost of mater:               1,133 DOW.3
3. Capital costs ae not of takes an     incluhl physical
contingencies.
4.  Incrental Opating costs are  erating rost increas
above the level of 1987.
5.  'Other  capital cnts are costs related to the eatension
of th  distribution neterk.
6.  Custowr contributions' are capital paynts  ade by the
beficiaries and are ducttd so  that the rsulting AIC
is  coeWable to the tariffs beiag charged.
7. The increase In  ater sln withot the Project mid
reult frog the transfer of the MM's Irodole water supply
systn allocation to the IN  and PU in 1"5 and 2005.
9. Voter ules mithout the Projet asuu   a rduction in
customrs to th  level that could be sevd adequately during
pHk priohd  mth existing capaitp.



- 126 -                                                                 ANNEX 9.1
Page 7
Table A9.4: Incremental Cost and Water Sales Streams for Average
Incremental Cost of Water of the Pula Water Works
Project         Other      Customer             Net                 Increental           Total
Capital       Canital    Contribu-         Capital       operating    operating  incresntal    Sales w/o   Sales with  Increnmntal
Costs         Costs          tions         Costs          Costs         Costs          Costs       Project       Project          Sales
fear       DMinB         ionen)         (Dmnmn)       (Dinmn)        (DinDn)        (Di0mni       (Din8nI       iln "3)        (Mn .3)       (On olI
(al           (b)            (cl           (d)            (el           (f)            (go           (h)           Ii)            Ii)
{zfb-c                     (1-3.3'1          (d+f){-^
. ... .......... ...... ........ .... .... .......... ............... ... .... ... ............ .... ... ....... .......... .....................................
1997         19.64                        12.10          6.54           3.34          0.00           6.54          6.91           6.91          0.00
1989          3.22                         5.76         (2.541          3.39          0.04          (2.50)         6.91           6.91          0.00
1999          6.53                         4.20          2.33           3.42          0.09           2.41          6.91           6.91          0.00
1990         14.27                         2,56         11.71           3.46          0.12          11.83          6.91           9.00          2.09
1991         11.46                                       11.46          3.92          0.59          12.04          6.91          12.75          5.84
1992          3.04                                       3.04           4.02          0.69           3.72           6.91         13.10          6.19
1993          0.49                                       0.49           4.16          0.82           1.31           6.91        1.43           6.52
1994          0.03                                       0.03           4.25          0.91           0.94          6.91          13.73          6.92
1995                         1.40                         1.40          4.36           1.02          2.42           6.91         14.00           ?.09
i996                         1.40                         1.40          4.46           1.12          2.52           7.46         14.29           6.82
1997                         1.40                         1.40          4.57           1.23          2.63           7.46         14.56           7.10
1998                        2.30                         2.50           4.69           1.34          3.94           7.46         14.95           7.39
1999                         5.30                         5.50          4.80           1.46          6.96           7.46         15.14           7.69
2000                         5.50                         5.50          4.92           1.59          7.05           7.46         15.43           7.97
2001                         2.50                         2.50          5.04           1.70          4.20           7.46         15.72           8.26
2002                         1.40                         1.40          5.17           1.93          3.23           7.46         15.96           8.50
2003                         1.40                         1.40          5.30           1.96          3.36           7.46         16.21           8.75
2004                         1.40                         1.40          5.43           2.09          3.49           7.46         16.49           9.02
2005                         1.40                         1.40          5.57           2.23          3.63           7.46         16.75           9.29
2006                         1.40                         1.40          5.71           2.37          3.77           9.06         17.03           9.97
2007                         1.40                         1.40          5.85           2.51          3.91           9.06         17.32           9.26
2009                         1.40                         1.40          6.00           2.66          4.06           9.06         17.61           9.55
2009                         1.40                         1.40          6.15           2.91          4.21           9.06         17.90           9.84
2010                         1.40                         1.40          6.30           2.96          4.36           9.06         18.19          10.13
2011                         1.40                         1.40          6.46           3.12          4.52           8.06         18.49          10.43
2012                         1.40                         1.40          6.62           3.29          4.69           9.06         19.80          10.74
2013                         1.40                         1.40          6.78           3.44          4.84           8.06         19.12          11.06
2014                         1.40                         1.40           S9            3.61          5.01           9.06         19.44          11.38
2015                         1.40                         1.40          7.13           3.79          5.19           8.06         19.75          11.69
2016                         1.40                         1.40          7.31           3.97          5.37           9.06         20.05          11.99
Asswmptions:                                                                        Results
1.  The opoortunity cost of capital  quals 101.                                     MPV of incremental costsl                           40.7 Dinsn
2.  Costs are enpronstd in constant Oanur  of Daeceber 31,                          Discounted volun  of mator:                         49.1 e3 hn
197 IUS1    a Dinl,344S .                                                       Average mncr"ental cost of water:                   925 Dmi13
3.  Capital costs are net of taes and include physical
contingencies.
4.  Incronntal operating costs are operating cost increases
above the loevl of 1987.
5.   Dther  capital costs are costs related to the extension of
tt. distribution network,
6.  'Custoer contributions  are capital payients made by the
bntficiaries and are deducted so that tho rnulting AIC
is coeparable to the tariffs being charged.
7.  The mncrease in water sals  ithout the Project would reult
froe the transfer of th RN's ro dole mator supply systee
allocation to the IN  and PO  in 1995 and 2005.
9. Vater sales sithout the Project assume a reduction in
customers to a level that could be servtd adequately during Peak
periods sith existing capacity.



- 127 -
ANNEX A
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
LSTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
1.     Detailed cost estimates.
2.     Calculations for average incremental cost.
3.     Background information on tourism.
4.     Promotional information on tourism facilities and prices.
5.     Tourism Development Strategy of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, December 1987.
6.     Economic rate of return calculations and assumptions.
7.     Regional Water Supply Feasibility Study for Stage 1 and 2 Investment
Program - Rizana Water Works, Koper, January 1988 (in Slovenian).
8.     Water Supply System of Istria Feasibility Study, Energoprojekt,
Belgrade, 1983 (in Serbo-Croatian).
9.     Istrian Water Works - Fiftieth Anniversary, Buzet, 1984 (in
Serbo-Croatian).



MAP SECTION



IBRD 205i3
-\ITALY                                                                                            YUOLAI
IIA Y_   f                                                                                       Y u G O S L A V I A
ISTRIA AND SLOVENE COAST WATER
Izola    Kopor.       \       Rizona                                                                         SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Piran                          etkl                                                                                        WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS OF THE
RIZANA, ISTRIAN AND  PULA
St. Mark's Hill                                                                                                      WATER WORKS
EXISTING  FUTURE PROJEcT
TRANSMISSION MAINS,
e  Secovlie                                                                                                                               400 -   ?4OOomm
U           m       a t\ Buie                                  BuzeIvrJn                          ,                                                        2S0-300 nom
200 or
*r  \              *    Wnter treatment pl.nts
\, _Gradole     |                                            .                                                           Waer tanks
Li                                                                                    Li O   e  A Prptg tctons
Of / / ! _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tonnels
Novingrad                                                                                                                                                 aesn
Berar1S A   )  /                                                                                      o   Sroge orks
010trb.tton ay.t.n
W / >g 0 8erumf OPazin                                                                    r Dl.blbuNontl.e l
Poree                                                                                                                                          M Bayo  S pdng.
Wate, wodrks .,Tin
ono bIoundaries
Urban creat
Vrsor  /.t.-0 .. I .bu,, NrNontNo
/}1   _   Kanf=]  u                                      '\   '          CRES                                    Intontbnel boundarlor
\   \   Rakonek         Lobin    i                                             Kilometeis
R(  inl t     \                                                       0 \                                                            10      15      20O
o                   110
Mles
AUSTRIA
HUNGARY
\Map                   ROMANIA
)         }Lobo~~~~rikab                                     
YUGOSLAVIA        1       N
gitura                                       CRES                                    Belgrade
r>,e,sr>.^,,h                   ~~~~~Pula    <    C                                                                         '<         " 
r4tou,.tWIV nnt. otn                                                                                                                                    .               Jo.
nnuo'aa.an, rao                                  -                                                                          ITALY
ALBANIA
nnoo-.t,ntto'                                                                     _ noru'ar'SEPEM                                                                      1
SEPTEMBER 1788



