Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19440
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVENIA
SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan No. 3070-SI)
June 17, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Annual Averages)
Year              Currency Unit       Slovenian Tolar (SIT)
1987                  US$1                  0.074 YUD*
1988                  US$1                  0.252 YUD*
1989                  US$1                  2.876 YUD*
1990                  US$1                  11.318 YTD*
1991                  US$1                 27.6 SIT
1992                  US$1                 81.3 SIT
1993                  US$1                113.2 SIT
1994                  US$1                128.8 SIT
1995                  US$1                118.5 SIT
1996                  US$1                135.4 SIT
1997                  US$1                159.7 SIT
1998                  US$1                166.3 SIT
* Between 1987 and 1990, the currency used was the New Yugoslav Dinar. The Slovenian Tolar was introduced in 1991.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FSRY      Fonner Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia
KK      Komunala Koper
lpcd     Liters per capita per day
lps    Liters per second
mm3      Million Cubic Meters
RWP      Raw Water Pipeline
RWW       Rizana Water Works
SCWSSP       Slovene Coast Water Supply and Sewerage Project
TWP      Treated Water Pipeline
UFW       Unaccounted-For-Water
WTP      Water Treatment Plant
Vice President: Johannes Linn (ECAVP)
Country Director: Roger Grawe (ECCO7)
Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin (ECSIN)
Sector Leader: Walter Stottmann (ECSIN)
Team Leader: Richard MacEwen (ECSIN)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVENIA    FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 3070-SI)
Contents
Preface
Preface ................................                                                                                                     ii
Evaluation Summary ................................                                                                                         iii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ................................                                                                   1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS ........................................1
B. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .......................................2
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ..................................................................................3
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                               .          5
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ....................7........................7
F. BANK PERFORMANCE ... 7
G. BORROWER.PERFORMANCE......8
H. ASSESSMENTOFOUTCOME ......9
I. FU TURE        OPERATION          ......9
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ....................................................................                                         10
Part II. Statistical Tables .......................................................                                                         11
TABLE 1: SUMMARYOFASSESSMENTS ....................................................................                                  12
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ....................................................................                            14
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE. .......................................................................14
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL. ..................15
TABLE5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...............................................................                    16
TABLE 6A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION. ....................................17
TABLE 6B: HISTORICAL AND PROJECTED WATER DEMAND VS. PRODUCTION CAPACITY ................................. 18
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ...............................................................                                19
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ...............................................................                                             20
TABLE8B: PROJECT FINANCING. ....................  21
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ....................................................................                           23
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ....................................................................                            25
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ............................................................. 26
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ......................................................................                       26
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ......................................................................                           27
TABLE 14: RIZANA WATER WORKS - INCOME STATEMENTS ......................................................................     28
TABLE 15: RIZANA WATER WORKS - BALANCE SHEETS ......................................................................                 29
Appendices .......................................................                                                                         30
A. MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE ......................................................................                                    31
B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ......................................................................                        40
C. MAP IBRD No. 26882
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVENIA
SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN NO. 3070-SI
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Slovene Coast Water Supply
and Sewerage Project (SCWSSP) in Slovenia, for which an IBRD loan in the amount of US$32
million equivalent was approved on May 23, 1989; signed on February 1, 1990; and made
effective on May 31, 1990.
The original loan closing date of December 31, 1995 was extended twice: first to
December 31, 1997, and subsequently to December 31, 1998. The loan account was kept open
for a period of four months up to April 30, 1999 to enable completion of disbursements in
respect of expenditures already incurred before the revised loan closing date. The last
disbursement from the loan was made on April 28, 1999. The final amount utilized was
US$31,516,685.38 equivalent, and the unutilized balance of US$483,314.62 million equivalent
was cancelled effective April 30, 1999.
The ICR was prepared in the Infrastructure Sector Unit of the Europe and Central Asia
Region by Kishore Nadkarni and Ann Elwan (consultant for economic analysis), with the
assistance of Mmes. Noel and Skylore. The report was reviewed by Richard MacEwen (Program
Team Leader), and Walter Stottmann (Sector Leader). A copy of the draft ICR was sent on
March 30, 1999 to the Borrower for its review and comments. The Borrower's response,
including the Operational Plan for the project, is included as Appendix B in the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Implementation Completion Report Mission
of December 1998. It is based upon materials in the project files and discussions with relevant
officials of the implementing agencies, including Rizana Water Works (RWW) and Komunala
Koper (KK). RWW and KK contributed in the preparation of the ICR by: (i) discussing major
points included in the report during the ICR mission; (ii) providing statistical data and other
information required for the report; and (iii) providing the Borrower's contribution for the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVENIA
SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN NO. 3070-SI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Slovene Coast Water Supply and Sewerage Project (SCWSSP) in Slovenia, along
with the related, but distinct and separate, Istria Coast Water Supply and Sewerage Project in
Croatia, was prepared since 1987 as part of a project package entitled the Istria and Slovene
Coast Water Supply and Sewerage Project. At the time the loan was approved, in 1989, Slovenia
and Croatia were republics within the Former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia (FSRY). While
the Bank had financed a number of projects in the water and wastewater sector in the FSRY, in
line with the Bank's country assistance strategy at the time, these projects were in the so-called
less-developed republics in FSRY. The SCWSSP and the concurrent, related project in Croatia,
were the Bank's first operations in the sector in the more-developed republics of FSRY.
2.    Major, largely exogenous changes took place in the project's contextual situation since
the time the loan was approved in mid-1989. In 1991, with the break-up of FSRY, Slovenia
became an independent country. However, the continuation of hostilities elsewhere in the region
and the prevailing tensions had an adverse effect on the growth of tourism in the project area, a
major rationale for the project. Actual water consumption levels were much less than projected
among all classes of consumers, and particularly in the industrial, commercial and tourism-
related sectors.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
3.    The development objectives of the SCWSSP were to : (i) eliminate existing shortages in
the project area; (ii) provide additional water supply capacity needed for the expansion of the
tourism industry and growth in domestic and industrial/commercial demand in the project area;
(iii) reduce unaccounted-for-water in the Rizana Water Works (RWW) distribution network; (iv)
protect existing water sources and coastal tourist areas from pollution; and (v) increase efficiency
of water supply and sewerage services in the project area.
4.    To achieve these objectives, the project consisted of the following components: (a) water
supply and treatment consisting of: (i) source works to increase the available supply at Rizana;
(ii) expansion of the Rizana water treatment plant (WTP); and (iii) planning and investigations
for future source development; (b) water transmission and storage consisting of: (i) a raw water
pipeline from the Rizana source to the WTP; (ii) treated water pipelines from the WTP to Koper,
and from Koper to Izola, and modifications to the associated pumping stations; (iii) distribution
storage; and (iv) a supervisory and data acquisition (SCADA) system; (c) water distribution
consisting of: (i) rehabilitation and replacement of networks in the old towns of Koper, Izola and
Piran; (ii) improvement of pumping station control systems; and (iii) establishment of waste



iv
control districts; (d) institutional strengthening ofR WW including: (i) technical assistance for
reduction of unaccounted-for-water (UFW); (ii) a study of RWW's tariff structure; (iii) operation
and maintenance equipment, including for water loss control; and (iv) training courses and
materials for training the staff of RWW; and (e) sewerage investments including upgrading of a
treatment plant, construction of relief sewers, and rehabilitation of pumping stations in the
Communities of Koper, Izola and Piran.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
5.    Achievement of Objectives: The project's physical objectives were substantially achieved
other than the development of new sources where groundwater resources did not materialize to
the extent expected at appraisal; this necessitated a change in design and replacement of the
source works investments-by a water pipeline for transmission of surplus treated water purchased
from a neighboring water utility. Also, the capacity of the supply and treatment components
were reduced as a result of a reduced demand requirement. The institutional objectives were
achieved as planned; a notable success of the project was RWW's successful program of
reduction of UFW which resulted in UFW levels being reduced from 40 percent at appraisal to
about 30 percent in 1998, with further reductions expected as the program continues to be
implemented. The success of the program was also a factor in the decision to reduce the capacity
of the supply and treatment facilities constructed under the Project. RWW was also successful in
improving and maintaining its revenue collection performance, with levels averaging about 92
percent of billings in recent years. RWW was less successful in improving its tariff structure;
although a study was completed as agreed, its impact was minimal as RWW did not implement
any changes on grounds that these would not be warranted in the prevailing unsettled
circumstances in regard to declining water sales. In regard to financial objectives, the project
was implemented with a cost savings of about US$15 million (or about 15 percent of projected
cost), largely due to lower than expected bid prices and lower local costs in US$ terms due to
exchange rate changes. Counterpart funding was adequately provided by RWW and the
Republican and Communal governments, albeit with occasional delays in the case of the
governments. However, a major, albeit implicit objective of the project, namely the
improvement of RWW's financial performance was not achieved. RWW was not in compliance
with the principal financial performance covenant, an operating ratio not exceeding 80 percent,
during the project implementation period.
6.    Major Factors Affecting the Project: The main risk to project implementation identified
at appraisal was the possible adverse impact of a deterioration in the macroeconomic situation,
which was judged to be acceptable in view of the FSRY government's economic reform program
that was being supported by the IMF and the Bank through their respective adjustment
operations. Clearly, what could not have been foreseen at the time was the break-up of FSRY,
and its direct and indirect impacts on project implementation. Economic conditions in the
project area, including the effects of the fall in tourism, restructuring of industry following from
macroeconomic and structural reform, the ensuing impact on household incomes, and the effect
of higher water prices, combined to reduce the demand for water. These unfavorable conditions
adversely impacted RWW and the participating Community government revenues, and affected
project implementation through delays in commitment and disbursement of counterpart funds.
Unforeseen changes in design caused by the failure of groundwater resources to materialize to
the extent projected led to a delay in finalizing the design and construction of the WTP, and



v
necessitated the addition of a new raw water pipeline from the neighboring Sezana source.
Fortunately the Borrower recognized early the downward trend in the demand for water and was
able to resize the supply and treatment facilities so that they did not end up being oversized.
7.    Bank and Borrower Performance: Bank performance was satisfactory in all stages of
the project cycle. The major factor affecting project implementation, the direct and indirect
impacts of the tensions and unsettled conditions in the region following the break-up of FSRY,
could not have been foreseen at appraisal. During project implementation, the Bank was
responsive and flexible in meeting the Borrower's concerns and amending the Loan Agreement
to accommodate justified changes in project design and scope. In regard to project supervision,
the Bank's performance in regard to monitoring and follow-up of technical aspects was
particularly effective, and the Bank's contributions in this regard were well-appreciated by the
Slovenian counterparts. Bank supervision of the financial aspects was less effective, due in large
part to lack of continuity in financial staff arising from the Bank's periodic reorganizations and
budgetary stringencies, but also reflective of the Bank's relative focus on the physical aspects of
project implementation.
8.    The perfornance of the Borrower and other implementing agencies was satisfactory in all
stages of the project cycle. RWW carried out satisfactorily its responsibilities in regard to
implementation of the water supply related components, and successfully undertook an
institutional strengthening program as envisaged. Particularly noteworthy was its successful
program of reduction of UFW, where further improvements are expected in addition to the
already substantial achievements. The Borrower substantially complied with most loan
covenants; in regard to the financial covenant stipulating maintenance of an operating ratio not
exceeding 80 percent, RWW was unable to consistently meet the requirement; lack of adequate
Bank guidance may also have contributed in this respect.. Progress and project financial
reporting were satisfactory. The performance of local consultants was satisfactory as well. The
weakness in the Bank's financial supervision is reflected in inadequate attention to RWW's
financial performance and failure to meet covenanted targets; despite the inclusion of a study on
tariff structure under the project, the Bank did not address the question of adequacy to tariff
levels as a means of increasing revenues.
9.    Assessment of Project Outcome: The project outcome is assessed as satisfactory as the
project has achieved to a substantial extent its major objectives, although realization of the full
benefits, including from increased tourism, has been affected largely by exogenous factors,
principally the effects of the break-up of FSRY. This accounts for the significant shortfall in the
project's economic rate of return (ERR), now re-estimated at 0.56 percent as compared to 11.27
percent estimated at appraisal. Project sustainability is likely given the successful
commissioning of key project facilities, RWW's continued strong operational performance, the
resumption of growth in the Slovenian economy, improved prospects for revival of tourism with
stability in the region and Slovenia's progress in accession within the European Union.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
10.   Sustainability: The project achievements are likely to be sustainable. Key facilities
under the project have been successfully commissioned and are operating satisfactorily; RWW is
an efficient and professionally-run organization, which has undertaken a successful institutional



vi
strengthening program; growth in the Slovenian economy, including the project area, has
recovered; and prospects for growth in tourism are improving, subject to stability in the region.
The medium to long-term prospects are therefore favorable for utilization of the facilities
constructed under the project.
11.   Future Operations: The three participating Communities and RWW have confirmed
their continuing endorsement of the objectives of the project, and their commitment to ensure
sustainability of the project's achievements and benefits. RWW, with the endorsement of the
Communities, has prepared an Operational Plan (Appendix B to the ICR), including physical and
financial performance indicators, for monitoring of progress in line with development objectives.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
12.   The main lessons from the project are:
(i)   Particular attention needs to be paid to forecasting of water sales in environments where
major macroeconomic and structural reforms are being undertaken in view of the impact of the
reform on industrial restructuring, and consequently, on industrial and commercial demand for
water;
(ii)   Successful programs for reduction of unaccounted-for-water require strong Borrower
commitment, and a well-designed and well-supported program of action; the Borrower's success
in this respect could be an example for others; and
(iii)  Where the Bank deems it fit to include financial performance covenants, it should pay
greater attention to ensuring effective financial supervision, including commitment of the
necessary staff and budgetary resources.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVENIA
SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3070-SI)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
1.    The development objectives of the Slovene Coast Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(SCWSSP) were to: (i) eliminate existing water shortages in the project area; (ii) provide
additional water supply capacity needed for the expansion of the tourism industry and growth in
domestic and industrial/commercial demand in the project area; (iii) reduce unaccounted-for-
water in the Rizana Water Works (RWW) distribution network; (iv) protect existing water
sources and coastal tourist areas from pollution; and (v) increase efficiency in the delivery of
water supply and sewerage services in the project area.
2.    To achieve these objectives, the project consisted of the following components:
-    Water supply and treatment consisting of: (i) source works to increase the
available supply at Rizana from 300 1/s to 650 l/s; (ii) expansion of the Rizana
water treatment plant from 200 l/s to 800 I/s with provision for expansion in the
future to 2,600 l/s; and (iii) planning and investigations for future source
development.
-    Water transmission and storage consisting of: (i) a 5 km raw water pipeline from
the Rizana source works to the Rizana water treatment plant; (ii) a 10.6 km
treated water pipeline from the Rizana water treatment plant to Koper, including
modifications to the Pobegi pump station; (iii) an 8 km treated water pipeline and
tunnel from Koper to Izola, including the St. Mark's Hill pumping station; (iv)
distribution storage totaling 15,000 m3; and (v) a supervisory control and data
acquisition (SCADA) system.
*    Water distribution consisting of: (i) rehabilitation and replacement of networks in
the old town centers of Koper, Izola and Piran; (ii) improvement of pumping
station control systems; and (iii) establishment of waste control districts.
*    Institutional strengthening ofRWW including: (i) technical assistance for the
reduction of unaccounted-for water; (ii) a study of RWW's tariff structure; (iii)
operation and maintenance equipment, including instrumentation for water loss
control; and (iv) training courses and materials for training the staff of RWW.
*    Sewerage including: (i) in the Community of Piran, a pumping station and a
forcemain for connecting the old town of Piran sewerage network to the Piran
Sewage treatment plant; (ii) in the Community of Izola (a) a 2 km relief sewer in
the old town area connecting with the main sewage pumping station, and (b)
rehabilitation and expansion of the main sewage pumping station in the old town
of Izola; and (iii) in the Community of Koper (a) upgrading and expansion of the



-2 -
Koper sewage treatment plant from preliminary to primary treatment; (b) a 0.5 km
sea outfall for disposal of treated sewage from the treatment plant; and (c) a 2 km
collector sewer from two factories to the main sewerage network.
B.    EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.    The SCWSSP was designed in 1987 as part of a project package - the Istria and Slovene
Coast Water Supply and Sewerage Project - that included two related, but distinct and separate,
projects: the SCWSSP and a second, similar project was for the Istrian Peninsula in Croatia'. At
the time, Slovenia and Croatia were still republics within the Former Socialist Republic of
Yugoslavia (FSRY). The FSRY economy had grown at impressive rates averaging about 6
percent per year in the 1970s. Yugoslavia, with its attractions that included 6,000 km of the
Adriatic Coast, a Mediterranean climate, and a variety of cultural and historical assets, had one
of the highest growth rates in foreign tourists of any of the European countries. Tourism evolved
into an important economic sector, a major earner of foreign exchange, and a significant
generator of income and employment. As economic growth in FSRY slowed down in the first
half of the 1980s, the economic significance of tourism increased even more. The then republics
of Slovenia and Croatia, along with Montenegro, were the major generators of tourism in FSRY,
together accounting for over 80 percent of tourist overnights. The project areas, which
comprised the Slovene and Istria coasts, accounted for about 32 percent of tourist overnights.
During the summer months, the populations of the project areas doubled with the arrival of
temporary residents and tourists. Critical water shortages had developed in the project areas in
1986 and 1987, during the dry summer months at the peak of the tourist season. As a result,
construction of new tourist accommodations was not pennitted until the water supply problem
was solved. Inadequate water supply was judged to be the most pressing constraint to further
development of tourism.
4.    In regard to water supply, existing water sources in Croatia were shared among the Istrian
Water Works and RWW under special agreements. These sources were becoming increasingly
inadequate to meet the growing demands of both utilities, and as the existing agreements expired,
the sources reverted to the Istrian Water Works. RWW was expected to become significantly
worse off, and it was imperative for RWW, therefore, to develop new sources. In addition,
existing trunk main systems had insufficient capacity to deliver the growing water needs of the
networks. Some of the distribution networks, particularly in the old town centers, were old and
leaked heavily, and in pressing need of rehabilitation and replacement. RWW had one of the
highest rates of unaccounted-for-water (UFW) - 40 percent - in the region. Sewerage collection,
treatment and disposal systems were also in need of augmentation, repair and upgrading.
5.   In the preceding context, the project's objectives were clear. Project design correctly
identified the main constraints to improvement and further development of the water supply and
sewerage systems. Sizing of facilities was based on the then anticipated growth of domestic
population, industrial investment and production, and tourism in the area. The main risk was
identified as that arising from a deterioration in the macroeconomic situation, but this risk was
judged to be acceptable in view of the government's economic reform program, then being
This project is still being implemented, with completion scheduled for June 2000, and will be the subject of a separate ICR.



- 3 -
supported by IMF Stand-By Credits and the Bank's proposed Second Structural Adjustment
Loan.
6.    As a result of a down turn in the local economy, the appraisal demand projection did not
materialize, i.e., the 1998 maximum day demand was 50% lower than the projection. This had
both positive and negative results. The positive result was that the project could be scaled back
and still meet the objectives. The negative result was that water sales and revenues were lower
than expected which made the financing of the project and the operations of the Borrower much
more difficult. The financial performance of the Borrower would have been much better had it
not been for the reduction of water sales. Regarding the design of the physical works, the
downward trend was recognized early enough to allow a resizing of the supply and treatment
components to match. Also, the lower demand compensated for the fact that the hydrogeological
investigations did not confirm the original estimates of safe yield. The end result was that the
facilities constructed under the project were properly sized.
C.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.    Over its implementation period, the project has substantially achieved its main objectives,
although major, largely exogenous, changes have taken place in the project's contextual
situation.
8.   In 1991, after a brief outbreak of hostilities, Slovenia separated from FSRY and became
an independent country. Although the period of hostilities in Slovenia was relatively brief, the
unsettled conditions in the region had a major impact on the Slovenian economy, including the
project area. Tourism, a major rationale for the project, was seriously affected. The population
in the project area, projected at appraisal to grow at about 0.5 percent per year, actually declined
when compared to the 1987 levels with the emigration of persons to other parts of FSRY. As a
result of the combined effect of the changed economic relations within the former FSRY
republics, the fall in tourism, and the ongoing industrial restructuring following from economic
reform, industrial growth and commerce in the project area stagnated, with serious declines in
water consumption. Overall levels of water consumption in the project area remain significantly
below the projected levels for all categories of consumers, with the greatest declines occurring in
the industrial and tourism sectors. However, the project was still needed to replace the supply
capacity from Croatia which was reduced in 1995 and would no longer be available after 2005.
Sector Policy Objectives
9.    The project was designed as an investment project; it had no sector policy objectives.
Physical Objectives
10.   The project's physical objectives have largely been met. Water supply shortages during
the summer months have been eliminated. The original design, based on exploitation of
groundwater sources, had to be changed since the groundwater yields projected at appraisal did
not materialize. Also, the capacity of the supply and treatment components were reduced as a
result of the reduced demand (Table 6B). At appraisal, the additional capacity required to meet
the year 2005 demand was forecast at 1,000 lps. The current forecast is only 500 lps. The



- 4 -
treatment capacity to meet the current demand forecast is in place as a result of the project (400
lps versus a requirement of 370 lps). Supply capacity is short by 170 lps which will be met by
the Kubed Reservoir Project now in the design stage. Instead, the project financed the
construction of a pipeline from Rodik to Rizana which enabled RWW to draw upon surplus
water resources from the Sezana spring which it purchased from the Sezana Water Works. The
expansion of the water treatment plant, incorporating ultra-filtration technology, was
successfully completed, and the plant has been operating satisfactorily since August 1997. The
augmented raw water sources, as well as the treated water supply, are adequate to meet the
revised, lower projections of demand (including peak summertime demands) from all categories
of consumers until 2005 when the last remaining agreement with Croatia for sharing of water
sources expires, and additional production capacity will be required.
11.   Achievements in the sewerage program have also exceeded appraisal expectations. All
three communities, Koper, Izola and Piran, have undertaken programs that have included
additional works extending beyond those identified under the project.
Institutional Objectives
12.   A notable success of the project has been RWW's impressive record of reduction of
unaccounted-for-water (UFW). At project inception, RWW had among the highest rates (40
percent) of UFW among water utilities in the region. As a result of a well-designed, systematic
program, including effective deployment of loss-control equipment financed under the project,
RWW has progressively reduced UFW to around 30 percent in 1998. Further significant
reductions are expected as the program is still underway.
13.   RWW has also been successful in its commercial and revenue collection performance as
a result of an active monitoring and enforcement policy; collection levels have averaged around
92 percent in recent years.
14.   RWW carried out, with a delay of about two years, a study to improve its tariff structure,
including the introduction of seasonal tariffs to regulate peak consumption in the summer, tourist
season. However, it decided that it would not be possible to implement any changes in the then-
prevailing circumstances where major declines had taken place in water consumption among all
categories of consumers, including industry and tourism. The Bank concurred with this view,
and did not press for any changes.
Financial Objectives
15.   Project Cost and Financing. The total project cost is estimated at US$85.7 million
equivalent as compared to the estimate of US$102.7 million at appraisal. Cost savings were
realized in all components other than sewerage where the actual cost, estimated at US$14.5
million equivalent, exceeded the corresponding appraisal estimate of US$6.5 million as the three
communities involved undertook additional investments financed from their own sources. The
cost savings, in US dollar terms, were the result of a scaling back in the size of the water supply
and treatment component of the project, lower than expected bid prices and the effect of
exchange rate changes on costs incurred in local currency. The Bank loan financed about 37
percent of the actual cost as compared to 31 percent expected at appraisal; revenues from water
and sewerage tariffs contributed about 38 percent as compared to the projected 44 percent; and
the Republican and Communal government contributions were 25 percent, on target with



- 5 -
appraisal projections. Contributions from tourist taxes were envisaged at appraisal to account for
about 7 percent of the total financing; however, with the decline in tourism, these did not
materialize and the shortfalls had to be made up by the governments from other budgetary
sources.
16.   RWW Financial Performance: RWW's financial performance during the implementation
period was affected by the reduction in billable sales arising from the lower than projected
demand from all categories of consumers, and in particular, from industrial and commercial
establishments as well as hotels and others catering to the tourist industry. Although tariffs were
increased by about 30 percent (from an average of US$ 0.16 equivalent per m in 1991 to about
US$ 0.21 equivalent in 1998), this was not adequate to offset the loss of revenues due to the
reduction in water sold. Consequently, despite its successful UFW reduction program, RWW's
internal cash generation continued to be constrained, and it was unable to meet the stipulated
operating ratio (total operating expenses to total operating revenues) not exceeding 80 percent, as
covenanted under the Loan Agreement. The operating ratio has steadily improved from around
139 percent in 1993 to 84 percent in 1998. RWW was able to satisfactorily meet its financing
obligations for the project, contributing around 36 percent of the project funds from its own
resources as compared to the 41 percent envisaged at appraisal.
Economic Rate of Return
17.   The project's economic rate of return (ERR) has been re-estimated at 0.56 percent,
significantly lower than the appraisal estimate of 11.27 percent (details are provided in Table 9).
The shortfall is largely due to exogenous impacts following from the break-up of FSRY,
including the drastic decline in tourism, a major source of expected benefits. Realization of the
full benefits of the project has therefore been significantly delayed particularly in the early years
of operation. Tourism has recently been reviving and the project's benefits are expected to
increasingly be realized in future.
D.   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Record
18.   The project was identified in September 1987, followed by appraisal in July 1988,
negotiations in March 1989, Board approval in May 1989, and signature in February 1990. The
delay of 9 months in loan signing was due mainly to the Borrower's desire to delay payment of
the commitment fee until the first payments to contractors became due. The loan became
effective in May 1990. Cumulative disbursements in the first three years averaged about 50
percent of the projected levels. Factors contributing to the lag in disbursements were the impact
on project implementation of the deteriorating macroeconomic and political situation, and a
period of hyper-inflation. The Loan Agreement was amended thrice during project
implementation: in April 1990, to increase the amount of retroactive financing from US$1
million to US$3 million equivalent; in October 1991, to enable the Borrower to finance interest
during construction (US$5 million) under the loan; and in September 1992, to enable the
financing of the Rodik-Rizana pipeline and also sewerage works by the Community of Koper.
The original loan closing date of December 31, 1995 was extended twice; first to December 31,
1997 and then to December 31, 1998.



- 6 -
19.   The project was completed in December 1998, four years after the originally envisaged
date of December 1994. All project components were carried out as designed with the exception
of the source works. In regard to the water supply and treatment component, implementation
delays for the source works were due to changes in design resulting from inadequate
groundwater yields. At appraisal, it was proposed to develop 350 lps from the ground water
aquifer at Rizana. Hydrogeological investigations were unable to confirm the availability of this
amount of water. To compensate for this shortfall, the solution adopted was the construction of a
17 km pipeline between Rodik and Rizana, which enabled RWW to augment its water supply by
an additional 130 l/s by purchasing surpluses available at the Sezana source. RWW carried out
studies to assess alternatives for the remaining 200 lps; the least-cost solution was determined to
be the construction of an impoundment of water to store water in the wet season that could be
released in the dry season while maintaining a minimum flow of 150 lps in the Rizana river, as
required under applicable law. Lack of financing prevented RWW from undertaking this as part
of the Project. However, it was decided to construct the treatment capacity as part of the Project
and this was the basis for sizing the treatment plant capacity expansion at 400 lps (total available
capacity of 600 lps). Construction was delayed mainly by delays in commitment and
disbursement of the Republican and Communal government shares of counterpart funding. The
extension of the WTP was completed in July 1997, about three years behind the original
schedule.
20.   Under the water transmission and storage component, the raw water pipeline was
completed ahead of schedule, and the other components with an average delay of about 18
months. The Rodik-Rizana pipeline, which was added under the project in 1992, was completed
in early 1994. Installation of the SCADA system, originally planned for the second half of 1994,
was completed in December 1997.
21.  In regard to the water distribution component, RWW gave high priority to the
rehabilitation of the networks as reflected in its success in reducing UFW. However, given the
extent of the problem, completion of the envisaged program, particularly in the old town centers
of Koper, Izola and Piran, took longer than projected, and were completed only by the end of
1998. To enable completion of this component, the loan closing date was extended for a second
time, to December 1998.
22.  Institutional strengthening of RWW was implemented as envisaged. The study leading to
an action plan for UFW reduction was completed early during project implementation.
Operations and maintenance equipment, and instrumentation for water loss control, were
procured as planned under the Loan. RWW also carried out in 1992, as described earlier (para.
13) a study for modification of its tariff structure but decided not to implement any changes in
the prevailing unsettled situation in regard to water consumption at the time.
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
23.   Project implementation was affected by the direct and indirect impact of events unfolding
from the break-up of FSRY starting in 1991. Although the duration of hostilities in Slovenia was
relatively brief, its effects continued to be felt beyond. For the project area, the major effects
came from the initial declines and subsequent slowness in recovery of industrial and commercial
activity, with sharp falls in their water consumption. Tourism also declined in view of the
continuing tensions in the region. These factors together impacted on household incomes,



- 7 -
affecting water consumption by households. Disagreements over settlement of inter-
governmental claims between Slovenia and FSRY, including the question of the relevant
exchange rates for valuing claims, further affected implementation of the project, which was
started when FSRY was still in existence.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
24.   The project financing plan, as agreed at appraisal, envisaged a contribution of around 10
percent of the total requirements from the Republican Government, and 15 percent from the
governments of the three participating Communities. Occasional delays in timely approval and
contribution of counterpart funds affected the implementation of certain components, including
the water treatment plant and the sewerage components. Overall, however, both the Republican
and Communal governments contributed their shares of counterpart funding as required.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
25.   There were four implementing agencies under the project. RWW was responsible for the
water supply related components, and the Communities of Koper, Izola and Piran for their
respective investments under the sewerage component. RWW was also responsible for the
monitoring and reporting of overall project progress, including both the water supply and
sewerage components. Progress in implementation of the sewerage component was initially
affected by weaknesses and a lack of coordination in the responsible implementation units in the
Communities, and disagreements between RWW and the Communal authorities in regard to the
responsibilities for repayment of the Bank loan funds used for the sewerage component. All the
parties concerned, however, took effective measures to overcome these problems and
implementation of the sewerage component eventually exceeded the original targets.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.   The project achievements are likely to be sustainable. Key facilities under the project,
including the water treatment plant, have been successfully commissioned and are operating up
to expectations. RWW is an efficient and professionally-run organization, which has further
strengthened important aspects of its operations, including water loss control, under the project.
Despite the lower than projected water sales, RWW continues to be financially self-sufficient,
without any operational subsidies from the local government. Growth in the Slovenian economy
has recovered, and after the period of industrial restructuring, industrial and commercial activity
in the project area is on the uptrend. Tourism is reviving, and subject to stability in the region, is
expected to continue to grow. The medium to long term prospects, therefore, are favorable for
fuller utilization of the facilities set up under the project.
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
27.   Bank performance was satisfactory in all stages of the project cycle as acknowledged by
the Borrower and the implementing agencies during the ICR mission. During project
identification and preparation, the Bank was substantially involved in assisting the Borrower and
the agencies in the design and development of the project. The Bank was instrumental in
persuading the Borrower to include the sewerage component under the project to ensure that the



- 8 -
additional wastewater resulting from the project was properly collected and disposed. In the
circumstances prevailing at the time of appraisal, when FSRY was still in existence, the main
risk was perceived to be the possible impact on the project of a deteriorating macroeconomic
situation. In light of the FSRY government's ongoing economic reform, with IMF and Bank
adjustment support, this was judged to be acceptable. Clearly, what could not have been
foreseen was the impact on the project, particularly in the early period of implementation, of the
breakup of FSRY. In hindsight, however, the Bank's projections in regard to non-household
demand for water may have been optimistic given the extent of industrial restructuring that took
place consequent to the macroeconomic and structural changes in the economy, as well as the
impact of higher water prices on demand for water.
28.   During project implementation, the Bank was responsive and flexible in making
modifications to the loan agreement provisions to increase the amount of justifiable retroactive
financing, to permit the Borrower to finance interest during construction under the loan, and to
include the Rodik-Rizana pipeline and the Koper sewerage components for financing under the
loan. The Bank carried out a total of nine supervision missions, usually in conjunction with the
supervision of the concurrently implemented Istria Water Supply and Sewerage Project. Bank
supervision was particularly effective in regard to monitoring the technical aspects of the
progress of the project, with continuity in involvement of Bank technical staff, and proactive and
responsive interventions in problem identification and solving. This was reflected in the high
degree of mutual respect and trust between the concerned Borrower and Bank counterparts, and
the appreciation expressed by the Slovenian counterparts during the ICR Mission for the many
valuable contributions by the Bank's core technical supervision staff. Bank supervision of the
financial aspects of the project, including the financial performance of the Borrower and its
compliance with financial covenants, was less effective. Financial analysts participated in only
three of the nine supervision missions. While the lack of continuity in Bank financial staff
resulting from the Bank's many major and minor reorganizations, and the periodic resource
constraints arising from budgetary stringency may have been contributing factors, the relative
lack of attention to financial supervision may also have been reflective of the Bank's focus on
the physical aspects of project implementation, which overall, were proceeding well. The
weakness in the Bank's financial supervision is reflected in inadequate attention to RWW's lack
of compliance with the principal financial covenant, stipulating an operating ratio not to exceed
80 percent. While RWW's inability to meet the covenanted ratio was also due to external factors
resulting in a decline in water sales, the Bank did not assess in any depth the possibility of higher
tariff levels as a means of augmenting revenues. Nor did the Bank re-visit the question of
appropriateness of the tariff structure, accepting without question the Borrower's decision in
1993 not to pursue any change in this regard.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.   Performance of the Borrower and other implementing agencies was satisfactory in all
stages of the project cycle. RWW, responsible for implementation of the water supply related
components, satisfactorily carried out its responsibilities in regard to project supervision and
monitoring. It successfully undertook an institutional strengthening program as envisaged. The
implementation units set up in the three participating Communities to supervise and monitor the
sewerage component, after initial problems in carrying out their functions, and delays in
reimbursing RWW for their parts of the Bank loan debt service obligations, satisfactorily



- 9 -
discharged their responsibilities. Despite occasional delays, counterpart funds were contributed
by the Republican and Communal governments as agreed under the revised financing plan after
the break-up of FSRY. The Borrower substantially complied with loan covenants, albeit with
delays in some cases, as in the case of the tariff study. In respect of the financial covenant
stipulating maintenance of an operating ratio not to exceed 80 percent, RWW was unable to
comply consistently with the covenant due to the impact on revenue of the lower than anticipated
water sales. Bank guidance in regard to the manner of computing the ratio was not always
consistent. Progress reporting, as well as submission of audit reports of project accounts and
RWW's financial statements, was satisfactory. The performance of local consultants, including
that of the Water Management Institute, Ljubljana, which was contracted by the participating
Communities to assist in the supervision and monitoring of the sewerage component, was
satisfactory as well.
H.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
30.   The project outcome is assessed as satisfactory as the project has achieved to a substantial
extent its major objectives. Realization of the full potential benefits, particularly from the
increase in tourism, the major expected source of benefits, was delayed by the adverse impact of
the unsettled situation in the region following from the break-up of FSRY. This contributed to
the significant shortfall in the projects' ERR (0.56 percent) as compared to the 11.27 percent
projected at appraisal. Project sustainability is likely given the successful commissioning of key
project facilities, RWW's continued strong operational performance, the resumption of growth in
the Slovenian economy, improved prospects for a revival of tourism with stability in the region,
and Slovenia's progress in accession within the European Union.
I.    FUTURE OPERATION
31.   During the ICR Mission, the three participating Communities and RWW confirmed their
continuing endorsement of the development objectives of the project, and their commitment to
ensure sustainability of the project's achievements and benefits. RWW, with the endorsement of
the Communities, has prepared an Operational Plan (Appendix B to the ICR) for its future
operations, including the investments implemented under the project. The Plan includes
monitorable physical and financial indicators for evaluation of progress in meeting the agreed
development objectives.



- 10
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.   The main lessons from the project, which may also have broader relevance for other
projects, are:
(i)   Particular attention needs to be paid to forecasting of water sales in environments where
major macroeconomic and structural reforms are being undertaken in view of the impact of the
reform on industrial restructuring, and consequently, on industrial and commercial demand for
water;
(ii)   Successful programs for reduction of unaccounted-for-water require strong Borrower
commitment, and a well-designed and well-supported program of action; the Borrower's success
in this respect could be an example for others; and
(iii)  Where the Bank deems it fit to include financial performance covenants, it should pay
greater attention to ensuring effective financial supervision, including commitment of the
necessary staff and budgetary resources.



- 11 -
Part II. Statistical Tables



- 12-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial                      Neglble         Not awlicable
Macro Policies                        l               l              E l
Sector Policies                     El              E                0l
Financial Objectives               U                0                Z                E
Institutional Development                           El 00
Physical Objectives                E  l                                                El
Poverty Reduction                   E               E                0l
Gender Issues                      11                               [ 0       
Other Social Objectives             n                                ol
Environmental Objectives           [E                               El a                l
Public Sector Management                             J               E                IX!
Private Sector Development         U               Ea                E                l
Other (specify)                       l             U                E                [
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                   Unliy                     Uncertain
xm                  ElEl
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                      El                      lx                        El
Preparation Assistance             la                                                   El
Appraisal                             l                     [X 
Supervision                           l                     lx 
(Continued)



- 13-
Highly
D. Borrower Performance             satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                     (/)                       (1)
Preparation                                                 Ix                        Ia
Implementation                     o                                                  Ia
Covenant Compliance                 E                        Z                        E]
Operation (if applicable)                                   [ J                        o
Highly                                              ighly
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(E)             (E)             (E) (l)



- 14-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/credit title           Purpose              Year of approval             Status
Preceding operations*
Loan 1066-YU             Water supply, sewerage            1974           Closed
Dubrovnik Water and      and treatment facilities in
Wastewater Project       Dubrovnik                                        PPAR No. 06313
Loan 1263-YU Sarajevo    Water supply, sewerage            1976           Closed
Water and Wastewater     and treatrent facilities in
Project                  Sarajevo                                         P         No. 06227
Loan 2005-YU Kosovo    Water supply facilities in          1981           Closed
Water Supply Project     Kosovo                                           PPAR No. 06591
Loan 2233-YU Tuzla       Water supply, sewerage            1983           Closed
Region Water and         and treatment facilities in
Environmental Project    the Tuzla region                                 PPAR No. 10227
Following Operations
None
* Operations in the Former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia of which Slovenia was a Republic until its
independence in 1990.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned            Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               11/1987                11/20/1987
Preparation                                              12/1987                12/02/1987
Appraisal                                               03/1988                 06/30/1988
Negotiations                                            09/1988                 03/22/1989
Board Presentation                                      03/1989                 05/23/1989
Signing                                                 05/1989                02/01/1990
Effectiveness                                           07/1989                 05/31/1990
Project Completion                                      12/31/94                12/31/1998
Loan Closing                                           12/31/1995               12/31/1998



- 15 -
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Actual as
Appraisal         Percent of
Fiscal Year             Estimate   Actual Estimate
1990                      3.40      0.00      0
1991                      6.60      3.51     53
1992                     14.60      7.08     48
1993                     21.60      8.13     38
1994                     29.20     14.98     51
1995                     31.40     17.01     54
1996                     32.00     20.14     63
1997                     32.00     20.56     64
1998                     32.00     28.62     89
1999                     32.00     31.52     99
Date of last disbursement: April 28, 1999.



-16-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated Date of    Actual Date of Completion
Completion
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR
Part A: Water Supply Component
Source Works                  1991 - Second Half              May 1995
Water Treatment Plant (Rizana   1992 - Second Half            July 1997
Expansion)
Planning and Investigation    1993 - First Half               June 1996
Part B: Water Transmission and Storage
Raw Water Pipeline            1992 - First Half               June 1990
Treatment Works Pipeline                                      May 1989
(WTP-Koper)
Treatment Works Pipeline      1990 - First Half               June 1992
(Koper-Izola)
Distribution Storage (15,00 m3)   1992 - Second Half
SCADA System                  1994 - Second Half            December 1997
Treatment Works Pipeline                                    February 1994
(Rodik-Rizana)
Part C. Water Distribution
Rehabilitation of Networks    1994 - Second Half            December 1988
Pumping Station Control       1991 - Second Half            November 1996
Systems
Control Districts Establishment   1992 - Second Half        November 1996
Part D: Institutional Strengthening
Technical assistance for      1991 - Second Half              June 1991
Unaccounted-for-Water
Tariff Structure Study        1990- Second Half             November 1992
0 & M Equipment               1992 - Second Half              June 1995
Training                      Not scheduled                 December 1994
Part E: Sewerage                1994- Second Half             December 1997



- 17 -
Table 6A: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Appraisal Estimates                Actual/Current Estimates
Key Indicators    Units     1990      1993      1995      1998     1990      1993     1995    1998
Water and Sewerage Operations
Water produced    mm3       15.17     14.78     14.30     n.a.     11.47     9.61     9.45     9.45
Water sold      mm3       9.40      10.05     10.44     n.a.      6.42     6.08     6.11     6.19
Unaccounted-      %         40        32        27       n.a.      40        32       31       30
for-Water
percentage
Population      000s      87.64     91.64     94.41     n.a.     80.31     79.08    80.14    82.24
Population      000s      81.45     86.70     89.50     n.a.     73.32     73.46    75.65    79.03
served
Percent of      %         92.9      94.6      94.8      n.a.     91.3      92.9     94.4    96.1
population
served
Total        000s       23.81     25.38     26.22     n.a.     25.55    27.20    27.91    29.32
connections
Tourism        000s      2,645     2,882     3,052     n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    n.a.
overnights
Domestic water    mm3       4.42      4.71      4.87      n.a.     3.28      3.53     3.91     3.93
consumption
Industrial &    mm3        3.53      3.76      3.89      n.a.     3.14      2.55     2.19    2.26
municipal water
consumption
Hotel & Tourist    mm3       1.45      1.59      1.68     n.a.      1.00     0.76     0.74     0.57
water
consumption
Total water     mm3        9.40     10.05     10.44     n.a.      7.42     6.83     6.84     6.75
consumption
Financial Indicators                                       n.a.
Key Indicators    Units             Appraisal Estimates                 Actual/Current Estimates
1990      1993      1995     1998      1990     1993     1995    1998
Operating ratio    %         72        68        72       n.a.       73       139      122      84.
Collection         %         n.a.      n.a.      n.a.     n.a.       89       90       89       92
percentage



- 18-
Table 6B: Historical and Projected Water Demand vs. Production Capacity
Rizana Water Works
0.7
Maximum
Da       0.6
Average 
Day                                                1          0.5
planned
capacity
0.4
1980                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
190 1985    1990    1995    2000    2005    2010    2015
Year



- 19-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                       Purpose as Defined at      Status             Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Tariff structure         To introduce seasonal surcharge  Completed in    Minimal. The RWW Study
to control peak demand, and   December 1992,     concluded that the tariff
establish separate tariffs for  and discussed with   structure should not be
establishments providing tourist  the Bank       changed
accommodations and services
Review of water          To assess availability of     Completed in       Recommendations of the
treatment and additional   alternative sources of water  March 1994, and  study adopted for next phase
investment program      after shortfall from projected  discussed with the    of the investment program
ground water sources         Bank
Action Plan for          To reduce the percentage of   Completed in 1992   Successful UFW reduction
Unaccounted-for-Water    unaccounted-for-water                            program implemented



- 20 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Project Components       Appraisal Estimates      Actual/Current Estimates   Overrun/Underrun (%)
A. Water Supply Component
Source Works                    9.35                      1.71                   (82)
Water Treatment Plant          20.75                     13.29                   (36)
Expansion
Source Works Planning           0.35                     5.41
Subtotal                    30.45                     20.41                    (33)
B. Transmission and Storage
Raw Water Pipeline             12.45                      5.11                   (59)
Rizana-Koper                   15.60                     11.13                   (29)
Transmission Pipeline
Koper-Izola                    23.35                     16.74                   (29)
Transrnission Pipeline
Rizana-Rodik                                              8.31
Transmission Pipeline
Distribution and Storage        7.05
SCADA System                    2.30                      1.27                   (45)
Subtotal                     61.75                     42.56                   (32)
C. Water Distribution
Network Rehabilitation          3.00                      7.83                   161
Pump Station Controls           0.85                     0.16                    (82)
Waste Control Districts         0.35                     0.30                    (14)
Subtotal                     4.20                      8.29                    97
D. Institutional Strengthening
Technical Assistance,           0.20                      0.20                     0
Studies and Training
0 & M Equipment                 0.65                      0.07                   (90)
Subtotal                     0.85                      0.37                   (57)
E. Sewerage
Piran Works                     1.45                      5.20                   259
Izola Works                     1.05                      1.55                    48
Koper Works                     3.95                     7.30                     85
Subtotal                      6.45                    14.10                    118
Total Project Cost            102.70                    85.70                    (17)



- 21 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Component/Source   Appraisal Estimates    Actual/Current
Estimates
US$MM Percentage US$MM Percentage
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project
World Bank Loan           32.00      31.2      22.60      26.4
Contributions
Republic WCI             7.60       7.4     )19.40*      22.6
Coastal WCI              2.70       2.6        )
Local enterprises        8.00       7.8        )
Tourist taxes
Koper                    0.40       0.4        )
Izola                    0.40       0.4
Piran                     2.3       2.2        )
Water revenues            42.5       41.4      29.60      34.5
Subtotal                95.9      93.4      71.60       83.5
Part E of the Project
World Bank Loan            0.00      0.0
Contributions and tourist  4.10      4.0
taxes
Sewerage revenues         2.70       2.6
Subtotal                6.80       6.6      14.10       16.5
Total Project           102.70    100.0     85.70       100.0
Financing
* Included under Republican and Local Govermnent contributions.



- 22 -
Table 9: Economic Re-evaluation
At the time of appraisal, tourism in the Slovenian coastal area was growing rapidly, but
growth was constrained by inadequate water supply during the summer, when demand was very
high and rainfall was minimal. The ERR for the Slovene Coast part of the project was 11.27
percent (the Istria part of the original project had a higher ERR, bringing the total project ERR to
15.5 percent).
The ICR re-evaluation gives a very low estimated ERR of 0.56 percent. Because of the
hostilities, tourism in the project area fell dramatically - with 1991 levels about half those of the
previous year. In fact, 1991 tourism levels were lower than those experienced as far back as
1970. The industry has been recovering in recent years, but tourism overnights are not projected
to regain the 1987 levels for several years. This long delay is the main reason for the very low
estimated ERR. The ERR at appraisal also included some benefits from consumers' willingness
to pay for additional water and improved service; however, these have not been included in the
re-evaluation since the available data do not allow the timing or magnitude of this benefit stream
to be estimated.
As at appraisal, the cost streams include the estimated capital and operating costs of the
new tourism facilities needed in the future, as well as the capital (including equipment
replacement costs) and operating costs of the project.
Assumptionsfor the estimated cost streams. The yearly distribution of total project costs
was based on the yearly distribution of Bank disbursements. Yearly O&M costs were based on
the actual figures for 1998, provided by the Borrower (correspondence from Rizanski Vodovod
of April 9, 1999), and converted to US dollars using an exchange rate of 1.663 SIT to the US
dollar. The Borrower also provided estimates of the future replacement costs. As no
information was available regarding recent construction or operational costs for tourism facilities
in the project area, estimated construction costs were based on information provided by IFC at
appraisal, and operational costs were estimated to be equivalent to two-thirds of revenues.
Assumptionsfor the estimated benefit stream. The number of tourist overnights is
projected to regain its 1987 level in 20041. Revenues arising from tourist overnights over and
above the 1987 levels constitute the benefit stream. Revenues per overnight in the project area
are assumed to be $104.45, the average net revenues per overnight in Slovenia over the most
recent four years. Information on tourism and tourism revenues were provided by the Borrower
(correspondence of April 9, 1999).
The number of overnights in the project area was projected using regression analysis of the observations for the years 1991
through 1998 (see graph and tables in project files).



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Re-Evaluation
1. ERR at appraisal
1987  1988    1989   1990    1991    1992    1993   1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
Costs
New tourist accommodation, capital                            5.78   11.45   12.71    13.85    13.85   13.85    13.85    13.85   13.85   12.47    8.87   2.91
costs
New accommodation operating costs                                      3.2    3.39     4.23     7.16   10.58    14.11    17.63   21.15   24.67   28.19  32.57
Project investments                            2.09    7.3   11.68   13.01   20.24    23.66      16   11.16    4.78      5.54    0.74    0.74    0.74   0.74
Projectoperatingcosts                                 0.28    0.51     0.8    1.09     1.39     1.68    1.97    2.25     2.53    2.83    3.15    3.47   3.79
Total costs                                  2.09   7.58   17.97   28.46   37.43    43.13    38.69   37.56    34.99    39.55   38.57   41.03   41.27  40.01
Benefits
Tourism revenues from new accommodation                               1.02    2.82     6.41    10.84   16.04   21.37    26.71   32.05   37.38   42.72  49.35
Incremental revenues from existing accom.             1.81    3.62    5.43    6.46     7.24     9.05   10.41    10.41    10.41   10.41   10.41   10.41  10.41
Industrial&Householdwillingness-to-pay                0.41    0.93    1.55    2.16     2.77     3.38    3.97    4.53     5.08    5.68    6.32    6.96    7.6
Total benefits                                  0   2.22    4.55       8   11.44    16.42    23.27   30.42    36.31     42.2   48.14   54.11   60.09  67.36
Net Benefits                                   -2.09  -5.36  -13.42  -20.46  -25.99   -26.71   -15.42   -7.14     1.32    2.65    9.57   13.08   18.82  27.35
ERR at appraisal                             11.27%
2. ERR for ICR
1987   1988    1989   1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
Costs
New tourist accommodation, capital costs
New accommodation operating costs
Project investments (& rehab costs)                                           9.69     9.86      2.9   18.92    5.61     8.64    1.16   22.26    6.66
Project operating costs                                                                                                                  0.493   0.493  0.493
Total costs                                     0      0       0       0    9.69     9.86      2.9   18.92    5.61      8.64    1.16  22.753   7.153  0.493
Benefits
Tourism revenues from new accommodation
Incremental revenues from existing accom.
Industrial & Household willingness-to-pay
Total benefits                                  0      0       0       0       0        0        0       0       0        0        0       0       0      0
Net Benefits                                      0      0        0      0    -9.69    -9.86     -2.9  -18.92    -5.61    -8.64   -1.16 -22.753  -7.153 -0.493
ERR for ICR                                   0.56%



Economic Re-Evaluation
I. ERR at appraisal
2001  2002  2003  2004    2005        2006     2007    2008   2009       2010     2011    2012    2013    2014  2015
Costs
New tourist accommodation, capital costs
New accommodation operating costs        33.69  34.86  34.86  34.86    34.86    34.86    34.86    34.86   34.86    34.86    34.86   34.86    34.86   34.86  34.86
Project investments                       0.74   3.72   7.44   7.44    3.72     0.74     0.74     0.74    0.74     0.74     0.74    0.74     0.74    0.74   0.74
Projectoperatingcosts                     4.12   4.46    4.8  5.14     5.51     5.89     6.28     6.67    7.06     7.46     7.86    8.26     8.68    9.11   9.53
Total costs                            38.55  43.04   47.1  47.44    44.09    41.49    41.88    42.27   42.66    43.06    43.46   43.86    44.28   44.71  45.13
Benefits
Tourism revenues from new accommodation                      52.82    52.82    52.82    52.82    52.82   52.82    52.82    52.82   52.82    52.82   52.82  52.82
Incremental revenues from existing accom.       10.41  10.41  10.41    10.41    10.41    10.41    10.41   10.41    10.41    10.41   10.41    10.41   10.41  10.41
Industrial & Household willingness-to-pay        8.92   9.59  10.26    10.97    11.72    12.47    13.23   13.98    14.73    15.48   16.23    16.98   17.73  18.48
Total benefits                         69.72  72.15  72.82  73.49     74.2   74.95      75.7    76.46   77.21    77.96    78.71   79.46    80.21   80.96  81.71
NetBenefits                               31.17  29.11  25.72  26.05    30.11    33.46    33.82    34.19   34.55    34.9    35.25    35.6   35.93   36.25  36.58
ERR at appraisal                                                                                                                                                             a
2. ERR for ICR
2001  2002  2003  2004    2005        2006     2007     2008   2009      2010     2011    2012    2013    2014  2015
Costs
New tourist accommodation, capital costs                         2     8.88    13.63    13.74    13.45   16.07     15.9    18.81   18.81    18.81   18.81    7.1
New accommodation operating costs                            6.336     13.3    20.2    27.1       34.0   40.9      47.9     54.8    61.7     68.6    75.6  78.1
Project investments (& rehab costs)                             1.1                                                          1.1
Project operating costs                  0.493  0.493  0.493  0.493    0.493    0.493    0.493    0.493   0.493    0.493    0.493   0.493    0.493   0.493  0.493
Total costs                            0.493  0.493  0.493  9.929   22.639   34.319   41.293   47.933  57.483   64.243   75.183  81.013   87.943  94.873  85.74
Benefits
Tourism revenues from new accommodation                        9.6    20.1      30.6      41      51.5     62      72.5       83    93.5      104   114.5  118.4
Incremental revenues from existing accom.
Industrial & Household willingness-to-pay
Total benefits                             0      0      0    9.6    20.1      30.6      41      51.5     62      72.5      83    93.5      104   114.5  118.4
Net Benefits                             -0.493 -0.493 -0.493 -0.329   -2.539   -3.719   -0.293    3.567   4.517    8.257    7.817  12.487   16.057  19.627  32.66
ERR for ICR



- 25 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant           Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
LA          5.01 (b)  F         C                               Borrower to have independent   Complied with occasional
and (c)                                            audit of its, accounts and financial  delays
statements, including the use of the
Special Account and Statements of
Expenditures, and submit the audit
report for each year by September
30 of the following year
LA          5.02      F         CP                              Fumish by March 15 and         Complied for most years,
September each year a report on    with delays in some years.
the financial performance of the
Borrower during the preceding six-
month period
LA          5.03      F         C        12/31/90    12/31/92    Carryoutastudyofthe           Studywascarriedoutan
Borrower's tariff structure, consult discussed, but recommen-
with the Bank, and implement the   dations in regard to revised
recommendations                tariffs for tourist-oriented
establishments could not be
implemented due to the
adverse effects of the war
in the region on the tourist
trade
La          5.04(a)   F         CP                              Starting with the fiscal year ending  Complied in some years,
December 31, 1988, Borrower to   but not all due to the effects
maintain a ratio of total operating   on the Borrower's revenues
expenses to total revenues of not   from effects on the local
less than 80%                  economy and the tourist
trade due to the regional
war after 1991
LA          5.05      F         C                               Bank's prior approval needed   Complied
before Borrower undertook any
non-Project related capital
expenditures such that average
such expenditures for any year
exceeded US$5 million equivalent
LA          5.06      M         C        12/31/94               Borrower to carry out an Action    Carried out satisfactorily
Plan to reduce the level of
unaccounted-for-water
Covenant types:
Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                            8. = Indigenous people
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  C = covenant complied with
beneficiaries                                10. = Project implementation not covered  CD = complied with after
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds         by categories 1-9                    delay
4. = Counterpart funding                         11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  CP = complied with partially
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  other resource allocation          NC = not complied with
agency                                       12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                       regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                   13. = Other



-26 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No lack of compliance with any applicable Bank Operational Manual/Statement (OD or BP) was
noticed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                     Actual
Stage of project cycle      Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$
Preparation to Appraisal       Not available           18.3      50.6
Appraisal                      Not available            9.9      28.1
Negotiations through Board     Not available            6.6      18.6
approval
Supervision                    Not available          27.1       84.7
Completion                     Not available            5.2      12.6
Total                                                67.1      194.6
Note: Based on a prorating of joint processing costs from preparation through early supervision for the concurrently
prepared and implemented Slovene and Istria Coastal Water Supply and Sewerage projects.



- 27 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating'
Stage of project cycle  Month/   No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.        Developm   Problems 3
Year    Persons  Field                       status       objectives
Through Appraisal       Sept. 1987     2       10   ENG, ECO
Dec. 1987      2      10   ENG, FIN
Apr. 1987      3      15   ENG, FIN, ECO
Appraisal through Board  July 1988     2        5   ENG, LAW
approval
Dec. 1988      3       7   ENG, FIN, ECO
Apr. 1989      2       5   ENG, ENV
Supervision             May 1990       1       5   ENG                     1            1
July 1990      1       5   ENG                     1            I
Mar. 1991      2       5   ENG, DIS               2             1       IMP
Apr. 1992      2       5   ENG, FIN               2             1       IMP, DES
Mar. 1993      1       5   ENG                    2             1       IMP,DES
Mar. 1994      2       6   ENG, FIN               2             1       DES, CNF
Mar. 1996      1       5   ENG                    S             S       IMP
Sept. 1997     2       5   ENG, ENG              HS            HS       IMP
Completion              Dec. 1998      2       4   ENG, FIN               HS           HS
I - Key to Specialized staff skills, etc:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings, etc: 3 - Key to Types of Problems, etc:
ENG = Sanitary Engineer               I = Minor Problems               DES = Design Disagreement
ECO = Economist                       2 = Moderate Problems            PROC = Procurement Delays
FIN = Financial Analyst               3 = Major Problems               CNF  Counterpart Funds
ENV = Environmentalist                S = Satisfactory                 IMP = Implementation Delays
HS = Highly Satisfactory
U = Unsatisfactory



- 28 -
Table 14: Rizana Water Works - Income Statements
(in SIT OOOs)
1990        1993        1994         1995         1996        1997        1998
Net Sales            149          821       1,244        1,189         1,646        1,711      2,196
Revenues
Operating
Expenses
Cost of goods         64          368        694           569          598          618        630
sold, materials and
services
Personnel costs       23          212        275           291          317          338         351
Depreciation                      421        489           601          656          699         846
Provision for bad                 140         62           175           20           13          14
debts
Other operating                     2          3             2            2            2           3
costs
Total Operating     87         1,144      1,522         1,638       1,593         1,670      1,844
Expenses
Operating              63        (323)        (278)       (450)          53           41
Income
Interest and other     11         505          573         598          167          198         171
financial income
Interest and other     15        (593)        (195)       (350)        (423)        (313)       (229)
financial expenses
Extraordinary                      95          198         201          238          105         183
income
Extraordinary         (58)        (23)        (298)         (5)         (27)          (29)       (12)
expenses
Income Before         (5)        (339)        0             (4)           8            3          58
Taxes
Corporate Taxes        0            0         0              0            0            0           0
Net Income After      (5)        (339)        0             (4)           8            3          58
Taxes



- 29 -
Table 15: Rizana Water Works - Balance Sheets
(in SIT OOOs)
1990        1993        1994        1995        1996       1997     1998
Assets
Cash in hand and         6          12          10          58          26         15        11
at bank
Accounts                29         269         588         599         572        507       286
receivable
Other receivables       36         765         942         991       1,102        930     1,605
Inventories              3         131         111          166         98         86        65
Prepaid expenses         2          13          19           19         27         25        22
Total Current          76       1,190        1,670       1,833      1,825      1,563     1,989
Assets
Net fixed assets       488      10,385       12,829      14,057     15,480     18,329    19,200
Long term               73         352         426         425         469        773       574
investments
Total Assets         637       11,931      14,925      16,416      17,772     20,666    21,763
Liabilities and
Equity
Trade payables          10         145         325         356         349        378       383
Short term              10         220         418         453         507        607       672
borrowings
Accrued                  2           3          51           51         17         29        20
expenses
Total Current         23         368         794          860        873       1,014     1,075
Liabilities
Long term                0           0        1,747       2,172      2,615      3,079     3,513
provisions
Long term debt         43        1,782        1,743       1,830      1,706      2,810     2,219
Business fund          542       8,270        7,632       7,634      7,633      7,633     9,826
Asset revaluation        0       1,821       3,319        4,234      5,251      6,433     7,378
Retained                29       (310)        (310)       (314)      (306)      (303)    (245)
eamings
Total                637       11,931      14,925      16,416      17,772     20,666    21,763
Liabilities and
E-quity



- 30 -
APPENDICES



- 31 -
A. MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE



-32 -
Appendix A
SLOVENIA
SLOVENE COAST WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Loan 3070-SI
Implementation Completion Report Mission - November 1998
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank (WB) mission consisting of Messrs. Richard MacEwen and Kishore
Nadkarni visited Slovenia between November 24 to 27, 1998 for initiating the preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the above project. The mission met with
representatives of the Rizanski Vodovod Koper (RVK) and Komunala Koper (KK). The mission
would like to thank the counterparts for the cooperation and courtesies extended to it. This Aide
Memoire represents the mission's views and findings, and the agreements reached with the
counterparts in respect of the preparation of the ICR, including the Borrower's Operational Plan
for the future operations of the project, and is subject to confirmation by WB management on the
mission's return to Washington.
2.    The mission reiterated the reasons for the ICR process, emphasizing the importance of
making a balanced assessment of the physical, institutional, economic and financial aspects of
the project achievements.
ProjectAchievements
3.    The project objectives for were: (i) to eliminate water shortages in the project area; (ii) to
provide additional water supply capacity for expansion of the tourism industry and growth in
demand in the project area; (iii) to reduce unaccounted for water; (iv) to protect water sources
and coastal tourism areas from water pollution; and (v) to improve efficiency in the delivery of
water supply and sewerage services in the project area.
4.All the objectives were met; however, the targets were lowered in the case of additional water
capacity because the initial estimates of available supply from existing sources did not
materialize. The project was still able to meet the objective of eliminating water shortages as a
result of a reduction in the industrial/commercial/tourism demand following the breakup of
Yugoslavia, increased water tariffs and the dramatic reduction in unaccounted-for water achieved
under the project. At the beginning of the project, unaccounted for water was 45% of production
(5.8 million m3/yr), mostly the result of leakage. As a result of RVK's efforts under the project,
unaccounted for water is now 27% of production (2.6 million m3/yr). The reduction is
equivalent to a reduction in maximum day demand of 101 1/sec (20%).



- 33 -
Appendix A
(a) Physical Aspects
5.    The physical components of the project and the outcome of each are as follows:
* Works which increased safe yield source capacity at from 240 lps to 370 lps (appraisal the
RVK's safe yield capacity was rated at 300 lps and project target was 650 lps)
* Expansion of the Rizana water treatment plant from 200 lps to 600 lps with provision for
expansion to 800 lps (as appraised)
* 5.0 km of raw water transmission (as appraised)
* 18.6 km of treated water transmission (as appraised)
*  15,000 m3 of distribution storage (as appraised)
* SCADA system (as appraised)
* Rehabilitation and replacement of networks in old town centers (as appraised)
* Improvement of pumping station control systems (as appraised)
* Establishment of 60 waste control districts (as appraised)
* Sewerage system improvements in the municipalities of Piran, Izola and Koper (as appraised
but with some modification. Overall, appraisal expectations were exceeded)
* Planning and investigations for future source development (as appraised)
6.    The targets for source capacity were lowered primarily because hydrogeologic
investigations failed to confirm initial estimates of the available safe yield of existing ground
water sources at Rizana and it became necessary for the borrower to seek alternative sources,
only one of which could be implemented under the project. The implemented alternative
financed under the project was the Rodik pipeline which allowed the purchase of water from the
Sezana Karstic Water Works. The second source, the Kubed Reservoir, is included in the
borrower's operational plan for construction prior to 2005 when source capacity of 150 lps from
Croatia, available by treaty, will no longer be available.
(b) Institutional Aspects
7.    The institutional strengthening components of the project comprised:
* TA for unaccounted-for water reduction
*  Study of RVK's tariff structure
* Provision of O&M equipment
* Training
8.    While the tariff study was undertaken as agreed, it did not recomnmend any change in the
tariff structure which continued to be biased against the industrial/commercial!- institutional
sector where demand, in fact, had dropped sharply. However, at the time the study was
completed, the Bank did not object to cross subsidies in water tariffs and approved the study
recommendation that the tariff structure remain unchanged.
9.    Operational training was carried out for the operation of the new water treatment plant
and leak detection and this training was effective. However, training was limited in other areas
and no formal training policy or plan was put in place.



- 34 -
Appendix A
(c) Project Cost and Financing
10.   The total project cost is essential the same as appraised, although there were significant
differences between components and the sources of financing. A preliminary summary of the
cost and financing of the project compared with the appraisal estimate is as follows:
Appraisal
Sources                            Estimate       Actual
--------- US $ million ---------
Parts A through D of the Project
World Bank                            32.0          26.5
Central government budget               7.6         15.1
Local government budgets               2.7            --
Enterprise contributions                8.0           --
Tourist taxes                          3.1            --
RVK water revenues                    42.5          30.0
Subtotal                            95.9         71.6
Part E of the Project
World Bank                              --           5.0
Tourist taxes                           2.1           --
Central and local government           2.0           5.6
budgets and enterprise contributions
Sewerage enterprise revenues            2.7          2.7
Subtotal                             6.8         14.1
Total                              102.7         85.7
11.   At appraisal, no Bank financing was planned for Part E of the project, the sewerage
component. Later, when the project was about 50% completed, the borrower decided to on lend
$5.0 million of the Loan proceeds to Komunala Koper, one of three implementing agencies for
the sewerage component, as an alternative to cancellation. The funds were available because of
savings in the cost of the water supply component and increased funding from the government.
The Bank agreed and the Loan Agreement was amended accordingly.
(d) Financial Aspects
12.   While the project's physical targets were largely met or exceeded, there were shortfalls in
the financial targets, due to a significant extent to the impact of the extraneous and unforeseen
circumstances that arose after 1991. These included the outbreak of hostilities in the region in
1991 and the unfavorable impact it had on tourism which declined sharply and continues to be
below pre-1990 levels; the reduction in water consumption in the industrial and commercial
sector due to the restructuring and closure of several large and medium enterprises; and the
consequent growth in unemployment and increased economic difficulties for the population in
the area. Thus, RVK did not meet the target of maintaining an operating ratio of less than 80
percent according to the Loan Agreement definition in most years (e.g., the ratios were 127



- 35 -
Appendix A
percent and 135 percent respectively in 1996 and 1997)'. Nevertheless, RVK was able to cover
its cash operating expenses throughout the project implementation period and to contribute 40%
of the project cost from its own revenues.
13.   RVK kept accurate and up-to-date financial records and audit reports were prepared and
submitted on time. The reports do not include separate opinions on the use of the statements of
expenditures (SOEs) and the Special Account because RVK did not take advantage of these
procedures.
(e) Economic Aspects
14.   At appraisal, an important expected benefit of the project was that it would enable the
growth of tourism in the area. While tourism was adversely affected by the situation in the
region, it has been improving, and is expected to grow faster in the future. In addition, the
project has contributed significant other economic benefits including increasing the reliability of
supply; improving the quality of water; enhancing the collection and disposal of wastewater and
lowering the unit cost of water supply. It was agreed that RVK will provide the Bank with an
update of the data on tourism that was used in the initial analysis so that the Bank can reassess
the economic benefits of the project.
Preliminary Conclusions
15.   The mission concludes that the overall objectives of the project were met and the
performance of the borrower in carrying out the project was highly satisfactory. The fact that all
the targets for water source development were not met were due to circumstances beyond the
borrower's control. In the end, a reduced demand and a highly successful unaccounted for water
program made it possible for the borrower to meet the objectives of the project with the lower
capacity. In view of the reduced water demand, it would have been difficult for the borrower to
raise tariffs to a level that would have met the financial targets. However, through good financial
management, the borrower was able to contribute significantly to the project cost from revenues
and to cover operating costs and a part of depreciation. Today, the borrower and the three share
holding municipalities that must approve tariffs are committed to a policy of full cost recovery.
Next Steps
16.   RVK will:
(a)   provide to the Bank annual monitoring indicators in Attachment A by January 31,
1999;
(b)   provide to the Bank project cost in Tolars and date of completion for each
component under Part A, B, C and D of the project by January 31, 1999;
RVK representatives were of the view that, according to Slovenian accounting standards,
which allow contributions to be counted as revenues, RVK did meet the operating ratio target in
most years.



- 36 -
Appendix A
(c)   provide to the Bank the financing plan for the project as implemented by January
31, 1999;
(d)   obtain from Komunala Koper and forward to the Bank the project cost and data
on Koper sewerage project listed in Attachment B by January 31, 1999;
(e)   provide to the Bank information on tourism statistics from local and central
government agencies for updating of the economic analysis by February 28, 1999;
(f)   send to the Bank its operational plan by February 28, 1999;
(g)   send to the Bank its own completion report and comments on the Bank's draft
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to the Bank 30 days after receipt of the
Bank's draft ICR; and
(h)   recalculate the annual amounts of RVK's unaccounted for water to eliminate the
amount consumed in the production of water and restate the revised figures in a
manner that takes into account the characteristics of the distribution system for the
period 1988 to 1998.
17.   The Bank will:
(a)   send to RVK information on alternative methods of measuring unaccounted for
water that take into account the characteristics of RVK's distribution network;
(b)   send to RVK a draft of the ICR for review and comment by March 31, 1999; and
(c)   send to RVK a description of the tourism statistics in needs for updating the
project economic analysis.



- 37 -
Appendix A
Attachment A
RIZANA WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
Monitoring Indicators
(1988 to 1998)
1. OPERATIONAL
Year end service area population
Year end population serviced (%)
Water Produced (m3/yr)
Water Transferred (m3/yr)
Domestic water sales (m3/yr)
Industrial/coimmercial water sales (m3/yr)
Tourism water sales for 1997 and 1998 (m3/yr)
Maximum day demand (1/sec)
Unaccounted for water (less water consumed in water treatment) (m3/yr)
Year end water connections
Total year end employees
Year end employees dedicated to water company operations
2.  FINANCIAL
Total capital expenditure
Project expenditure
Ratio of annual collections to annual billings



- 38 -
Appendix A
Attachment B
KOPER SEWERAGE COMPONENT
Implementation Completion Report Information Requirements
Project Cost
Ankaran to Central Sewage Treatment Plant Sewer
Iplas to Central Sewage Treatment Plant Sewer
Bertoki to Central Sewage Treatment Plant Sewer
Maintenance Equipment
Central Sewage Treatment Plant upgrading
System Data
Length of primary sewers added to the system since 1990 including the project
Length of secondary sewers added to the system since 1990
Number of connections in 1990
Number of connections in 1998
Total capital investment in the system including the project since 1990
1990 population
1990 population with water borne sewage



- 39 -
Appendix A
Attachment C
IZOLA AND PIRAN SEWERAGE COMPONENTS
Implementation Completion Report Information Requirements
Project
Description of system improvements completed since 1990
Cost of system improvements completed since 1990
System Data
Length of primary sewers added to the system since 1990 including the project
Length of secondary sewers added to the system since 1990
Year-end number of connections in 1990
Year-end number of connections in 1998
Year-end 1990 population
Year-end 1990 population with water borne sewerage
Year-end 1998 population
Year-end      1998       population      with      water-borne       sewerage



- 40 -
B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



- 41 -
Appendix B
A. BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT'
Statement of the Project Objectives
The project objectives as described in the ICR were realistic and justified. They were based on
the existing situation and problems in water supply in and before the time of project preparation.
Historical trends on growth of water demand for the period 1960-1988 and future needs related
to expected economic and social development of the area were taken into account as well.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
The project objectives reflected the real needs of the RWW and the population. Development
forecasts were affected by external events that could not be anticipated.
If starting again, the basic objectives would not be changed significantly. Of course the problem
of insufficient quantities of underground water, which fact not being known before completion of
a very large hydrogeological investigations, lasting in total about 15 years, would require some
adjustments of the program relating to the water sources component.
It is necessary to point out, that in addition to the original objectives as described and achieved,
the quality of drinking water was highly improved. This fact is of particular importance from the
health aspect.
Major factors that affected the Project are described in the ICR correctly. All the reasons were
beyond the Borrower's control and could be considered as a force majeure.
Hyperinflation in the early years of the project reached exceptional levels (up to 3500% yearly).
To reduce the impact, a rigorous financial management program was set up. The financing of the
project components was studied very carefully for each investment. Use of all available funds for
advance payments to the contractors was among the basic measures to maintain the prices within
acceptable limits.
Changes in the financing plan happened due to changes in allocation of some financial sources
caused by the new legislation. For the water supply component, the ratio of financial source
allocation was approximately: 40% RWW (mainly water tariffs), 30% State grant funds and 30%
the World Bank loan. There was no financing of the water supply component from the side of
municipalities. However, the municipalities did provide significant financing for the sewerage
component.
The tariffs remained until now are subject to governmental approval. The policy was to
recognize only partially the official inflation rate, until 1997. In 1998 no inflation adjustment was
recognized. This fact led to slow, but constant decrease of the real tariffs.
1 Transmitted with a letter dated May 19, 1999 from Mr. Ivan Zigon, Head of the Project Implementation Unit, RWW,
addressed to Mr. Richard MacEwen, Program Team Leader. The original is available in the Project Files.



-42 -
Appendix B
In the past RWW was under ownership of the Coastal Community, which was appointed from all
three municipalities for the sectors of health, water supply, traffic etc. According to the new
legislation, the municipalities of Koper, Izola and Piran, became direct owners of RWW. The
shares correspond to the percentage of water consumption, calculated as the average for the last
10 years. The Municipalities have nominated the Assembly of the public utility RWW, which is
entitled to decide on any relevant matter concerning water supply and RWW. The Assembly
consists of the Mayors of three Municipalities. Besides the Assembly the Control Board was
nominated as well. It consists of other municipal representatives, who are authorized to control
the management and results of RWW.
The breakup of Yugoslavia has caused essential political and several economical changes. The
consequences and impacts related to the water supply and RWW are described in the ICR clearly
and correctly. There are no significant facts to be added.
Performance of the World Bank
The Bank procedures have been fully respected and considered to be justified.
The Bank stopped financing of the project for some time after the breakup of Yugoslavia.
Although further financing was conditioned with the membership of Slovenia in the IJN and
WB, the Bank could perhaps have shortened the financing interruption time.
Especially concerning technical matters, the Bank teams that appraised and supervised the
project were very engaged and followed continuously the progress of the project. All
requirements, information and proposals of the Bank team were received in a timely manner. The
instructions, which have been pertinent, clear and useful, were appreciated very much.
Professional discussions held with the Bank teams on some relevant questions, have significantly
contributed to the progress of the project.
The Bank was understanding of the factors and changes that occurred during project
implementation. The support of the Bank was prompt and efficient.
The presence of the Bank was very effective as well in the sense a systematic approach resulting
in thorough preparation of the project components before and during construction. The facilities
were always commissioned and put in operation without major difficulties, achieving the
expected performance parameters. The Bank pointed out strongly the importance of unaccounted
for water reduction and followed the progress of the unaccounted for water (UlFW) reduction
program. The results reflect a significant reduction of the real UFW from 5.5 million m3 (in
1987) to 2.6 million m3 (in 1998).
The Special Account was opened, but later closed again. After a careful consideration of the
costs and advantages, we concluded that the Special Account in our actual circumstances was not
reasonable to costly.



-43 -
Appendix B
If we had to do it over again; taking the Bank loan would depend of course on basic financial
conditions. As you know, at the present time some international financial institutions offer better
loan conditions than those in the Loan agreement between RWW and the WB.
Assessment of Project Outcome
Overall results of the project are considered to be good not only in terms of physical
achievements, but overall as well. Professional, technical and economical aspects of RWW, as
well as the quality of water supply services, are comparable to well organized water works in EU
countries. Since a stable water supply is an important part of basic infrastructure necessary for
economic growth, the project has contributed to the conditions necessary for the resumption of
economic growth and development.
Lessons Learned
The very low tariffs in the period before the project preparation started did not allow regular
maintenance of the system or any improvements. This fact resulted in an increasing demand,
inadequate service and a weakened financial condition for RWW.
The increase of water tariffs was inevitable but came too late. However, the higher tariffs when
they were imposed had a significant impact on water consumption, particularly on the financial
condition of RWW. It allowed RWW to pay much more attention to reduction of water losses
and maintenance of the internal networks etc. Moreover, the sewerage tariffs, which increased
much higher than water tariffs, have contributed additionally to reduced demand for water.
These facts were not considered during project preparation. Of course they should have been
taken into account together with financial and other aspects related to tariffs.



- 44 -
Appendix B
B. RIZANA WATER WORKS - Operational Plan for 1999 to 20151
Statement of Objectives
The main objectives for the period 1999 to 2015 are as follows:
1. To ensure an efficient and safe water supply for Slovene Coast region.
2. To ensure sufficient quantities of drinking water, taking into account particularly
the expiration of the rights in Croatia.
3. To maintain and improve good quality of drinking water
4. To maintain and improve the level of unaccounted for water (UFW)
5. To protect existing water sources.
6. To increase efficiency of the services
7. To continue sufficient maintenance of the water supply system
8. To continue rationalization of operation
9. To reduce costs of operation
10. To continue modernization of the water supply system
Investment Program
The targets in the Project, cofinanced with the World Bank loan, have included as well an
increase of the available water supply at Rizana up to 650 I/s.
This target was unfortunately essentially lowered due to the fact, that after completion of
hydrogeologic investigations the final results have not confirmed previous estimates and
forecasts on available ground water reserves.
During the project implementation the Rodik pipeline was constructed, which allowed the
purchase of the water from the Sezana Water Works (neighbor region).
As a matter of fact, this water replaced a portion of the water provided by treaty from Croatia
which was terninated in 1995.
Since in 2005 the treaty with Croatia will expire and an alternative source, the Kubed reservoir,
is planned cover the needs of water supply.
The investment costs for the Kubed reservoir are estimated to about 20 million US$. These costs
cannot be covered from the water tariffs, because at the same time the loan of the World Bank
must be repaid (2004). Ri2ana Water Works and all three share holding municipalities have
proposed to the Government the financing, which basically consists of. 10% Rizana Water
Works, 40% grant (Government) and 50% soft loan with beginning of repayment after 2004.
However the agreement on financing is not reached yet.
Transmitted with letter dated April 9, 1999 from Mr. Ivan Zigon, Head of Project Implementation Unit, RWW, addressed to
Mr. Richard MacEwen, Program Team Leader. The original is available in the Project Files.



- 45 -
Appendix B
Beside Kubed reservoir no other important projects are programmed until 2015.
Operational Improvement Program
Unaccounted for water.
Under the Project Rizana Water Works made exceptional progress in UFW reduction. Previously
the UFW was 5.8 million m3/year, meanwhile in 1998 it amounted to 2.6 million m3/year. Rizana
Water Works conserves 2.2 million m3/year as a realistic and achievable limit. Taking into
account the present circumstances, further UFW reduction would bring a very high increase of
the costs.
To maintain and improve the level of UFW the following is of the highest importance:
1. To maintain in good order the SCADA system and 60 existing control districts (some new
control districts will be added,
2. To carry out strictly the network maintenance programme for each year,
3 . To continue replacement of the meters and to improve efficiency of meter-reading,
4. To continue the replacement of old and problematic networks.
Financial management
Financial management must be carried out carefully as it was the case until now. According to
Slovenian legislation, the three share holding municipalities have granted the Assembly and
Control Board with powers to decide on any important matter. Although as a public utility
Rizana Water Works is by the law defined as a non-profit company, the economic and financial
aspects are essential. All relevant proposals, given from Rizana Water Works management to the
Assembly and Control Board will be supported with corresponding analyses on the economic
effects and financial results or consequences.
Commercial operations
In the future the three municipalities will decide if the existing commercial operations
(engineering and project design, installation works) will remain in the Rizana Water Works
organization. In each case the extent of such operations will not be enlarged.
Replacement and renewal program
Systematical replacement of old networks must be continued. On the basis of UFW analyses
each year the renewal program reflects the priorities in this field. The target for replacement and
renewals should be about 2% of the network length annually. It means about 17 km.



- 46 -
Appendix B
Human resources
In the future in Rizana Water Works an employment increase is not programmed. However, the
permanent target is to improve the professional structure of the employees. Particularly in the
fields of computer technology, electronics and water quality related qualifications.
Monitoring Indicators for Measuring Achievements
Achievement
Indicator                        Current value    Target                year
year
Production capacity              43.000 m3/day    58.000 m3/day       2015
Distribution storage             24.000 m3/day    36.000 / m3day      2010
Unaccounted for water            2.640.000 / m3year 2.200.000 m3/year    2010
Annual pipe replacement          10 km            16 km               2010
Annual meter replacement         5,000 pieces     6,000 pieces        2005
Annual service connection
replacement                      300              500                 2010
Annual maintenance and
Replacement budget                 220              350
million SIT      million SIT        2010
Employees per 1,000 connections     4                4
Collection Ratio                 99.9%            99.9%



MAP SECTION






13-30'                                   14-00-                                    14-30'                                    15'00                                     I 3                                       16 'J                    .                 16'30'                                     17       RD2688
-   ~~~~~ ~A  U  S T R I A                                                                                                                                                                                          <     
A  <   --r, V6herrarht                                  ..                                    "                ~       ~               =  u Mursa Sobta    r?b= -doi
k ;r ~~~~~~~-_-_ i ~~~~~~~~ X * X L X = ~ .1.,.,,                                                                                                                                                                  ;~-k $.b.:  0t. V"
;   .   /  f  v  f5),  ,  ToVo}Lerl . * 6ernc iX * \_ Q | <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
>~~~~~~~~~~ Iv Ioic                 ;.>  -                                                                                                                                                                                                   - lOEES5
T. P---        b                                                       T. KI pi rh,  w1                                                                                                                                                                                                      ^*-t
Golf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Of A/013i Ct =                                                                   ' *grtr iaj *<  j 6&Dcba   S<-  ~.I(V
L   a  W   _X;,,_,S          +                                                 1                       S          f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
\   h Pu/a              To RieLo                                                  C      R     O      A     T     I    A                                                                                                                 '       -   o               p . TuLKe~~~~sfi-k
T3wt-;i   1400             L.  ~~~--14$30'                                            IS00'                                       15O30'                                      16;00'                                      19      ft~;74              zt<3zS             PRB1wk



