Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18548
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2167-MAU)
November 5, 1998
Private Sector Finance Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Ouguiya (UM)
US$ 1 = UM 84.8 (Exchange rate of March 1990)
US$ 1 = UM 203.8 (Exchange rate of October 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           African Development Bank
CFD           Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CRSP          Cellule de Rehabilitation du Secteur Parapublic
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DTEP          Direction de Tutelle des Entreprises Publiques
EPIC          Etablissement Public Industriel et Commercial
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
MOP           Memorandum of the President
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
OPT           Office des Postes et des Telecommunications
PA            Performance Agreement
PAN           Port Autonome de Nouadhibou
PANPA         Port Autonome de Nouakchott - Port de l'Amitie
PAR           Performance Audit Report
PESAP         Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
PESIDTAP    Public Enterprise Sector Institutional Development and Technical Assistance Project
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SEM           Societ d'Economnie Mixte
SMCP          Socite Mauritanienne de Commercialisation de Poissons
SN            Socite nationale
SNIM          Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
SONELEC       Societe Nationale dEau et d'Electricite
SONIMEX       Societe Nationale d'Import-Export
Vice President:           Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director:         Hasan A. Tuluy, AFC 15
Sector Manager:           Marie FanWoise Marie-Nelly, AFTP1I
Task Team Leader:         Jean-Michel N. Happi, AFTPI



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJEICT
(Credit 2167-MAU)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .............                                                                      ii
Evaluation Summary .....................................                                   iii
PART I -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT.   ...............                   . 
A. Background .1
B. Project Objectives ..............                                    .         I
C. Achievement of Project Objectives.                                             3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................                     9
E. Project Sustainability  ................                .........             10
F. Bank Performance .10
G. Borrower Performance .11
H. Assessment of Outcome .11
I. Future Operations ...............................                             11
J. Key Lessons Learned .12
PART II -- STATISTICAL TABLES .13
Table 1 Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2 : Related Bank Credits .14
Table 3 Project Timetable .15
Table 4   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .......          15
Table 5-A  : Key Indicators for Project Implementation  .............            15
Table 5-B: Key Indicators for Project Operation .16
Table 6 : Studies Included in Project .17
Table 7-A: Project Costs .18
Table 7-B Project Financing .19
Table8: Economic Analysis .19
Table 9  : Status of Legal Covenants ......................                      19
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .....................                     23
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Missions  ...................                    23
APPENDICES .25
A. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire .25
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR .30
C. Data on the Public Enterprise Sector .34
MAP



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2167-MAU)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Enterprise Sector
Institutional Development and Technical Assistance Project in Mauritania, for which Credit 2167-
MAU in the amount of SDR 7.7 million (US$10 million equivalent) was approved on June 26, 1990
and made effective on August 29, 1990. The Credit closed on June 30, 1998, as scheduled. The last
disbursement took place on June 29, 1998, at which time the Credit was fully disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Jean-Michel Happi and Sherri Archondo, Private Sector Finance
Group, Africa Region. It was reviewed by Mr. Iradj Alikhani, Senior Economist, Private Sector
Finance Group, Africa Region. The Borrower's evaluation report is included as Appendix B.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's completion mission of August 31-
September 14, 1998. It was based on materials in the Project file, including the Memorandum of the
President (MOP), the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision reports, progress reviews
and monitoring reports by the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
supplying the views reflected in the final mission's aide-m6moire, commenting on the draft ICR and
preparing its evaluation of the Project's implementation.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL D)EVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJ1ECT
(Credit 2167-MAU)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    Following independence in 1962, the Government of Mauritania's development strategy
relied on expanding the public sector through the creation of parastatals. By the mid-1980s, the
parastatal sector comprised over 60 enterprises, in virtually all sectors, representing as much as 20
percent of GDP, a quarter of modern sector employment, used more than half of public investment,
and received almost one-fifth of domestic credit to the economy. By the late-1980s, the public
enterprise (PE) sector had achieved high losses, mounting arrears, reliance on monopoly privileges, a
rising debt burden and increasing lack of liquidity, placing a severe burden on the banking system,
public finances and balance of payments. The sector's poor performance was mainly due to changes in
the external environment, such as fluctuations in the world price of iron ore, poor investment choices,
weak management, lack of financial discipline, and poorly defined relationships between Government
and the PEs.
2.    In 1985, the Government initiated a medium-term  adjustment program which included
important reforms aimed at improving PE sector performance and encouraging private sector activity.
The Bank supported these reforms through a series of projects, including, inter alia, the Public
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP, Cr. 2166-MAU), approved in 1990. Actions under
this Program included: (a) fundamental modification of the legal and institutional framework for the
sector; (b) financial restructuring of key enterprises, particularly SNIM and Air-Mauritanie; and (c)
reduction of the role of the State in the economy, through divestiture and elimination of State
monopolies. The Public Enterprise Sector Institutional Development and Technical Assistance Project
(The Project), Cr. 2167-MAU, was prepared and approved in parallel with the PESAP.
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
3.    The main objective of the Project was to provide the Government with technical assistance
needed to implement the PE reforms supported under the PESAP. The Project also aimed at
strengthening the Government's long-term capacity to devise and implement PE reforms, monitor the
sector's performance, and manage the PEs remaining in its portfolio, along commercial standards. In
the energy, transport and telecommunications sectors, Project objectives were to help the Government
better manage the sectors and: (a) implement a household energy strategy and attract private
companies to promote petroleum exploration in Mauritania; (b) restore the financial viability of air
transport by the national airline company (Air-Mauritanie) and improve the quality of port services by
the port management company (PANPA); and (c) develop telecommunication services of the post and
telecommunications company (OPT) and encourage the creation of-postal savings subsidiaries.
4.    Project objectives, with respect to PE adjustment refoims, were clear and supported by
monitorable activities whose implementation was among the conditions of tranche release of the



PESAP. Objectives, aiming to improve the Government's capacity to manage the sector, were
realistic and attainable within the Project's eight-year timeframe, given the technical support it
provided for implementation. However, the Project's goals regarding the energy, transport and
telecommunications sectors were inappropriate.  The Project provided support to improve the
managerial and financial performance of the public utilities dominating these sectors. However, it did
not address key issues necessary for sustainable development of the sectors, such as sector policy and
regulatory reforms, and competition. It also overlooked the issues of private participation in these
utilities, which were essential to attract new investment and expand their operations.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The Project achieved most of its stated objectives and its overall outcome was rated
satisfactory. At the outset, the Project helped reinforce the legislation governing the PE sector (e.g.,
Ordinance 90.09), which set up a strong institutional base for sound management of the sector. This
legislation provided, inter alia, a new classification of PEs by status, PE managerial autonomy, clear
delineation of responsibility between the Government and the enterprises, and modalities for
privatization and divestiture. The legislation was strictly observed by both Government and targeted
enterprises during Project implementation.
6.    The Project also strengthened the Government's institutions in charge of PEsector reforms. It
developed the imanagerial autonomy of the Parastatal Sector Reform Agency (CRSP), a special unit
under the Ministry of Plan in charge of implementing the privatization program. The Project helped
improve CRSP"s skill levels, procedural approaches and general operating efficiency. CRSP
demonstrated its ability to conduct most reforms with timely and satisfactory results. The Project also
reinforced the capacity of the Public Enterprise Oversight Directorate (DTEP), a department within
the Ministry of Finance in charge of monitoring the PE sector financial performance. The Project
strengthened DTEP's ability to supervise the PE accounting and budgetary procedures and to monitor
their financial performance. It helped design and implement a management information system on the
sector, which facilitated DTEP's effective monitoring and policy formulation.
7.    The Project helped Government carry out a comprehensive privatization program. The
Government's rmain divestiture goal was to reduce the parastatal sector from about 40 PEs in 1990 to
no more than a dozen financially-healthy enterprises, which could operate at a profit, without
subsidies or privileged access to credit, in a competitive environment. These objectives have been
partially achieved. As of December 1997, the PE sector was reduced to 27 enterprises (this included
seven parastatals created after 1995). Government reduced its participation as majority shareholder
from 30 to 19 PEs, and as minority shareholder from 10 to eight companies. The financial position of
those enterprises remaining in the Government portfolio was, for the most part, greatly improved.
Enterprises with Government participation registered a profit of about UM 4.0 billion in 1997,
compared to a loss of UM 30 million in 1992. Only four companies were still reporting losses in
1997, totaling UM 1,5 billion; of this amount, 94 percent represented losses incurred by Air-
Mauritanie.
8.    Moreover, the Government has eliminated explicit subsidies to all PEs, except compensations
to SONELEC (water and electricity company) and Air-Mauritanie for the social services they provide
on the Government's behalf. PEs' privileged access to credit was discontinued and their share in
domestic credit was reduced to less than four percent in 1997. Some implicit subsidies such as custom
tax exemptions and indirect transfers to PEs, for which the Government assumed the foreign exchange
risk on their external debts, however, remain (e.g., SONELEC).



9.    The Project helped design and implement the performance agreements (PAs) between the
Government and OPT, SONELEC, PANPA and Air-Mauritanie. These PAs were successful in
mobilizing resources and developing a mutually beneficial relationshipbetween Government and the
PEs. The PAs included clear and quantifiable indicators to monitor the PE managerial and technical
performance. They achieved their results with some delays, due to slow implementation at the
beginning of the process. Both Government and PEs fulfilled the majority of their obligations and
each enterprise, except Air Mauritanie, either broke even or was profitable, and partially met its
performance targets over the last three years.
10.   An improvement of these enterprises' financing and debt capacity was not sufficient to
provide adequate funding for the large investments that were required, particularly in the
telecommunications, water, energy and transport sectors. Consequently, expansion of their operations
and improvement of services were minimal. Sector policy and regulatory reforms, and private sector
participation in these utilities, whether through concession or privatization, would have helped cement
the gains of PAs and address the investment needs of PEs. It was only late in the Project that the
Governltent became sensitive to these opportunities. In 1998, the Government began to prepare, with
IDA support, a utility sector reform program which would include private sector participation.
11.   Project performance was unsatisfactory in its support to Air-Mauritanie. Despite important
technical assistance, this company's financial and technical situation deteriorated throughout the
Project period. Lack of progress in Air-Mauritanie's recovery was not only due to lack of management
commitment and weak institutional capacity, but also lack of political will to enforce the required
restructuring measures or divest the company. In 1997, Air-Mauritanie's losses amounted to UM
1,403 million and it was in bankruptcy. Faced with this critical situation, the Government appointed
an interim administrator in 1998 to restructure the company, including reconfiguration of its fleet and
options for divestiture. By Project closing, this restructuring was still underway.
12.   Project execution was adversely affected by two factors: (a) inappropriate incentive and
enforcement provisions of PAs: PAs should ideally link the PEs' overall results to rewards and
sanctions for management. The lack of such incentives were key elements for the failure of Air-
Mauritanie. This factor was under Government control and had a substantial impact on the Project
outcome; and (b) project financial management: In November 1991, a Bank supervision mission
expressed serious concerns over the management of Project funds in the Special Account, and over
deficient monitoring and recording of expenditures by CRSP. The Government subsequently agreed
to repay US$ 300,000 of ineligible expenditures to the Special Account. It also took corrective
measures to prevent the inappropriate use of IDA funds, including adoption of a new accounting
system, enforcement of procedure manuals, and improvement of internal financial control systems.
This factor was under CRSP control and had a moderate impact on the Project.
13.   Project sustainability is likely. Sustainable achievements iinclude: (a) a stronger government
capacity in implementing PE reforms and monitoring the sector performance; (b) completion of the
divestiture of about two-thirds of the initial PE portfolio; and (c) improved profitability of, and
financial discipline in, the PE sector. Moreover, the Project contributed to the Government's
realization that productive and commercial activities are best left to the private sector, and that its role
should be re-oriented more towards sector regulation and supervision. The Government's utility
sector reform program adopted in 1998 and IDA-financed projects in the areas of private sector
development, water and energy provide vehicles for continued development of these sectors.
Government commitment further enhances the sustainability of these reforms.



14.   Bank performance was satisfactory throughout the Project cycle.  The PESAP, as an
adjustment operation, provided the resources and policy framework to implement the reforms, while
the Project provided supporting technical assistance. This operational linkage was instrumental to
both projects' success. The long duration of the Project (eight years) was also critical, as it provided
ample time to ensure the internalization of the reforms and lasting capacity building. The Bank
addressed Project management issues in a timely fashion, carried out a total of nine supervision
missions and worked well with other donors (CFD and ADB).
15.   Borrower performance was also satisfactory in both preparation and implementation of the
Project. The Government actively participated in the preparation of the Project and key policy
reforms, and carried out the required sector studies in a timely fashion. Government implemented the
labor retrenchment program and paid the end-of-service benefits to retrenched PE staff in a timely
fashion.  The Project implementing units (CRSP and DTEP) operated efficiently, with high
professional standards, and demonstrated effective ownership of the reform process. Overall, with the
exception of few financial management problems solved during implementation, the Borrower
compliance with the covenants of the Credit Agreement was satisfactory.
Key Lessons Learned
16.   There were three major lessons that emerged from the Project:
(a) Strong Government Commitment: Strong Government support and participation in the design
and implementation of the PE reform and privatization program was a sine qua non condition
to the success of these reforms. Throughout implementation, the Government sustained its
resolve to turn the PE sector around, with one exception, where the political will was just not
there. The failure of Air-Mauritanie clearly demonstrated that despite extensive technical
assistance, if there is no political will, the impact of the reform process will be marginal.
(b) Effective Project Implementing Agency: CRSP played a critical role in the design and
implementation of reforms, including privatization and divestiture, and provided the necessary
leadership to ensure ownership of the process. CRSP had the resources, as well as the
authority, to exert sufficient pressure on both PE managers and Government officials to
comply with their obligations under the Performance Agreements. CRSP's institutional
stability facilitated the capacity building of its staff and was perceived as an efficient policy
adviser on PE reform by both the Government and PE managers.
(c) Use oJ Performance Agreements: The experience of this Project confirms the conclusions
reached in a Bank's report on "Contract Plans and Public Enterprise Performance", that "PAs
help clari/fy goals, increase autonomy, and open the dialogue between management and
government - but their benefits have been oversold". In Mauritania, the PAs were best used
to regularize and improve the framework of those enterprises which were already endowed
with competent management and technical capabilities (e.g., OPT, SONELEC, PANPA).
They vere, however, not the best mechanism for healing sick companies such as Air-
Mauritanie, nor the most suitable instrument to mobilize the long-term resources these
companies needed to develop their infrastructure and expand their services in a sustainable
manneir. To enhance their sustainability, PAs should be followed by additional reforms to
liberalize the sectors and improve private participation in utilities. This lesson was applied
from the beginning in the follow-up utility sector reform program.



1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2167-MAU)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    Following independence in 1962, the Government of Mauritania's development strategy
relied on expanding the public sector through the creation of parastatals. By the mid-1980s, the
parastatal sector comprised over 60 enterprises, in virtually all sectors, including manufacturing,
mining, fisheries and services, in addition to basic utilities, including water, electricity and
telecommunications, and transport. This sector represented as rmuch as 20 percent of GDP, a quarter
of modem sector employment (about 12,000 jobs), used more than half of public investment, and
received almost one-fifth of domestic credit to the economy.
2.    By the late-1980s, the public enterprise (PE) sector had achieved high losses, mounting
arrears, reliance on monopoly privileges, a rising debt burden and increasing lack of liquidity, placing
a severe burden on the banking system, public finances and balance of payments. In 1989, about two-
thirds of PEs had incurred aggregate losses exceeding US$25 million. Many enterprises borrowed
heavily to cover their expenses and experienced a serious erosion in their equity capital. PEs' external
debts amounted to US$520 million, about 30 percent of the public and publicly-guaranteed
obligations, with Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere (SNIM), the iron ore mining company,
responsible for two-thirds of this amount. The sector's poor performance was mainly due to changes
in the external environment, such as fluctuations in the world price of iron ore, poor investment
choices, weak management, lack of financial discipline, and poorly defined relationships between
Government and the PEs.
3.    In 1985, the Government initiated a medium-term  adjustment program which included
important reforms aimed at improving PE sector performance and encouraging private sector activity.
The Bank supported these reforms through a series of projects: a Public Enterprise Technical
Assistance and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1567-MAU), a Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1812-
MAU), and a Rehabilitation Project for SNIM (Ln. 2643-MAU). However, continued financial
disequilibrium in the PE sector led the Government to further formulate, in consultation with IDA, a
Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP, Cr. 2166-MAU) in 1990. Actions under this
program included: (a) fundamental modification of the legal and institutional framework for the
sector; (b) financial restructuring of key enterprises, particularly SNIM and Air-Mauritanie; and (c)
reduction of the role of the State in the economy, through divestiture and elimination of State
monopolies. The Public Enterprise Sector Institutional Development and Technical Assistance Project
(The Project), Cr. 2167-MAU, was prepared and approved in parallel with the PESAP.
B.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF BROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    Statement of Objectives: The main objective of the Project was to provide the Government
with technical assistance needed to implement the PE reforms supported under the PESAP. The



2
Project also aimed at strengthening the Government's long-term capacity to devise and implement PE
reforms, to monitor the sector's performance, and manage, along commercial standards, the PEs
remaining in its portfolio. In the energy, transport and telecommunications sectors, Project objectives
were to help the Government better manage the sectors, including: (a) implement a household energy
strategy and attract private companies to promote petroleum exploration in Mauritania; (b) restore the
financial viability of air transport by the national airline company (Air-Mauritanie) and improve the
performance of port services by the port management company (PANPA); and (c) develop
telecommunication services of the post and telecommunications company (OPT) and encourage the
creation of postal savings subsidiaries.
5.    Project Components: The Project had seven components: (a) general sector reform, including
strengthening of CRSP's and DTEP's capacity to implement the PE reforms; (b) support to the energy
sector, including institutional strengthening of the water and electricity company (SONELEC) and
assistance to the Directorate of Energy to design and implement a household energy strategy ; (c)
support to the mining sector to promote petroleum exploration; (d) support to the Ministry of
Commerce to eliminate monopolies and liberalize prices; (e) support to OPT to improve its overall
management performance; (f) support to Air-Mauritanie to implement its rehabilitation plan; and (g)
support to PANPA to strengthen its managerial capacity.
6.    Evaluation of Objectives: Project objectives, with respect to PE adjustment reforms, were
clear and supported by monitorable activities whose implementation was among the conditions of
tranche release of the PESAP. Objectives, aiming to improve the Government's capacity to manage
the sector, were realistic and attainable within the Project's eight-year timeframe, given the technical
support it provided for implementation. However, the Project's goals regarding the energy, transport
and telecommunications sectors were inappropriate. The Project provided support to improve the
managerial and financial performance of the public utilities dominating these sectors. However, it did
not address key issues necessary for sustainable development of the sectors, such as sector policy and
regulatory reforms, and competition. It also overlooked the issues of private participation in these
utilities, which were essential to attract new investment and expand their operations.
7.    The Project was important for both the Government and the Bank, as it sought to address PE
reforms at the core of Mauritania's adjustment program and, at the same time, help develop the
institutional base for sound management of the sector. Its implementation was intended to parallel that
of the PESAP, which provided the policy and incentive framework, as well as the resources to finance
the reforms. The Project's involvement in the energy, transport and telecommunications sectors were
mostly intended to: (a) maintain a dialogue in these areas and ensure that appropriate policies agreed
upon with the Government would continue to be implemented; (b) ensure that the sector investments
were directed to projects of high priority; and (c) ensure that prices and tariffs reflected both economic
costs and fiscal considerations.
8.    The Project was executed by the "Cellule de Rehabilitation du Secteur Parapublic" (CRSP), a
special unit under the Ministry of Plan, which was in charge of coordinating activities, monitoring
progress of the reforms and implementing the divestiture program. It was also supervised from a
budgetary point of view, by the "Direction de Tutelle des Entreprises Publiques" (DTEP), a
department within the Ministry of Finance in charge of monitoring the PE sector financial
performance. These institutions' stability, staff continuity and strong leadership were instrumental to
the Project's success.



3
9.    The Project was prepared and implemented with effective Mauritanian involvement, input and
commitment. Borrower participation throughout the project cycle helped mitigate the main risk
identified at the start of the Project, namely, that despite the Government's willingness to reform the
PE sector, it might fail to carry out the politically painful measures that necessarily accompany such
reforms. Resources provided under the PESAP facilitated the political acceptance of these reforms, by
addressing their social and financial costs. Furthermore, the riisk that implementation of the Project
might be too demanding for the limited capabilities of the MaLvritanian Administration was mitigated
by the efforts made by the Project executing agencies, notably CRSP and DTEP, and by the technical
support they received from the Project.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   The Project achieved most of its objectives. The Staff Appraisal Report did not include
quantitative targets and specific performance indicators for implementation or operation. However,
the following assessment shows that the Project was instrumental in the successful implementation of
the PESAP and in helping consolidate and deepen the reforms. The following provides, by component,
an evaluation of these achievements.
(1)    General Sector Reform and Strengthening C]RSP and DTEP Capacity
11.   Project objectives related to this component have been partially achieved. At the outset, the
Project helped reinforce the legislation governing the PE sector (e.g., Ordinance 90.09), which set up a
strong institutional base for sound management of the sector. This legislation provided, inter alia, a
new classification of PEs by status, PE managerial autonomy, clear delineation of responsibility
between the Government and PEs, and modalities for privatization and divestiture. The legislation
was strictly observed by both Government and targeted enterprises during Project implementation.
12.   Strengthening CRSP: The main objective of this component was to help CRSP implement the
PE adjustment program and execute key reforms, including: (a) monitoring the performance of the PE
sector; (b) implementing the divestiture program; (c) facilitating the redeployment of redundant staff;
(d) designing and monitoring the performance of PEs under performance agreements (PA)'; (e)
improving the financial discipline of the sector; and (f) implementing studies of the subsectors and
selected enterprises.
(a) Monitoring the Performance of the PE sector: The Project developed CRSP's managerial
autonomy in PE reforrn issues, by improving its skill levels, procedural approaches and
general operating efficiency. CRSP demonstrated its ability to conduct most reforms with
timely and satisfactory results. During its first years of operation, in order to fulfill the
conditions for the PESAP tranche release, CRSP concentrated on administrative matters.
However, it gradually took on a broader role of developing policies and coordinating reform
measures with selected enterprises which were successfully implemented.
1 Performance agreements are negotiated, written agreements between Government and the managers of a PE
which define reciprocal obligations in which the enterprise pledge to achieve specific technical and
financial performance targets and the Government pledge to provide relevant support in terms of timely
payments for services rendered and ensuring an environment conducive to the sector's development.
During the Project, they were also referred to as "contrat-programmes".



4
(b)   Implementation of the Divestiture Program: The Government's goal was to reduce
the parastatal sector from about 40 PEs in 1990 to no more than a dozen financially-healthy
enterprises, which could operate without subsidies or privileged access to credit in a
competitive environment. This objective has beenpartially achieved. A large number of PEs
have been divested2. As of December 1997, the PE sector was reduced to 27 enterprises.
Goveimment reduced its participation as majority shareholder from 30 to 19 PEs, and as
minority shareholder from 10 to eight companies. The financial position of those enterprises
remaining in the Government portfolio was, for the most part, greatly improved. Enterprises
with Government majority participation registered a profit of about UM 4.0 billion in 1997,
compared to a loss of UM 30 million in 1992. Only four companies were still reporting losses
in 1997, totaling UM 1,5 billion; of this amount, 94 percent represented losses incurred by
Air-Mauritanie.
Moreover, the Government has eliminated explicit subsidies to all PEs, except compensations
to SC)NELEC and Air-Mauritanie for the social services they provide on the Government's
behalf. PEs' privileged access to credit was discontinued and their share in domestic credit
was reduced to less than four percent in 1997. Some implicit subsidies such as custom tax
exemptions and indirect transfers to PEs, for which the Government assumed the foreign
exchange risk on their external debts, however, remain (e.g., SONELEC). By Project closing,
the PE sector accounted for about 17 percent of public external debt, 10 percent of public
investmnent, and 15 percent of GDP (these ratios were 30 percent, 50 percent and 20 percent,
respectively, at the beginning of the Project). Three companies (SNIM, OPT, SONELEC)
represented over 80 percent of the sector's external debt, investment and value-added. In
1998., the Government updated its divestiture program, inter alia, to further divest its shares in
seven additional enterprises and open the utilities to private sector.
(c) Faciiitating the Redeployment of Redundant Staff: CRSP assessed the employee retrenchment
costs and mobilized resources for their financing from PESAP counterpart funds. From the
beginning of the PE sector reform, a total of 2,100 employees were laid off, representing 17
percent of the sector workforce in 1990. The cost of their safety nets totaled over UM 820
million (US$ 4.1 million equivalent). Achievement of Project objectives under this category
was substantial.
(d) Monitoring of Performance Agreements (PAs): The Project helped design and implement the
performance agreements between the Government and OPT, Air-Mauritanie, PANPA and
SONELEC. These enterprises and their line ministries provided unanimous support to these
PAs which brought legitimacy and transparency to the financial and operational obligations
for each party. The PAs were successful in mobilizing resources and developing a mutually
beneficial relationship between Government and the PEs. Each party fulfilled the majority of
its obligations and all PEs, except Air Mauritanie, either broke even or was profitable over the
last three years. These achievements were due to the commitment by both parties to ensure
the PAs' success.
2 By June 1998, the Government divested about two-third of enterprises targeted for privatization at the
beginning of the Project. The size of the PE sector, however, increased since 1995, following the creation
of seven new parastatals from the corporatization of State-run operating assets (MPN, EPBR, OdA) and
commercial services (ENER, SAN, SBR, SAM).



5
However, an improvement of the financing and debt capacity of PEs under performance
agreements was not sufficient to provide adequate financing for the large investments that
were required, particularly in the telecommunications, water, energy and transport sectors.
Consequently, expansion of their operations and improvement of services were minimal.
Private sector participation, whether through concession or privatization, would have helped
cement the gains of PAs and address the investment needs of PEs. It was only late in the
Project that the Government became sensitive to these opportunities.  In 1998, the
Government began preparation, with IDA support, of a utility-sector reform program which
would include private sector participation.
(e) Improvement of Financial Discipline in the PE sector: The objective of improving the
financial discipline of the PE sector was partially achieved. All cross-debts between the
Government and PEs, representing UM 689 million as of 1990, were settled, as PESAP
tranche release conditions. After the PESAP closing iin 1994, cross-arrears re-emerged
because of continued inadequate budgetary allocations and delayed payments by the
Government for the services it received. These arrears, however, were settled within the
framework of the PEs' performance agreements. To avoid a recurrence of cross arrears, the
Government drastically reduced its consumption of utilities (e.g. water, electricity, etc.) and
increased its budgetary allocations. Budget allocations for OPT, SONELEC and Air-
Mauritanie rose from less than two percent of the total buidget in 1991 to close to six percent
each year between 1996-1998. The Government also created a special unit within the Ministry
of Finance (Division des Relations entre l'Etat et les Entreprises Publiques) to monitor its
financial relationship with the PEs and ensure timely payment for services rendered.
Problems remaining with some public customers were dealt with through: (i) improvement of
the accounting systems of PEs, which helped identify delinquent clients and whom they could
hold accountable; (ii) better equipment for measuring consumption; and (iii) a tougher stance
on cutting off services to customers who failed to pay. These measures helped control the risk
of further accumulation of debts. However, some arrears recently emerged from non-
profitable, social services carried out by SONELEC (for water sanitation project in
Nouakchott and water/electricity supply in rural towns), payments made by OPT to
international postal and telecommunication organizations, and air services to unprofitable
domestic routes by Air-Mauritanie, all on behalf of govemment, for which the companies
were not compensated in a timely fashion. These issues require rigorous attention to sustain
the recovery efforts of, and eliminate the excessive financial burdens on, these enterprises in
carrying out these services and obligations.
(f) Implementing Studies: The CRSP was responsible for canrying out studies on sub-sectors and
others to support the PE sector reform program (see Table 6). These studies were the basis
for the Government's divestiture program and policy refonns carried out under the PESAP.
13.   Strengthening DTEP: The Project strengthened DTEP's ability to supervise accounting and
budgetary procedures of PEs and to monitor PE financial performance. It helped design and
implement a management information system on the sector, which facilitated DTEP's effective
monitoring and policy formulation. Since 1993, DTEP issued annual reports on the PE sector entitled
"Le Secteur Parapublic en Chiffres", which provided information on PEs' financial statements and
selected perfonnance indicators. The Project also financed the training of DTEP's and selected PEs'
accountants which helped improve the quality of their financial reporting. However, although by the
end of the Project most enterprises produced their accounts within the legal deadline, only a few PEs



6
complied with the auditing requirement of their financial statements, and only three enterprises had
adopted effective financial management tools comprising, inter alia, computerized budgeting and cost
accounting systems. DTEP monitored the performance agreements of core PEs and took over the PA
oversight responsibility at the end of the Project. Extensive training under the Project and close
coordination with CRSP helped build DTEP's capacity to carry out these functions. Achievement of
Project objectives under this category was substantial.
(2)    Energy Sector
14.   The objective of this component was to: (a) strengthen the institutional capacity of
SONELEC; and (b) support the design and implementation of a household energy strategy by the
Directorate of Energy. Both objectives were partially achieved.
15.   Institutional Strengthening of SONELEC: During the Project period, SONELEC implemented
three consecutive PAs. The first one expired in 1991, the second one in 1995, and the third one,
which became effective in January 1996, is currently under implementation. SONELEC consistently
met its financial objectives. From a loss of UM 381 million in 1989, it registered a profit of UM 222
million in 1993 and UM 430 million in 1997. This sustained profitability was mainly due to increased
production and coverage and tariff increases. SONELEC partially improved its operating efficiency,
but failed to meet its technical performance targets. For instance, its global efficiency ratios for
electricity and water (measuring the proportion of production billed to customers) were 83% and 75%
in 1997, against the objectives of 89% and 79%, respectively. That year, SONELEC's collection rate
was 85%, 10-percentage point below the PA target. It also suffered from severe technical losses,
particularly water, though they were reduced by more than half over the last five years. (Table C-3)
16.   SONELEC regularly adjusted its tariffs to compensate for the increase in costs. Between
1992 and 1995, tariffs were increased four times, for a total of 51 percent, which more than
compensated for a 40 percent increase in costs, stemming in part from a devaluation of the ouguyia.
Although t]hese tariff adjustments helped improve SONELEC's financial position, they also increased
the costs of water and energy, thus raising factor costs and undermining the competitiveness of the
overall economy. SONELEC's water tariffs are among the highest in Africa (about US$1.03 per
cubic meter). This has highlighted the need to focus its future efforts on cost reduction and
operational efficiency. The Project supported the design and implementation of a cost accounting
system to separate the costs and profits by product and cost centers, and to identify monitorable
benchmarks to streamline each center's operations. The IDA Water Supply Project (Cr. 1867-MAU,
FY92) and Senegal River Valley Regional Power Project (Cr. 46650, FY97), and the Government's
utility sector reform program provided vehicles for continued support to SONELEC and further
development of the water and energy sectors.
17.   Household Energy Strategy: This component aimed at helping the Directorate of Energy
implement a household energy strategy, through the promotion of improved charcoal and kerosene
stoves, and the promotion of gas for household cooking.
18.   The Project financed approximately 60 percent of activities of the Government's Improved
Stoves Project (ISP) in 1993 and 1994. These activities include: (a) strengthening Government
capacity to promote alternative sources of household energy, by setting up two operational agencies
(Cellule de Coordination des Actions Bois de Feu, and Base Technique de Foyers Ameliores) under
the Directorate of Energy, creating a database on household energy supply and demand, and defining
a prototype of high performing stoves; and (b) implementing an action plan which comprised a



7
promotional campaign and training on the use of improved stoves (e.g., 12 promotional training
sessions and 47 certificates of attendance were delivered by the end of this exercise in 1994) and
commercialization of stoves (e.g., over 30,000 stoves were sold since 1989 including 5,000 in 1994).
However, the study on charcoal usage was not achieved under the Project. This study, as well as the
activities aimed at furthering the ISP, would be carried out under the Rainfed Natural Resources
Management Project (Cr. 1875-MAU, FY97) which stresses the importance of improved stoves and
alternative sources of household energy in preserving the environmlent.
(3)    Mining Sector
19.   This component provided support to the Ministry of Miniing in: (a) processing seismic data
and interpretation; and (b) promotion of petroleum exploration. Ihe Project also provided technical
assistance to the Directorate of Mining and Geology to, inter alia: (i) monitor mining and oil
exploration (e.g., drilling activities, registries and result analysis); (ii) analyze new geological and
petroleum data and integrate their findings into the Ministry's database; (iii) negotiate with
prospective investors; and (iv) promote oil exploration opportunities to foreign investors through a
technical atlas, promotional materials, visit tours and participation in international mining forums.
20.   As a result of these efforts, four major oil companies invested over US$ 40 million in oil
exploration during the Project period. However, although these high risk explorations did not lend
themselves to new discoveries, they revealed encouraging prospects, including deposits on and off-
shore and in the North Ras El Beida region. The strengthening of the Government's capacity to
manage the mining sector and further attract private operators continued under the Capacity Building
Project for the Development of Private Sector (Cr. 2730-MAU). Achievement of the Project's
objectives under this component was substantial.
(4)    Ministry of Commerce
21.   Project objectives under this component were to strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Ministry of Commerce to follow-up and supervise programs designed to eliminate monopolies and
liberalize prices. These objectives were partially achieved. Under the PESAP, the Government: (a)
abolished the monopoly of the import-export marketing company (SONIMEX) on rice, tea and sugar
imports and distribution; (b) liberalized the distribution of petroleum products; (c) eliminated the
insurance monopoly and privatized the national insurance company (NASR); and (d) abolished the
monopoly of the fish marketing board (SMCP) in the purchase of selected fishing products and
privatized the company.
22.   However, the overall impact of these reforms has been limited because: (i) oligopolistic
groups were constituted, facing little competition, even after trade liberalization; (ii) delays in
implementing the liberalization of the insurance sector. Although the liberalization law was enacted in
1995 its application decree was drafted only in 1998 and should be enacted by late 1998; and (iii)
although SMCP was privatized, it maintained exclusive rights on exports of special species (e.g.,
cephalopods) without proper regulation, which continued to distort fish marketing. These issues are
being addressed under the Cr. 2730-MAU.
(5)    Post and Telecommunications
23.   This component aimed at: (a) improving OPT operations and financial performance; (b)
preparing and implementing its performance agreement; and (c) introducing a new computerized



8
budgeting and accounting system, including full separation of accounts between financial, postal and
telecommunications services. These objectives have been partially achieved.
24.   The Project helped OPT prepare and implement two performance agreements, with
satisfactory results. The first PA was endorsed by the company in 1994 and adopted by the
Government in July 1995, three years behind schedule. This delay was mostly due to lack of
management commitment to change. Following the appointment of a new manager in 1996, the
company updated its PA indicators to use them as strategic management tool. The second PA, which
is currently under implementation, was adopted in 1996. The Government and OPT have complied
with their obligations under these PAs, with some delays, including the settlement of arrears, regular
payment of services and achieving financial and technical performance targets. From 1990 to 1997,
OPT doubled its service capacity to 12,500 telephone lines. During the same period, OPT profits rose
from UM 290 million to over UM 742 million (Table C-3). This financial performance was mainly
due to successful telecommunications operations; postal savings and checking services still incurred
severe losses. The Project also provided technical support to help OPT design and implement an
accounting system, separating accounts by cost and product centers for postal and telecommunications
services. At Project completion, the installation of this accounting system and the separation of OPT's
services were in progress.
25.   Although the reforms carried out under the Project helped improve OPT's managerial and
financial performance, they did not address other issues, such as competition, private participation,
sector regulation and supervision, which are critical to the sustainable development of the sector.
Overall, the Government's institutional capacity in this area remained weak and OPT continued to
operate under monopolistic conditions. Furthermore, there was almost no private sector participation
in postal and telecommunications services in Mauritania. Although OPT achieved some progress in
its operations, the quality and coverage of its services still needed improvement. For instance, the
number of faults per 100 lines exceeding 120 in 1997. Cellular telephony and other value-added
services were almost non-existent in the country. While the number of telephone lines doubled,
telephone penetration still represented half of the average levels in Sub-Saharan Africa (about 5 main
lines per 1000 persons in 1997). Moreover, OPT continues to rely on Government's financing of
major postal and telecommunications infrastructure. To address these issues, the Government began
to prepare a postal and telecommunications sector reform, with IDA assistance, in 1998. (Table 5-B)
(6)    Air-Mauritanie
26.   This component aimed at implementing the rehabilitation plan and PAs of Air-Mauritanie.
Achievement of these objectives was negligible.
27.   At the beginning of the Project, the Government carried out a comprehensive audit of Air-
Mauritanie to identify a suitable rehabilitation plan and a six-year PA. However, although the PA
became effective in January 1993, its implementation was invalidated due to severe deterioration of
the company's financial situation. Air-Mauritanie's operating deficit exceeded UM 154 million in
1991 and the company was in bankruptcy. This prompted the Government to adopt, in 1994, a one-
year emergency recovery plan which included, inter alia: (a) a financial restructuring through
recapitalization, debt rescheduling, the sale of the presidential aircraft, as well as payment of
Government arrears and compensation for public services; and (b) a tariff increase of about 12-15
percent on domestic routes, elimination of some loss-making international routes, and additional cost
controls. At this time the PA was reinstituted, albeit never updated. Although these measures
provided a short relief to the company, its financial situation deteriorated in 1995, along with its



9
commercial performance. This situation was further aggravated by a plane crash in July 1994 and the
increase of Government's arrears. Since then, the company has resisted implementing further
restructuring and is no longer applying its PA.
28.   In 1996, Air-Mauritanie's operating revenues were still insufficient to meet its financial
charges. Its deficit that year amounted to UM 800 million. To make things worse, the company
purchased two new planes, with a loan which it was in no position to service. To avoid the
confiscation of the planes, which were used as collateral in the sale, part of the debt service was
assumed by the Government, thus adding an additional burden on public finances. Lack of progress in
Air-Mauritanie's recovery was not only due to lack of rnanagement commitment and weak
institutional capacity, but also lack of political will to enforce the required restructuring measures or
divest the company. In 1997, Air-Mauritanie's financial position further deteriorated, with losses
totalling UM 1,403 million. Faced with this critical situation, the Government appointed an interim
administrator in 1998 to restructure the company, including reconfiguration of its fleet and options for
divestiture. By Project closing, this restructuring was still underway.
(7)    Port of Nouakchott
29.   The objective of this component was to strengthen the management of the port authority
(PANPA). This objective was substantially achieved. The Project helped PANPA prepare and
implement two PAs with satisfactory results. The first PA expired in December 1995 and the second
one is currently under implementation.
30.   Under these PAs, PANPA met or exceeded its financial and technical performance targets
(e.g. volume of traffic, waiting time on shore, unloading time and profitability - Table C-3).
Improvement of its financial performance enabled the company to self-finance its operating efficiency
plan. This plan included computerization of its accounting and management information system,
human resource development and equipment. In 1997, PANPA's profits amounted to over UM 137
million. The company regularly paid UM 100 million per year of rental fees to Government for usage
of the state-owned port assets. Most other port services (e.g. stevedoring) were privatized at the
beginning of the reform. With the exception of a few investments, Government met its obligations
under these PAs. In particular, the Government allowed PANPA to periodically adjust its tariffs to
properly reflect its cost structure, while maintaining its competitiveness vis-a-vis neighboring ports
(e.g., Dakar). As a result of PANPA's successful implementation of its PA, Government introduced a
similar PA which was adopted by the Port of Nouadhibou in 1996 and was still under execution at
Project closing.
D.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
31.   Several factors had a positive effect on Project execution, including: (a) the Government's
commitment to rehabilitate the PE sector; (b) the high quality of enterprise management, which was an
essential element to the relative success of most PAs; and (c) effective leadership and ownership of
the reform process by the Project executing agencies, notably CRSP and DTEP.
32.   There were, however, three factors that adversely affected Project implementation:
(i) Inappropriate Incentive and Enforcement Provisions of PAs: PAs should ideally link the PEs'
overall results to rewards and sanctions for management, as well as for the workforce. The
lack of such incentives and sanctions were key elements for the failure of Air-Mauritanie.



10
This factor was under Government control and had a substantial impact on the Project
outcome;
(ii) PE Corporate Governance: The legislation governing the PE sector, enacted at the beginning
of the Project, helped improve the legal and institutional relationships between Govemment
and the PEs. Govemment subsequently introduced a more efficient corporate executive
structure in each PE, including a board of directors and a general manager who enjoyed
autonomy in day-to-day operations. However, general managers were still appointed by the
President and were often not accountable to their board. The boards' lack of effectiveness and
inability to exercise control and enforce sanctions in case of poor management performance
delayed the recovery efforts of some PEs during the Project (e.g., OPT, Air-Mauritanie). This
factor was under Government control and had a moderate impact on the Project outcome; and
(iii) Project Financial Management: Poor financial management at the beginning of the Project
adversely affected implementation and required substantial additional supervision from IDA.
In November 1991, a Bank supervision mission expressed serious concerns over the
management of Project funds in the Special Account, and over deficient monitoring and
recording of expenditures by CRSP. The Govemment subsequently agreed to repay US$
300,000 of ineligible expenditures to the Special Account. It also took corrective measures to
prevent t]he inappropriate use of IDA funds, including adoption of a new accounting system,
enforcement of procedure manuals, and improvement of intemal financial control systems.
This factor was under CRSP control and had a moderate impact on the Project.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.   Overall, 'Project results are likely to be sustainable. Sustainable results include: (a) a stronger
govemment capacity in implementing PE reforms and monitoring the sector performance; (b)
completion of the divestiture of about two-thirds of the initial PE portfolio; and (c) financial discipline
in the PE sector. Furthermore, the Project contributed to the Govemment's realization that productive
and commercial activities are best left to the private sector, and that its role should be re-oriented more
towards sector regulation and supervision.
34.   The Government has begun exploring options for private participation to help increase
investment in the utility and transport sectors and enhance the sustainability of PAs.  The
Government's utility sector reform program adopted in 1998 and IDA-financed projects in the areas of
private sector development (e.g., Private Sector Capacity Building Project), water and energy (Senegal
River Valley Regional Power Project) also provide vehicles for continued development of these
sectors. Govemment commitment further enhances the sustainability of these reforms.
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
35.   Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory throughout the Project cycle, as reported in both
the ICR on PESAP and the OED Performance Audit Report on both PESAP and the Project. The PE
reform program was well designed and had adequate operational linkages between the PESAP and the
Project. The PESAP, as an adjustment operation, provided the resources and policy framework to
implement the reforms, while the Project provided supporting technical assistance, but without putting
pressure on all of the project components to meet the timetable of the adjustment program. The long
duration of the Project (eight years) was also critical, as it provided ample time to ensure the
internalization of the reforms and lasting capacity building.



I1
36.   At the time the Project was designed, PAs and performance contracts were widely used in
World Bank projects to improve PE efficiency. However, over time, their results were disappointing,
with no sustainable effect on PE productivity and profitability. The Bank found that PAs should be
used only where governments were politically prepared to malke tough decisions and the PA was part
of a broader package of PE reforms aiming to promote competition and private sector participation.
37.   The Bank addressed Project management issues in a timely fashion, carried out a total of nine
supervision missions and worked well with other donors, notably CFD and ADB. After the
completion of the PESAP, the Bank continued its policy dialogue with Government on PE issues
under the Policy Framework Papers, which allow continued monitoring of the recovery and financial
discipline of the sector.
G.  BORROWER PERFORIMANCE
38.   Borrower performance was satisfactory in both preparation and implementation of the Project.
The Government actively participated in the preparation of the Project and key policy reforms, and
carried out the required sector studies in a timely fashion. The Project implementing units (CRSP and
DTEP) operated efficiently, with high professional standards, and demonstrated effective ownership
of the reform process. Although early on, CRSP experienced serious financial and procurement
management problems, these were promptly tackled by the Government with Bank assistance and
resolved. The Borrower complied with most covenants of the IDA Credit Agreement, although with
frequent delays, notably in financial management and on accounting and auditing issues. On balance,
this compliance was satisfactory.
39.   The Borrower prepared its own assessment of the Proiject. Most findings and conclusions by
the Borrower were consistent with those made by the Bank. A copy of the Borrower's report is
attached as Appendix B.
H.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.   The overall outcome of the Project is rated satisfactory. This assessment is based on the
following: (a) successful implementation of PE reforms and divestiture; (b) strong Government
capacity to monitor the performance of the PE sector; (c) achievement of privatization targets; (d)
substantial implementation of the PAs of SONELEC, OPT and PANPA; (e) improved financial and
technical performance of utility and port companies, and improved quality of services; (f) successful
support to, and promotion of, the mining sector, which led to new investments of over US$ 40 million
by four major oil exploration companies; and (g) effective and well-targeted technical assistance,
which helped the Government implement key policy reforms under the PESAP. However, the Project
failed to bring financial stability to Air Mauritanie.
I.    FUTURE OPERAT:[ONS
41.   As indicated above, in 1998, the Government began to prepare, with IDA support, a
comprehensive plan to complete its unfinished PE reform agenda. This plan included, inter alia: (a) a
utility reform program, with a detailed action plan for post and telecommunications, and a strategy for
water and energy sectors; (b) divestiture of remaining PEs; and (c) design and implementation of
strategies to improve the private sector provision of port management, river transport and road
maintenance services (Table 5-B). The Government also prepared a private sector development



12
program supported by two IDA Credits: (i) Private Sector Development Project (Cr. 2726-MAU,
1995-1997); and (ii) Capacity Building Project for Development of the Private Sector (Cr. 2730-
MAU, - 1995, under implementation). This program aimed at strengthening the financial sector,
removing legal and regulatory constraints, and creating an enabling environment to encourage
potential investors in pursuing business opportunities, especially in the mining and fishing industries.
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.   There were three major lessons that emerged from the Project:
(a) Strong Government Commitment: Strong Government support and participation in the design
and implementation of the PE reform and privatization program was a sine qua non condition
to the success of these reforms. Throughout implementation, the Government sustained its
resolve to turn the PE sector around, with one exception, where the political will was just not
there. The failure of Air-Mauritanie clearly demonstrated that despite extensive technical
assistance, if there is no political will, the impact of the reform process will be marginal.
(b)  Effective Project Implementing Agency: CRSP played a critical role in the design and
implementation of reforms, including privatization and divestiture, and provided the necessary
leadership to ensure ownership of the process. CRSP had the resources as well as the
authority to exert sufficient pressure on both PE managers and Government officials to
comply with their obligations under the Performance Agreements. CRSP's institutional
stability facilitated the capacity building of its staff and was perceived as an efficient policy
adviser on PE reform by both the Government and PE managers.
(c)  Use of P'erformance Agreements: The experience of this Project confirms the conclusions
reached in a Bank's report3 on "Contract Plans and Public Enterprise Performance", that "PAs
help clarify goals, increase autonomy, and open the dialogue between management and
government - but their benefits have been oversold". In Mauritania, the performance
agreements were best used to regularize and improve the framework of those enterprises
which were already endowed with competent management and technical capabilities (e.g.,
OPT, SONELEC, PANPA). They were, however, not the best mechanism for healing sick
companies such as Air-Mauritanie, nor the most suitable instrument to mobilize the long-term
resources these companies needed to develop their infrastructure and expand their services in
a sustainable manner. In retrospect, the Bank should have put utility sector policy and
regulatory reforms, privatization and private participation as key elements of the PE reform
program, rather than restructuring under PAs. This lesson was applied from the beginning in
the follow-up utility sector reform program.
3 World Bank: Policy, Planning and Research: Working Papers Series No. 1 18



13
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAIJRITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2167-MAU)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1  Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial     Partial       Negligile    Not Applicable
Macroeconomics policies                           0                               El
Sector policies                   0               D oO
Financial objectives       .                      0 E
Institutional development         0
Physical objectives                               0 0 E0
Poverty reduction          .      oG                                              0
Gender concerns                                                                   0 o  O
Other social objectives           G0 M                                            0
Enviromnental objectives    .        G                            0               0
Public sector management                          0 E             0               G
Private sector development                        0               E O
B. Prect Sustainability                                Uniely               Uncertain
0                                         El0
C. Bank Performance        *                         Satifc                 Deficient
Identification             .                             0                     O
Preparation assistance              0                    0                     0
Appraisal                           0                    0                     0
Supervision                         0                    0                     O
I). Borrower Performance    . g    Satisfaclo         Satisfactoy            Deficient
Preparation                         0                    0                     0
Implementation                      0                    0                     O
Covenant compliance                 0                    0E                    0
Operation                           00                                         0
E. Assessment of Outome         Hi-hly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory 
Satisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory
0          0               El~~E           0



14
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Preceding Operations    To support private sector development, by financing
studies to develop appropriate policies for improving   1985   Closed on
Credit 1572-MAU         sub-sector perfonnance and for further expanding        12/31/91
Industrial Development   the manufacturing sector.
Project                 (PCR No 12770 dated 02/16/94)
Credit 1567-MALJ       Improvement of PE legal and institutional       1985   Closed on
Public Enterprise       framework, revision of incentive policies,              12/31/92
Technical Assistance and  rehabilitation of individual enterprises, and
Rehabilitation Credit  introduction of other measures to rationalize and
improve the efficiency of the PE sector.
(PCR No 11658 dated 02/16/93)
Credit 2643-MAU         Assistance to the rehabilitation of SNIM, the iron ore:  1985   Closed on
Rehabilitation Project for  mining company.                                     12/31/88
SNIM                    (PAR No. 10784 dated 06/26/92)
Credit 1812-MAU         To complement IMF-supported stabilization       1987   Closed on
Structural Adjustment   measures, with structural reforms in: (i) public sector:  12/31/88
Program                 management; (ii) banking sector reforms; (iii) public
enterprise reforms; (iv) energy; (v) agriculture and
rural development; and (vi) fisheries development.
(PAR No. 9682 dated 06/20/1995)
Simultaneous Operation    To support the extension of Govemment's structural
adjustment program aimed at deepening the reforms
Credit 2166-MAU         in the PE sector, through, inter alia: (a) PE legal  1990   Closed on
Public Enterprise Sector   and institutional reform; (b) financial restructuring  07/03/94
Adjustment Program      of keys PEs, particularly SNIM; and (c) a program
of PE divestiture.
(ICR No. 13929 dated 0 1/26/95; and PAR No.
15832 dated 06/28/96)
Following Operations    To promote private sector development by
improving the legal and institutional framework and    1995   Closed on
Credit 2726-MAU         consolidating financial sector reforms, with            10/08/97
Private Sector          emphasis on the mining and fishing sectors where
Development Program     private sector activity has scope for expanding.
(ICR No 17246 dated 12/19/97)
Credit 2730-MAU         To encourage investor interest in pursuing      1995    On-going
Capacity Building Project  opportunities in the private sector, especially in the
for the Development of the mining and fishing subsectors, via revision of the
Private Sector          commercial and tax codes, as well as other activities
designed to enhance entrepreneurial dynamics and
efficiency and strengthen the financial sector, so that
it can provide credit and banking services needed by
the private sector.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steos in roject Cycle                     ' l                   Date actual
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Identification                             April 1988                  October 1988
Preparation                                                            June 1989
Appraisal                                  January 1990                January 1990
Negotiations                               May 1990                    May 25, 1990
Letter of Sector Development Policy        May 1990                    May 25, 1990
Board presentation                         June 1990                   June 26, 1990
Signing                                    June 1990                   July 18, 1990
Effectiveness                              July 1990                   August 29, 1990
Project completion                         March 30, 1998         '   June 30, 1998
Credit closing                             June 30, 1998               June 30, 1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)      1991     1992    1993    1994   .1995    1996        1997      1998
Appraisal estimate   3  1.0       2.5      4.5     6.0     7.5      9.0       10.0     10.0
Actual*                  2.0      4.1      6.6     8.3     9.3      10.2      10.7     10.9
Actual as % of estimate   200%   164%    147%    138%    124%    114%.  107%           109%
Date of final disbursement: June 29, 1998
* The disbursed amounts differ from the original amounts of the Credit in terms of US$ due to changes
in the SDRIUS$ exchange rates.
Table 5-A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
The Project did not include specific performance indicators for implementation, except monitoring
indicators related to the PESAP which were assessed in this Program's ICR (ICR No. 13929 dated
01/26/95).



16
Table 5-B  Key Indicators for Operations *
1. Program Management
l   Creation of an inter-ministerial Technical Committee to oversight the reform process,  1998
and a Permanent Secretariat to support and implement the work program.
l    Monitoring of PE financial performance by DTEP                           1998-2000
2. Utility Sector Reform
(a) Post and Telecommunications Sector Reforml
 Adoption of a letter of sector development policy for post and telecommunications.  Done
* Design of a legal and regulatory framework, and establishment of a regulatory agency.  1999
l    Opening up of value-added services to competition.                          1999
l   Restructuring of OPT and separation of post and telecommunications services.  1999
 Opening up of the new telecommunications company to a strategic partner and other  1999-2000
private investors.
l   Design of a strategy to improve access and quality of services in rural areas.  1999-2000
(b) Water and Electricity Sector Reform
|   Adoption of a letter of sector development policy for water and electricity.  1998
l   Enactment of sector liberalization legislation.                              1999
l   Restructuring of SONELEC and separation of water and electricity services.  1999-2000
. Opening up of the company (ies) to strategic partners and other private investors.  1999-2000
3. Divestiture Program
(a) Divestiture
I    Sale of State-owned shares in ALMAP (50 percent, fishing company), MASHREF (15  1999-2000
percent, shipyard) and SSPAM (11 percent, fishing company); and sale of public shares
in NASR (34 percent, insurance company).
|   Liquidation of SAMIN (mining company).                                       1999
|   Partial sale of State-owned shares in Air-Mauritanie (68 percent, airline company, to be    1998-1999
restructured prior to divestiture); and SONIMEX (63 percent, import marketing board).
(b) Private Partic ipation in Provision of Public Services
l   Design and implementation of strategies to improve private participation in the provision   1999-2000
of services by PANPA and PAN (port management and operations), Baie du Repos
(artisanal fisheries), MPN (fish market), SAN (slaughter) and SBR (river transport).
|   Review of ENER's operations, sub-contracting of road maintenance activities to private    1999-2000
sector, and strengthening of oversight and control capacity.
4. PE Performance Review
* Study on the long-term viability of CNSS (social security and pension fund).  1999-2000
* Design and implementation of a performance contract with SONADER (rural       2000
development company).
* Performance review of SOCOGIM (housing company).                              2000
* Performance review of SMCP (fish marketing board) and its exclusive rights on export    1999-2000
of special species (e.g., cephalopods).
* Time-bound indicators from the Govemment's Statement on the Second Phase of Parastatal Sector Reform,
dated August 1998.



17
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study                         se              Stats             Impact
1. Review of PE corporate    To review the legislation  Completed  Helped set up a strong
govemance and legal and    goveming the PE sector.      (1990)   institutional base for sound
institutional framework.                                         management of the sector.
2. Studies on the promotion of To promote oil research and    Completed Helped design geological
oil exploration in Mauritania. attract exploration companies    (1994)   map and data, and attract
in Mauritania.                        oil exploration companies.
3. Insurance sector review.    To review the insurance  Completed I Helped liberalize the
sector's operations and set up    (1991)   insurance sector and
a regulatory framework for            privatize the insurance
private insurance companies.          company (NASR).
4. Feasibility study of a  To assess the feasibility of an   Completed . The study concluded that
fishery insurance union.   insurance company            (1995)   such insurance company
specialized in fisheries.             was not viable under
current circumstances.
5. Study and management    To restructure Air-Mauritanie  Completed None. Government did not
audit of Air-Mauritanie   and restore its financial     (1991)   enforce Air-Mauritanie's
viability.                            restructuring plan
6. Study on fnancial       To assess the company's    Completed . None. Government did not
restructuring of Air-     . financial viability      .  (1997)   implement the proposed
Mauritanie                                                       restructuring measures.
7. Study of OPT's managerial To improve OPT's managerial Comnpleted  Helped improve OPT's
reorganization and         system, and separate the     (1996)   accounting organization,
rehabilitation plan.       accounts of telecoms, post and.       cost accounting and
financial services.                   financial planning system.
8. Tariff study of PANPA's   To review the port's cost  Completed Helped adjust port tariffs
operations.                structure and competitiveness.   (1992)   and improve PANPA's
financial performance.
9. Various studies to design    To design, monitor and  Completed  Helped improve these PEs'
and evaluate the performance . evaluate these enterprises'   . (I 992/97)  corporate govemance,
agreements of Air-Mauritanie, performance agreements             managerial, technical and
PANPA, PAN, OPT and        (contrat-programmes).                 financial performance,
SONELEC.                                                         except for Air-Mauritanie.
10. Various studies of over 20 To review the PEs' financial   Cornpleted  Helped improve PE
PEs' management and        and management              (1992/97)  financial and management
financial situation, asset  performance, and prepare             systems, and implement
inventory, auditing and/or    restructuring and divestiture      staff and cost reduction
accounting.                plans.                                plans and divestiture.



18
Xtatus
11. Study of the impact of rice To assess the impact of rice    Completed  1Helped abolish
import liberalization.    trade liberalization on price,  (1993)   SONIMEX's monopolies
supply and demand, including          . and liberalize the
effects on domestic                   importation of rice.
production.
12. Study on the integration of:: To improve the transfer of  Completed  None. Government did
SNIM into the Mauritanian    SNIM's foreign exchange into   (1995)   not implement the
economy.                   the economy, under SNIM's              consultant's
Trust Fund By-Laws.                   . recommendations, due to
lack of consensus among
Mauritanian stakeholders.
13. Study on household    To promote household      I Completed  Helped promote gas as the
energy strategy and the    utilization of gas and reduce  (1995)   main source of household
promotion of gas.          fuelwood consumption                   cooking energy.
14. Study of the          To assess the importance of    Completed  Helped prepare the second
macroeconomic impact of the  the PE sector in the economy, I  (1998)   generation of PE sector
PE sector reform.          and its efficacy.                      reforms.
15.Retrospective evaluation of To prepare an evaluation  Completed . Helped Government
the Public Enterprise Sector   report on the Project    (1997)   prepare its contribution to
Institutional Development and.:                                  the ICR on the Project.
Technical Assistance Project
Table 7-A  Project Costs
(US$ million)
lSupport to CRSP                    0.29      2.34  .2.63           3.28
Support to Ministry of Finance     0.05      0.65      0.70        0.47
Support to Ministry of Commerce    0.04      0.36      0.40        0.86
Support to SONELEC                 0.11      2.39      2.50        1.11
Support to Directorate of Energy   0.06      0.34      0.40        0.24
Support to Directorate of Mines    0.04      1.12      1.16        1.61
Supportto OPT                      0.15      0.39      0.54        1.59
Support to Air Mauritanie           0.02     0.18      0.20        0.88
Support to PANPA                   0.02  I  0.23       0.25        0.48
Other TA activities                 ....               ....        1.75
Project cost without contingencies  0.78     8.00      8.78       12.27
Contingencies                      0.22       1.50     172            0
Total Project Cost          1.00      9.50     10.50       12.27



19
Table 7-B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Financing Plan               Appraisal estimate       Actual
Local   Foreign    Total     Total
Government                         0.50         O      0.50      1.37
IDA                                0.50      9.5      10.00     10.90
Total                 1.00     9.50  .  10.50      12.27
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis was carried out during project preparation
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
CreFit    Covenant .resent
Agreement    Type  stateuspio  f oenn                                 Comments
SeGtion
3.01    Project      C   iThe Borrower declares its commitment to the  I
implemen-          objectives of the Project as set forth in
tation             Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, I
shall carry out the Project through CRSP with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial,
management and commercial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required
. __i.___E for the Project.
3.02    Procure-    CD   Except as the Association shall otherwise  Funds in the Special
ment               agree, procurement of the goods, works and    Account were misused
consultants' services required for the Project   at the beginning of the
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the    Project. Government,
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of   however, reimbursed
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.           the ineligible funds in
1993, and improved
the Project's financial
I______ .________  ._____ _____________________________________ management system.
3.03    Project      C    The Borrower shall, not later than September   The "Cellule sur la
implemen-          30, 1990, designate the Department of   I Dimension Sociale de
tation.            Employment and the Department of Re-      I'Ajustement" was
insertion to be responsible for providing  created under the
counselling and assistance to former    . Ministry of Planning in
employees who are declared redundant as a  1990 and handled
__.__.   result of the Program.                   these functions.
Present status C = complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



20
3.04    Moni-          C     The Borrower shall, not later than December   In compliance
toring               31, immediately preceding the beginning of    throughout the Project
each fiscal year, submit to the Association, for
review and comments, an annual work plan,
giving details of its budgetary proposals and
proposed training programn, for that fiscal year.
3 05    Project        C     The Borrower shall, not later than December    Resident advisers and
implemen-            31, 1990, recruit a suitably qualified and   short-term consultants
tation.              experienced resident adviser to be responsible   were recruited and
to advise CRSP on all issues pertaining to the   carried out several
privatization of public enterprises and related   technical assistance
matters.                                     missions
4.01. (a)    Acc. &     CD    The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be     The Project's
Audit.             maintained records and accounts adequate to    accounting
reflect in accordance with sound accounting  organization and
practices the operations, resources and      financial information
expenditures in respect of the Project of the  system were
departments or agencies of the Borrower      maintained in a
responsible for carrying out the Project or any   satisfactory fashion,
part thereof.                                since 1993.
4.01. (b)    Acc. &     CD    The Borrower shall:
Audit.
(i) have the records and accounts referred to    All required audits of
in paragraph (a) of this Section including    Project's accounts,
those for the Special Account for each   including those of the
fiscal year audited, in accordance with   Special Account, were
.           i        *   appropriate auditing principles consistently  carried out. However
applied, by independent auditors          audit reports were
acceptable to the Association;            often completed with
delays.
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as  Since 1994, CRSP
i       i   available, but in any case not later than six  consistently applied
(6) months after the end of each such year,  the auditor's
a certified copy of the report of such audit  recommendations for
by said auditors, of such scope and in such   sound financial
detail as the Association shall have      management.
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said records,
accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.



21
Credit  i Covenant   Present I
Agreement   Type      Staus               Description ofC.venant                     Comments
Secuton
4.01. (c)   Acc. &      C     For all expenditures with respect to w]hich
Audit.            withdrawals from the Credit Account were
made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting
.             such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to  I
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
l  .      .             included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and intemal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to
l                  .   support the related withdrawals.



22
4.02    Acc. &     CD    The Borrower shall cause SONELEC, OPT,    All required audits of
Audit.           Air Mauritanie, SMCP and PANPA to:         PEs' accounts were
carried out, however,
(a) have their records, accounts and financial    with frequent delays.
statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related         SMCP was privatized
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in   in 1995. The new
accordance with appropriate auditing    owners did not need to
principles consistently applied, by     legally comply with the
independent auditors acceptable to the  requirement to have
Association;                            SMCP's accounts
audited.
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six
(6) months after the end of each such year:
(A) certified copies of the financial
.            .        statements for such year as so audited, and
(B) the reports of such audits by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
.        .       .   the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning such records,
accounts, financial statements and the audits
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.



23
Table 10  Bank Resources: StafT Inputs
(Staff - Weeks)
_~
Stage of Project Cycle                    Planned        Actual
Through appraisal *   (Preparation, Preappraisal)                          33.9
Appraisal 4  Board*    (Negotiation)                 .                      2.9
Board +  Effectiveness*
Supervision*                                         .      59.0           78.8
Completion                                           *      18.4             7.9
Total                                                       77.4          123.5
* P.S.: Resources utilized from preparation to Board presentation, and partly during supervision, included staff
inputs for both PESIDTAP (Cr. 2167-MAU) and PESAP (Cr. 216-MAU). These projects were prepared and
processed in parallel up to Board presentation. They were also supervised together from 1990 to 1994.
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Missions
Performance  Rating
Stage of    Month/   Nurnber  Days   Specialized staff                                    Types of Problems
Project Cycle.  Year       of       in   Skills Representead'  P           D-1pnrC
Persons  Field   *.                                             ______-_..-_-.
Credit 1567-MAU and
Through       06/1988       5       4    Economist,             none          none       preliminary discussions
Appraisal              .                  Energy, Mining,                .               of PESIDTAP
Consultants (2)
10/1988      6       21   Economists (2),                 .               PE sector assessment and
Petroleum,                                     preparation of lending
Mining,                                        operation
Transport, Cons.
11/1988 I   5        I I
Eco, Fin. Analyst,                             Electricity and water
Mining, Cons. (2)                              utility rehabilitation
06/1989      5       16
Eco., Fin Analyst,                             PESAP/PESIDTAP
Mining, Cons. (2)                              appraisal
01/1990      7       22
Eco (2), Fin.                                  PESAP/PESIDTAP
Analyst, Lawyer,                               appraisal
Mining, Energy,
Social aspects



24
Table 11  Bank Resources: Staff Missions (contd.)
Appraisal to                           *..                                            
Board .to..                                                        
Efcieness.                   *      .      
Supervision*....
I     .10/1990 . 8            17  .Task Manager   .        I       *      I        Overalll
*   *        *       ~~~~~(TM), PE                  *implementation                       l
.   .        .      . ~~~~specialist,                              .review, SNIM,         l
.    .      . ~~Energy, Mining,             ..restructuring, social l
.   .        .      . ~~~~Fisheries,                .aspects, cofinancing
PLawyer, Airline, ..issues                                          l
.t     .                                             Iredeployment
11      09/1991 .      b3    . 39  .eTM, Mining, S          I             2      . Implementation P
.   .               . ~~~~Telecom     .*.reviewl
III      10/1992       2       21  *kTM, Mining      .      I              I       Implementatione e
Persons   Fie1d~                      Stpact                   review
IV     *02/1994 . 4            I 10   TM, Mining,           I       .      I      .Implementation
.    *.     . ~Telecom, PE    **review, OPT
Apprail toSpecialist                                                        perfonmance
*   .   .                 .                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~agreement
V        07/1995 .   I    . 22  *.(TM                      HS            HS        Implementation
spec.ialist                                  . review
VI       03/1996 . 2    *14   Economist,                    S       .      S        Performance contract
EConsultantin                                 review, Air-
.   .   .                 .              .              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mauritanie
VII       11/1996      2    *14  .Economist, Fin. .            S    .      S        Utility sectorreview
.   j        .       ~~~~Analyst
VIII      06/1997      2        14    Economist,Fin.         1             S        Implementation
*   .   . Analyst  .           *             .Ireview
Completion V   08/1998     2       14    Economist,Fin.         1              S        ICRpreparation
SpeAnalyst
5   Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590: ratings are S (satisfactory) or from P        (highest) to 4 (lowest).



25
APPENDICES
A. ICR MISSION's AIDE-ME]MOIRE
Dimanche 13 septembre 1998
1.    Une mission de la Banque Mondiale, composee de M. Jean-Michel Happi, Economiste, et
Mme. Sherri Archondo, Analyste Financiere, a sejourne en Mauritanie du 31 aouft au 15 septembre
1998. La mission avait pour objectifs de: (a) preparer le Rapport de fin d'execution (RFE) du Projet
d'assistance technique et de developpement institutionnel du secteur des entreprises publiques (Le
Projet), Credit 2167-MAU; et (b) superviser le Projet de renforcement des capacites pour le
developpement du secteur prive (Credit 2730-MAU). Le rapport de supervision du Credit 2730-MAU
a fait l'objet d'un aide-memoire separe.
2.     La mission remercie les autorites de la Mauritanie, notamment le Ministre des Affaires
Economiques et du Developpement; le Ministre des Finances; le Conseiller Economique Charge de la
Promotion du Secteur Prive, Directeur de la Cellule de Rehabilitation du Secteur Parapublic (CRSP);
le Directeur de la Tutelle des Entreprises Publiques (DTEP); ainsi que les autres personnes
rencontrees, pour leurs accueil, disponibilite et collaboration aux travaux de la mission.
3.     Le texte ci-dessous est le sommaire du projet de RF]E realise au terme de la mission. La
mission a fourni au Gouvernement I'appui et les conseils necessaires afin qu'il prepare sa propre
contribution a ce Rapport, y compris un plan des op6rations futures et des indicateurs de suivi de
l'impact de developpement du Projet.
A.    Evaluation des Objectifs du Projet
4.     Le Projet avait pour objectif d'assister le Gouvemement dans la formulation et l'ex6cution des
reformes mises en oeuvre dans le cadre du Programme d'ajustement du secteur des entreprises
publiques (PASEP). II visait egalement A renforcer les capacites institutionnelles du Gouvernement A
redresser le secteur des entreprises publiques (EP), en suivre la performance et en ameliorer la gestion
et le developpement futur. Le Projet avait aussi pour but d'aider le Gouvernement a mieux gerer les
secteurs de l'energie, des transports et telecommunications, par des actions specifiques visant A: (a)
mettre en place une strategie de promotion de nouvelles energies domestiques, developper les
capacites institutionnelles de la SONELEC, et attirer des compagnies privees interessees par
l'exploration petroliere en Mauritanie; (b) restaurer la viabilite financiere et la qualite des services de
transport aerien d'Air-Mauritanie, et ameliorer les performances des services portuaires du PANPA; et
(c) developper les services postaux et de telecommunications de l'OPT, et encourager la creation
d'une filiale qui mobiliserait l'epargne.
5.     Les objectifs du Projet visant A poursuivre et intensifier les mesures d'ajustement du PASEP
etaient clairs et supportes par des indicateurs de performance dont la realisation figurait parmi les
conditions de decaissement des tranches du Pret d'ajustement sectoriel. Les objectifs visant a
renforcer les capacites du Gouvernement A mieux gerer le secteur parapublic etaient r6alistes, tenant
compte de la duree du Projet (8 ans) et de son appui technique et logistique aux institutions chargees
de la mise en oeuvre des reformes.
6.     Par contre, les objectifs vises dans les domairies de l'6nergie, des transports et
telecommunications etaient insuffisants. Leur but etait d'am6liorer les performances financieres et de



26
gestion des entreprises de service public (ESP) operant dans ces secteurs. Cependant, le Projet ne
couvrait pas certains aspects importants pour le developpement durable de ces services, dont les
reformes des politiques et reglementations sectorielles, et les conditions de concurrence. II ne
considerait pas non plus la participation du secteur prive A ces ESP, qui etait essentielle pour soutenir
des niveaux suffisants d'investissements, developper les infrastructures et ameliorer la qualite et
l'acces aux services.
B.    Mise en Oeuvre du Projet et Resultats
7.     Realisation des Principaux Objectifs. Les objectifs du Projet ont etepartiellement atteints,
la durabilite de ses resultats estprobable et, dans 1'ensemble, le Projet est evalue commesatisfaisant.
Parni ses resultats positifs, le Projet a aide A renforcer le cadre legal et reglementaire du secteur
parapublic (e.g., Ordonnance 90.09), et etablir une solide base institutionnelle pour une gestion
efficace du secteur. Cette legislation a permis une nouvelle classification des entreprises par statut,
leur plus grande autonomie de gestion, une claire delimitation des responsabilites entre le
Gouvernement et les entreprises, et la definition des modalites de privatisation, liquidation et d'autres
fornes de desengagement de l'Etat.  La legislation a et observee de facon rigoureuse par le
Gouvernement et les entreprises visees tout au long du projet.
8.     Le Projet a egalement renforce les institutions chargees de la reforme des EP. II a developpe
les capacites administratives et operationnelles de la CRSP, notamment en matiere de privatisation,
restructuration et suivi des performances des EP A travers les contrats-programmes (CP). L'appui
technique et logistique A la CRSP lui a permis de conduire la plupart de ces reformes dans les delais
requis, de facon satisfaisante. Le Projet a egalement renforce les capacites de la DTEP, grAce
notamment A la mise en place d'un systeme d'information de gestion, qui lui a permis d'assurer le
suivi efficace de la performance financiere du secteur parapublic et de l'ensemble des entreprises
publiques administratives.
9.     Le Projet a aide le Gouvernement A definir et executer son programme de privatisation. Ce
programme visait a reduire la taille du secteur d'environ 40 entreprises en 1990 A une douzaine
'd'entreprises viables et profitables, operant sans subvention ni acces privilegie au credit, dans un
environnement competitif. Ces objectifs ont et partiellement atteints. En decembre 1997, le secteur
des EP etait reduit A 27 entreprises (dont sept entreprises creees apres 1995). Le Gouvemement avait
reduit sa participation majoritaire de 30 A 19 EP, et sa participation minoritaire de 10 A huit societ6s.
La situation financiere des eitreprises restant dans le portefeuille s'etait significativement amelior6e.
Celles-ci ont realise des profits nets consolides d'environ UM 4.0 milliards en 1997, alors que leur
resultat agrege etait deficitaire en 1991-92. Environ quatre EP avaient realise des pertes en 1997,
totalisant UM 1.5 milliards, dont environ 94 pour-cent etaient dus A Air-Mauritanie.
10.    En plus, le Gouvernement a 6limine les subventions directes aux EP, A l'exception des
compensations A SONELEC et Air-Mauritanie pour les services sociaux qu'elles fournissent pour le
compte du Gouvernement. L'acces privilegie des EP au credit a 6galement et interrompu. En 1997,
elles n'absorbaient plus que moins de cinq pour-cent des credits a 1'6conomie, compare a plus de 20
pour-cent au debut du Projet. II demeure cependant des subventions indirectes, par exemple des
exemptions de tarifs douaniers et des transferts indirects aux EP pour lesquelles le Gouvernement
assume le risque de change sur leur dette exterieure (e.g., SONELEC).
11.    Le Projet a aussi aide a definir et mettre en oeuvre les CP entre le Gouvernement et l'OPT,
SONELEC, PANPA et Air-Mauritanie. Ces CP ont permis de mobiliser les ressources et developper



27
des relations contractuelles, mutuellement b6n6fiques entre Ie Gouvemement et les EP. Les CP
comprenaient des indicateurs clairs et quantifiables permettant de suivre les performances techniques
et financieres des EP. La mise en place de certains CP a e  lente et les resultats obtenus plus tard que
prevus. Neanmoins, le Gouvernement et les EP ont rempli la plupart de leurs obligations et chaque
entreprise, A l'exception d'Air-Mauritanie, avait realise ou excede ses objectifs de performance et etait
profitable au cours des trois demieres annees.
12.    Cependant, I'amelioration des capacites d'autofinancement et d'endettement de ces EP n'etait
pas suffisante pour mobiliser les fonds necessaires aux larges investissements, en particulier dans les
services de t6l6communications, eau, energie et transport. En consequence, le developpement des
operations et l'amelioration de ces services ont ete modestes. Des insuffisances de gestion ont aussi
entrave le redressement de ces EP. Des reformes additionnelles des politiques et reglementations
sectorielles, ainsi que la participation accrue du secteur prive a ces entreprises, A travers des
concessions ou privatisations, auraient consolide les progres accomplis dans le cadre des CP et permis
de mobiliser les financements et les competences techn,iques et de gestion necessaires au
developpement durable de ces services. Afin de saisir ces opportunit6s, le Gouvernement a
commence A preparer un programme de reforme des ESP, y compris un plan d'action pour les postes
et telecommunications et la participation du secteur prive.
13.    Les resultats du Projet concemant son appui A Air-Mauritanie ont ete insatisfaisants. En depit
d'une importante assistance technique, la situation financiere de cette entreprise s'est deterioree tout
au long du Projet. Cette deterioration etait due non seulement au manque d'engagement des
responsables et aux insuffisances institutionnelles de la compagnie, mais 6galement au manque de
volonte politique pour mettre en oeuvre les mesures de restrucituration ou de privatisation necessaires.
En 1997, les pertes d'Air-Mauritanie etaient estimees A UM 1.4 milliards et elle etait en etat de
cessation de paiement. Face A cette situation, le Gouvemement a nomme un administrateur provisoire
charge de restructurer la compagnie, y compris reconfigurer sa flotte et ouvrir son capital aux
operateurs prives. A la cl6ture du Projet, cette restructuration etait en cours. D'autres mesures
6galement prevues dans le cadre du Projet ont ete preparees mais pas executees, notamment la
separation des services postaux et de telecommunications de l'OPT, et la creation d'une filiale charg6e
de la mobilisation de l'epargne.
14.    Facteurs ayant Affecte l'Execution du Projet. La rnise en oeuvre du Projet a ete entrav6e
par plusieurs facteurs. Le plus important d'entre eux etait les incitations et modalites d'application
inappropriees des CP. Pour etre efficaces, les CP devraiert lier les performances des EP A des
incitations (sanctions ou recompenses) A leurs gestionnaires. L'absence de telles incitations a ete une
cause essentielle de l'echec d'Air-Mauritanie. Ce facteur a eu un impact substantiel sur les resultats
du Projet. Des problemes de gestion financiere, dont l'utilisation inappropriee des fonds du compte
special et des defauts du systeme comptable et financier, ont egalement affecte la mise en oeuvre du
Projet, en particulier au debut des operations. Ceci avait conduit le Gouvemement A rembourser US$
300,000 de depenses ineligibles au compte special en 1993. A cette occasion, le Gouvernement avait
egalement pris d'autres mesures correctives, dont l'adoption d'un nouveau systeme comptable,
I'application du manuel de procedures, et l'amelioration du systeme de contr6les internes.
15.    Durabilite des Reformes. La durabilit6 des resultats du Projet estprobable. Ses realisations
perennes incluent: (a) une capacite institutionnelle renforc6e pour la mise en oeuvre des reformes et le
suivi de la performance du secteur parapublic; (b) la privatisation et le desengagement de l'Etat
d'environ deux tiers du nombre d'EP dans le portefeuille initial; et (c) le retablissement de la
profitabilite et l'instauration d'une discipline financiere dans le secteur des EP. Le Projet a egalement



28
contribue A ce que le Gouvernement realise que les activites productives et commerciales sont mieux
gerees par le secteur prive, et que son role devrait etre reoriente vers la reglementation et la mise en
place d'un environnement propice A l'initiative privee. Le programme du Gouvernement visant a
reformer les services publics et de transport, y compris l'ouverture des ESP au secteur prive, permettra
de consolider les progres realises dans le cadre des CP. L'engagement du Gouvernement A
poursuivre et achever son programme de privatisation devrait aussi contribuer A renforcer la durabilite
de ces reformes.
16.   Performance de la Banque et de I'Emprunteur. Dans l'ensemble, la performance de la
Banque a ete satisfaisante. La performance de l'Emprunteur a egalement ete satisfaisante dans la
preparation et 1'execution du Proj et. Le Gouvemement a activement participe a la preparation des
reformes et a fait preuve d'une adhesion manifeste a leurs objectifs. It a mis en oeuvre son
programme de reduction des effectifs et paye les indemnites de separation des employes des EP de
facon diligente, ce qui a d'autant plus facilite l'execution du programme de privatisation.
L'internalisation du processus de rdforme par les agences d'execution et les EP bendficiaires a ete un
facteur determinant dans le succes du Projet. Dans l'ensemble, a 1'exception des problemes de gestion
financiere du Projet qui ont ete resolus en cours d'execution, la conformitd de I'Emprunteur avec les
dispositions de I'Accord de Credit 2167-MAU a ete satisfaisante.
C.    Futures Operations et Principales Lecons
17.    Futures Operations. Le Gouvemement a commence a preparer un programme portant sur la
seconde phase de reforme du secteur des EP, avec I'assistance de l'IDA. Ce programme comprend,
inter alia: (a) la reforme des services publics, y compris un plan d'action detaille pour les postes et
telecommunications, et une strategie pour les secteurs eau et electricite; (b) l'achevement du
programme de privatisation et liquidation; et (c) la formulation de strategies de promotion du secteur
prive dans divers services d'inter8t public (e.g., gestion portuaire, transport fluvial, entretiens
routiers). Le suivi de ces reformes est effectue, inter alia, dans le contexte du Document Cadre de
Politique Economique ("Policy Framework Paper").
18.   Principales Lesons.  Au terme de la mise en oeuvre du Projet, on peut en tirer les
enseignements suivants:
(a) Engagement du Gouvernement: L'engagement effectif du Gouvernement et sa participation
active A la formulation et l'execution du programme de privatisation et reforme des EP etait
une condition sine qua non du succes de ces reformes. Tout au long du Projet, le
Gouvemement a maintenu sa determination a redresser ce secteur, A l'exception d'Air-
Mauritanie ofi il y avait un manque de volonte politique. L'echec d'Air-Mauritanie demontre
que lorsque la volonte politique fait defaut, tout processus de reforme aura un impact
marginal, en depit d'une assistance technique intensive;
(b) Performance de l'Agence d'Ex&cution: la CRSP a joud un role essentiel dans la formulation
et la mise en oeuvre des reformes, et fourni le "leadership" necessaire A leur internalisation.
La CRSP etait dotee des ressources et de l'autorite necessaires pour exercer une pression sur
les responsables des EP et du Gouvemement, afin qu'ils remplissent leurs obligations dans le
cadre des CP. Sa stabilite institutionnelle et la continuite de son personnel ont facilite le
renforcement des capacites de ses cadres et lui ont permis de jouer un role important de
conseil en matiere de reforme des EP aupres du Gouvernement et de ces entreprises; et



29
(c) Contrats-Programmes: L'experience de ce Projet confirme les conclusions d'un rapport de la
Banque intitule "Contrats Plans et Performance des Entreprises Publiques" selon lesquelles
"les contrats de performance aident i clarifier les objectt;fs, accroitre I 'autonomie et ouvrir le
dialogue entre les responsables des entreprises et le Gouvernement. Cependant, leurs
benefices ont ete surestimes".   En Mauritanie, les CP  ont contribue a ameliorer
l'environnement institutionnel et la performance des entreprises qui etaient d6ja dotees de
cadres competents et de capacites techniques (e.g., OPT, PANPA, SONELEC). Par contre,
ces CP se sont averes inefficaces pour redresser des entreprises en detresse comme Air-
Mauritanie. Ils n'etaient pas non plus appropries pour mobiliser les ressources longues dont
ces entreprises avaient besoin pour developper leurs infrastructures et services de facon
durable. Pour en consolider les realisations, il faudrait donc que ces CP soient suivis par
d'autres mesures visant a l'ouverture et la reforme de ces secteurs.



30
APPENDICES
B. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Ministere des Affaires Economiques et du Developpement
Cellule de Rehabilitation du Secteur Parapublic
Contribution au Rapport de Fin d'Execution
du Projet de Developpement Institutionnel et d'Assistance Technique
au Secteur des Entreprises Publiques (Credit 2167-MAU)
Septembre 1998
1.    Objectifs
Suite A la premiere phase de reforme du secteur parapublic mise en oeuvre dans le cadre du
PATREP (Cr. 1567), le Gouvemement a engage en 1990 avec l'assistance de la Banque mondiale un
Programme d'Ajustement du Secteur des Entreprises Publiques (PASEP) qui a pour objectif
d'approfondir les reformes et d'assurer le desengagement de l'Etat des activites industrielles et
commerciales.
En appui a ce programme, un Projet d'assistance technique et de developpement institutionnel
du secteur des entreprises publiques (Cr. 2167-MR) a et prepare pour faciliter la mise en ceuvre des
reformes arr8tees dans le cadre du PASEP par la fourniture des ressources additionnelles necessaires
notamment en matiere d'expertise pour la conduite des reformes et l'amelioration des performances
du Gouvernement dans les domaines de gestion et du suivi du secteur.
Ce projet d'assistance technique se fixait aussi des objectifs specifiques dans les secteurs de
1'energie, des telecommunications, du commerce, des assurances et de 1'exploration petroli&e.
2.    Description du Projet
Le projet comprenait principalement les parties suivantes:
Partie A: Reforme gen6rale du secteur: cette partie couvre le suivi des performances et
d'assainissernent du secteur, la mise en couvre des mesures de desengagement, de privatisation, la
realisation des audits annuels, la formulation de conseil et avis en matiere de reduction des effectifs, la
realisation d'etudes sur des sous secteurs ou sur des entreprises selectionnees et I'appui a la Direction
de la Tutelle des Entreprises Publiques (DTEP) pour ameliorer ses capacites et notamment son
systeme d'information et la mise en ceuvre des programmes de formation.
Partie B: Appui au secteur de 1'energie qui comprend le renforcement des capacites
institutionnelles de la SONELEC, la mise en ceuvre d'une strategie de l'energie pour les menages et la
promotion de l'utilisation du gaz pour la cuisine.
Partie C: Appui au secteur des mines pour I'aide au traitement des donnees sismiques, A la
reinterpretation et au retraitement et A la promotion de l'exploration petroliere.



31
Partie D: Appui au Ministere du Commerce: il s'agit d'un ensemble de mesures pour le
renforcement des capacites institutionnelles du departement pour le suivi et la supervision des
programmes de demonopolisation et de politiques de liberalisation des prix.
Appui A certaines entreprises: (i) OPT: mise A jour du plan de redressement et e1aboration du
contrat programme; (ii) Air-Mauritanie: mise en place d'un programme de rehabilitation et signature
d'un contrat programme; et (iii) PANPA: renforcement de la gestion portuaire.
3.    Mise en Oeuvre et Execution dlu Projet
L'accord de credit signe le 25 Mai 1990 A Washington est entre en vigueur fin 1990 et le
demarrage effectif des activites du projet est intervenu en 1991. La CRSP a et designee pour la mise
en ceuvre de ce projet en collaboration avec la DTEP et les entreprises et administrations impliquees.
L'ensemble des composantes du Projet ont ete execut6es avec succes et dans des delais raisonnables.
(a) La CRSP et la DTEP ont ameliore leurs performances en matiere d'6laboration et de
coordination des politiques de reforme du secteur parapublic en developpant leurs
comp6tences et leur systemes de travail : elaboration des tableaux de bord, definition des
programmes de redressement d'entreprises, mise en ceuvre des mesures d'accompagnement
du plan de desengagement de I'Etat et elaboration et execution des programmes de formation
beneficiant A la fois au personnel de ces directions et au personnel des entreprises publiques.
La CRSP a assure le suivi des contrats programmes et la realisation des audits annuels de
l'OPT, d'Air Mauritanie, du PANPA et de la SONELEC.
(b) La SONELEC a beneficie d'une assistance technique importante pour l'amelioration de son
systeme de gestion et le renouvellement de son premier contrat programme et le renforcement
de son organisation interne et l'amelioration de son fonctionnement. Cette entreprise a
largement ameliore ses performances techniques el financieres, a ajuste ses tarifs
continuellement en fonction des objectifs d'equilibre financier et a paracheve l' installation de
son systeme de gestion et d'information par l'informatisation des fonctions commerciale et
comptable. Le montant total dont a beneficie la SONELEC, au titre de la categorie
Consultants s'eleve A 631 000 DTS ayant servi A financer I'assistance technique EDF-CGE, la
realisation des audits annuels, le renouvellement du contrat programme et l'assistance
technique pour la mise en cuvre de la comptabilite analytique. Au titre de la categorie
formation la SONELEC a benefici6 de 80 000 DTS.
(c) La composante secteur energie a ben6ficie d'un montant total de 266 000 DTS qui a servi A
financer une assistance technique pour l'elaboration d'uune strategie de promotion d'utilisation
du gaz de cuisine, A l'assistance et au fonctionnement du Projet des foyers ameliores et A
l'acquisition d'equipements pour la direction de l'energie.
(d) La composante prospection petroliere a beneficie d'un montant total de 862 000 DTS ayant
servi A financer l'assistance technique pour l'interpretation et le traitement des donnees et la
confection d'un dossier pour la promotion de la prospection petroliere Des campagnes de
recherche ont suivi ces efforts de promotion et certaines estimations avancent le chiffre de 40
millions de dollars comme ayant ete investi dans la recherche petroliere au cours de
l'execution du projet.



32
(e) Le Ministere du Commerce a beneficie de l'appui du credit (290 000 DTS) pour le
reniforcement de ses capacit6s dans le cadre de la liberalisation du secteur des assurances. Cet
appui a pris la forme d'une assistance technique pour I'laboration du code des assurances et
de la formation du personnel de la direction du contr6le des assurances.
(f) La SONIMEX a b6n6fici6 d'un montant total de 231 000 DTS pour le financement de laudit
annuel de ses comptes et la formation de son personnel. Aussi, des mesures de redressement
comportant notamment une deflation du personnel ont et mises en cxuvre pour cette
entreprise.
(g) L'assistance technique A l'OPT a concern6 la reorganisation et la definition de nouvelles
procedures, le d6veloppement d'applications informatiques, l'am6lioration des fonctions
comptable, financiere et commerciale, I'audit regulier de ses comptes annuels et la fornation
du personnel. Le montant total ayant beneficie A l'OPT s'6l1ve A 865 000 DTS. L'OPT a
largement ameliore ses procedures et ses syst&mes de comptabilite et de gestion commerciale
qui ont e entierement informatises. Le plan de redressement elabore pour cette entreprise a
ete formalise en 1995 par la signature d'un contrat programme avec I'Etat. L'OPT a toujours
respecte les indicateurs qui lui sont fixes et a de facon continue ameliore ses performances
techniques et financieres.
(h) Air-Mauritanie a ben6fici6 d'un montant total de 529 000 DTS pour le financement de
I'assistance technique pour l'elaboration  d'un  plan  de developpement strategique,
l'informatisation de ses fonctions principales et la formation du personnel. Un contrat
programme a ete signe avec l'Etat en 1992 et a e  suspendu en 1994 pour la mise en aeuvre
d'urk plan d'urgence. Cependant cette entreprise n'a pas pu mettre en ceuvre les
recommandations de l'etude de developpement strategique et est aujourd'hui l'unique
entreprise publique A enregistrer des pertes importantes.
(i) Le FPANPA a b6neficie d'un montant de 272 000 DTS ayant servi A financer les audits annuels
des comptes, I'etude tarifaire, le plan directeur et l1'valuation du premier contrat programme
et l'elaboration d'un deuxieme et la formation du personnel. Le PANPA a connu une reforme
institutionnelle importante qui a permis la privatisation de l'activite de manutention et le
passage du statut de proprietaire des ouvrages au statut de locataire. A ce titre il s'est acquitte
regulierement au profit de l'Etat de la redevance annuelle qui est devenue de 110 millions
d'ouguiya depuis 1997 (100 millions auparavant). Le PANPA a mis en ceuvre un plan de
developpement informatique et d'amelioration de son systeme comptable et financier et
continue a enregistrer des r6sultats positifs et A respecter les indicateurs de performance qui
lui sont assignes.
() Plusieurs autres entreprises ont ben6ficie sur le Credit 2167 MAU d'assistances techniques
ponctuelles, de missions de verification de comptes annuels et de formation de leur personnel
particulierement dans les domaines de la comptabilite, de la gestion financiere et de la
restructuration d'entreprise. Ces missions ont eu lieu notamment A l'occasion de preparation
de dossiers de privatisation comme c'est le cas pour la SMCP, la MAUSOV, la SIMAR, etc.
4.    Atteinte des Objectifs
Globalement l'ensemble des objectifs fix6s pour le Projet ont ete atteints. Le Projet a permis A
l'Administration de developper ses capacit6s en matiere de suivi et de reforme du secteur. La CRSP et



33
la DTEP ont ben6ficie de ressources importantes qui ont permis le developpement des competences du
personnel, 1'elaboration et la mise en place d'instruments et outils de travail adaptes et efficaces
notamment la base de donnees sur les entreprises, la confection de tableaux de bord, les notes
d'analyse du secteur, le suivi et la gestion des contrats programmes, etc. C'est ce qui explique le
succes et le professionnalisme avec lesquels ces deux structures ont rnis en ceuvre une reforme de telle
ampleur et a permis la constitution d'un support important pour la realisation des objectifs du
Programme d'Ajustement du Secteur des Entreprises Publiques (PASEP).
En effet, le Projet a permis la r6organisation, I'adaptation et le renforcement des competences
du secteur des entreprises publiques par l'adoption de nouveaux statuts et organigrammes des
entreprises concernees avec une plus grande autonomie et souplesse de gestion, la mise en cuvre de
programmes de redressement qui on e  formalises dans plusieurs cas par des contrats programmes
avec l'Etat, la formation du personnel et l'amelioration et le developpement des systemes comptables
et de gestion des entreprises.
A l'exception d'Air-Mauritanie, les objectifs fixes pour les differentes entreprises ont et
atteints et ces entreprises enregistrent aujourd'hui des resultats positifs et ont mis en couvre avec
succes des plans de developpement qui ont permis d'ameliorer leurs performances techniques et
financi&ees, d'accroitre leur productivite et d'am6liorer la qualite des; prestations rendues.
5.     Performances du Projet
Le projet a connu a ses debuts des errements notamment en matibre de tenue de comptabilite
et de financement d'operations ineligibles. II a et rapidement remkdi6 a cette situation avec la mise en
place d'un systeme de comptabilite adapte et le remboursement des depenses ineligibles.
La volonte du Gouvernement et l'adhesion aux objectifs du projet a permis de mettre en
oeuvre les differents volets du projet sans retard, malgre le climat general des premieres annees de
mise en euvre du projet marque par la mise en ceuvre des nouvelles institutions republicaines.
Le Credit a entierement et decaisse sur la periode prevue, ce qui constitue une bonne
performance comparativement au profil de decaissement du pays.
La performance de la Banque mondiale est jugee satisfaisante. Des missions de supervision de
la Banque mondiale se sont regulierement deroulees et le dialogue et la concertation etablis entre le
Gouvemement et la Banque ont contribue a assurer le respect des engagements et la bonne execution
du Projet avec l'atteinte des objectifs recherches. Les delais de r6ponse de la Banque mondiale sont
juges acceptables et le respect des procedures n'a pas souleve de probleme particulier.
6.     Achevement et Durabilite des Reformes
Le Projet a demontre avec succes l'interet de la reforme in,stitutionnelle et du developpement
du secteur des entreprises publiques. II a permis la mise en oeuvre (iinstruments de gestion et de suivi
du secteur qui rendent possibles de poursuivre dans le temps les performances realisees.
A l'issue de ce Projet et du PASEP dont il 6tait l'un des supports, le Gouvernement a d'ores et
deja engage la reflexion sur les reformes de seconde generation qui permettront de perpetuer les
importants acquis obtenus et d'assurer une plus grande implication du secteur prive.



34
APPENDICES
C. DATA ON THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
Table Cl Size of the Public Enterprise Sector - 1990 and 1997
Majority State-owned Enterprises (*)
SN - National Company                         ...          2
EPIC - Industrial and Commercial Parastatal   12          10
SEM - Mixed-Economy Company                  18            7
Minority State-owned Enterprises (**)
SEM - Mixed-Economy Company                  10
SA - Company Ltd.                            ...           8
Total                       40          27
The size of the PE sector increased since 1995, following the creation of seven new
parastatals from the corporatization of State-run operating assets (MPN, EPBR and ODA)
and commercial services (ENER, SAN, SBR and SAM). The two commercial banks with
Sitate-majority shareholding (Chinguetty Bank and BHM) were not in the scope of PE
sector reform. Therefore, they were not included in this Table.
This category only includes enterprises with direct minority State shareholding. The
Government also holds indirect participation in two other companies (NASR and MEPP)
through parastatals. These companies were not included in the Table.



35
Table C2: Public Enterprise Sector Profile
Company                Sector         Status   % State   Employees   Asset- 1997   Results -1995   Results- 1996  Results - 1997
________________ -I |__________________ j  = Shares    in 1997    (UM Million) j (UM Milli    Million)   (UM Million)
OPT                 Post and telecoms        SN      100          981         10,963         845.43         538.74         742.65
SONELEC             Water and electricity    SN      100          929         14,154          60.35         400.36         430.26
CNSS                Pension fund            EPIC     100          495          3,276                       2096.40
IMPRIMERIE NLE.  Printing                   EPIC     100            86                        35.68           2.09
ENER (*)            Road maintenance        EPIC     100           72
EPBR (*)            Artisanal fisheries     EPIC     100            40
SOMIR               Oil refinery            EPIC     100            18            65           1.94          -1.14           0.37
PAN                 Port                    EPIC     100           159         4,378        -534.17         186.30          57.74
PANPA               Port                    EPIC     100          240          2,193          36.69          44.01         137.07
SBR  (*)            River transport        EPIC      100            --
SONADER             Rural development      EPIC      100          370                         20.02         -53.02         -58.10
OdA  (*)            Asset management        EPIC     100            --
SOCOGIM             Housing and construction   SEM  89.70           80         2,271          15.77          10.83           7.97
SNIM               Mining                   SEM     78.35        3824         82,082         345.69         866.63        4029.20
SAN (*)             Slaugther               SEM     70.60           --
SONIMEX             Import-export           SEM     61.90          193         2,971          34.38          42.64          19.48
AIR MAURITANIE   Air transport              SEM       60           368         6,192        -208.84        -800.51       -1403.76
MPN (*)             Fish market             SEM       60           22
ALMAP               Fishing company         SEM       50            --
SMCP                Fish marketing           SA            r       84  r         620          99.09         124.52          73.49
SAMIN               Mining                   SA       35            -
NAFTEC              Oil distribution         SA       34            94         2,031          34.67         199.26         104.82
SOMAGZ              Gas distribution         SA                                    ________
SALIMAUREM          Fishing company          SA       30           142                       -63.14          26.35
MASHREF             Shipyards                SA       15
SSPAM               Fishing                  SA      11 _I_                                          ___
SAM  (*)            Airport managemnt        SA       10            --                                               _    _ 
Source: CRSP-DTEP, September 1998



36
Table C3: Selected Technical and Financial Indicators of SONIELEC, PANPA and OPT
under Performance Agreements
A. Water
............................  ............   .............. .....  i..........    ....................   ........... .....................    ...........    ...........    .............
Production                              Forecast                                                                                               15.28           16.13 i  16.13
(million ofM3)                          Actual                 12.20    12.60    14.50                         14.90           15.45    16.67                  15.14    16.72
......................................................................... .........................................................................................................
* Global efficiency                     Forecast                67%/    71%                     75%/    76%                      77%/a    77%/    78%/    79%
(percentage)                            Actual                67.8%    71.9%    75.6%                           76%/   76.3%   71.7%    72.2%    75.2%
.............................I.................. .............. ... .......................................................................... .........................................................................
No. of connections                    i Actual                            . 19,481 i 20,428   22,385   24,520 i 25,927   27,589 i 28,921
(unit)
.............................................................................  .................... ......................................... ......................................... .................... ..........................
No. of connections per  Forecast                                                                                                                    99            101             106
agent(unit)                             Actual                           ;          78              82              91              98            106             115             119
B. Electricity
Production                              Forecast                                                                                               159.5 I179.6    179.6
(Gwh)                                   Actual                 111 1              130    1399    1505    1559    1682    1764    190.2
Global efficiency                       Forecast                82%/    84%                     86%             87%             88%   87A4%                     88%/    89%
(percentage)                            Actual                83.4%    84.4%    86.7%    85.6%    87.4%    84.9%    82.4%    83.7%
...............................................................    ...........    ....................  ...........    ...............
No. of connections                      Actual                               20,322   21,966   24,863 .27,283 .   29,699 i 30,878 i 34,521
(unit)
.............................................................................  .................... .................... ..............................................................................................................i.
No. of connections per  Forecast                                                                                                                    60              64              71
agent(unit)                             Actual                                      42             43               49              57              60              66              72
D. Finance
GrossRevenues                           Actual                 2355    2534    3042    3794    4424 i488    5214    5,915
(UMmillion)
................                 ............         .......... ........... .......... ........... .........................................................; ....................;;;;;:
Net Income                            iActual                    -242 i    55                       47 i   553 i   364                            206             400             431
(UMmillion)
........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Profitratio                           i Actual              -10.2% i  2.1%  .  1.5%    14.5%                                    8.2%           4.9%            7.6%            7.2%
(percentage)
~~~~~~~........................   .........................   ...........  ........   ..........      ....................................................   .................................................. ............................................;|
Freecashflow                            Actual                    829           1074              641           1255            1059 i  1226                    1331    2185
(UM million)
Debt ratio                              Forecast   <60%   <60%   <60%   <60%    <60%   <60%   <60%   <60%
(percentage)                            Actual                66.4%/a   58.1%    60.6%i 58.1%    48.4% I 46.3%   44.9% i 38.0%
Collection rate                       .Forecast                  87%            92%             95%             95% i  95%                      95%             95%i  95%
(percentage)                            Actual               71.1%    70.1%                      86.1   84.6%    82.9% i 77.1%    75.4/0M   85.1%
....................................................... ......................... .......................................  ................................................... .................... .........................................



37
PA-.A                                       1993    1994                1995    1996    1997
A. Operations
............................. .........................   ...........    ...........   ..............
Port throuput                       Forecast               550           570 .    590 I               600 .. 600
(1000 tons)                         Actual                 644 I    545                 624 ,   572                 777
Ship Calls                        iForecast                300           310           320                   .  504  514
(No. of ships in & out)  Actual                            301           280           266            484           855
........................................................ ........................................................................................
Stayinport                          Forecast               462           477           485            478           473
(days)                              Actual                 529           385           468            396           547
Stay in berth                       Forecast                 74 I          77            79 I  2,470    2,245
Actual                 100 I           72           102    2,790    2,854
W.aitingtimeinport   ij Forecast  ij                         20            19 i           18            16        1568
(hours)                             Actual                   25 I          20             16         19.5    24.54
Waiting time in berth   IForecast                            27            26            24             21    20.58
Actual                  25              11I          14          19.3    24.52
....... .................................... ......................... .......................................... ..............................................................
G.obal efficiency                 iForecast   I   2,170               2,240  I   2,320  I   2,597  I   2,597
(Throuput / Employees   Actual   I  2,545    2,154    2,466    2,476    3,364
in tons)
................. ................................I.......................  ......................................................................................................
Timing efficiencyin               I Forecast   I          42.7  .          43  .       43.6             39  I         39
port (No. of ships per   Actual                           42.6          49.7           45.6             46            46
hour)                             ;
B. Finance
Gross Revenues                      Actual                 878           862            855           968    1101
(UMmillion)
......  !......................... ...................  .........................................  ....................   ...........
Net Income                          Actual                   50            23            36             44           137
(UM million)
Value added ratio                   Forecast    55.5%    55.6%/   55.7%                              56%     56%
(VA/Revenue                       I Actual             61.4% /    60.2%    60.7%    57.6%    53.9%
in percentage)
.......................   ................................................................. ..............................
rofit ratio                          Forecast    0.01%                  1.2%         2.3%           3.5%/   3.92%
(Netincome/Revenue  Actual                               5.6%    2.6%    4.2%                       4.5%    12.4%
in percentage)
e cash flow ratio                 Forecast    18.7%   i186%    18.6/    21i6                                 21i8/
(FRC/Revenue                        Actual             18.1%   16.0%   25.6%/   26.9%   28.0%
in percentage)
Employee productivity   Foreast  .                           .46         i .57         i 68.         2 07.   2 21 
(VA /Employees in                   Actual                2.17          2.15          2.21           2.33          2.49
UM million)
............................. ..........................  ...........    .........   ...........    .....   ......    ...........
Accounts receivables,   Forecast                            42             38            34             60            60
excluding Government  Actual                                 50            59            71             44            44
(das of revenue)
......................................................................  .................... I.... ...............4....................i....................
Collection rate                     Forecast   .             88  .         90            92
(percentage)                        Actual                   86            84            80 .



38
A. Telecoms
...........                         ................. .....................  .................  ......  ....................  ....... j7 ...... . _;;......;
Number of new                       Forecast                            1300    2000    3000    2000
connections per year                Actual                 900  I            ....                                 2225
...................................  ..........................  ....................   ...........    ...........  ............ ...........
No. of customers                    Forecast                            8210          9610   12,010 I  9160
Actual              7,300                                                   12,495
.. .~~~~~~~~..........                                                                   ..............    ...    ........      
Rateofsatisfying                    Forecast                            24%           32%            44/%          32%
demand                              Actual                21% /                                                    66%
....,.,..,                                                      ....   ... ........    ..........4 ..........;......  7 g ',  
Number of agents per    Forecast                             .....         73            65             53            65
1000 lines                          Actual                  77                                                        50
Average frequency of   Forecast                                              2              1             1   
breakdowns per year    Actual                                  3                                                        I
Capacity utilization of  Forecast                                       63%           73%/    92%/    73%
switching facility                  Actual                56%/                                                      86%
Num,ber of public                 I Forecast   .              ..          150           175           200            180
phones                              Actual                 100             ....          .... I         .....       320
B. Postal Services
(Mail distribution)
...................................................... .....  ...........'' .....................'''''.. i'''''''''''''''''''.4........ i' ''''''''''
Nkt Nouadhibou                      Forecast                              J+2 .          +1           J+1            J+
Actual                 J+2           J+2           J+2            J+2 I    J+
Other main cities                   Forecast                             J+4            J+3 I    J+2                 J+2
Actual                 J+5           J+5           J+5            J+5           J+4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                  e  a t    I..............................................; ;
Rural areas                          Forecast                             J+9           J+8           J+6 .    J+6
Actual               J+10          J+10           J+10          J+10            J+7
Services abroad                     Forecast                             J+4            13           J+2           J+2
_____________         .Actual                  J+4           J+4           J+4            J+4           J+4
C. Finance
...........................................     
Gross Revenues
(UMmillion)                         Actual              2,593    3,079    3,373    3,910    4,844
.......................  ..........  ..............   ....................   ....................  ........... .......... ....   .......
Net Income
(UM million)                        Actual                 604           813 I   845                  538            742
Value added
(UM million)                        Actual               1,535         1,934    2,084    2,415    3?133
Accounts receivable                 Forecast                 ...                                                   <2.5
(months)                            Actual                                             2 84          2 47             1.0
Free cash flow ratio                Forecast                                           50%     50%    >50%
(in percentage)                     Actual              183%/                          50%           47%/    67%
.............:....................   .................... ...............                   ...........I........   ..............
Debt service ratio                  Forecast                                           1.80           1.80         >1.8
(times)                             Actual                3.17                         5.46          3.37            6.5
................  ..........   .          ..:4,;;;
Internlal consumption    Forecast                                                    4.0%           4 0%/   <4.0%
of OPT (in percentage   Actual                                                       2.0%     2.3%                2.6%
of telecoms revenues)
Rate of retun on fixed   Forecast                            .15%                                    15%    >15%
assets                              Actual                26%/                         44%           17%/    16%
.............................  ..........................  ...........    ...........   .........   ...........  ............
Debt ratio                        .Forecast                                           65%            65%    <65%
(percentage)                        Actual                52%/             .....   50%/    55%                     64%



SECTION



IBRD 25935
118-  16-      1~~~~~~-                12-                                                     / i o                               I
Atlantic s nish                      ALGERIA
Ocean      h.ar, ,
MAURITANIA                                                                                                                 .                        -
MAURITANIA
30O                                                                                                            30-             No-c kuhott
PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                                                  M A L I
SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                       *,/         Nema*   .      *Tombnucto j
--------  TRACKS                                                                                         D       EN L Dk     -                        NIGER
RAILROADS                                                                                      H EAMBtA  r            Bamaka /         \scme
280 +    SELECTED TOWNS                                  _                                                        GUINEA i; 'do> -    i
   REGION CAPITALS                                                                                             -1. ?-N --.PHANA                 )O
280  **  AIRPORTS                             .----~~~~~~~~~~~  bA  0 ~M RO0CCO 0    8'ooky                      \    3OTE D [VOIREt
28,AIPORTS                                                                               28'
The boudries, coors, denom,no,ons
-  REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                              To Tindouf       and-ayothe inomtonhwnn
-   --   INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                     thh -nap do not riply, on the prt of
The Word Bank Grop, o-y c.d9rn-
BOUNDARIES                                                                                   "               a  n the lega  StatuS of ony territory or
any endorsement or acceptance of
such boudari-s
0         100    200   300                                                                                                  "-*   ALGERIA
26       '          KILOMETERS                .                             r                           Am  B                                                      26
tIC                                                 Bi~~~~~~~~~~. .Yr Mogrern
i   f;i C                                       T        r'                                                                 h g \
FORMER   j                                                                                 \
SPA NISH                                                   TIRIS
SAHARA                                          ZEMMOUR                              , 
/. /<                            , ,0    4.- c  .          'I00a   
Fderi           0T            .       .
iS                           ,,oli                                      /   \
220 '                                                                                                                                                               22-
Nou6dhibou *       Loor d6Ce                                                                                                   /
la G6uira  <             \                  /                      /2  ,j uadane
DAKHLET         j\                         Ail/         ,                      
NOUADHIBOUI  ^etti
20                                    C    IR '                                                                                                                    20D-
, (: /' ~Akio' DOuiedft^   ,_ ,_    _,_   
Nou6mgM6O                                                                  - -e -- -------
-   L           / -/                                         U ~~~HODH ECH\
pilAg liISI Fai                        T idiikia               Tich?t     /       C H A  RG  U I
NOUAKCHOTT                                                                                           /
180o                                                                                                                                                                1 *  i-
BoutilGora                  r       HOli a L 
-14  lao   ^''  160  ,~~>>         14'                     lv            --       107                      a-ro6H 0  D,
~  00.  Ayo-un el A995
,        09        M6ngoe~~~~f    ,210Ve A      Kf~        E          '           Timbedgh&a            e~
16~~~~                        Koe *                         Ko  ~~~~~~~~~~~~d1eI   G~~~~~ H'A  R B I                                        16-'~Q       BaSkono 
16'                                  Ka                                                                                         Bassikounoeu . Kakos~    /'-~eei  ' 
Gouraye ~  ~      ~     Jo~                0~gue
SENEGAL                                                                                          M AL I
1A'  18.                      6                      A                                              1 0                      8                      6'              14
FEBRUARY 1 995



