Document of
The Wcrld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
P-53 cc - P'1 AU
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 7.7 MILLION TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 30, 1990
TiUs document bas a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ffida! duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed withoux World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY ECUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -     Ouguiya (UK)
USS 1.00     -     UM 84.8    1/
Ouguya 1 million            US$ 11,790
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
ABBREVIATIONS
AIR MAURITANIE       - National Airline
CRSP                 - Cellule de Rehabilitation du Secteur Publique
OPT                  - Office des Postes et T4l4communications
PANPA                - Port Autonome de Nouakchott dit Port del'Amitie
SMCP                 - Societe Mauritanienne de Commercialisation du
Poisson
SMCPP               - Socidt6 Mauritanienne de Commercialisation des
Produits Petroliers
SOHAGAZ             - Societe Hauritanie du Gaz
SOMIR               - Societe Nationale des Industries de Raffinerie
SONELEC             - Societe Nationale d'Eau et d'Electricite
SONIMEX             - SociOtd Nationale d'Import-Export
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
11   Exchange rates as of March 1990



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of the Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiaries:      Ministries of Plan, Finance and Commerce, Directorates
of Energy, Mines and Geology, and key public
enterprises in the energy, telecommunications and
transport sectors
Credit Amount:       SDR 7.7 million (US$10.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:
Local          Foreign         Total
-S_------.--¢US$ million)----------
Government                 0.5                            0.5
IDA                        0.5              9.5          10.0
1.0              9.5          10.5
Economic Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:        Not applicable
MaP: IBRD No. 22261
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEXORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Mauritania for SDR 7.7 million
(US$10.0 Million equivalent) is submitted for approval. The proposed
credit would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years, and
would help finance a public enterprise institutional development and
technical assistance project.
2.        Background.  After independence, Mauritania pursted a deliberate
policy of parastatal intervention to promote economic developmeut. As a
result, the parapublic sector grew rapidly. Mauritania currently has 80
parapublic enterprises which are involved in virtually all economic
sectors. They account for more than one-fourth of modern sector employment
(12,000 workers), use up over 50 percent of public investment, and receive
almost one-fifth of the credit disbursed through the domestic banking
sector. The overall performance of the PE sector, however, has not been
satisfactory. It has been characterized by high losses, mounting arrears,
reliance on monopoly privileges, a rising debt burden and increasing
illiquidity.
3.        In view of the sector's unsatisfactory perfor.iance and the
emergence of unsustainable financial disequilibria, the government has
formulated and begun the implementation of a comprehensive public
enterprise sector adjustment program (PESAP). Actions under the proposed
program would include; (i) a modification of the legal and institutional
framework with the objective of eliminating state monopolies and
facilitating increased private sector participation; (ii) a program of
divestiture; and (iii) financial restructuring programs for key
enterprises remaining in the sector, particularly SNIM, the iron ore mining
company, which is by far the largest enterprise in the country.
4.        Overall responsibility for the implementation of the reforms in
*         the public enterprise sector lies with the Ministry of Plan.  The 'Cellule
de Redressement du Secteur Public' (CRSP), within the Ministry of Plan,
will coordinate activity and monitor progress of the reforms and will be
*         responsible for privatization and liquidation of enterprises.  A division
in the Ministry of Finance will also assist and extend the information
system developed, help introduce and standardize budgetary and accounting
procedures, and monitor the financial performance of all PEs. To
adequately discharge their responsibilities, both CRSP and the unit in the
Ministry of Finance, will need technical assistance. Although qualified,



the staff has little experience with the variety of complex tasks to be
undertaken in a number of sectors. In addition, it is proposed that
technical assistance be provided to enterprises in the energy,
telecommnications and transport sectors, sectors of vital importance to
the Mauritanian economy.
5.        Rationale of IDA involvement.  The origins of the credit stem
from the Goverpment's exforts, dating back to 1983, to redress the
situation of t.te PE sector. These efforts were supported by a
Rehabilitation project for SNIM (Ln. 2643-MAU), a Development Management
Project (Cr. 1865). a Rural Sector Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1414-
MAU), and a Public Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 1567-MAU), which are either fully disbursed or almost fully
committed. Through its past involvement, IDA has built up an intimate
working knowledge of the public enterprise sector and has been asked by the
Government and other financing institutions to take a lead in supporting
the proposed adjustment effort. The proposed project will complement
technical assistance activity being financed by the Bank and other donors.
Experience with such technical assistance has been good. The project will
help ensure successful implementation of the reforms at the same time that
it helps develop the institutional base for sound management of the sector.
IDA's continued involvement in the energy, telecommunications and transport
sectors is needed in order: (i) to maintain a dialogue in these sectors
which will ensure that appropriate policies agreed to by the Government
will continue to be implemented; (ii) to ensure that the sector investments
are directed to projects of high priority; and, (iii) to ensure that prices
and tariffs reflect both economic costs and fiscal considerations.
6.        Proiect oblectives.  The objectives are to provide the technical
assistance support the Government needs to extend and deepen its PE reform
efforts, which would be supported by the companion PE Sector Adjustment
Credit. The project is also to address the long term issue of
strengthening the government's ability to devise and implement PE reforms
as well as to monitor the sector's performance and manage its future
development. In the energy, transport and telecc-munications sectors, the
objectives are to help the Government better manage the sectors, to
encourage the creation of a subsidiary in the 'Office des Postes et
T6lecommunications' (OPT) that would mobilize savings, to put air transport
back on a sound financial footing, to help implement a household energy
strategy, and to attract private companies to explore for petroleum in
Mauritania.
7.        Project description.  The project would provide a special unit
"Cellule de Rehabilitation du Secteur Public", (CRSP) created to oversee
parastatal reform with the (local and foreign) technical expertise (about
a.30 man-months), logistical support and reso'rces needed to execute the
reform's main elements. These include: (a) monitoring sector performance;
(b) implementing liquidation, privatization, and other divestiture
measures; (c) carrying out external audits of enterprises; (d)providing
counseling and advice on labor retrenchment; (e) implemienting studies of
subsectors (insurance, fisheries) or enterprises (SOMLR and SOMINEX). The
technical assistance to the Ministry of Finance will consist of short term
consultancy services (about 50 man-months) and some training to deal with
the accounting and budgetary procedures and monitoring of financial



performance of PES, as well as services of an expert agency to certify the
quality, quantity and price of each shipment of goods to be financed under
the PESECAL. The technical assistance for energy would consist of 180 man-
months of long-term experts to assist SONELEC, about 70 man-months of
short-term consulting services to assist with seismic data processing, data
reinterpretation and reprocessing and petroleum exploration promotion, and
about 30 man-months of experts to help implement the household energy
strategy, including the promotion of improved charcoal and kerosene stoves
and the promotion of gas for household cooking. The technical assistance
to the Ministry of Commerce is to help it fully liberalize prices, set up a
*         regulatory framework for private insurance companies, and to demonopo3ize
SONDMEX. OPT would require about 50-man-months of consultant services,
including the services of a coordinator, to update the rehabilitation plan,
prepare a performance contract, complete the introduction of a new
computerized budgeting and accounting system, including full separation of
accounts of the postal checking services and the national savings bank.
The technical assistance to Air Mauritanie and PANPA would consist of 40
man-months of consulting services and include preparation of performance
contracts. The project would also provide for training, equipment and
other facilities for CRSP and the Directorates of Energy, Mines and
Geology.
8.        The project to be carried out over seven years, is estimated to
cost US$10.5 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of
US$9.5  million (90 percent).  IDA would finance 100 percent of foreign
exchange costs and 50 percent of local costs due to Government's severe
budgetary constraints. A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are
shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and of
disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A
timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group
operations in Mauritania are given in Schedules C and D respectively. More
detailed information on the proposed project is provided in Annex 1. Terms
of reference for sowe of the activities are given in Annex 2. Details on
the household energy are given in Annex 3. A Supervision Plan is provided
in Annex 4. The President's Report for the accompanying PE Sector
Adjustment Credit is No. P-5293 MAU, dated May 25 1990.
9.        Actions agreed upon.  During credit negotiations the following
actions were agreed upon; (a) full Government funding of CRSP; (b)
preparation of annual workplans and budgets satisfactory to IDA;
disbursements would occur only after such work plans are agreed upon
between the Government and IDA (including a detailed training program) by
December 31 of each year; (c) terms of reference for the studies on the
insurance sector, on SOMIR and SONIMEX; (d) completion of annual audits for
key enterprises; (e) creation of a unit in the Ministry of Plan to provide
counseling and assistance to those losing their employment under the
adjustment program; and, (f) financial restructuring and action plans for
Air Mauritar.ie, PANPA and SMCP.
10.       Benefits.  The main benefits of the technical assistance
component are expected to be: (a) a strengthened and streamlined
organization to monitor PE sector performance; (b) timely implementation
of the organizational restructuring components of the program; and (c) more
Government ability to develop and implement PE sector policies. The main



- 4 -
benefits of the assistance to the energy and telecommunications sectors is
upgrading local capabilities to manage the energy and telecommunications
sectors, increased petroleum exploration by private companies, increased
savings mobilization, reduction in fuelvood consumption and provision of
reliable power and telecommunications services. Restructuring Air
Mauritania will ensure a more efficient operation of transporting goods and
passengers.
11.       Risks.  The main risk associated with the proposed project is
that despite the government's willingness to reform the PE sector, it might
fail to carry out the politically painful measures. The project has been
designed to minimize this risk by obtaining political commitments from the
highest level.
12.       Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit
would comply with tne Articles of Agreement of the Association and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington , DC
May 30, 1990



Schedule A
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
ESTIMATED COSTS
Proiect Component                                     LOCAL  FOKSIGN   TOTAL
-__-_U.S. Million-----
Support to CRSP                                          0.29   2.34    2.63
Support to Ministry of Finance                          0.05   0.65    0.70
Support to Ministry of Commerce                         0.04   0.36    0.40
Support to SONELEC                                       0.11   2.39    2.50
Support to Directorate of Energy                         0.06   0.34    0.40
Support to Directorate of Mines and Geology              0.04   1.12    1.16
Support to OPT                                          0.15   0.39    0.54
Support to Air-Mauritanie                               0.02   0.18    0.20
Support to PANPA                                         0.02   0.23    0.25
Base Cost                                0.78   8.00    8.78
Physical Contingencies              0.08   0.30    0.38
Price Contingencies                 0.14   1.20    1.34
Total Contingencies                 0.22   1.50    1.72
Total Project Costs                 1.00   9.50   10.50
FINANCING PLAN                                        LOCAL  FOREIGN  TOTAL
---- U.S. Million--
Government                                               0.5            0.5
IDA                                                      0.5    9.5    10.0
1.0    9.5    10.5



6-
Schedule B
Page I of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PRO' CT
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND DISBURSEMENTS
Procurement Method
Proiect Component                         Amounts and Procurement Methods  11
ICB   LCB     Other    N.A.   Total Cost
------- US$ million -------------
Support to CRSP
Resident Advisers                            0.45                0.28
(0.45)             (0.28)
Short-term Consultants                       0.65                0.36
(0.65)             (0.36)
Social impact Adviser                        0.14               0.14
(0.14)             (0.14)
Studies, Audits, Performance
contracts, etc                               1.20               1.20
(1.20)             (1.20)
Training                                     0.31                0.31
(0.31)             (0.31)
Vehicles, Equipment and             0.32                        0.32
other Material                     (0.32)                      (0.32)
operat',ng costs                             0.93                0.60
(0.43)             (0.10)
SuDDort to MFIN
Short-term Consultants                       0.67                0.67
(0.67)             (0.67)
Training                                     0.23                0.23
(0.23)             (0.23)
SuoDort to SONELEC
Sanitary Engineer                            0.50                0.50
(0.50)             (0.50)
Customer management specialist               0.35                0.35
(0.35)             (0.35)
Technicians                                   P 82               0.82
(0.Z2).            (0.82)
Training                                     0.23                0.23
(0.23)             (0.23)
Support to Minist&y of Conmerce                    0.49               0.49
(0.49)             (0.49)
1/   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IDA.



-Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
ICB   LC_     Other  NA.  Total Cost
__-_----__---- USS million ---------
Suuuort to Directorate of Energy
Consultants                                      0.35           0.35
(0.35)         (0.35)
Vehicles, equipment, etc.              0.12                     0.12
(0.12)                  (0.12)
Suuuort to Directorate of Mines & Geol2oa
Consultants                                      0.93           0.93
(0.93)         (0.93)
Vehicles, equipment, etc.              0.17                     0.17
(0.17)                  (0.17)
Suyvort to OPT
Resident Coordinator                            0.28            0.28
(0.28)         (0.28)
Short-term Consultants                           0.35           0.35
(0.35)         (0.35)
SuDDort to Air Mauritanie
Consultants                                     0.24            0.24
(0.24)         (0.24)
Suoport to Paiya                                      0.30           0.30
(0.30)         (0.30)
PPF Refinancina                                              1.26
(1.26)
Total             0.61     8.63   1.26    10.50
(0.61)   (8.13) (1.26)  (10.00)
DISBURSEMENT
Categorv                    Amount     I of Exoenditure to be financed
(US$ million)
Advisers & Experts           2.22            1002 of expenditures
Consultants Services/
Studies                      3.31            1002 of expenditures
Training                     0.66            100Z c. expenditures
Vehicles/equipment,etc.      0.53            1007 of expenditures
Operating costs              0.30             50S of expenditures
PPF Refinancing              1.26             Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.02 of develop-
ment Credit Agreement
Unallocated                  1.72
Total                       10.00
IDA Fiscal Year
Estimated IDA Disbursements         91    92    93    94    95    96    97
-------------- US$ million ------------
Annual                       1.0   1.5   2.0   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.0
Cumulative                   1.0   2.5   4.5   6.0   7.5   9.0  10.0



-8-
Schedule C
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)  Time taken to prepare         s 12 months
(b)  Prepared by                   : Government with IDA assistance
(c)  Appraisal mission departure   : January 1990
(d)  Negotiations                  s May 1990
Ce)  Planned date of effectiveness : July 1990
(f)  List of relevant documents    : President's Peport for the
Public Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Program, P-52'3-MAU



- 9 -                           SCHDULE D
ISLA IC REPUBLSC OF MAURITANIA
PU8LXC ENR1lrlNrTlD   ELOFIMENT AND
PULCET.ERFRISE. INSTITUTIONAL DEVEOETAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANWE PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK CPOUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
SUMMARY STATEMENT Of BANK WLANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 80, 1990)
Amount In USS million
(loss cancellotion)
Fiscal
Credit No.         Year   Borroer          Purooso       Bank         IDA        Undleburred
3 loans and 16 Credit. (s) cloed                         4S.04        102.8S
of which SALS and SECALs
CAO280-4TA         1987  MAURITANIA      SAL I                        27.40
L28480-MTA         1086  MAURITANIA      SNIM REHAB      20.00
Sub-Tot l                                          20.00        27.40
Cr.12920-MTA      1983  MAURITANIA      TECH.ASSIST.II                 4.00       1.90
Cr.14140-HTA      1984  MAURITANIA      TECH.ASST.TO RURAL S           0.10
Cr.16670-MTA      198S  MAURITANIA      PUBLIC ENT TAL REHA           1S.40       8.88
Cr.15710-MTA      1985  MAURITANIA      SMALL SCALE IRRICATI           7.60      6.76
Cr.1S720-4TA      1986  MAURITANIA      IOF II                         6.25       3.98
Cr.16580-4TA      1086  MAURITANIA      LIVESTOCK II                   7.60       7.11
Cr.18120-MTA(S)   1987  MAURITANIA      SAL I                         16.00        .26
Cr.186E0-MTA      1988  MAURITANIA      DEVELOP. MONT                  10.00     7.11
Cr.19430-MTA      1989  MAtURITANIA     EDUC.SECTOR RESTRUCT           18.20           15.07
*Cr.209W0-MTA(S)   1900  MAURITANIA      AG SECAI4IRRIO IMPRO           26.10           25.07
TotI                                                              11?.66     69.64
TOTAL                                                   144.00    220.50
of which repaid                                      100.65      4.78
Totel hold by Bank & IDA                                  46.36    216.78
Amount sold            6s.35
of which repaid      68.86
Total undisbursed                                                   69.71
Notes
*)    Approved during or after FY80
b>    Ineludes Speclui Fund
C)    Not yet ffoective
*      Sol, Scal or Program Loan



Annex I
Page 1 of 8
- 10 -
REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. Project Description
1.        Sector Size. After independence, Mauritania pursued a deliberate
policy of parastatal interveution to promote economic development. Such a
policy was viewed as essential, givan the underdeveloped nature of
resources and  markets -. the absence of investible funds and
entrepreneurial skills. As a result, the parapublic sector grew rapidly in
the 1960 and early 19709. Mauritania now has 80 public enterprises
involved in virtually all economic sectors. They account for more than
half of public investment, and receive almost one-fifth of the credit
disbursed through the domestic banking sector. The PE sector also accounts
for more than one-fourth of modern sector employment, or 12,000 jobs.
2.        Sector Performance.  Twelve enterprises account for over 95
percent of sales and about 75 percent of employment in the sector. Overall
PE sector performance reflects the performance of these large enterprises.
It has been characterized by high losses, mounting arrears, a rising debt
burden, increasing illiquidity, and reliance on monopoly privileges. The
causes of poor performance have been rapid changes in the external
environment, poor investment choices, weak management, lack of financial
discipline, and inappropriate and ill-defined relations between the
Government and the PEs. Inadequate data preclude a complete assessment of
the sector's financial perfornance, but operating results of a number of
the more important PEs show that more than 60 percent of the public
enterprises incurred losses in 1988, that aggregate losses exceeded USS 25
million, and that half of those enterprises showing any profits, were less
profitable in 1988 than in 1987. Even more alarming is that a large number
of companies have their equity capital totally eroded, including
enterprises that are of crucial importance to the economy. To cover
expenses, a number of enterprises resorted to short-term loans from local
banks further aggravating their financial situation as well as that of the
banks. The PE sector has, moreover, contracted a considerable amount of
external debt (US$520 million), or about one third of the public and
publicly guaranteed obligations. In fact, PE debt increased from 10
percent of public debt in 1983 to over 30 percent in 1988. Because of
their poor financial performance, PEs have been unable to service these
debts. This is an increasing problem for the Government because of the
constant devaluation of the Ouguiya. Results of a cross-debt study show



Annex I
Page 2 of 8
- 11 -
PEs owing considerable sums (over US$40 million) to the Government, banks,
and suppliers. Public monopolies -- such as SONIMEX (rice, tea, and sugar
imports) and SMCP (fish exports) -- have been collecting important amounts
of import and export taxes (UM5.9 billion in 1989 or about US$71 million)
but it is increasingly evident that these Government revenues might have
been higher and raised at less cost to the economy without going through a
monopoly.
3.        Government Reform Efforts.  The Government's medium-term
adjustment program, initiated in 1985, included important reform
initiatives specifically aimed at improving the performance of public
enterprises and encouraging private sector activity. These initiatives
were supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1812 MAU), a
Rehabilitation Project for SNIM, the iron ore mining company (Ln.2643-
MAU), a Rural Sector Technical Assistance (Cr. 1414 MAU), and a Public
Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1567-HAU).
Reforms were undertaken in five main areas: (i) revisions in the incentives
policies; (ii) restructuring of the banking sector; (iii) improvements in
the legal and institutional framework for the public enterprise sector;
(iv) rehabilitation of individual enterprises; and (v) introduction of
other measures to rationalize and improve the efficiency of the sector.
Conside.able progress has been made in implementing these reforms, but
serious financial disequilibrium continues in the sector. Accordingly, and
in consultation with IDA, the Government has formulated a Public Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Program. Actions under the proposed program would
include; (i) a modification of the legal and institutional framework with
the objective of eliminating state monopolies and facilitating increased
private sector participation; (ii) a program of divestiture; and (iii)
financial restructuring programs for key enterprises remaining in the
sector, particularly SNIM, the iron ore mining company, which is by far the
largest enterprise in the country. The details of the program are outlined
in the President's Report on the accompanying PESAP.
4.        Energy Sector.  In the energy sector, a sector of vital
importance to the Mauritanian economy, Mauritania faces the twin problem
of rapid deforestation and high level imports. Energy imports consist
mainly of petroleum products (300,000 tons in 1988), but also includes
fuelwood and charcoal for household consumption and represents a
significant drain in the country's foreign exchange earnings. The problems
in the energy sector have been aggravated by weak sector management and
inappropriate policies. In the energy sector, there are five public
enterprises reporting to two ministries. SONELEC provides electricity
services in the major urban areas, SMCPP is a petroleum products
distribution company, SOMIR is responsible for the refining of petroleum
products (1 million/t.p.a), SOMAGAZ is a gas bottling and distribution
company, and HEPP is responsible for storage of petroleum products. These
enterprises report to the Ministry of Hydraulics and Energy (MHE), with the



Annex I
Page 3 of 8
- 12 -
Directorate of Energy (DE) within the Ministry, responcible for energy
planning and policy coordinatJon. The other ministry concerned is the
Ministry of Industry and Mines (HIM) responsible for petroleum exploration
and production through its Directorate of Mines and Geology DMG).
5.        Since 1985, the Government has taken a number of actions
relating to energy supported by a SAL operation (Cr. 1812 MAU) and a Public
Enterprise Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project of (Cr. 1567-
MAU). Power networks have been upgraded and services restored. A
performance contract has been signed between the Government and SONELEC
that is producing some good results, but SONELEC will continue to need
additional technical assistance. Although it caters to more than half of
the petroleum products market, SMCPP has become unprofitable. The
Government has agreed therefore, in the context of the proposed PASEP, to
privatize SMCPP. Similarly, under pressure, the Government has concluded
an agreement in 1985 with the Government of Algeria that provides for the
refinery to be operated by an Algerian company, NAFTAL for a 5-year period.
In addition, the agreement calls for the ex-refinery prices of petroleum
products paid by Mauritania to be equal to international prices. This
arrangement has worked well so far for Mauritania, but the future of the
refinery operation is uncertain, particularly if the Algerians do not renew
the contract. The Government has therefore agreed to study the future
course of actions to be taken with regard to the refinery. The other two
enterprises, SOMAGAZ and MEPP, have considerable private sector
participation and operate fairly efficiently. However, SOMAGAZ would need
to operate in the context of a comprehensive strategy for household energy
already prepared by the Directorate of Energy with the assistance of ESMAP.
This is essential before the limited forest cover in the country is
destroyed, with adverse effects on the environment of a region already
threatened by desertification. Finally, efforts to promote petroleum
exploration started in 1982 have been encouraging but need to be continued
by the Directorate of Mines and Geology so that private companies are
attracted and so that commercial deposits can be found.
6.        Transport sector.  Air Mauritanie will be the target of
financial rehabilitation under the proposed PASEP. Air Mauritanie, a
company in which the Government is the majority shareholder, plays a useful
role in transporting goods and passengers. Its fleet consists of two
Dutch-built 70-seater F-28 jets and some smaller planes, with which it
services a number of domestic destinations as well as a few cities in the
region such as Bamako, Banjul and Casablanca. Air Mauritanie has built a
reputation as a reliable airline. A recent management audit confirmed
that, taking into account the difficult operating conditions and market
characteristics in Mauritania, Air Mauritanie's operational efficiency
compares reasonably well with similar small airlines in the world. In



Annex I
Page 4 of 8
- 13 -
1989, its operating expenses were less than US$ 0.1 per seatlkm, a
reasonable performance. Still, it is losing money -- partly because of low
domestic tariffs and servicing of unprofitable domestic destinations, but
mostly because of burdensome debts it contracted in foreign currency. The
depreciation of the ouguiya against the Dutch Guilder has inflated the
company's long term debt and the original debt of about DFL. 32 million in
1984, is still valued in Ouguiya terms at about DFL. 30 million, in spite
of principal and interest payments of about DFL 16 million. In 1989, Air
Mauritanie was abas to cover its operating expenses, but after financial
charges and provisions for foreign exchange fluctuations, it lost an
estimated UK 650 million, and was unable to meet its debt service
obligations in spite of three Paris Club rescheduling.
7.        Based on the recommendations of a management audit, the
Government has proposed a plan to restructure Air Mauritanie that will be
implemented in the context of the proposed PE program. This plan involves
an increase in domestic tariffs, a reduction in operating costs (including
partially freezing salaries) and the sale of one of its smaller aircraft,
improvement of the organizational structure, management information and
accounting systems. Other measures include the settlement of Gov.rnment
arrears and development of new sources of revenue.   When implemented,
these actions are expected to put the airline on a sound financial basis.
During negotiations, agreement was be sought on the details of the plan,
Which are to be reflected in a performance contract to be signed between
Air Mauritania and the Government. In the medium term, the composition of
the fleet needs to be reviewed, including the sale of existing planes and
leasing of planes better adapted to the physical and market conditions.
8.        In addition, the port facilities at Nouakchott (PANPA) will be
provided with assistance. The PE Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation
Project concentrated on providing equipment and technical assistance and
improving the financial position of the port authority responsible for the
existing wharf in Nouakchott (EMN), while a new deep-water port was under
construction with assistance of the People's Republic of China. EMN's
staff was cut 25 percent, tariffs increased 25 percent, working methods
improved (by revising shifts and work hours), and productivity more than
doubled. As a result, EMN showed a profit in 1987 and paid off its
accumulated arrears. In the same year, the Government decided to create a
new public enterprise (PANPA) to operate both the old wharf and the new
deep-water port, which had started operations. The transition did not go
smoothly. Rather than transferring part of personnel from the old wharf to
the new port, an entire new staff was recruited. As a result of over
staffing and inefficient stevedoring, PANPA suffered a net loss (after
depreciation and financial charges) of UM 199 million in 1988 and an
estimated UM 270 million in 1989. In the context of the PASEP, 255
employees have been dismissed and stovedoring activities are in tae process



Annex I
Page 5 of 8
- 14 -
of being privatized. Also a performance contract will be prepared and
signed as a condition of Second Tranche Release
9.        Telecommunications.  In the telecommunications sector, efforts
so far, under the PE technical assistance project (Credit 1567 - MAU) to
improve post and telecommunications services have been modest, and were
aimed mainly at the introduction of a new accounting and budgeting system,
including the separation of telecommunications and postal accounts. While
in this area reasonable progress has been made, the implementation of other
elements of the rehabilitation plan approved in 1987 has suffered. The
review of the organizational and personnel needs of the company has not yet
started and introduction of a new computerized accounting and budgeting
system is facing problems because of acquisition of inadequate and
incompatible software. Much remains to be done in separating the accounts
between the postal and checking systems and the postal savings bank, on
improving bill collection and coordinating OPT's investment projects.
Moreover, OPT has been asked by the Government to implement a number of
investment projects which are not viable, although OPT is expected to
service the debt associated with these investments.
10.       The Government plans to update and implement a rehabilitation
plan that would greatly enhance the efficiency and of OPT. It would also
create a subsidiary that would combine the national savings bank and postal
checking services of OPT in order to facilitate financial transactions and
mobilize savings in areas not served directly by the banking system.
Preparation of a performance contract also envisaged would be signed as a
condition of third tranche release of the proposed Public Enterprise Sector
Adjustment program. OPT would require technical assistance, including the
services of co-ordinator, to update the rehabilitation plan, prepare the
performance contract, complete the introduction of a new computerized
budgeting and accounting system, including full separation of accounts
between the postal checking services and the national savings bank.
11.       Project obijectives.  The objectives are to provide the
insti itional and technical assistance support the Government needs to
extend and deepen its PE reform efforts, which would be supported by the
companion PE Sector Adjustment Credit. The project is also to address the
long term issue of strengthening the Government's ability to devise and
implement PE reforms as well as to monitor the sector's performance and
manage its future development. In the energy and telecommunication sectors,
the objectives are to help the Goverrment better manage the sectors, to
encourage the creation of a subsidiary in OPT in order to mobilize savings,
to help implement a household energy strategy, and to attract private
companies to explore for petroleum in Mauritania.



Annex I
Page 6 of 8
- 15 -
12.       Project description.  The project would provide the special
units ("Cellule de Rehabilitation du Secteur Public", CRSP) in the Ministry
of Plan and Finance created to oversee parastatal reform with the (local
and foreign) technical expertise, logistical support and resources needed
to execute the reform's main elements. These include: (a) monitoring
sector performance; (b) implementing liquidation, privatization, and other
divestiture meaeures; (c) carrying out external audits of enterprises; and
(d) providing counseling and advice on labor retrenchment. The project
would also provide technical assistance and resources for the energy
sector. This technical assistance would consist of about 180 man-months of
experts to assist SONELEC, 70-man-months of consulting services to assist
with seismic data processing, data reinterpretation and reprocessing and
petroleum exploration promotion, 30-man-months of experts to help with the
promotion of improved charcoal and kerosene stoves and the promotion of gas
for household cooking. About 50 man-months of consulting services would be
used to assist OPT, particularly in regard to its rehabilitation plan. The
project would also finance a study on the future of the refinery (SOMIR)
and of a major public monopoly, SONIMEX, and provide for training,
equipment and other facilities for CRSP and the Directorates of Energy,
Mines and Geology. Assistance is also envisaged for the Ministry of
Commerce, Air Mauritania and Panpa.
B. Proiect Administration and Implementation
13.       Organization and Management.  The TA project will help the
Ministry of Plan and the individual enterprises to implement the PE
adjustment program. The individual components will be implemented by
SONELEC, OPT, the Directorates of Energy, Mines and Geology, Air Mauritanie
and PANPA. It will be closely monitored by an existing unit in the
Ministry "Cellule de Redressement du Secteur Publique (CRSP). The PE
program will also be monitored by a public enterprise unit in the Ministry
of Finance from the point of view of the budget. The specific
responsibility of CRSP would include development of the sector policy
recommendations, monitoring implementation of legal reforms, preparation
and implementating divestiture strategies and facilitating the redeployment
of redundant PE personnel. The unit in the Ministry of Finance will be
responsible for monitoring the financial performance of enterprises and
assist in the financial restructuring of key enterprises. It will also
manage and expand the information system on the PE sector developed to
date. The Directorate of Energy has been working closely with ESMAP and
will be responsible for co-ordinating the implementation of the household
energy strategy. The Directorate of Mines and Geology has been the
beneficiary of an IDA credit (Cr. 1175 - MAU), has successfully attracted
oil companies in the last few years and will continue to do so under the
project. Similarly, SONELEC and OPT have been beneficiaries of an IDA
credit and will continue with rehabilitation efforts started in 1985.



Annex I
Page 7 of 8
- 16 -
14.       gmplementation Plan.  Implementation of the main activities
under the project is anticipated to take about 5 years, with some
activities extending beyond that. The project is thus expected to be fully
completed by December 31, 1997. Annual work plans are to be reviewed and
agreed with IDA in accordance with the supervision plan (Annex III).
14.       Procurement.  The goods and services to be financed under the
project would be procured in accordance with procedures summarized in
Schedule B. Consultants and techr.ical assistance personnel to be financed
by IDA would be appointed in acc'ordance with the Bank Group Guidelines
dated August 1981 and would be employed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. Vehicles, equipment and other material for CRSP, DE
and DMG (US$0.61 millon) would be grouped whenever possible, into bid
packages of not less than US$50,000 and procured through international and
local shopping after receipt of price quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers. IDA-financed contracts for amounts over US$50,000
equivalent would be subject to prior review. Other contracts will be
subject to selective post-award review.
15.       Disbursement.  In line with the average disbursement profile for
technical assistance projects in the Africa Region, the project is forecast
to be disbursed over seven years. However, the Government is targeting to
complete disbursement in a much shorter period, reflecting the fact that
the bulk of the project is composed of short-term technical assistance and
training to be disbursed during the first three or four years of the
project.
16.       All disbursements would be fully documented except for contracts
of less than US$50.000 equivalent, as well as training, and operating costs
(equipment and vehicle maintenance) which will be made against statements
of expenditure (SOB). The Director of CRSP would have the responsibility
for the preparation of withdrawal applications for all components.
17.       Revolving Fund. To expedite implementation, the Government would
establish a Special Account in Central Bank of Mauritania as Revolving
Funds for IDA's contribution. An initial deposit of US$500,000 equivalent
would be made from the proceeds of the proposed credit upon effectiveness.
Details of the establishment and operation of the special account and other
disbursement procedures have been agreed. The minimum replenishment
application would be US$100,000. Budgetary provision for local costs will
be inscribed in the annual operating budgets for the MFIN and the Ministry
of Planning, Ministry of Hydraulics and Energy, Ministry of Industry and
Mines and OPT.
18.       Accounts and Audits. The CRSP, MFIN, MHE, MIM, OPT and Air
Mauritanie would establish separate accounts in accordance with accepted



Annex I
Page 8 of 8
- 17 -
accounting principles, to record all project expenditures ani to maintain
records on all commitments, reimbursements and the status of project funds.
Agreement has been obtained that independant auditors acceptable to IDA
would audit these accounts and those of OPT, Air Mauritanie and the PESAP
annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles and in such
detail as IDA may request. Audit reports will be due six months after the
end of each fiscal year. The audit reports will include a separate opinion
from the auditor as to whether the disbursements made on the basis of SOEs
pertained to expeditures incurred for the purposes of the project.
19.       Reporting and Monitoring. The Ministry of Planning would be
required to submit semi-annual reports on the progress of project
implementation, policy reforms and institutional changes, and
implementation of the performance contracts. The scope and detail of these
reports have been agreed upon with Government. In addition, it would
prepare an annual report summarizing progress in all key areas of the
reform. At the completion of the project, the Ministry of Planning would
prepare the project completion report.



Annex II
Page I of 11
- 18 -
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF EXPERTS ASSIGNED TO SONELEC
Sanitary or Hydraulic Engineer:
1.        Line manager responsible of operation and maintenance (O&M) of
the water supply and sewerage systems. This specialist will review the
O&M requirements for all water supply and sewerage systems and will
reorganize the O&M service, by making the best use of existing now-how and
equipment. He will establish a rational reliable O&M program and identify
staff and equipment needed to carry out the program; this includes the
definition of all positions (filled and to be filled) including the
identification of plethoric and not qualified OWM staff, the recruitment of
qualified staff and their in-house and external training requirements.
This specialist should have a substantial experience as O&M manager in a
water and sewerage utility and be able to adapt with flexibility to the
actual needs of SONELEC.
Customer Management Specialist:
2.        Line manager responsible of the management of water and
electricity customers of SONELEC. Under the supervision of the commercial
manager, he will establish an efficient customer management system so that
the billing and payment of water and electricity invoices be systematically
carried out and the remedial measures (service curtailing, payment of
service re-establishment fees, etc.) be rigorously applied. This
specialist shall pay particular attention to the reduction of unaccounted
for water and electricity in the distribution networks. This specialist
will optimize the use of existing staff and equipment to maximize the
efficiency of customer's management, identify staff issues aNd other gaps,
propose the remedial measures to his supervisor and implement the agreed
actions
Technicians for Operational Maintenance of water distribution networks, and
sewerage networks.
3.        Under the supervision of the sanitary or hydraulic engineer (see
para. 1 above), he will be in charge of O&M field operations aiming at all
the water supply and sewerage facilities operating continuously in
accordance with the design capacity. He will be responsible for the
identification of staff issues (both in quality and number) and gaps



Annex II
Page 2 of 11
- 19 -
relating to O&M equipment and propose to his supervisor and implement, in
agreement with him, the most appropriate remedial measures.
Technician for Operation and Maintenance of Electricity Distribution
Network
4.        Under the supervision of the electrical engineer, Head of the
electricity distribution networks' O&M, he will be in charge of O&M field
operations aiming at all electricity distribution networks providing
continuous service and the required power without breakdown. he will be
responsible for the identification of staff issues (both in quality and
number), and gaps relating to O&M equipment and propose to his supervisor
and implement, in agreement with him, the most appropriate remedial
measures.



Annex II
Page 3 of 11
- 20 -
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUMMARY TOR FOR STUDY OF THE FUTURE OF THE REFINERY (SOMIR)
Introduction
5.        In April 1985, the Government of Mauritania entered intc an
agreement with Algeria that transferred the burden of operating the local
refinery to the Algerian until July 1992. This arrangement has worked well
so far for Mauritania, but the future of the refinery operation is
uncertain, particularly if the Algerians do not renew the contract.
Scope of the Study
6.        The objective of the study is to determine the least cost
alternative, in economic terms for the refinery, particularly if the
contract with the Algerians is not renewed and to propose a plan of action.
The consultants will examine the following alternatives:
(a)       renewal of the agreement with Algeria and on terms that are
advantageous to Mauritania but which would continue to be
attractive to Algeria;
(b)       interest of other investors and/or operators in buying
andlor operating the refinery; and
(c)       closing down the refinery, and importing petroleum products
directly from world markets at international prices.
7.        The study is expected to last five months and involve a maximum
of six man-months of work of a petroleum economist, a refinery engineer, a
financial analyst and a lawyer.



- 21 -
MAIJRITANTA                      Annex SI
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND  Page 4 of 11
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ASSISTANCE TO THE DIRECTORATE OF MINES AND GEOLOGY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Inuction
Los rapports de synthise et d'ivaluation petrollUre du bassin c6tier et offshore
de Mauritanie ont mis en evidence plusleurs thames d'exploration qui niavaient
ete quo peu oun mal reconnus par les explorations pric6dentes. Les
perfectionnments techniques des methodes sismiques (acquisition, retraltement
et lnterpretatlon) et des methodes modernes de simulation des bassins et
d'evaluation des potentiels gdochdmlques en sont largement la cause. U est donc
normal dsperer un regain d'int6rSt des compeies pitroUeres dans les annees
qui viennent. Certains travaux dolvent  tre reallss pour presenter dans les
meelioures conditions, ces themes d'explora4on et les rendre concretement plus
attractlfs.
PRogrwamm tecdquen
1) Mod6llsation du bassin
Un apport esentiel des travaux rallss ces dernlres amin  a ete de prouver
Pexlstence de rodios mres, souvet rlcdes et de maturation posslWe de la
mFFatlro orgmnque. U slt donc maintenant d'utllser un programme permettant
de mJou dr ls p&rfodes de g.' ratlon et de m4ration des hydrocw1 e,
les quantitis d'hydro ues ginf6es et les dcmins possibes de migration.
Tenant compt e d  o l'voution     a et sidimentalre du bassin, en ut iLisnt
Its donnf t    phlque,  ologqu  et de forage, ce proamme devralt
apporXtr des ld1e swr ie zones ul paauent les plus favales pour des
accumulatio ns ed et *t de                   cete mAthote e t envisage.
dwns to Sud du bui ka   dos es    f      sont asez complAtes, sclon une
sectIon Est-Oust I d6finrr. Les rssultata wont ersAte extrpolis i l'ensemble
dubIn
2)  Retraltement snlau et ntertion shsmostratlarwhigue
a)  Pexstence de p_meu d6iImits I la fols par des fllies de bassin et
pdes tallies lisiques demand. des retealtements simques et des
interprwtatlons elabor6es pour dhtermi les vrations de fades,
lVlnfluence des falliles, l%xiestee Eobjectlfs possbles & 1extremiti
Ourst do b platefforme ckrbonatde.
Un retnaltement e%nviron 400 Kms do profUs dons la rigon centrale
du basn (ou ces phinomenes sont dej& blen document6s) pourralt
valorlser de tes objectf qul se poursuivent dan la r4gon du Nord
oul Us sont moins blen connus Le rehaltement envism   fournirait un
modile qu} devralt ensuAte 8tre etendu a lensemble du bassin. Les
6volutions structurales et sidimentalres darns un cadre tecvique



- 22 -
Annex II
Page 5 of 11
global devront etre prises en compte.
b)  Rieion Nord (blocs 2 et 10)
La presenco de Canyons sous marins dans la partle au Sud du bloc 2 a
empkh6 jusqt'alors d'obtenir des resultats convaincants. Toutefois le
prolongemeont des problemes 114s a des failles listriques et autres est
tres probable. D'autre part une grande partle de cotte region (Banc
d'Arguin) ast pratiquoment inconnue car elle so situe en eaux peu
profondes ot lobtention de refklxions est compliqu6e par loexistence
de bancs calcaires proches de la surface. Le Gouvernement est
actuellement en contact avec lindustrie pour realiser l'acquisitlon de
profiUs sismiques dans la region (environ 800 kms dans le bloc 2 et 100
kms sur le banc d'Arquin).
Le retraitement eventuel et lInterpr4tation de ces lignes devront
ttre reallses par le consultant.
Enfin une interpretation sismostratigraphiqut  devra Ste realisee
dans la reglon dAl Kinz au Nord, utilisant des lignes anciennes
-ventuellnement retraitees.
3. ASIstance    m
Une assistance technique sera fournie a la Direction des Mines et de la
G6ologle. Ses composantes principales sont les suivantew
a)  Integration aux rapports precedents des donnres nouvelles acqulses
par les Socliets Op6ratrices.
Priparation de rapports de promotion lorsque necessaire.
' mols Ingenleurs par an sur 4 ans.
b)  Supervision des Operations p4trolieres.
8 mols Ing6neurs.
c)     tance  uax negociations avec les Compagnies
* mois ng6nieurs.
d)  Assistance pour un programme de formation  des ing6nieurs
Mauritaniens du Service Hydrocarbures de la D.M.G.
e)  Assistance pour l'achat dWupements.
f)   Realisation des promotions
- Impression rapports brochures, articles etc...
_ Voyages et logistique
- Participation des ingenieurs Mauritaniens.



23 _                      Annex Ii
MAURIT                      Page 6 of 11
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
TEC1NICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INSURANCE SECTOR
TERlS OF REFERENCE
I    mR nzn-:
A) Pratique et exercice actuels de l'assurance en
Mauritanie basee sur son 6volution durant les cinq dernieres
annees.
a)  -  Assurance  automobile,  coit,  risque,  pratique,
motivation de l'assur4 et sa perception de l'assurance
automobile. Chiffre d'affaires, dossiers traitds, paiements
realises au profit de la client6le, delai d'instruction des
dossiers: pourcentage des dossiers rejet6s et pourcentaqe des
dossiers contentieux sounis aux tribunaux.
b) - Assurance transport des marchandises et marchandise;
ammes 6lements quo pour le a): en plus l'6tude devra d6termin,er
s'il existe un syst4ae do double assurance ( lea assur6s payant
des primes dans lea pays d'oriqin. de la narchandise Jet 6valuer
la moins value qu'il constitue pour la SMAR et pour l'6conomie
eta q6n6ral.
c) - Assurances navires: adm4s 6l6ents quo pour a) mais
l'6tude doit 6tre trds vigilante concernant l'6valuation du
risque on rapport avec l'&gqe de la flette de p6che.
d) - Autres assurances: Incendies, tout risque etc... m6me
4l6ments que pour a).
L'dtude sera done en mesure de d6terminer le chiffre
d'affaires Ptentialde l'activit6 d'assurance, l comparer au
chiffre daatfaires r"lis6s par la SKAR et analyser la cause
des *carts 6ventuels.
5) Une partie des risque. de l'assurance sont couverts par
la rswurance ext0rieure, l'4tude dovra examiner sur cinq ans
l'6volution du cost de la rassurance et l'*valuer en le
comparant aux pratique international"s en vigucur par rapport
aux pays africains.
C) Una autre partie des codt do l'assurance provient de
l'expertise, l'6tudo dovra *valuer co coet et examiner son
*volution  sur  cinq  an.   L'6tude  devra  aussi  analyser
1'ad6quation do la qualit6 de l'expertise dans 1e cadre de
l16valuation des sinistros et des risques.
En conclusion, l'ftude serait a ame do ventiler le coits
de l'assurance suivant les activit6s suivantes:
- Expertise
- Courtage t s'il y a lieu)
- Assurance



- 24 -
Annex II
Pagef 7of 11
- R*assurance
et donner une appreciation raisonnable selon los pratiques
de cette rdpartition.
ii Ljaiulatio2 des Assuranoes:
L*dtude abordera onsuite la l&gislation en vigueur en
Mauritanie sur les assurances du point de vue de son addquation
pour la promotion de cette activit6.
En particulier l'6tude examinsra
- les lois, ordonnances, decrets et arr46ts constituant la
trame juridique de lVactivitt dos assurances et leur degr6
d'application.
- A travers le contentioux soumis aux tribunaux, le
traitement que ceux-ci accordent & ces contentieux.
-  Dans  une  perspective  d'ouverture  d   l'activitd
dWassurance au secteur priv6, 1'*6tude proposera 1'arsenal do
textes ldqaux qu'il conviendrait do prendre, lea modificatio'ns
& introduire dans les anciens textes de manitre a 'assurer
qu'un cadre leqal ad6quat a ot6 mis en place assurantt 1.
maximum de s6curit6 & l'assur6.
- Sp6cifiquement, l' Etude proposora un. N.hier o charaes
qui devra etre respect6 par toutes los soci6t. d'assurances
qui d6siroraient s'install-r en Kauritanis et qui explicitera
los procedures d'aqredment. Co cahi-r dovra vouillez A co quo
leas conditions morales techniques et financi6res necessaire &
l'exercice de cette activit& soit bion explicit6es.
- Pour 1. contr8le, le suivi et la supervision des
assurances, 1'Etude proposora la cr6ation d'une entit6
administrative situ6 dana 1 cadre du finist6re charq6 du
commerce et en explicitera les pr6roqatives et 1 organisation.



- 25 -
Annex I I
Page 8 of 11
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPHENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SONIHEX
TERMS OF REFERENCE
QMKCIZZ
L'objectif do l'tude est d'effOctuer le contr6le g6n6ral
de qestion et la v6rification detaillde des comptes de la
SONIMEX. A ce titre, il sera procidd  &
- l'audit comptable et financier dos comptes de la-socidVd
pour     l'exercice clos au 31 D6cembr. 1988 et 1989 s
- levaluation des insuffisances de l'exploitation ot :
- l'examen d6tailld de l'orqanisation et de la structure
administrative de l'ontroprise.
A chaque fois le consultant proposera le essures de
redressement n4cossaires pour am6liorer les performances de la
soci4td.
:OOUUN  DUE YU&YUZ
Au titre de sa mission 1. consultant so livrera  A
1)- L'audit c outable  t fiM         at des     too SR a
- v6rifiant les comptos de l'ontreprise clas au 31 Ddcembre
1988 et 1989 en dgqagant toutes lex anomalies comptables
par rapport au plan comptable do la socift4, apr*s examen
de la conformit4 de celui-ci & travors los prescriptions du
Plan Comptable Mauritanien (PCX) ;
- v4rifiant les proc4dures comptables en vigueur, leur
fiabilitd et lour degr d'application ;
- dvaluant 1- patrimoino et la structure financifre de la
soci4td ;
- evaluant la capacit& technique du personnel comptable,
comp4tences, effectife, niveaux, organisation ;
- dvaluant l'utilisation d l'outil informatique dans
l'elaboration des comptes de la soci6t6.
Le consultant devra accorder uns attention particuliere
aux 6ldments suivants 
- cl6ture do l'exercice
- gestion des stocks et inventaire des immobilisations ;
- systme de controle interne
- provisions s
- C1 qseiopt Aq.q ii 6  v, n             ,* FV    _"  A



- 26-                         Annex II
Page 9 of 11
Au terme de cette premiere dtape de l'6tude, le consultant
devra eventuellement:
- d6ga;er un avis motiv6 sur les comptes :
- faire des propositions de redressement des comptes et des
procwdures comptables ;
- proposer une structure financibre refbtant la r6alitd du
patrimoine de la societe ;
- proposer une meilleure utilisation de l'outil informa-
tique dans le cadre d'un syst6me d'intormation int6qr  ;
2')- 1an10ltatlo, t
Dans ce domaine, le consultant devrait :
- 6tudier la politique g6n6rale d'approvisionnement et
celle de la distribution ;
- Cvaluer les coats d'achat des marchandises lors des cinq
derni6res ann6es et leurs colts de transport vers la
Mauritanie en les comparant aux co8ts du marche interna-
tional et aux coats pay6s par des pays de la rqi on
- 6valuer le systbme d'information de la SONINEX sur lo
march6 international du sucre et du riz notament :
- Cvaluer do manibre aussi prciso quo possible les
d6perditions de marchandises durant les transports et
durant le stockage dans les entrep8ts et maqasins do la
SONIMEX 
- .*valuer le coat de distribution des produits au
consommateur on distinguant la part qui en revient & la
SONINEX - et co & partir du d6barquement des marchandises
au Port - et co qui eat imputable au circuit priv6 de
distribution s
- *valuer la politique commerciale interne de la SONINEX en
relation avoc lea accords passes avec la Conf6ddration
G6ntrale des Employcurs de Nauritanie (CGEN) et lea
obligations  a  elle  imposies  par  l'Etat.  Dans  une
perspective historique retracer les evolutions internes des
prix de produits SONIMEX en lea mettant en parall6Ue avec
le 6volutions des prix de ces mames marchandises sur le
plan international s
- en utilisant los prix de 1980 comm. base A l'indice 100
comparer l16volution des prix des produits SONINEX a celle
des prix impot*s suivants: farin  lait en boite, lait frais
a lonque conservatior., pates alimentaires et a celle des
prix locaux de la viande et du poisson.
- #valuer la politique de s6curit6 d'approvisionnement de
la SONINEX en examinant l'4volution de ces importations, et
des
stocks do s6curitd qu'elle maintient. Etablir sur 10 ans
l'Cvolution de ceo stocks et do leurs coats pour
l'entreprise ;



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 10 of 11
- comparer 1'6volution our les cinq derni&rea ann6es des
prix des denr6ea SONIMEX en Mauritanie par rapport A celle
de doux ou plusieurs pays de la r6gion ;
- cerner le coat de transport encouru par la SONIMEX A
partir de son propre parc et le comparer au coit de
transport en vigueur dans le secteur prive ;
- evaluer les mAthodes de gestion de tresorerie et les
comparer & ce qu'elles devraient 6tre pour une soci6t6 de
commercialisation ;
- examiner los rapports avoc la clienthle ;
- examiner les mdthodes d'6laboration de plan de
diveloppement (justification, qualite, horizon) :
- 6valuer les politiques de recouvroment ;
- 6valuer les politiques et uathodes de prospection des
marches internationaux :
- examiner les methodes de passation des march6s (appel &
la
concurence, grd-&-grd, etc...) et son application
effective.                                              1
3*)- struatura M ia6rala at oraanoiatiog  de la Geation: L*Atuat
i)  Pa arsonnel:
- 6volution des effectifs et leur qualification
- qestion des carri6res;
- 6volution des salaires et de la masse salariale;
- statut du personnel en comparaison avec lea statuts
existant dans des entreprises simulaires en Mauritanie;
ii) wgxgaa1gum
- niveau et rapports hi6rarchiques, d6finition des
reponsabilit6s et description des postes;
- circulaire do I'information horizontale et verticale au
sein de l'entreprises
- prise do decision a quelle niveau elle s'effectues
4 ) Strat6gi-s *t arasootiva- do I& 3031NM1
A la lumidre de I , Tr at III analyser les strat6gies
applicables par l'entreprise dans le sons d'une plus grande
efficacith et les perspectives qui a'ouvrent a elle.
- En particulier, si un systdme do v6rit6 des prix eot mis
en  place  en  1991,  qu'elle  serait  son    influence  sur
l'exploitation future do l'entreprise ainsi que our sa capacitd
d'autofinancement.
- Quel peut *tre I'incidence d'une croissance annuelle de
10% de la production rizicole (paddy et riz blanc) our l'avenir
de l'entreprise.



- 28-                       Annex II
Page IT-of 11
- Dans le cas ou l'entreprise east sounise a la concurence
quel serait avec sea cotta actuels d'exploitation son volume
d'opdration sur chacun des produits.
Au terme de cette analyse, l'6tude proposera un train de
mesures pour assecir de r6elles politique d'approvisionnement,
de commercialisation et d'organisation interne hautement
dynamique et orient6e vers la transparence des prix au
consommateur dana le cadre d'une activit4 soumise A la
concurence.
De plus le consultant devra pour l'4valuation de la
proqession  de  l'entrepris.  developper  des  criteres  de
performance tendant vers des objectifa fix4s au d6part.
S* ) - C_a*iZ1nat*n :
Etant donn6 la nature de la mission, l'tude devra 6tre
men6e par une 6quips pluridisciplinaire compos6 d'experts
hautement qualifi6s et exp4rimentds dans lea domaines suivants:
- comerce international de denrdes alimentaires (riz,
sucre... ) ;
- diaqnostic et redressoment d'entreprises commerciRles en
difficult6s s
- expertise comptable des entreprisos publiques. Une
mission de 20 a 24 houros par mois serait necessaire pour
ce faire et l'6tude couterait entre 200 et 300.000 Dollars.
3 }- DoC=e*tS do Base
Le  consultant  aura        e sa  disposition  toutes   les
informations necessaires pour mener A bien ea mission.



Annex III
-  29  -                           Page 1 of 6
MAURITOANI
PUBLIC EfTERRUISE SECTOR IESTITUTIOMAL DEVESTOPNEN  AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTACE PROJCT
BOUSWOW R:Y STRAEGY
1.1       The    proposed   household   energy   strateRv   is
principally an urban strategy.   The strategy vill initially focus on
Nouakchott while other cities will be taken into account at a later
stage.     This choice is justified while reviewing and relating the
projected energy consumption figures for the different areas:  savings
will  have most  impact  on Nouakchott' s situation.    Fuel consumption
projections are presented under two scenarios: a trend based, status quo
scenario, and an interactive, policy based scenario. Total population and
fuel consumption projection figures for 1988 and 1998 under the trend
based scenario are presented in table 1.1 and for the interactive
scenario in table 1.2.   If no action is taken (status quo structure,
extrapolation of '83 - '88 trends based scenario), charcoal consumption
will have grown in ten years by more than 26% to 93 thousand MT per yea*,
LPG consumption will have more than doubled to 13.3 thousand MT per
year. Wood consumption will be reduced somewhat to 386 thousand NT per
year, reflecting the fast rate of urbanization and the related
modernization.
Table 1.1: 1998 POPULATION ('000) AND FUEL CONSUMPTION ('000 NT) PROJECTIONS
- Trend based Scenario
Scenario 1    - Population -    - Charcoal -    -- LPG -    -   Vood -
1988   1998    1988   1998   1988   1998   1988    1998
Nouakchott     550    976   42.8   62.7    3.3    9.5   8.3         8.3
Nouadhibou     110    155    4.3    5.5    1.5    2.2   0.0         0.0
Other urban    182    256    9.9   11.4    0.5    0.8  31.2    44.1
-Rural         998    991   16.6   13.5    0.8    0.8  369.3   333.9
Total     1,840   2,378   73.6   93.1    6.1   13.3  408.8   386.3
Source:  SONELEC, mission estimates:
1.2       The  Household  Energy  Strategy  presented  will,  among  other
things, aim to reduce charcoal consumption.   Table 1.2 presents the
projected 1998 consumption figures under the following assumptions:



Annex III
-  30  -                                 Page 2 of 6
improved charcoal stoves will be used in 1998 by 80% of the charcoal
consumers in Nouakchott, by 75% in Nouadhibou and 45% in the other
cities; the LPU consumption level in Nouakchott for 1998 will be similar
to the current level in Nouadhibou: 75Z of the total population uses LPC
as their primary cooking fuel.
1.3        Total fuel savings as result of the Household Energy Strategy
are presented in Table 1.3. Charcoal savings would amount to 30,500 MT
per year in 1998, of which 92% in Nlouakchott; wood savings relative to
the trend based scenario will be negligible.   LPG consumption will grow
faster and will have reached a consumption level of almost three times
the current level.
Table 1.2: 1998 POPULATION ('000) AND FUEL CONSUMTI ON
('000 )T) PROJECTIONS
- Interactive Scenario
1986    1998    1988    1998    1988    1998
aNoukchott        42.8   34.5      3.3    14.0     8.3     8.3
Nouadhibou         4.3    4.6      1.5     2.2    0.0      0.0
Other urban        9.9    10.4    0.5    0.9    31.2    44.1
Rural             16.6    13.0    0.8      0.9   369.3   333.9
Total         73.6   62.6    6.1    17.9   408.8   386.3
Source: Mission estimates.
Table 1.3: RELATIVE WOOFFUEL SAVINGS AND ADDITIONAL
LiP CONSUMPTI ON
('000 MT per year in 1998)
Difference       -- Charcoal --   -- LPG -        ---- Wood
Nouakchott        -28.2   92%    +4.5   97%    0.0         0%
Nouadhibou         -0.9    3%    +0.0    0%    0.0         0$
Other urban        -0.9    3%    *0.1    2%    0.0         0%
Rural              -0.5    2%    +0.1    2%    0.0         0%
Total         -30.5   100%    +4.7   100%    0.0       0%
Source: Mission estimates.



Annex III
Page 3 of 6
- 31 -
1.4       Four strategic options present themselves to relieve pressure
on precarious forestry resources while meeting the energy needs of the
urban consumers, focussing primarily on Nouakchott:
(a) accelerated inter-fuel substitution;
(b) demand management;
(c) improving biomass supply system, including an inventory;
production, distribution and management; stumpage and taxation
policy collection and remittance to forestry department; and
(d) economic household fuel pricing.
1.5       The supposed status of biomass resources is such that short
term actions are strongly recommended over longer term actions. On the
demand side, one of the highest priorities is to accelerate the
introduction and use of LPG in the urban areas, mainly in Nouakchott, to
replace charcoal as a cooking fuel. Demand management measures as
improved charcoal stoves will be a complementary action to reduce
charcoal  fuel  consumption even further.   Both actions  together will
eventually reduce the charcoal consumption and stabilize it at below the
1988 level. On the resource side, it is imperative to know the status of
both the existing resources, their rate of clearing, and a precise
determination of all the actors involved before any recommendations can
be made.   It  is clear though,  that a larger degree of control and
management of resources is required for its optimal utilization. Pricing
policy should be geared more towards economic fuel prices which will not
only enhance the use of substitute fuels and improved stoves, it can also
generate a source of income to develop forest activities to protect the
environment.
1.6       The      strategy    outlined    thus    concentrates            on
short term action and to a lesser extent on longer term activities:
energy problems are acute at this time, requiring immediate attention:
people will have to continue to cook their meals. Government involvement
should only be incurred through a least-cost solution, i.e. a minimum
increase in the number of civil servants, stimulating competitiveness of
the household fuel production and distribution system by the private
sector, requiring stove and energy prices to be as close as possible at
their economic costs. People should be allowed to use the stove and fuel
of their choice as long as these are priced at their true economic costs.
Which household fuel should be imported if imports are to take place
1.7       The difference in primary energy consumption for households
using LPG or charcoal is significant. As shown earlier, the average per
capita energy consumption in Nouakchott (where the majority use charcoal)
is 50% higher than in Nouadhibou (where the majority of the households



Annex III
Page 4 of 6
- 32 -
use LPG).   In other words, if large-scale charcoal imports take place,
50 more energy is imported (and paid for) compared to when LPG is
imported.
1.8       The economic costs of useful energy for LPG are much lower than
for  charcoal:  approximately  UM2.6/MJ         for  LPG  versus  UM4.9  to
UJM6*9/MJeff for charcoal (for use withtheU improved and the traditional
charcoal  stove respectively).   Thus, when fuels have to be imported,
imports of LPG are economically more attractive than imports of charcoal:
a smaller quantity of LPC has to be imported than charcoal to satisfy the
energy needs and in addition, the CIF costs for LPG are lower than those
for charcoal.
Quantification of Objectives
1.9       The strategy recommended is based on the following targets
(a) by 1998, the population of Nouakchott which uses LPC as primary
household fuel increases from 27X to 75Z of all households,
which is equivalent to the current rate in Nouadhibou;
(b)  the number of households in Nouakchott using improved charcoal
stoves increases from 0 in 1988 to a saturation rate of 831 of
the charcoal consuming households in 1998; similarly, it will
rise from 01 in 1990 to 751 in 1998 in Nouadhibou; and from 0%
to 45% in the other urban areas.
(c) the number of households using LPG in the other urban areas
will double from about 141 in 1990 to 301 in 1998;
(d) wood use will not increase substantially in either of the urban
areas;
(e) a more effective charcoal productionp transport and marketing
control system will be in place before the year 1991;
(f) economic costs will be charged fot all household fuels before
1991; and
(g) security of supply, and a well developed distribution system of
L°G, in particularly of the 3 kg and the 6 kg bottles, will be
guaranteed.
1.10      In  the  first phase,  the following will be done, which  is
expected to cost about US$ 440,000 as summarized in the attached table.
(a)  accelerating the use of LPG.   In the light of the different
projections for the use of LPG, SOMAGAZ would be assisted in
executing an LPG market study, as well as in designing a



Annex III
Page 5 of 6
- 33 -
development  plan  to  attain  these  projected  levels  of
utilization. Further technical assistance would be provided to
SOMACAZ with special emphasis on maintenance and security
issues,  as  well   as  training  for  staff.          Lastly,  a
publicity/sensibilization campaign will be organized to promote
the safe use of LPG throughout the country; it is envisaged
that a local publicity agency is hired to be the lead agent for
this work.
(b)  disseminating and commercializing the use of improved charcoal
stoves.   Until now, improved charcoal stove activities have
been  research  oriented.      This  should  change  towards  a
commercial approach to disseminate these more efficient stoves
as quickly as possible. The proposed activities include hiring
a local technical specialist, to provide technical and
financial assistance to existing stove producers/artisans, and
to launch promotional activities which could be linked with
similar activities under (a).
(c) strengthening of the "Direction de l'Energie". This consists
mainly of technical assistance to improve the in-house planning
and analytical capacity, and providing logistical support.



- 34 -                                          Annex III
Page 6 of 6
LPG compoWu                                                                          uss
TA exem (ma,ket study)                         20000
TA eapmna (dew. plan. sensub.)                      20000
TA SOMAGAZ (Sdety. maintenance)                           45000
Tcainmg of pasonnol      -                50W0
Study vihis SOMAGAZI                         10000
Suawy (natket stu)                          t
uvtarna PubNaay Speali                             200
PubIct/SmaibIIaIo  campiWs                           5000
=l                        M
*u.ua
__ ___                                  _            _                               00
_     _          _(d  __u _pu                       W000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~mm          "d                            10000
aimiame to atlis"                         SCO
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _~~~~p idl               2500
Nose*
110000
TA esaw         -45M
I S*4m  -                                25W O
|  _   s(2)               10000
I     ..                                      =              "Z"e~~~~~~...
md TOtM                          44_
3



Annex IV
Page 1 of 5
- 35 -
MAURITANIA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL DtiELOPMENT AND
TECENICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.   Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of programs reports, procurement
act!ons, audit statements, correspondence, etc.
Borrower's Contributions to Supervision
(a) Progress reports will be submitted by the Ministry of Plan on
the progress of project implementation, policy reforms and
institutional changes, and implementation of performance
contracts at the end of January and July.
(b) Annual work plans and budgets will be submitted in November and
discussed and agreed to in December of each year.
(c) Annual audits of key enterprises will be submitted no later than
June 30 of each year.
(d) Project monitoring and co-ordination will be the responsibility
of the Cellule de Redressment du Secteur Publique (CRSP).
(e) Monitoring of financial data will be done by a unit in the
Ministry of Finance.



- 36 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 5
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate         Activity             Expected Skill       Staff Input
date and                                 Requirements         (Staff-weeks)
monthlyear
7-9190              Supervision          Economist,           10.0
mission             financial
Start-up            analyst.
activities          transport
specialist,
PE expert,
disbursement
officer
9-10190             Review TORs          Economist.           2.0
for various         Financial
experts and         Analyst
studies;
review work
plans and
budgets;
approve
contract for
certification
agency
10-12190            Supervision          Economist,           2.0
mission             Financial
Discuss and         analyst
agree on work
plans and
budgets
1-3190              Review               conomist,            2.0
budgets;            Fine  ;al
review SNDM         Analy-.,
production and      Mining
efficiency          Engineer,
targets;            Power Engineer
SONELEC
progress
reports, CRSP
progress
reports



- 37 -
Annex IV
Page 3 of 5
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
1-3191               Supervision         Economist,           6.0
mission and          Financial
specifically        Analyst,
on SNIM,            Public
SONELEC and         Utilities and
OPT                 Mining
Engineers,
Telecommunica-
tion
specialist
2191                 Review              Economist,           2.0
'contrat            Financial
plans",             Analyst, and
contracts for       PE expert
technical
assistance
etc.
4-6191               Supervision         Economist and        3.0
mission              Financial
Review Tranche      Analyst, and
Release             PE expert
Conditions,
includiug
liquidation
and
privatization
of PEs,
'contra:t
plan' fi)r Air
Mauritania,
reduction in
arrears etc.
5/91                Review               Economist and        2.0
contracts for       Financial
various             Analyst
experts and
consultancy
reviews



- 38 -
Annex IV
Page 4 of 5
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
7-9191               Review study         Economist,           4.0
on SOMIR and         Financial
SMAR and             Analyst,
SONIMEX;             Energy Experts
review TOR and       etc
contracts for
various
experts and
consultancy
services;
review
programs
reports
10-11/91             Review work          Economist,           2.0
plans and            Financial
budgets              Analyst
12191                Supervision          Economist,           10.0
mission              Financial
Agree on work        Analyst,
plans and            Transportation
budgets;             and
Review               Telecommunicat
budgeting and        ion experts;
accounting           Fishery expert
plan
implementation
of Ministry of
Finance, OPT,
Panpa and Air
Mauritania.
Review
situation in
the fishing
sector and
SMCP
1-3/92               Review               Economist,           2.0
progress             Financial,
reports,
review drafts
of 'contrat
plans for
Panpa and OPT,
review budgets



- 39 -
Annex IV
Page 5 of 5
Bank Supervision Inaput into Key Activities
3-6192               Supervision          PS expert,           10.0
mission              Economist,
Review Tranche       Financial
Release             Analyst,
Conditions,         Mining
including on        Engineer
liquidation
and
privatization
of PEs.
Reductions 4
arrears,
-                ~~~~~SNDM's
performance
SONIME
3-6(92              Review               Economist and        2.0
contracts,          Financial
audit reports       Analyst
FY93                 3 supervision
missions
FY94                 2 supervision
missions
PY95                 2 supervision
missions



IBRD 22261
MAURITANIA
PUBUC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
-     P.twd Ro                     *    Ak6II"3
---   Ras& urtrb co             -r                                       0 u
Ttrno   IeOr eAMinfa*t                                                         I
-  -    Iadb.lU r. Tmtmvy f *- f- Se      1         _ -  -
jN.    ALGER IA
Fis) ,                                                                            *I  \
44    Fhh.4                                              ._                      _ _\
I '                   ---        
AGRiCwULTURAL ZOtIEtS*                                                                               *
SOll  Sub S  Dertr
KILOMETERS                                         !                                                              24
,  7 1#/ 
,             } 3gg;4                                                    j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  A L I
Nouadhibou 
NOUAKCHOTI                         Moudjeria 
I 2          ~AIOUn el AIrouss      6           I
(_-+XthE .*,K~~~~~~~~~~Iffa Nra# 
J                  N.o, o    *M'80ut   At  @Timbedm
M     A       L     I
S E N E G A L                            ._                                                        _
1)-                                                  .w....n 8-  .eAR  10
MARCH 1990



