Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2167 MAU
      (Public Enterprise Sector Institutional Development and
                  Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 18, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2167 MAU
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 18, 1990, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
MAURITANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make a credit to the Borrower in support of a program
of actions, objectives and policies (hereinafter called the Program)
undertaken by the Borrower in order to achieve an adjustment of its
public enterprise sector;
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to further facilitate
the implementation of the Program by assisting in the financing of
the Project; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "BCM" means Banque Centrale de Mauritanie;
      (b)   "CRSP" means Cellule de Rehabilitation du Secteur
Public;
      (c)   "OPT" means Office des Postes et des Telecommunications;
      (d)   "PANPA" means Port Autonome de Nouakchott dit Port de
l'Amitie;
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated January 8 and February 28,
1986, May 8 and June 23, 1986, and July 14 and August 20, 1988,
respectively, between the Borrower and the Association;
      (f)   "SMCP" means Societe Mauritanienne de Commercialisation
du Poisson;
      (g)   "SONELEC" means Societe Nationale d'Eau et
d'Electricite; and
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
Page  3
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 2000 and ending June 1, 2030. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on June 1, 2010 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Page  4
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 2.09. (a) The officer in charge of CRSP is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the officer in charge of CRSP with
responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under
the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other
evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of such
applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent
practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of
aggregate amounts of not less than $100,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
CRSP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, management and commercial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than September 30,
1990, designate the Department of Employment and the Department of
Re-insertion to be responsible for providing counselling and
assistance to former employees who are declared redundant as a
result of the Program.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31
immediately preceding the beginning of each fiscal year, submit to
the Association, for review and comments, an annual work plan,
giving details of its budgetary proposals and proposed training
program, for that fiscal year.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1990, recruit a suitably qualified and experienced resident adviser
to be responsible to advise CRSP on all issues pertaining to the
privatization of public enterprises and related matters.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
Page  5
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six (6) months
                  after the end of each such year, a certified copy
                  of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account was made,
                  all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause SONELEC, OPT, Air
Mauritanie, SMCP and PANPA to:
      (a)   have their records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
      (b)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such
year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements for such year
as so audited, and (B) the reports of such audits by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
      (c)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such records, accounts, financial statements and the
audits thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
Page  6
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out; and
      (b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SONELEC, OPT, Air Mauritanie, SMCP or PANPA or for the suspension
of their operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
an event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which this Agreement shall terminate or upon completion of the
Project, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Planning and Employment of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Employment
            B.P. 238
            Nouakchott
            Islamic Republic of Maurtania
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  MPDI Nouakchott                 540 MTN
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  INDEVAS                         248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  7
                        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                        By /s/ Abdellahi Ould Daddah
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                                Credit              % of
                               Allocated        Expenditures
                             (Expressed in          to be
      Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)   Technical Assistance       4,240,000      100%
      and studies
(2)   Training                     510,000      100%
(3)   Vehicles and                 410,000      100%
      equipment
(4)   Operating costs              230,000       50%
(5)   Refunding of                 970,000      Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(6)   Unallocated                1,340,000
      TOTAL                      7,700,000
                                 =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means all incremental costs arising under the Project in respect of
local staff salaries and allowances, maintenance of vehicles and
equipment, fuel, and office rent, supplies and services.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) provide the
institutional and technical assistance support that the Borrower
requires in order to extend and deepen its adjustment efforts under
Page  8
the Program; (b) strengthen the Borrower's ability in the long term
to devise and implement reforms in the public enterprise sector, and
monitor the sector's performance and manage its future development;
and (c) with respect to the energy, telecommunications, transport
and commerce sectors, (i) help the Borrower better manage the
sectors, (ii) encourage the creation of a subsidiary of OPT that
would mobilise savings, (iii) help implement a household energy
strategy, (iv) attract private companies to explore for petroleum in
Mauritania and participate in the insurance and petroleum sub-
sectors, (v) put air transportation in the country on a sound
financial footing, and (vi) improve the performance of Nouakchott as
the main port of entry for goods in the country.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     General Sector Reform
1.    CRSP
      (a)   Monitoring the performance of the public enterprise
sector;
      (b)   Implementing divestiture measures and other forms of
privatisation;
      (c)   Carrying out external audits of enterprises;
      (d)   Providing counselling and advice on labour retrenchment;
and
      (e)   Implementing studies both of whole sub-sectors and of
selected enterprises.
2.    Ministry of Finance
      (a)   Monitoring the financial performance of enterprises;
      (b)   Assisting in the financial restructuring of key
enterprises;
      (c)   Managing and expanding the information system developed
to date on the public enterprise sector; and
      (d)   Training for the above activities.
Part B:     Support to the Energy Sector
1.    SONELEC
      Strengthening the institutional capability of SONELEC,
including training.
2.    Directorate of Energy
      (a)   Implementation of a household energy strategy;
      (b)   Promotion of improved charcoal and kerosene stoves; and
      (c)   Promotion of gas for household cooking.
Part C:     Support to the Mining Sector
      (a)   Assisting with seismic data processing, data reinter-
pretation and reprocessing; and
      (b)   Promotion of petroleum exploration.
Part D:     Support to Ministry of Commerce
       Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Commerce
Department to follow-up and supervise programs designed to eliminate
Page  9
monopolies and liberalise prices.
Part E:     Support to OPT
       Updating of the rehabilitation plan of OPT, preparation of a
performance contract and completion of the introduction of a new
computerized budgeting and accounting system, including full
separation of accounts between the postal checking services and the
national savings bank.
Part F:    Support to Air Mauritanie
       Implementation of rehabilitation plan of Air Mauritanie and
preparation of a performance contract.
Part G:     Support to PANPA
       Strengthening the management of the port.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, equipment,
and materials shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.2 hereof, goods manufactured in Mauritania may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
      Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $250,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  10
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
Page  11
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  12
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
