Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7700-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
EXPORT CORRIDORS PROJECT
APRIL 12, 1989
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recphele, only in the performance of
their officWil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witout World Bank authorizado.



CURRENCY E_QUjIVaLNT
(as of December 31, 1988)
US$1.00            2.44 bolivianos ($b)
US$0.41      =     1.00 boliviano
US$1.00      =     SDR 0.76
US$i.31            SDR 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AAD.A          Autonomous Customs Warehouse Administration ("Administracion
Autonoma de Almacenes Aduaneros")
CAF            Andean Development Corporation ("Corporacion Andina de
Fomento")
ENFE           Bolivian National Railway ("Empresa Nacional de
Ferrocarriles del Estado")
ER             Economic return
ESF            Emergency Social Fund
FCALP          Arica-La Paz Railway ("Ferrocarril Arica-La Paz")
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
ICB            International competitive bidding
IDB            Inter-American Develop?aent Bank
INPEX          National Institute for Export Promotion ("Instituto Nacional
de Promocion de las ExportacLones")
LCB            Local competitive bidding
MTC            Ministry of Transport and Communications
PPF            Projection Preparation Facility
RIC            Reconstruction Import Credit
SNC            National Road Authority ("Servicio Nacional de Caminos")
UN             United Nations



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
RR9UBLIC OF BOLIVIA
BXPORT CORRIDORS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUHKARY
Borrower:          Republic of Bolivia
Implementing       Ministry of Transport and Communications
ARenciest        Servicio Nacional de Caminos (SNC)
Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles del Estado (ENFE)
Emergency Social Fund (ESF)
Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism
Credit Amount:     SDR 28.3 million (US$ 37.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with 40 years maturity
On-lending Terms:  US$11.3 million on-lent to ENFE at LIBOR + 0.5,
15 years amortization, 3 years of grace
Grant:             US$3.7 million equivalent passed on to ESF
Proiect            The project corsists of major components of a program
Description:     which aims to promote Bolivia's exports and reduce the
costs of its foreign trade by: (a) providing two well-
functioning corridors by 1992-3, one to the Atlantic and
one to the Pacific; (b) strengthening railway management
to make it more market-oriented; (c) improving road and
rail maintenance; (d) strengthening the Ministry of
Transportation and Communications in planning and policy-
making; and (e) facilitating the use of containers and
airfreight. The items to be financed by IDA in the
Pacific corridor are: (a) deferred maintenance (asphalt
concrete overlay) on the La Paz-Oruro highway (228 km)
and construction supervision (48% of project cost); (b)
a feasibility study and detailed engineering fc. the
Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado road, which would complete the
Bolivian portion of the La Paz-Arica (Chile) highway
(refinancing of a PPF - 1% of project cost); (c) minor
track improvements on the La Paz-Arica rail line and at
the La Paz rail freight terminal (3% of project cost).
The Atlantic corridor improvements (20S of project cost)
comprise: (d) rehabilitation of track and replacement of
two bridges on the Santa Cruz-Corumba (Brazil) railway
line, (e) conversion of boxcars to multiple use on ENFE's
Eastern network, and (f) construction of a new freight
terminal in Santa Cruz. System-wide improvements
comprise: (g) maintenance works and drainage
improvements on the main road and rail export routes, to
be carried out by labor-intensive small contracts through
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfotmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



the Emergency Social Fund (92); (h) pur^hase of
telecommunications equipment for both Andean and Eastern
rail networks (62); and (i) technical assistance and
studies (11 2 of project cost) for (i) MTC in planning
(including an evaluation of investment requirements in
the La Paz-Cochabamba-Santa Cruz corridor), (ii) SNC in
road maintenance, (iii) ENFE in management and marketing,
external audit, and terminal design and management, and
(iv) the National Institute for Export Promotion in
facilitating the use of containers and airfreight.
Finally, the project will also finance procurement
services for the above (2%).  The balance of the progrea
consists of construction of an all-weather gravel road
between Patacamaya and Tambo Quemado (188 km) and
superviuion of its construction, expected to be finarnced
by IDB.
Prolect Benefits   Direct benefits will be reductions in transport costs
and Risks:       and increased reliability of international freight
movements. In turn, these are expected to give an
important stimulus to exports. Savings in direct
transport costs and the avoiding of costly reconstruction
of infrastructure left unmaintained stould yield an ER of
at least 402. We have no estimate of the value to users
of more reliable service, which is over and above th.s,
but we believe it to be large. There are two main risks:
(a) delays in project implementation, due to lack of
counterpart funds and of qualified staff in the
implementing agencies; (b) difficulties in achieving
management improvements and performance targets in the
railway. To mitigate the risk of delays in project
implementation, the government has agreed to earmark the
necessary counterpart funds for the project in its annual
public investment program. Achieving the proposed
improvement in the railway will be difficult, but made
more feasible by ENFE's agreement to recruit an
expatriate management advisory team. Underpinning the
success of the whole project is sound macroeconomic
management and careful selection of future sector
inveAtments.  IDA will continue to advise the Government
of Bol:via on macroeconomic policy and on major transport
investments.
Economic Rate      Over 402 (IDA Project)
of Return:
Staff Appraisal    Report No. 7700-BO
Reports
MLap:               IBRD 21392



FIR&NCIG PLAN OF THE PMOGtM
Local    Foreign    Total
(US$ millior)  -
PART is IDA PROJECT
IDA                                            7.5       29.5       37.0
Government                                     10.1       0         10.1
Total                                       17.6       29.5       47.1
PART II: IDB PROJECT
IDB                                            3.1       34.8       37.9
Government                                     12.6       0         12.6
Total                                       15.7       34.8       50.5
Grand Total, PROGRAM                        33.3       64.3       97.6
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS                        IDA Fiscal Year
90     91     92      93    94
-------(US$ million)--------
Annual                                     5.8   12.5   13.3    5.0   0.4
cumulative                                 5.8   18.3   31.6   36.6  37.0
IDA DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY
Category                           Amount
(US$ million)
Road civil works, SNC                   17.2            80Z
Road and railway civil works, ESF        3.7            90S
Railway civil works, ENFE                2.9            45Z
Equipment and materials, ENFE            5.2           100Q  of foreign expend.
Consultant services                      8.0           1001



&O_L VIA~
EXPORT COIlDORS PROJECT
PROJECT    SUMMARY .............................. i
I. BOLIVIA'S TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM  S.ST....................                1
TrAnsportation's Contribution to Economic Recovery ....              1
Government Strategy for Transportation .......... ......... .        1
The Bank and Other Donors' Roles and Lending Strategy
in Bolivi's *.................... ..................               2
Previous Bank Assistance in the Transportation Sector                2
II.  BOLIVIA'S EXPORT CORRIDORS ........... . . .                           3
Future Exports and Imports ........                                  3
Bolivia's ExportlImport Routes:  the Options ..........              4
Pacific Corridor ...... ........ .. G  * * * *        *              4
Atlantic Corridor ...5...          .......  ...........              5
Improving Railway Management .........................               7
Encouraging the Use of Containers and Air Freight   .....            7
Strategic Conclusions ......... .. ..... .. ....... ....  *...       8
III.  TEE PROJECT ...............................9
Origin of the Project ...       ..............................       9
Objectives ........... ...                                           9
Project Description ...........      ......................         10
Part I:  IDA Project ......  ......... .. ............ ...          10
Access to Pacific Ports        ...............................      10
Access to Atlantic Ports .... *...............   . .11
System-wide Improvements ......... .. ..... . . .. .  *. .........  12
Part II:  IDB Project  ............**e..******........              13
Cost Estimates ..... ....                                          14
Table 1: Cost Estimates .....                      ......           15
Co-Financing ..........**************************..*                16
Implementing Agencies .........***s*******e*e.......   e,           17
On-lending Terms ........."......*..*... ...........*....           17
Implementation Schedule .......... ... .. .. ............. .        17
IDA Review of ESP Subprojects    .......................            18
Continued
This report was prepared by Messrs. Graham Smith (transport economist and
mission leader), Jose Alonso (road engineer), Robin Carruthers (transport
economist - consultant), Noor Rasheed (financial analyst), Hector Revuelta
(transport planner - consultant) and Charles Reynolds (railway engineer),
on the basis of visits to Bolivia between June a;.d December 1988.



(ii)
Procurement . . . ..... .. .... ...... .. . .. ..  .......         18
Disbursements O  ......                                            20
Auditing ...20
Reports  ..*oooo........o.e                                        20
Other Conditionality ...****.*...**.o  ...*...                     21
Environmental Impact ...***600.*.0.0 ..*0*....                     21
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ...... ..... ......... *......                   22
Deferred Maintenance of La Paz-Oruro Highway                       22
Proposed Railway Investments .    . . ..............               22
Labor-Intensive Road and Rail Maintenance and Drainage
Improvements to  .  o  .  o  ..oo*0  .  0.t0024
Overall Economic Return ... ................  ..........           24
Risks ................**..o* o                                     24
Vo FINANCIAL EVALUATION ... .. ................ t ...                      24
ENFE's Past and Present Financial Performance                      24
Costing and Pricing ..                     ...........       .      5
Financial Objective and Forecasts for 1988-92 .9.....              26
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS **.*...... t.......oo....... **.*      *             27
haNEE
Annex 1  Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado Road: details to...........             29
Annex 2   "eferred Maintenance on El Alto (La Paz)-Oruro
Highway .......*.....**.....o ....*.................                  33
Annex 3   SNC's Road Maintenance Program  ......to...........             35
Annex 4   Technical Assistance for SNC in Road Maintenance
and Contract Management - Terms of Reference .....            38
Annex 5   Road User Charges ...etoo *.......*-*.***....*.0                39
Annex 6   Railway Items to be Procured 4*..........4.
Annex 7   Financial Evaluation of EtIFE 4..................7..4
Annex 8   Technical Assistance to ENFE in Railway Management
and Marketing - Terms of Reference ...............            57
Annex 9   Performance Contract ("Acuerdo Programa") between
MTC and ENFE - Main Features                                  60
Annex 10 Labor-Intensive Maintenance and Drainage Works
(Tentative List of Subprojects)...oo .............*             63.
Annex 11  Technical Assistance for M.T.C. in Planning and
Policy Analysis (Terms of Reference)................            64
Annex 12  Encouraging Use of Containers (Technical Assistance
to INPEX) (Terms of Reference)...                               65
Annex 13  Facilitating Airfreight for Bolivian Exports
(Technical Assistance to INPEX) (Terms of Reference)            67
Annex 14  Environmental Impact Assessment (Rehabilitation of
Santa Cruz-Corumba Rail Lne      i      ne.............. .....  70
Annex 15  Project File Documents    .. .             ........             71
MAP   IBRD 21392



BOLIVTA
EXPORT CORRIDORS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.  BOLIVIA'S TRANSPORTATION SYSTE
Tratsportacion's Contribution to Economic Recovers
1.01     Bolivia urgently needs to generate non-traditiona' exports as the
motivq power for its recovery from ths economic crisis of the early 1980s.
Yet tzansportation to potential markets is unusually costly and unreliable,
due to the long distances involved, Bolivia's difficult terrain, and its
lack df direct access to the sea. Its low traffic volumes, a result of the
low population density, also prevent it from taking advantage of the
economies of scale inherent in road and rail infrastructure, which is very
capital-intensive.
1.02     The need to generate non-traditional exports is made all the more
urgent by the expiry in 1992 of Bolivia's contract for selling natural gas
to Argentina, now its largest single source of foreign exchange.
Thereafter, revenues from gas are expected to fall sharply. However, the
agreement that Bolivia signed with Brazil in August 1988 to sell natural
gas, electricity, urea and polyethylene offers the possibility of a
transformation of the economic prospects for the 1990s. It calls for
construction of a gas pipeline from Santa Cruz to the Brazilian city of
Corumba and the development of a large-scale industrial zone in eastern
Bolivia. The agreement calls for the sales to start. in 1992, but it is
improbable that this deadline can be met. Several factors threaten to
delay the operation, not the least of which is the inadequacy of transport
facilities in eastern Bolivia.
Government Strategv for Transportation
1.03     The Government's macro-economic program, introduced in 1985, has
succeeded in restoring order in fiscal management after the 1980-85 crisis,
bringing down inflation ftom 24,0002 in the worst 12 months of 198415 to
about 10 in 1987 and 20% in 1988, and reversing the prolonged decline of
GDP. 'ts strategy is to look to the private sector to take the lead in
productive activity. A central policy for carrying out that strategy is the
promotion of non-traditional (i.e. non-mineral) exports.
1.04     In the transportation sector, the Government's investment
priorities are to:
(a) maintain and rehabtlitate the existing road and rail networks;



-2-
(b) integrate the three main populated areas of the country by
rehabilitating and paving sections of the La Paz-Cochabamba-
Santa Cruz highway still In poor condition;
(c) up-grade two priority export corridors, one to the Atlantic
and one to the Pacific; and
(d) construct penetration roads in the lowlands to areas of high
agricultural potential.
The Bank and Other Lionors' Roles and Lending Strategvy l' Bolivia's
Transportation System
1.05     The Bank strongly supports the macro-economic adjustment program.
As the centerpiece of its sssistance program since 1986 it has been
implementing two Reconstruction Import Credits (RIC I and RIC II --Credits
1703-BO and 1828-BO), which provide lines of credit for urgently needed
imports to key public enterprises, as well as working capital for private
firms, in the framew*rk of an action plan of policy measures.   As regards
transportation, it has endorsed the above priorities for the sector in its
Transport Sector Strategy Paper (greei cover, July 10, 1987).
1.06     IDA is supporting the road and rail maintenance requirements under
the two RICs. Through them, it is providing a total of $4 million to the
National Roads Authority (Servicio Nacional de Caminos - SNC) and $17
million to the railway company (Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles del
Estado - ENFE), most of it for spare parts. SNC is to receive a further $9
million and ENFE a further $9 million from Japan as co-financing for RIC
II, also mostly for spare parts. IDA is further financing road maintenance
through its two credits (Credits 1829-BO and 1882-BO) to the Emergency
Social Fund (ESF). ESF finances labor-intensive maintenance works and
drainage improvements using small-scale contractors who hire predominantly
ex-miners. The Andean Development Corporation ("Corporacion Andina de
Fomento* - CAF) is also financing maintenance works in five southern
districts and technical assistance in maintenance management.
1.07     As to the second of the above priorities, the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) and CAF have been financing the construction of a
new highway between Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. The main part opened in
December 1988, though substantial repair and upgrading is still to be
undertaken on old sections at each end.   IDB is also financing paving of
the last unpaved section of the La Paz-Cochabamba highway (Confital-
Caihuasi). Several other donors are financing rural roads giving access to
areas 'eing opened up for agriculture. IDA is preparing to do so under its
proposed Eastern Lowlands Regional Development (First Phase) Project. The
next priority to address is the need to up-grade the export corridors.
Previous Bank Assistance in the Transportation Sector
1.08     Prior to the two Reconstruction Import Credits, the Bank's
previous transpor` operations in Bolivia were limited to five loans or



credits signed in the period FY72-78. Three were for railways (FY72, '74
and '77), one for road maintenance (FY78), and one for civil aviation
(FY77). SNC had enjoyed extensive financial and technical assistance from
the US government since 1955 and from IDB in the 1970s;  hence the Bank's
late entry into the roads subsector. The absence of new operations between
FY78 and FY86 reflects the deterioration of economic management during the
early 1980s.
1.09     Because of the radical charge in economic policies since then, the
experience of these earlier projects has only limited lessons to offer for
the future. The technical capacity of both ENFE and SNC was generally
good, but the economics were weak; over-designing was a common failing.
Maintenance was (and remains) poor. Furthermore, procurement was
notoriously slow, with frequent all2gations of corruption and multiple
layers of bureacracy, whose ostensible purpose was to control corruption,
but whose effect seems to have been the opposite. Experience with ENFE
under RIC I has been satisfactory, though procurement has remained slow.
Since April 1988 and with the Bank's encouragement, the Government has
required all public-sector contracts over 100,000 bolivianos (about
US$41,000) to be handled by international procurement agents. This
procedure applies to RIC II and has been satisfactory, though still slow in
the prasent start-up phase.    Finally, experience with the labor-intensive
road maintenance operations under the Emergency Social Fund has been
excellent: rapid and effective.
II. BOLIVIA'S EXPORT CORRIDORS
Future Exports and Imports
2.01     The most promising products for future exports (aside from natural
gas, which will move by pipeline) are soya and soya cake (produced in the
eastern lowlands), wood and wood products (grown in the northern lowlands),
minerals (mined in the Altiplano), meat (from cattle raised in the
lowlands), and other food and agricultural products (grown in the Valleys
region). If the Government's economic reactivation policies are
successful, exports of these products are expected to grow at an average
rate of about 12% per year through the year 2000. This may appear rapid,
but it starts from a small base and in some cases entails recovering ground
lost during the contraction of the economy from 1980 to 1986.
2.02     The principal markets for these exports are expected to be Europe
and USA (one quarter each), Asia and Argentina (about one sixth each), and
Peru, Chile and Brazil (together the remaining one sixth).
2.03     Improvements in international transport routes will serve imports
as well as exports. The largest import flow at present is donated wheat
(approaching 200,000 tons per year, over one third of the total import
volume). Other food accounts for about one quarter and manufactured goods
the remainder. It is the Government's intention to keep these from
increasing faster than GDP as a whole, which is expected to grow at about
4% per year. The wheat comes from USA, Canada and Argentina; half of the



food and industrial produccs come from Biazil. These patterns are expected
to change little.
2.04     Other exports are possible in large quantities$ though not
probable: minerals other than tin, mined mostly in the Potosi area, salt
from the Uyuni salt-flats in the south-western Altiplano, and iron ore from
Mutun in the eastern lowlands on the Brazilian border.  These bulks are
likely to prefer rail or, in the case of Mutun ore, river transport. Their
transport requirements should be evaluated by their respective potential
exporters, case by case, in dialogue with the railway company, counting any
transport investments needed as an integral part of the costs of production
and sale.
Bolivia's Exportllmport Routess the Options
2.05     A detailed study carried out in 1987 established that, comparing
current truck and rail freight rates, Arica (Chile) is the least-cost port
for La Paz, principally an origin and destination of general cargo.
Antofagasta (Chile) is the logical choice for minerals e.corted from the
Potosi region. Matarani (Peru) attracts road traffic only because the road
from La Paz to Arica is so bad; rail traffic to Matarani has been
suspended since 1986, when Lake Titicaca flooded and damaged the line in
Bolivia. From Cochabamba the Pacific and Atlantic ports are almost equally
costly to reach. For Santa Cruz, effectively in the middle of the
continent, Atlantic ports in Brazil, Argentina or even Uruguay are slightly
less costly to reach than Arica. All, however, are over 2,000 km distant,
leaving Bolivian traffic vulnerable to costs and delays in their long
overland transit through the neighboring countries, beyond Bolivian
control. In September 1988 a new grain terminal was inaugurated at Puerto
Quijarro in eastern Bolivia, with direct access to the Paraguay River, an
international waterway. This provides a potentially cheaper and less
vulnerable new route using the Paraguay and Parana Rivers. It is
particularly attractive for soya and soya products that could be produced
profitably in large volumes in the eastern lowlands.
Pacific Corridor
2.06     For high-value goods entering and leaving Bolivia, the speed and
reliability of transport are particularly important. Yet r.one of the
present land routes is quick or reliable. The change that would make the
greatest impact in this regard would be the construction of an all-weather
road from Patacamaya, on the La Paz-Oruro highway, to the Chilean border at
Tambo Quemado, a distance of 188 km. From the Chilean side of the border
to Arica there already exists an all-weather road, paved in the lower half
of its length and gravel-surfaced in the upper half. The Chilean
government plans to complete the paving of this road in 1989. The present
road between Patacamaya and Tambo Quemado is an unengineered track with no
bridges and few culverts. It crosses several seasonal rivers, which trucks
can ford in the eight dry months of the year, but which are impassable to
all but the largest trucks during the rainy season from December through
March.



2.07     As long ago as 1975 a design for a paved road was prepared.  In
today's prices it would have eost about US$120 million. An engineered
gravel road can be built for only about US$40 million. The cost saving is
achieved by reducing the embankment width and height to bring them into
line with the adjoining existing roads, eliminating large parking areas at
the border, and postponing the paved surface until traffic reaches 250-350
vehicles per day, the economic threshold for paving. We estimate thiat by
1992. thi earliest year in which the improved road could be completed,
traffic will be about 50-100 trucks per day.
2.08     Another investment is required in association with the upgrading
of the road corridor to Arica. between El Alto (La Paz) and Oruro the
paved highway is showing signs of advanced fatigue (cracking and
deformations), indicating that an asphalt-concrete overlay is urgently
required to p-event the pavement from breaking up. It is at present
carrying 1,200 vehicles per day near La Paz and 520 vehicles on the section
with the least traffic, including 502 trucks and buses. This ia more than
sufficient to justify an overlay economically; it is likely to pay for
itself very quickly.
2.09     At the same time, ENFE is making efforts to reach agreement with
the Chilean railway (Ferrocarril Arica-La Paz - FCALP) on ways to operate
the La Paz-Arica line more ef iciently and to expand its capacity. For the
first time in many years there is a real prospect of co-ordinated operation
of -he two parts of the line. ENFE proposes to make minor track and
teruinal improvements on .he Bolivian portion of this Arica-La Paz railway
line, to facilitate the operation of through freight trains from the
Bolivian border to La Paz, and from Arica to La Paz once agreement is
reached with FCALP.
Atlantic Corridor
2.10     The completion of the grain terminal at Puerto Quijarro, the
prospect of a major industrial complex nearby, and the likelihood that the
Atlantic eorridors will come to handle more than half of Bolivia's
international trade, all call for particular attention to the Santa Cruz-
Corumba route.
2.11     The export of soya is critically dependent on low-cost transport
if it is to compete with soya grown in Brazil, Paraguay and Argentina. The
rail routes through Argentina, now the least costly for the users, and
those through Brazil, presently the most intensively used, are expected to
become considerably more costly soon, as the Areentinian and Brazilian
railways take advantage of newly granted authority to charge traffic full
cost, rather than the heavily subsidized rates now in effect.
2.12     The soya traffic's requirements are for feeder roads frcm the
growing areas to the nearest rail-head, silos at those rail-heads, unit
trains operated on short cycle to Puerto Qutjarro, and transshipment there
to river barges at the private terminal on a short channel leading into the
Paraguay River. Soya products will be shipped out the same way after
processing in Santa Cruz, where lengthened private sidings and higher-
capacity loading facilities are required. On the Paraguay River Brazilian,
Paraguayan and Argentinian private barge companies operate to various ports
of the River Plate basin where the soya can be transferred to ocean-going
ships. Nueva Palmira (Uruguay), on the Uruguay River opposite the mouth of



- 6 -
the Parana River, is the most promising. This route offers to cut about
$25 per ton from the transport cost by the next cheapest route, which is by
rail via Corumba to Paranagua (before Brazilian rates go up).
2.13     Barges were in short supply in 1987 and 1988 because of the rapid
growth of Brazilian mineral and soya exports. However, it is reasonable to
expect the private sector to respond by expanding the barge fleet within a
year or so, provided that the prospects for future demand remain good.
2.14     Because of the poor service currently operated by ENFE, the Santa
Crus business community is arguing vociferously for the construction of a
paved road to Brazil. However, even a gravel-surface road would cost
US$90-100 million. While the railway continues to operate on the same
route, this will not lower total transport costs (services and infra-
structure) until traffic in the corridor approaches 1 million tons per
year; in 1988 it was below 200,000 tons. Expansion of soya growing may
raise this total to 400,000 tons by 1995, implying that the railway will
remain the more economical option for the next few years at least, provided
that it can provide an acceptable service.
2.15     What difference the gas-based industrial plants planned for Santa
Cruz and Puerto Suarez will make to this conclusion, if they go ahead, is
not clear. Some 100,000 tons of polyethylene would be moved each year
between Santa Cruz and Corumba. The urea would be shipped directly into
Brazil from a plant located wl.thin 15 km of the border, predominantly by
rail. There would be few inputs other than gas. For reasons of cost and
availability, most consumables end spare parts would be supplied from
Brazil rather than from Bolivia. It is likely that during the construction
phase, there would be a large demand for construction materials and labor
which could be supplied at least in part from within Bolivia. It remains
to be determined whether the volume would be large enough to warrant
construction of the missing links of the Santa Cruz-Corumba road. On the
other hand, construction of the pipeline would require construction of an
access road alongside, with low standards and a minimum of structures. The
incremental cost of building an all-weather road with bridges and drainage
might then be in the range $40-60 million.
2.16     Some observers have questioned whether such a road would cause
negative impacts comparable to the Trans-Amazonian highway in Rondonia
(Brazil). Doubts have been expressed about the sustainability of
agriculture in certain areas, and about the impact of new settlements on
indigenous peoples. Until the road's economic justification is firmly
established and its possible impact on the environment better understood, a
more prudent strategy will be to undertake an all-out effort to increase
the efficiency of the rail service and improve its quality, and so ease the
presssure for a road.
2.17     The railway company, ENFE, has several options for reducing the
cost and/or improving the quality of service for general freight on the
Santa Cruz-Corumba line. One option is for ENFE to promote intermodal
transport, carrying containers or road trailers on railway flat-cars



- 7 -
between Santa Cruz and a terminal near the Brazilian border. This requires
modest investment in container-handling equipment and land preparation at
the terminals. The issue was explored at a seminar for all the interested
parties, public and private, held in September in Santa Cruz under Bank
sponsorship, and repeated in La Paz. The concept was received
enthusiastically.
2.18     The physical investments required to up-grade the Santa Cruz-
Corumba rail line are limited to what is needed to protect it from flood
damage that might close it temporarily: the rehabilitation of certain
vulnerable sections of track, drainage improvements and the rebuilding of a
few small bridges. It is not worth investing large amounts in raising
travel speeds per se; many operational measptjs can be taken to reduce
travel time at no capital cost, such as introducing unit trains that make
no intermediate stops.
Improving Railway Management
2.19     ENFE is exceptional among the world's railways in covering all its
costs without subsidy. However, this is largely thanks to the lack of
competition from road transport in the trade corridors that are ENFE's main
market. It also disguises a large cross-subsidy from freight to passenger
services, made possible only by the lack of competition for the freight
services. This position will erode in the coming years. The present
management structure of ENFE is inadequate for future needs, since it is
excessively centralized and oriented to production rather than to the
market. It also suffers from excessive government intervention in
management affairs, notably pricing.
2.20     The Government has therefore agreed to clarify its relationship
with the railway, with the Ministry of Transport limiting its intervention
to the setting of strategic policies and objectives and profitability
goals, backed up by agreed performance plans and targets for which the
railway can be held accountable. Within that framework the Eastern and
Andean networks will be operated as profit centers with managerial,
financial and operational autonomy. To help ENFE make this transition to a
market-oriented operation, the Government is seeking technical assistance
from an expatriate management team for three years.
2.21     An essential part of any management improvement to the railway
will be improved telecommunications. The present telephone and telegraph
system is incapable of providing the reliable and fast communications
necessary to maintain efficient management control of the railway. ENFE
wishes to purchase a new radic-based communications system which will
permit a sound management information system to be implemented and allow
for an improved system of train control.
Encouraging the Use of Containers and Air Freight
2.22     The safety from pilferage and damage en route that containers
offer in door-to-door transport should in principle be particularly
advantageous for a land-locked country like Bolivia. Yet so far Bolivia
has made little use of containers. This seems to be due to a combination



-8-
of factors, some attributable to unfamiliarity with the techniques of
container operations and inappropriate pricing, in inherently thin markets
where return loads are rare and telecommunications are deficient.
2.23     There is scope for the National Institute for Export Promotion
(INPEX) and the Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of Industry, Trade
and Tourism to advise and intermedi..te in the setting up of container
services, to press for legislation to streamline documentary requirements
for exports, to encourage private freight forwarders to expand market
information on container supply and demand, and to encourage the
construction of "di.y ports", or inland terminals for the consolidation of
freight. To this end, the Government is seeking finance for an intermodal
freight terminal in Santa Cruz and consultant assistance for INPEX.
2.24     Air freight so far plays an insignificant part in transporting
Bolivia's freight exports, whereas for a landlocked country it would be
expected to play a major role, particularly considering that Santa Cruz has
a high-standard airport and daily flights to Miami. INPEX wishes to
determine what measures would be necessary to stimulate greater use of
airfreight.
Strategic Conclusions
2.25     As the above shows, the transport problems of exports require not
only investuaents but also more efficient and reliable operation of
transport services. For the next decade at least, the railway will
continue to play a vital role, both to the Atlantic and to the Pacific, and
there is undoubted scope for strengthening its commercial orientation and
making it more responsive to customers' needs. At the same time, the
technology of containers also offers an important potential that has not
yet been exploited, because of institutional and managerial obstacles and a
lack of consolidation terminals.
2.26     This is not to say that no public investments are needed.  On the
contrary, the poor and unreliable condition of the road from La Paz to its
nearest port, Arica, commands a clear priority for investment. Equally, it
is barely tolerable that the Santa Cruz region should have to depend on
rail lines that are vulnerable to flooding and other damage, when timely
expenditures on preventive maintenance can reduce that vulnerability at
modest cost.
2.27     Thirdly, Bolivia faces a basic choice between concentrating its
investments and efforts on a few international trade routes, or
diversifying its efforts over several routes to diminish its vulnerability,
if transit via one of the preferred routes is disrupted for reasons beyond
Bolivia's control. Bolivia has in practice followed the latter strategy in
recent decades, and the outcome has been costly and unsatisfactory. Roads
and railways are both very capital-intensive and subject to great economies
of scale. Large savings can be made by concentrating traffic. Larger
volumes of traffic are also more likely to make it profitable for transit
countries to invest in transport improvements for Bolivia's benefit. Yet
to negotiate from strength, one needs a good fall-back option. Hence the
merit of concentrating on one corridor to the Pacific and one to the
Atlantic.



2.28     Concern over the vulnerability of transit traffic gives road
transport an inherent advantage over rail, because of its greater
flexibility. A railway can be Immobilized by a washout or a strike. If
the railway or customs authority of a neighboring country holds up Bolivian
goods in transit, there is little Bolivia can do. International railway
issues are particularly 'management-intensive', putting demands on the time
of government officials which they can Ill afford. Road transport
operators, in contrast, are less prone to strikes and have a strong
incentive to work things out for themselves, without every technical
problem turning into an international political issue. The uncertainty
attached to future growth of international trade also puts a premium on
flexible transport means and the avoidance of large fixed investments.
Both reasons argue for relying on road transport in at least one of the
priority corridors.
2.29     The desi%n of the i?roposeA project takes all the above
considerations into accou-tt.
III. TRE PROJECT
Oriign of the Proiect
3.01     Betffeen March and June of 1988 the Bank prepared a sector study
("Export Corridors Study", green cover, June 16, 1988) to address the
questions of which corridors deserve priority, which mode of transport
within each corridor is to be preferred, and is it advisable at all to
concentrate efforts on just one or two corridors? The study reached the
conclusions summarized in Chapter 2; the purpose of this project is to
Implement them. The study report was discussed with the Ministry of
Transport and the Ministry of Planning during the preappraisal mission in
June/July 1988. Both ministries agreed with these conclusions.
3.02     The project was appraised in late November/early December 1988.
Negotiations took place February 27 - March 1, 1989. The Bolivian
delegation was led by the Ministry of Transport's Subsecretary for
Planning, Mr. Mario Galindo.
Obiectives
3.03     The prqject consists of major components of a program which aims
to promote Bolivia's exports and reduce the costs of its foreign trade by:
(a) providing two well-functioning transport corridors by 1992-3, one to
the Pacific and one to the Atlantic; (b) improving road and railway
maintenance; (c) strengthening management of the railway to make it more
market-oriented; (d) strengthening the Ministry of Transportation and
Communications in planning and policy-making; and (e) encouraging the use
of containers and air freight.
3.04     This project will be linked with four other Bank operations.
First, the proposed Atlantic corridor improvements are a necessary
condition for success of the Eastern Lowlands Regional Development (First
Phase) Project, planned for FY90. It will also benefit the construction of
the Puerto Quijarro power plant and the pipeline from Santa Cruz to supply
it with gas, for which the Bank has tentatively programmed a loan in FY91.
Thirdly, funds available so far to the Emergency Social Fund (para. 1.06)



- 10 -
have been insufficient to finance all the economically justified road
maintenance operations that SNC has submitted to it. The labor-intensive
maintenance proposed below is an extension of that program. And fourthly,
the Economic Management Strengthening Operation, approved in December 1988,
is to provide assistance to the Customs Directorate in improving its
revenue-gathering capabilities. Consideration will be given within that
project to hiring of consultants to simplify the current cumbersome
documentation processes necessary for the export and import of goods.
Proiect Description
3.05     The project is part --roughly one half in cost terms-- of a
program co-financed with the IDB. Activities proposed under the program
fall into three groups, one to improve access to the Pacific port of Arica,
one to improve access to the Atlantic ports of the River Plate, and the
third to improve aspects of the national transport system which will have
particular benefits for export trade. rhe program consists of:
Part I: IDA Proiect
Access to Pacific Ports
(a) Deferred maintenance (asphalt concrete overlay) on the La Paz
(El Alto)-Oruro highway (228 km), including the Caracollo-
Caihuasi b_.anch; and consultant services for supervision
3.06    The La Paz-Oruro highway is part of the main route between La Paz
and Arica and will be used by about 70% of the Bolivian road export traffic
to the Pacific (para. 2.8). The Caracollo-Caihuasi branch (17 km) links to
the Oruro-Cochabamba highway. The La Paz-Oruro road was constructed in
1966 and has received little maintenance attention since that time. The
present volume of traffic exceeds the original design volume by more than
501. The road's condition is precarious with an imminent danger of break-
up of the pavement unless remedial action is taken quickly. The project
proposes to provide a complete reconstruction of the pavement for 34 km
which are already in an advanced state of deterioration, partial
reconstruction for a further 11 km and a 5-cm asphalt-concrete overlay over
the remaining 183 km to prevent further deterioration of the pavement.
(Details are given in Annex 2.)
(b) Feasibility study and detailed engineering of the Patacamava-
Tambo Quemado road, which would complete the Bolivian portion
of the La Paz-Arica highway
This road is described in the IDB project description below. The
IDA credit will refinance the Project Preparation Facility Loan of
US$400,000 awarded in April 1988.



- 11 -
(c) Minor track and terminal improvements on the Bolivian section
of the La Paz-Arica railway
3.07    Not all exports to the Pacific ports will be transported most
economically by road. Minerals, which for several years will continue to
be the most important in terms of both volume and value, will continue to
be exported by rail. The Project provides for minor improvements to the
track between La Paz and the frontier with Chile so that unit trains of 15
freight cars can be operated without the need for dividing the train on
steep gradients. Minor improvements to the terminal in La Paz will allow
the 24-hour operation of these unit trains.
Access to Atlantic Ports
(d) Rehabilitation of track and bridges on the Santa Cruz-Corumba
railway line and conversion of boxcars to multi-use capability
for use on ENFE's Eastern network
3.08    Much of the track infrastructure and many of the bridges on the
rail line between Santa Cruz and Corumba have been replaced in the last ten
years, with the assistance of Bank and Japanese financing. Before the line
can be considered good enough as a principal export route to the port of
Quijarro, soiae additional infrastructure works are necessary. The Project
provides for the placing of rock ballast to minimum standards over 200 kms
of line which currently have only earth ballast and for the replacing of
two bridges which are in a precarious state.
3.09    The beginning of rail services to Puerto Quijarro and the resulting
reduction in demand for services to Paranagua (Brazil) will free a large
number of boxcars for conversion to multi-use cars. Hatches will be built
into the roofs and trap-doors into the floors to allow automated loading
and unloading of bulk commodities. Although boxcars are suitable for the
transport of bagged soya flour, they are not the most suitable for the
transport of soya beans in bulk. The availability of multi-use cars will
allow ENFE to transport soya beans and flour as export traffic and general
freight as import traffic, with the maximum utilization of cars. Under the
project 40 boxcars will be converted to multi-use.   When added to the 30
grain hoppers already available, they will give sufficient car capacity on
the Eastern network for projected demand through 1994.
(e) Construction of a new rail and intermodal freight terminal
in Santa Cruz
3.10    The present arrangements for freight terminals in Santa Cruz are
unsatisfactory. There are two terminals, one operated by ENFE and the
other by the Autonomous Customs Warehouse Administration ("Administracion
Autonoma de Almacenes Aduaneras" - AADAA), a government monopoly bonded
warehouse company. The ENFE terminal lacks even the most basic facilities
for dealing with export freight, having no terminal building, no loading
platform, no area for dealing with containers and no provision for dealing
with intermodal freight from other parts of Bolivia. The AADAA terminal
lacks suitable terainal buildings and has insufficient capacity for



- 12 -
receiving wagons at peak periods. The project will provide for the
construction of a new terminal to replace both the existing terminals, the
now terminal to include all the necessary facilities for the efficient
handling of export and import freight. ENFE will be responsible for its
design and for leasing the terminal operation to a private operator. The
lease or concession will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding. To ensure that the operating company is appointed in
time to participate in decisions on the design and construction, the first
disbursement from the Credit against the construction of the terminal will
be conditional on ENFE having first awarded the management contract.
System-wide Improvements
(f) Labor-intensive maintenance and drainage improvements on road
and rail export routes
3.11   SNC, ENFE and certain regional development corporations have asked
the ESF to finance maintenance and dra 1age improvements on some 35
sections of road and railway on the main routes to Bolivia's international
borders, which can be undertaken by small contractors using labor-intensive
methods. Most of these operations cost in the range US$150,000-250,000.
Under the project, IDA will provide a line of credit of US$3.7 million to
finance about 20 operations to be selected from this list (Annex 10). Since
ESP plans to cease infrastructure operations at the end of 1989, most of
these operations have been started early in 1989, using local funds. IDA's
contribution to them under this project will therefore be retroactive.
(g) Radio communications system for ENFE
3.12    ENFE suffers from not having a modern radio communications system
which would allow for control of car movements and transmission of
information regarding export and import commodity movements, as well as for
train control. The project provides for the purchase of such a system.
(h) Technicel assistance for strengthening the institutional
capacity of: (i) the Ministry of Transport in transport
planning and policy analysis. (ii) SNC in road maintenance
mana)ement. and (iii) ENFE in management and marketing, audit
and terminals
3.13    The MTC benefited from Bank assistance in developinR the National
Transport Plan in 1979-83 and establishing a transport plar"Ling capability
thereby, but the virtual collapse of government services in the early 1980s
has left the transport planning capability very wealt. The Project will
provide funding for building up a transport planuing offti.e as a permanent
part of the MTC (Annex 11).   Separate studies will advise on improving the
organization of the ministry, set up a transport data base, update
investment priorities in the sector, revise road design standards, and
design an axle-load control program. Transport operations and investment
requirements (all modes) in the La Paz-Cochabauba-Santa Cruz corridor will
also be evaluated; and funds will be provided for small preinvestment
studies as the need arises.



- 13 -
3.14    SNC has so far lacked the capacity to formulate a rigorous national
road maintenance program within which it can prepare its annual road
maintenance budgets (Annex 3). The project till finance the development of
such a program along lines proposed by the SNC and MTC. (Terms of
reference are in Annex 4). The key activity will be to put into operation
throughout the country a maintenance management system and an equipment
management system designed by consultants in 1982-84 but not yet adequately
calibrated to Bolivian performance levels and costs. Design of these two
systems is currently being completed as part of the pilot road maintenance
program in five southern districts, financed by CAF (para. 1.06). SNC has
aSreed to put these systems into full operation throughout the country by
June 30, 1991.
3.15    ENFE lacks many of the management skills necessary to successfully
make the transition to a commercially oriented railway, a change it will
need to make in the next few years as Bolivia develops a road system
capable of sustaining road services in competition with the railway. The
Project will provide for an experienced ex-patriate railway operat.ons team
to work with ENFE in managing the transition and training ENFE managers in
the skills necessary to assume responsibility for the future operation of
the railway in its new operating environment. (Terms of reference are in
Annex 8). Given the importance of this process to the project's
objectives, the first disbursements against ENFE's civil works and goods
purchases will be conditional on ENFE having hired these consultants.
3.16    Ths project also provides funds for hiring (a) external auditors,
and (b) consultants to finalize the design of the Santa Cruz freight
terminal and advise on the leasing/ concession arrangements. The latter
assistance will be required at two stages: drawing up the bidding
documents and evaluating the bids.
(i)  Technical assistance for INPEX on encouraging use of
containers and airfreight for Bolivia's exports
3.17    INPEX is a mixed publiclprivate agency for promoting exports,
primarily through information services. The project provides finance,
through the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism, for INPEX to
commission studies on encouraging the use of containers (Annex 12) and air
freight (Annex 13).
(j) Procurement services for the above
3.18    By law, all public-sector procurement for amounts over 100,000
bolivianos (approximately US$41,000) must be handled by international
procurement agents. The Government so far has general agreements with two
such agencies: the UN Office of Project Services and the Crown Agents
(UK). Each implementing agency may choose which to use. Fees are
proportional to the amounts procured; they average about 2.52.



- 14 -
Part IIs IDB Project
Construction of an all-weather, gravel-surface road between
Patacamava and Tambo Quemado (188 ki): and construction
supervision
3.19    The Export Corridors Study concluded that the most economically
worthwhile investment in export corridors for Bolivia would be to construct
this section of road (para. 2.06 and Annex 1). Now impassable to all but
the largest of trucks in the three months of the wet season, it will form
part of the principal road access between Bolivia and the Pacific ports of
Chile, particularly Arica. The design will provide for a minimum-condition
road in the first instance, with basic drainage and bridges and a gravel
surface. A paved surface is to be added later when the traffic has
Increased sufficiently to justify it. The road will be constructed in
three segments more or less simultaneously, so that it can be put into use
as quickly as possible.
Cost Estimates
3.20    The cost of this entire program is estimated at 238 million
bolivianos, equivalent to about US$98 million. Its foreign exchange cost
is about US$64 million. Details are set out in Table 1. The IDA-financed
project --the program minus construction and supervision of the Patacamaya-
Tambo quemado road-- is expected to cost US$47.1 million equivalent
(foreign cost US$29.5 million). IDA will contribute approximately 79X and
the Government 21% of the cost of the IDA project. Within this, IDA will
finance the foreign exchange cost of the railway goods and civil works
(602), 802 of SNC-managed road works, 902 of ESF-financed works, and 100l
of all consultant services. The cost of the IDB-financed project is
provisionally estimated at about US$51 million (foreign component US$35
million). The local component of these estimates includes taxes where
relevant, mainly value added tax of 11%. Prices are of December 1988.
Price escalation is estimated on the basis of expected inflation in
international prices of goods and services of 5.3X per year in 1989-90 and
4.12 per year thereafter.
3.21    The estimates for the La Paz-Oruro pavement strengthening and the
ENFE civil works are based on final design. For these and the remaining
IDA components, except the ESF component, a physical contingency of 102 is
included. The ESF component is regarded as a line of credit; any under-
or over-estimation of costs will be accommodated by adjusting the number of
sub-projects committed. The estimate for the Patacamaya-Tambo Q6.eAado road
is based on a prefeasibility study and is subject to some uncerteinty. For
this reason the cost table allows a physical contingency of 152 on this
item.
3.22    The unit costs of road and rail civil works are high relative to
the rest of Latin America. This has been examined closely and found to be
due to the remote location of sites, which :aises transport costs, and the
thin market for large-scale works in Bolivia, which makes it difficult for
contractors to spread their costs and risks over several operations.



- 15 -
cms mvrm
Share
Foreign  of            FN*CS  PMM
Coonent                           Loal Poriean T@tal   Loca Forei  Total   Co"s  Tota I            A     We6 ID    t
--(bol *i llon)--   --        il lion)--    (     (w      US      Una   Uw.
____ ___ ___ -_--- - ---__._- --   ------  - -  - -_                   _       _       _  _     _ _ _      _ _ _ _
PART 1: IDA PR0LT
Pacific Corridor
Deferred maintenance & overlay
of La Psa-Oruro road * brmch       11.6  30.9  42.5        4.7   11.7  1?.4      73    4S    13.9               3.S
5.jpervi5ioa  of "we                1.9   0.2   2.1       0.5   0.1    e 9       10      2      0.9
Fee.ib. *tudy of PUtaceAya-Ta o
u*ando Road (PPF refinanced)       0.3    0.7    1.0      0.1   0.3   0.4        70      1      0.4
Rail track iproveata, La Paz-
Charans & La Pas terminal           1.6   1.1   2.7       0.6    0.3    1.1      42      3      0.5             0.8
Atlantic Corridor
Track rehab.. St Cruz-P.Quijarro
(rebal Ist, rp I ace 2 bridges)    4.3    6.1  10.4       1.0   2.8    4.8       So    11       2.8             1.8
Boxcar conversiona                 0.1   0.2    0.3        0.0   0.1   0.1       sO      0      0.1             0.0
Construction Sta Crux terminal     4.1    p.4   7.6       1.7    1.4   3.1       48      8      1.4             1.7
System-wido i provemonts
Labor-inte. road * rail ma;ntce   7.6    1.9    9.5        3.1   0.8   3.S       20    10       3.8             0.4
Telecommunications                 0.2    4.6   4.9       0.1   1.9   2.0        95      5      1.9             0.1
institutional atrengotng. lTC
SSPTC  - trans. policy * p Ino.    0.6    0.6    1.2       0.3   0.3   0.5       80      1      0.5
SNC - mint. A project adin.        0.4    0.e    1.2       0.2   0.3   0.6       65      1      0.8
ENFE - managent A aarktg            1.8   5.9    7.3       0.6   2.4   8.0       0o      a      8.0
- extrnal audit               0.0   0.1   0.1        0.0   0.0   0.1        60      0      0.1
- terminal deign/anat         0.0    0.1   0.1       0.0   0.0   0.1        so      0      0.1
Tech. Assist, to D61
Facilitating container use         0.0   0.2    0.2       0.0   0.1   0.1        so      0      0.1
Facilitatine air freight           0.0    0.2    0.2      0.0   0.1   0.1        6o      0      0.1
Procuremnt services (2.5)          0.8    1.2   2.0       0.3  OS   0.6         60      2      0.0
Subtotal, bass cost               38.2  S8.2  93.5    14.4  28.9  38.3           62   100    30.2               8.1
Physical contingencie  (103)       2.8    8.8   0.4       1.1   2.3   8.4                       2.7             0.0
Price escalation (1)               4.9    6.2  13.1       2.0   8.0    8.4                      4.1             1.2
Tctal. WA Project                 42.0  72.0  115.0    17.   20.5  47.1    6S                  07.0            10.1
PART It  Dl PMlOJEIT
Construction of Patacamoys-
Tmb*o qu"edo road a               25.0  55.7  60.6    10.   22.8  88.1           69    69              28.0    9.8
Supervioion of "we                 2.4    5.7   5.1       1.0   2.3   3.5        70      9              8.3
Procurement services (2.51)        0.9    1.3   2.2       0.4   0.5   0.9        60      2              0.9
Subtotal. bas cost                29.3  02.7  91.1        11.6  2S.7  37.8       69    100             28.0    9.5
Physical continbencies (1)         4.3    9.4   18.7       1.7   5.9   5.6                               4.2    1.4
Price escalation (6l1)             5.0  12.8  18.5         2.4   8.2   7.6                              3.7     1.9
Total, 1D  Project                 38.4  84.9  12S3.      15.7  34.8  S0.8       69                    37.9   12.t
WA  TOTAL. PROWAN                 S1.3  157.0  288.2    33.5  64.3 S    7.6      6s            37.0   37.9   22.6
2.44 bolivianoS * USS1100
eProliminary e*timete baed on
perfeasibility study. a ine
gravl srfc



- 16 -
3.23    A total of about 400 man-months of consultant services will be
required, as followsa
Man-months      US$000
i.  MTC planning & policy studies               120             500
ii.  Road maintenance management                  50             500
iii.  Railway management assistance               200           3,000
iv.  Railway external audit                        7              50
v.  Freight terminal design                        1             20
vi.  Terminal leaselconcession management           2             40
vii.  Containers                                     8            100
viii.  Air freight                                   12            100
400          4,210
The average cost of the consultants (total cost divided by the number of
man-months) is expected to be about US$10,500. This relatively high cost
is determined largely by the railway management assistanc'n, which
necessarily has to be provided by highly experienced expatriates. The
other items are expected to combine local and expatriate consultants.
3.24    The Government agreed at negotiations to earmark the counterpart
funds needed for the project in its investment plans for the next four
years.  The amounts are:
1989         US$ 0.8 million equivalent
1990             3.3
1991             4.1
1992             1.9
Total           10.1
Co-Financint
3.25    IDB has agreed to consider a loan to finance the Patacamaya-Tambo
Quemado road in its 1989 lending program. It is tentatively progradming an
appraisal mission in June 1989 and a Board presentation in December, 1989.
The loan amo'ant of US$38 million shown in Table 1 is only indicative, The
IDA-financed project is viable on its own --though its benefits will be
enhanced by the IDB-financed project-- and is being processed before the
latter is appraised because of the urgency of several of its components.
The two projects are presented as a program because of the importance both
banks attach to a rationalization of investments in this field and to the
strengthening of road maintenance. A memorandum of understanding between
the two banks, setting forth their shared interests and agreeing on
procedures for coordination, is to be signed in April, 1989.
Implementing Agencies
3.26    The Ministry of Transport will have overall respensibility for the
project. Its Subsecretariat for Planning will be the beneficiary of the
technical assistance *n transport planning and policy studies.  Except for
the ESF-financed subprojects, SNC will be responsible for all the road



- 17 -
items and ENFE for all the railway items, including the freight terminals.
ENFE will carry out the various track improvements with its own labor. The
consultants for the containers and air freight studies will be hired by the
Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism,
which is represented on INPEX's board of directors. It will then assign
the consultants to work with INPEX.
3.27    ESF will contract with private contractors for the labor-intensive
maintenance subprojects, as under Credit 18S2-BO. ESF will be responsible
for paying the contractors; SNC and ENFE will provide technical
supervision.
On-lending Terms
3.28    The Government will on-lend to ENFE US$11.3 million under a
subsidiary loan agreement, at an interest rate of LIBOR and 0.52, for 15
years with 3 years grace. ENFE will bear the foreign exchange risk. These
conditions are consistent with ENFE functioning as a commercial railway and
not as a department of government.
3.29    The Government will pass on US$3.7 million to ESF as a grant under
a sub-grant agreement.
Imuplementation Schedule
3.30    Five years are allowed for implementation of the project.  This
includes a year-long start-up for components other than the ESF works. The
country profile implementation period, based on experience between 1972 and
1986, is nine years. However, it is reasonable to expect that the slowing
of inflation and the introduction of procurement agents will avoid the
mtliti-year delays in contracting common in the early 1980s. An allowance
of five years to complete a program of minor civil works and technical
assistance, which because of the urgent needs ought to be completed in
three years, should be sufficient in Bolivia's current circumstances.
3.31    On this basis, the IDA-financed project is expected to be completed
by December 31, 1994, and the credit will be closed on June 30, 1995.
IDA Review of ESF Subproiects
3.32    The project will finance ESF subprojects selected by ESF, in
consultation with IDA, from the agreed list. The selection will be made
during the course of the project. ESF has appraised and approved all
subprojects in the list, applying the same criteria and procedures as under
Credit 1882-BO. For each subproject that it wishes to include, ESF will
submit its own appraisal documentation to IDA for approval before the
relevant contract is awarded in the case of subprojects costing over
US$100,000, and accompanying the first withdrawal application for all
others. As an exception, IDA will review those for which ES? seeks



- 18 -
retroactive financing together with their firit withdrawal application,
whatever their cost.
Procurement
3.33    IDA-financed civil works and goods will be procured in accordance
with IDA's procurement guidelines. An exception is ESF-managed subprojects
expected to cost less than US$250,000, which will be procured in accordance
with ESF's standard-price direct contracting procedure. This is acceptable
to the Association with the safeguards provided under Credit 1882-BO
summarized in the next paragraph. Civil works expected to cost over US$2
million --which inclu'e all the SNC-managed works and the freight terminal-
will be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB). There is a
small number of Bolivian firms with the capacity needed; Brazilian and
possibly Chilean firms are also expected to compete. Contracts expected to
cost less than US$2 million --such as the railway bridge replacement-- will
be awarded by competitive bidding advertised locally, using procedures
acceptable to the Association. ICB will also be used for purchase of
equipment and materials --including rails, ballast and telecommunications
equipment-- expected to exceed US$250,000, LCB for contracts expected to
fall between US$50,000 and US$250,000, and local shopping for contracts of
less than US$50,000 each, up to a combined total of US$200,000. The
authorized procurement agents will process the bidding for all contracts
over 100,000 bolivianos (equivalent to about US$41,000), except those
managed by ESF, which is exempted by law.
3.34    For subprojects expected to cost less than US$250,000, ESF will
negotiate directly with a contractor selected by the sponsoring agency
(SNC, ENFE or regional development corporation) on the basis of a schedule
of standard unit prices maintained by ESP. The subproject sponsors will be
permitted, at their option, either to nominate the contractor or select one
by LCB. For subprojects expected to cost between US$250,000 and ESF's
legal maximum of US$750,000, ESF will require the subproject sponsor to
select a contractor by LCB. If the lowest bid is significantly above ESF's
estimate based on its standard prices. ESF will reserve the right to reject
all bids and negotiate with the lowest bidder on the basis of its (ESF's)
standard prices. To ensure fair access to ESF contracts for all qualified
contractors, IDA will not normally approve the awarding of contracts to any
onc contractor by the standard price procedure for more than US$500,000 in
aggregate; waivers may be granted on a case-by-case basis in the light of
the availability of qualified contractors and the opportunities given to
other contractors to participate.
3.35    IDA will carry out prior review of procurement documentation for
contracts expected to cost over US$100,000. Smaller contracts will be
reviewed at the time the first disbursement request against each is
received.



- 19 -
3.36    All consultants will likewise be hired in accordance with IDA's
guidelinest their qualifications and zhe process of their selection will
have to be satisfactory and the terms and conditions of their contracts
acceptable to the Association.
3.37    Table 2 shows the expected breakdown of procurement among ICB, LCB
and other procedures.
Table 2
Breakdown of Procurement by Procurement Method
Project Element                       Procurement Method             Total
ICB        LCB       Other          Cost
---- (USS million)----
Road civil works                  21.5                   4.1          25.6
(17.2)                (3.7)         (20.9)
Railway civil works                6.5        0.6        0.5           7.6
(2.9)                               (2.9)
Equipment and materials            5.2        0.8        0.0           6.0
(5.2)                               (5.2)
Consultant services                                      8.0           8.0
(8.0)         (8.0)
TOTAL               33.2         1.8      12.5           47.1
(25.3)               (11.7)         (37.0)
IDA contribution is shown in parentheses
Other
1. Road civil works financed by ESF will apply ESF's standard unit-
price procedure used under Credits 1829-BO and 1882-B0, unless
contracts are for over US$250,000, when LCB will be applied.
2.  For rail civil works EWE will use its own labor force to place
rails, ballast, etc.
3.  Consultants will be hired in aecordance with IDA guidelines.
Disbursements
3.38     The credit proceeds will be disbursed on the following basis:
- 80% of total expenditures (including taxes) on civil works carried
out by SNC
- 902 of total expenditures (incluudng taxes) on civil works
financed by ESF
-  452 of total expenditures (including taxes) on civil works carried
out by ENFE



- 20 -
- 100% of expenditures (excluding taxes) for equipment and materials
procured from outside Bolivia
- 100% of expenditures (excluding taxes) for consultant services
3.39     Disbursements will be made against certified statements of
expenditures for all local expenditures. The documentation for these
expenditures will not be sent to the Association but will be retained by
the Borrower for periodic review by the Association.   All other
expenditures will be fully documented.
3.40     Since ESF is ceasing infrastructure operations in the first half
of 1990, much of its allocat'on from the credit will be applied to
reimburse works already in implementation, funded hitherto from the
National Treasury. Retroactive financing will be permitted of up to 10% of
the credit amount, effective for eligible expenditures made after June 15,
1988 ti.e. 12 months before the expected date of signing) and before Board
presentation. Subprojects will be considered eligible if their economic
justification and procurement are acceptable to the Association.
Auditing
3.41     The submitting of audit reports to the Association under previous
railway projects has been unsatisfactory. The Contraloria General, as the
external auditor, is very slow in performing audits because of lack of
qualified auditors. ENFE's accounts for 1986 and 1987 have not yet (in
February 1989) been audited. To avoid such delays under the proposed
project, the implementing agencies will be required to appoint private
independent commercial auditors. The Controller General has agreed to
this. ENFE is now in the process of appoisnting such auditors. The initial
contract between auditors and ENFE will be for FY1987 and 1988. The
auditors will clear the backlog of past work and submit future audit
reports to the Association not later than four months after the end of each
fiscal year.
Reports
3.42     By March 31 of each year until the project is completed, the
implementing agencies will send to IDA, through MTC, a report on progress
during the preceding year on those project items for which they are
responsible. The MTC, drawing upon inputs supplied by the other
implementing agencies, will submit a project completion report by Decemtier
31, 1995 or 6 months after the credit is closed, whichever is later.
Other Conditionality
3.43     In view of the need to strengthen the appraisal and programming of
transportation investments and the co-ordination among external sources of
finance, the Government has agreed to afford IDA the opportunity, not later
than September 30 each year during project implementation, to review and



- 21 -
comment on the transport investments planned for the following five years.
Furthermore, the Government has agreed that, before undertaking any major
road or rail investment in its export corridors during project
implementation, it will show to IDA's satisfaction that each such
investment is economically justified and, in the case of railway
investments, financially justified. For this purpose, 'major' means over
US$5 million in any one fiscal year in the case of roads and over US$1
million in the case of rail investments; 'export corridors" are routes
linking Bolivia's five largest cities to its international borders.
3.44     Likewise in view of the need to strengthen the programming of road
maintenance, it will be a condition of effectiveness that the Government
present to IDA a detailed road maintenance program for 1990 and an outline
plan for 1991-93, each satisfactory to the Association. The Government has
also agreed to submit to the Association by March 31 of each year starting
in 1990 and until the project is completed, a report on the results of road
maintenance in the previous year. Further, the Government has agreed to
present to IDA by September 30 of each year starting in 1990 and until the
project is completed, a road maintenance program for the following year
that is satisfactory to the Association.
3.45     To allow ENFE to achieve the commercial autonomy and
responsibility it needs, MTC and ENFE have agreed to negotiate a
performance contract ("acuerdo programa"), setting out each party's
objectives and commitments to the other (para. 2.20). The first
disbursement against the ENFE civil works and goods purchases will be
conditional on the Government submitting to the Association such an
agreement, acceptable to the Association, addressing the topics outlined in
Annex 9 and covering 1990-91. By September 30, 1991, MTC will further
submit to the Association a renewal of this agreement covering 1992-94,
acceptable to IDA. By March 31 of each year from 1991 to 1994 the Ministry
will also submit to IDA a review of both parties' compliance with the
"acuerdo programal during the previous year.
Environmental Impact
3.46     The civil works under the IDA project involve the improvement of
existing infrastructure and do not entail any appropriation of land or
displacement of people. Improvements in drainage along the roads and
railways will generally reduce soil erosion. In the Eastern Lowlands, the
proposed improvements to the railway will also have a benign effect on the
environment, in so far as they reduce the political pressure for the
construction of a road through the essentially undeveloped region between
Santa Cruz and Corumba. The rail improvements themselves will give no
great incentive to development along the line other than in the soya-
growing areas, since ENFE will concentrate on end-to-end services without
intermediate stops. Bank-sponsored studies carried out in preparation for
the Eastern Lowlands Regional Development Project (para. 3.04) will clarify
the prospects for expanding production of soya, a major component of
traffic expected on the line.



- 22 -
3.47     As to the possible environmental impact of the actual work
operations on the Santa Cruz-Corumba line, relevant safeguards will be
incorporated into the bidding documents, as detailed in Annex 14.
3.48     The design study for the Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado road, in
progress between January and May 1989, includes an environmental impact
assessment, whose conclusions will be incorporated in the IDB appraisal.
No serious issues are expected to arise, as the proposed route passes
through a thinly populated region, which has few environmentally sensitive
attributes.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Deferred Maintenance of La Paz-Oruro Hithway
4.01      The road between La Paz and Oruro, which forms part of the road
export corridor between La Paz and Arica as well as the principal internal
inter-urban road between La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz, is in a
perilous state of repair. There has been no preventive maintenance since
the road was constructed some twenty years ago and the traffic volumes
exceed the design capacities. Details of the proposed works are given in
Annex 2. Savings will come from reduced vehicle operating costs on the
improved surface and from the avoidance of the full reconstruction of the
road that would have been necessary, had the pavement been left to break
up. An evaluation of the proposed rehabilitation using the Bank's Highway
Design and Maintenance Standards model showed an ER of 621.
PropsedRailwa  Investments
4.02     The economic justification of the rail items has been made in
three partst those relating to the Pacific corridor to Arica, those
relating to the Atlantic corridor to Quijarro, and those which will benefit
the entire railway --the management assistance and telecommunications
equipment
4.03     Arica-La Paz corridor:  The investments in this corridor will
permit the 24-hour through running of 15-car unit trains between the
Chilean borier and La Paz. With the co-operation of the Chilean railway,
these trains could be operated through from Arica with only one section
where they be divided. The investments required will reduce the maximm
gradient in the Bolivian section from 2.31 to 1.31 and at the same time
eliminate curves which restrain the maximum operating speed of trains.
Changes will also be made to the track layout in the El Alto terminal,
allowing the trains to operate up to the terminal building without the need
to be divided into sections. A security enclosure will allow the trains to
enter the terminal at any time, rather than the during the single shift in
which the rest of the terminal operates. The investment in these changes
is only US$1.1 million, but the first-year benefits in train operating cost
savings are expected to exceed US$250,000. The ER is estimated at 33%,



- 23 -
reducing to 272 if the construction cost is 252 more than envisaged, 252 if
the traffic level is 252 less than projected, and 21Z in the worst- case
combination of both factors.
4.04     The justification for investing in improvements to the La Paz-
Arica line rests heavily on closer co-ordination being achieved between the
managements of the Bolivian and Chilean companies. To promote such co-
ordination, disbursements against the works on this line will be
conditional on ENFE taking effective action to keep the number of freight
cars awaiting traction at Arica and Charana below 100 (each) on average
during the two previous months. ENFE has undertaken to maintain such
efforts throughout the implementation of the project.
4.05     Santa Cruz-Corumba Line:  The main benefits from investing in the
track and bridges will be security of operations against deformation of the
track and closure of the line through washouts. The benefits of conversion
of freight cars to multi-use will be lower train operating costs through
the ability to use fewer cars and to use them in unit train formations.
The overall ER of this sub-project is 32%, reducing to 26% if the
investment cost increases by 25%, 25% if the benefits are reduced by 251
and to 20% in the worst-case combination of the two factors.
4.06     The main benefits of the construction of a new terminal will be
reduced losses through theft and damage, improved car turnaround and a
resulting need for fewer cars, reduced terminal operating costs through
operation by a private company and improved co-ordination between terminal
and train operations by the elimination of AADAA from a major role in
operation of a railway terminal. ae estimated ER for the terminal sub-
project is in excess of 100%. The main contributing factor to this high
value is the reduction of loss and damage to freight. Current losses are
estimated to exceeded US$4 million per year. Although in theory it would
be possible to reduce this value without investing in a new terminal, in
practice it would be almost impossible. The reason why no successful
measures have been taken so far to reduce losses is that it is in the
interest of many parties involved to maintain the system as it is. Only a
fundamental change in the form of operation, such as proposed in the
project, will bring about the necessary improvement.
4.07     Management Assistance:  To evaluate the proposed management
assistance to ENFE, three levels of managerial and operational efficiency
have been defined: the existing situation, a level corresponding to a
well-run, commercially-oriented operation (for which the average Class 3
railroad of the United States is taken as a model), and an intermediate
level between these two, which could be considered equivalent in efl.iciency
to a small state-owned railway with no public-service obligations. If the
assistance were to succeed in raising ENFE's operating efficiency to the
highest of the three levels, the ER on the investment would be 892. If it
achieves only the intermediate level, a more realistic prospect, the ER
will be 53%. Sensitivity tests with certain pessimistic, yet not
improbable, assumptions show that the ER is unlikely to be less than 38Z.
4.08     Telecommunications Equipment:  The main benefits from introducing
a radio-based telecommunications system are reduced time needed for issuing



- 24 -
operating instructions to trains, quicker car turnaround (because it will
be possible to track their whereabouts in real time), and reduced
maintenance and operating costs for the communications system itself. The
ER I8 estimated at 632 in the most likely case, and not less than 46% in
the worst-case scenario.
Labor-Intensive Road and Rail Maintenance and Drainage Improvements
4.09    The benefits of the labor-intensive maintenance and drainage works
will be of two types: savings to transport operators from the greater
reliability of the roads and rail lines and to SNC and ENFE from the
avoidance of greater damage; and benefits derived from the stability of
the social structure and economic policy of the government, thanks to the
reduction of unemployment and creation of purchasing power. Among the
subprojects from which the selection will be made, all those costing over
US$100,000 have been found to promise an ER of 122 or more.
Overall Economic Return
4.10     Our best estimate of the ER on the IDA project is over 402 and on
the total program 392. The majority of the benefits are expected to come
from the two most costly projects, the road construction and reconstruction
in the La Paz-Arica corridor.
Risks
4.11     There are two main risks: (a) delays in implementation, due to
lack of counterpart funds and of qualified staff in the implementing
agencies; (b) difficulties in achieving management improvements and
performance targets in the railway. To mitigate the risk of delays in
implementation, the Government has agreed to earmark the necessary
counterpart funds for the project in its annual public investment program.
Achieving the proposed improvement in the railway will be difficult, but
made more feasible by ENFE's agreement to recruit expatriate management
advisory team. Underpinning the success of the whole project is sound
macro-economic management and careful selection of future sector
investments. IDA will continue to advise the Government on macro-economic
pclicy and on major transport investments.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
ENFE's Past and Present Financial Performance
5.01     ENFE is rare among the world's railways in covering all its costs
without subsidy. Furthermore, at the beginning of 1938 the Government took
over all its outstanding long-term debt, to enable it to lower its (high)
prices. Its financial situation is therefore not a matter of immediate
concern. For the longer term, however, it needs to relate its pricing more



_ 25 -
closely to its costs, requiring stronger cost accounting. ENFE ought now
to rely entirely on its own revenues to service future debt; its decision-
making on investments should adapt to this stronger discipline.
5.02     In the past ENFE had ups and downs in its financial condition
(Annex 7). Since 1985 its financial situation has been satisfactory. The
absence of competition from other modes, particularly in the Eastern
network, allowed ENFE to substantially increase its tariffs during 1985 and
1986. As a result, the working ratios remained satisfactory at 82% in 1987
and 86% in 1988.
Costing and Pricing
5.03     In early 1987 ENFE established a traffic costing system with the
help of a Brazilian consultant. Its pricing policy, however, is
inadequate. In mid-1988, to provide an incentive for exports, the MTC
instructed ENFE to cut freight rates for exports by 60% and for domestic
traffic by 30%. These discounted rates corresponded fairly closely to
marginal costs for most such traffic flows at the times since excess
capacity was available. However, this is neither constant nor true for all
export traffic. The discounts have in fact distorted traffic on the Arica-
La Paz line.  At the same time, the large number of commodity categories,
each with its own rate schedule, complicates the tariff needlessly. Later
in 1988 ENFE engaged the same consu'ltAnt (financed from IDA's RIC II) to
design a simpler tariff structure more closely related to costs and more
flexible over time.
5.04     The results for freight, submitted in December 1988, are highly
satisfactory; ENFE, MTC and IDA all agree on this. For long distances
(over 500 km) the proposed rates are lower than the existing ones and for
short distances slightly higher, in line with ENFE's cost structure. All
rates cover at a minimum the long-run variable cost (for definition see
Annex 7, para. 5). Rules are proposed giving ENFE limited freedom to
negotiate discounts with customers for large volumes for periods of 3 or 6
months at a time, with authority to award such discounts appropriatety
reserved to successively higher management levels for successively larger
discounts. Under the new system, MTC would intervene less in setting
ENFE's rates, limiting its role to approving the broad structure and
periodic adjustments, and approving the largest of discounts. The
consultant also recommends that, if the Government continues to require
that certain strategic commodities, such as wheat, be carried at rates
below variable costs, it should pay direct compensation to ENFE. More
attractive rates for containers are also proposed, to encourage such
traffic.
5.05     As a continuation of his assignment, the consultant prepared a new
tariff for passengers in February-March 1989. The main issue there is that
most fares barely cover marginal cost. Concern for low-income passengers
has motivated holding certain fares low, but there is a lively secondary
market among middle-income passengers for the few seat tickets available.
Greater differentiation of fares among first and second class levels of
service, for example, would clearly be rational.



- 26 -
5.06     MTC and ENFE intend to put the new freight tariff into effect in
April, 1989. However, objections can be expected from certain users,
particularly as this is a pre-election period. To encourage its adoption
not later than the entry of the new administration (August-Septamber 1989),
the first disbursements against ENFE's civil works and goods items will be
made conditional on implementation of the new freight and passenger tariff
structure.
Financial Obiective and Forecasts for 1988-92
5.07     The primary financial objective of ENFE should be to become self-
sufficient so that its revenues cover all operating costs, debt service
charges and a major contribution of future investments for replacement and
new assets. It should operate as a commercial, market-oriented enterprise
without subsidy.
5.08     Annex 7 sets out details of the financial forecast and major
assumptions used. A seven-year forecast (1989-95) has been prepared for
the Andean and Eastern networks separately and for the consolidated
operations. It indicates that ENFE is likely to remain in a satisfactory
financial condition. The working ratios for consolidated operation are
expected to improve from 86% in 1988 to 781 in 1995. The staff costs are
expected to decrease in real terms from 57% of working costs to about 52%
by 1995. The financial rate of return with revalued fixed assets shows
good improvement from 1% in 1987 to 3.51 in 1995 and should continue to
improve thlereafter. The flow of funds statement indicates that ENFE should
be able to manage its own operations without government subsidy as its
revenues will cover operating costs, debt service charges and a
contribution of around 40% toward future investments. The debt/equity
ratio of the consolidated operation will remain at about 0.39 and the
liquidity ratio between 1.2 to 1.9, which are both satisfactory.
5.09     ENFE's finances are highly sensitive to cost increases without
adequate traffic increase and to major declines in traffic. To maintain
the satisfactory financial condition, the Government and ENFE management
have agreed that ENFE will, during implementation of the project:
(i) show, to the satisfaction of IDA, that any investment of over US$1
million it intends to undertake in the export Gorridors, will be
economically and financially justified;
(ii) not take on debts in addition to the proposed loan unless the
expected net cash revenues are 1.7 times its annual debt service
obligations or unless the Association agrees otherwise;
(iii)  revalue its fixed assets in operation, based on current market
value, in the fiscal year ending December 31, 1990 and every five
years thereafter; and revalue these assets each intervening year
by applying the wholesale price index of the Instituto Nacional de
Estadistica; and
(iv) achieve working ratios of 871 or lower for 1989-1990 and 83% or
lower in 1991 and thereafter.



- 27 -
VI. UCCIIIMD&TIONS
6.01     As a condition for effectiveness, SNC has agreed to submit to IDA
a detailed road maintenance program for 1990 and an outline program for
1991-1993, both acceptable to the Association (para. 3.44).
6.02     As conditions of first disbursement against ENFE civil works and
purchases of Roods, the Government and ENPS have agreed that:
(a) ENFE will hire consultants for its management assistance program
(para. 3.15);
(b) the MTC will submit to IDA a performance agreement entered into by
MTC and ENFE covering the period 1990-1991, acceptable to the
Association (para. 3.45); and
(c) ENFE will introduce a revised tariff structure based on the
freight rates study completed in December 1988 and the passenger
fares study to be carried out in February-March 1989, to cover at
least long-run variable cost on each freight commodity and
passenger train service (para. 5.04-5).
6.03     As a condition for first disbursement aaainst construction of the
Santa Cruz freiaht terminal, ENFE has agreed to award the management
contract for operation of the terminal to a qualified operating company, in
a manner satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.10).
6.04     As a condition of disbursements against the works on the La Paz-
Arica rail line, ENFE has agreed to provide evidence satisfactory to IDA
that the queue length of rail freight cars Awaiting traction in each of
Arica (Chile) and Charana (Bolivian border) will not have exceeded an
average of 100 during each of the preceding two calendar months (para.
4.04).
6.05     As a condition of disbursement against works on the La Paz-Oruro
highway, MTC has agreed to provide the counterpart funds required for the
carrying out of such works (para. 3.24).
6.06     The Government has agreed on the following dated covenants:
(a) NTC will give the Association, by September 30 of each year during
project implementation, the opportunity to review and comment on
the t-ansport sector investment program proposed for the following
five years (para. 3.43);
(b) SNC will submit to IDA by September 30 each year starting in 1990
and until the project is completed, annual road maintenance
programs consistent with the agreed 1990-1993 maintenance plan
(para. 3.44);
(c) SNC will submit by March 31 each year a report on the previous
year's road maintenance activities (para 3.44);



- 28 -
(d) SNC will put into operation throughout the country its maintenance
management system and equipment management system by June 30, 1991
(para. 3.14);
(e)  ENFE will achieve wotking ratioa of 87Z or lower for 1989-1990 and
832 or lower in 1991 and thereafter (para. 5.09);
(f) ENFE will revalue its fixed assets in operation, based on current
market value, in the fiscal year ending December 31, 1990 and
every five years thereafter; and revalue these assets each
intervening year by applying the wholesale price index of the
Instituto Nacional de Estadistica;
(g) By September 30, 1991, MTC will submit to the Association a
renewal for the period 1992-94 of the performance agreement
between it and ENFE, incorporating such changes as shall have been
agreed between them on the basis of their review of each party's
compliance with the initial agreement (para. 3.45);
(h)  By March 31 of each year from 1991 to 1994, MTC will d.so submit
to IDA a report on each party's compliance with the performance
agreement during the previous year (para. 3.45); and
(i)  By March 31 of each year until the project is completed, the
implementing agencies will send to IDA, through MTC, a report on
progress during the preceding year on those project items for
which they are responsible. MTC will also submit a project
completion report by December 31, 1995 or 6 months after the
credit is closed, whichever is later (para. 3.42).
6.07     It is further agreed that, during implementation of the project:
(a) the Government will earmark in its investment budget the amount of
US$10.1 million equivalent in counterpart funds needed for the
project (para. 3.24);
(b) before entering into any major road or rail investments in export
corridors, MTC will show to IDA's satisfaction that each such
investment is economically justified and, in the case of railways,
financially justified (para. 3.43 and para. 5.09);
(c) the Government will on-lend to ENFE US$11.3 million under a
subsidiary loan agreement, at an interest rate of LIBOR and 0.5%,
for 15 years with 3 years grace. ENFE will bear the
boliviano/dollar exchange risk (para. 3.28);
(d) ENFE will not take on debts in addition to the proposed loan
unless its projected operating revenues are at least 1.7 times the
expected annual debt service charges on all outstanding loans and
credits, except as the Association shall otherwise agree (para.
5.09);



- 29 -
(e) ENFE will take all actions needed to continue to keep the queue of
freight cars awaiting traction at each of Arica and Chatana below
100 at all times (para. 4.04); and
(f) The Government will pass on US$3.7 million to ESF as a grant under
a sub-grant agreement (para 3.29).
6.08     The Government has also given an assurance that international
procurement agents acceptable to the Association will process all
procurement under the project for contracts expected to cost over 100,000
bolivianos, except ESF's operations (para. 3.33).
6.09     On this basis, I recommend that the Republic of Bolivia be
authorized a development credit of SDR 28.3 million (equivalent to US$37.0
million), on sts:ndard 40-year terms.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
PATACM69Y&-TAUBO QUEMADO ROADs DETAILS
Present Route Options
1.       There are presently five transport routes between Bolivia and
ports of the Pacific Ocean, three by rail and two by road. Each of them has
its drawbacks, both for present traffic and as potential future routes for
development. The rail line to Arica, the cheapest option at present on the
basis of tariffs, suffers severe capacity shortages, requiring importers
particularly to wait weeks before the wagons they need are allocated for
their freight. The road between La Paz and Arica includes a section of
about 200 km which is passable only by the largest trucks, if at all,
during the four wet months (December through March). The road route to
Matarani is 150 km longer than the road to Arica (though the average travel
time is one third shorter, at 24 hours) and, because of civil unrest in
southern Peru, considered unsafe.
2.       The rail route to Matarani, not operating at present, is
complicated by the need for transshipment at Guaqui, on the Bolivian shore
of Lake Titicaca. Meter-gauge wagons are run on to a rail ferry equipped
with dual-gauge track, and at Puno, at the Peruvian end of the lake, the
goods have to be off-loaded and reloaded to the standard-gauge wagons used
on the line from there to Matarani. In 1986-87 the level of Lake Titicaca
rose about 2 meters, flooding Guaqui and the rail track giying access to
it; rail service was halted. The water level fell aga'& in 1988, but the
damage to the track has not yet been repaired and rail srvice has not been
resumed. There is insufficient traffic demand to justify the expenditure
in track reconstruction and port facilities needed to put this route back
in oparation.
3.       The fifth option, the rail route to Antofagasta, is 720 km longer
than that from La Paz to Arica. The private Chilean railway company, on
the other hand, provides a satisfactory service.
4.       None of the three Pacific ports has experienced congestion in
recent years. In fact, they are operating at about half their capacity.
Procedures for processing goods through the ports are not cited by shippers
as serious problems (though there is room for improvement).
Distribution of Present Traffic
5.       The volumes of Bolivia's exports and imports over the past few
,ears have been severely disrupted by the economic crisis, changing
relations with its neighbor countries, and the suspension of the rail
service to Guaqui. Total traffic to the Pacific in 1986 (data are not
available for 1987) was 550,000 tons, down from the almost 700,000 tons of
1980. The trend was different for each of the five routes. Antofagasta



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
retained two-thirds of all Bolivian traffic to or from the Pacific (which
in turn was about 60% of Bolivia's total international trade by volume).
In 1980/81 the remaining Pacific traffic was split almost equally between
Matarani and Arica, with Matarani just ahead. By 1984, the volume of all
traffic categories had declined and general cargo had fallen markedly,
affecting both Arica and Matarani, though Matarani more so.  But by 1986
general cargo transport by road had picked up again, taking Arica's traffic
(road and rail) to 135,000 tons, above its pre-crisis peak. Matarani's
traffic, in contrast, fell yet further, as the recovery in -oad traffic was
insufficient to off-set the loss of rail traffic due to the Guaqui closure.
6.       These conflicting trends make 1986 a poor basis for extrapolation
into the future. A more reliable basis (though still far from ideal) is
the average for the seven years 1980-86. This gives a total for the three
ports of almost 600,000 tons, with about 370,000 through Antofagasta and
115,000 each through Arica and Matarani. Wheat imports and mineral exports
were almost half the total; over 902 of this bulk traffic used
Antofagasta. General cargo totaled 264,000 tons; imports heavily
outweighed exports by a factor of 3:1. Road traffic into and out of Arica
averaged 38,000 tons, corresponding to 20-25 loaded trucks per day. The
1986 volume substantially exceeded the '80-'86 average; the traffic
reported on the La Paz-Arica road in 1987 was about 35 trucks (loaded and
empty) per day. Many of the inbound trucks carry cars.
Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado Road
7.       As long ago as 1975 a feasibility study was carried out for a
paved road from Patacamaya to Tambo Quemado. Its alignment cut 40 km from
the distance. Before the Government could obtain financing for its
construction, the jeonomic crisis intervened. In 1988 prices, its cost as
designed, about US$120 million, is too high to be economically justified
with today's traffic volumes. With lower design standards, on the other
hand, the road can be Justified. Four important changes are proposed:
(a) the platform width be narrowed from 12m (8m pavement and 2m shoulders)
to 9m (7m pavement and lm shoulders, the same as the El Alto-Oruro
highway); (b) the height of the embankments be. lowered (in places they
were designed at 3m above the natural level where 1.5m is sufficient for
drainage); (c) the large parking areas proposed at the border post be cut
back; and (d) the asphalt-concrete surface be deferred until such time as
traffic reaches 250-350 vehicles per day, the economic threshold for
paving. If these design changes are made, then the initial construction
cost can be brought down to about $36 million (in 1988 prices).   The
feature that the present traffic will value most is good drainage: bridges
over the five largest water-courses and ample culverts in other stretches
vulnerable to flooding. There are also a few short steep gradients
climbing out from the river beds which are difficult when wet. The terrain
is otherwise flat or rolling throughout.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
8.       The road on the Chilean side is of similar standards.  The Chilean
highway department is proposing to pave the currently unpaved section of
the road in 1389, and has asked SNC about its intentions for the Bolivian
side so as to estimate future traffic loads.
9.       At the freight rates prevailing in late 1987, rail was cheaper
than road for La Paz-Arica traffic by an average of $12 per ton for general
cargo exports, $29 per ton for general cargo imports, and $35 per ton for
imported wheat. The rates for carrying cars were virtually equal. For
Cochabamba traffic rail was $15 per ton cheaper for general exports, $26
per ton cheaper for general imports, and $47 per ton cheaper for wheat
imports. Road transport was cheaper for imported cars, by $110 per car.
10.      The impact on truck rates of an improved road between Patacamaya
and Tambo Quemado has been estimated on the basis of synthesized operating
costs. It is estimated that, if the road is built, the trucks will be able
to raise their travel speed from 15 kmlh (average of dry and wet months) to
40 km/h and cut their travel time between La Paz and Arica from about 21
hours to about 5 hours. The major consequence of this 16-hour saving is
that they will be able to double the number of round trips per month from
about 1.5 to about 3 (taking a weighted average of trips from La Paz and
from other cities). This corresponds to raising their annual mileage from
its present very low level of about 23,500 km to about 47,000 km
(respectable but still far from high). Fuel consumption is also expected
to drop substantially, and truckers will be able to load their vehicles
more fully, since they will no longer fear getting stuck in the mud. It is
also expected that the improved road will encourage more truckers to trade
up to tractor-semitrailer combinations, since such large-capacity trucks
can achieve lower costs per ton carried than the 12-tonners only if they
can be used intensively. The cost is calculated to go aown from 50-60 US
cents per ton-km to about 13 cents.
11.      These savings correspond to about $10 per ton per trip for
exports and $25 per ton for general cargo imports, while for imported cars
the saving would be $80 per car. It is reasonable to assume that these
will be passed on in large part to users through lowered rates, as Bolivian
trucking has been deregulated since 1985 and has become relatively
competitive in pricing.
12.      On the basis of rate and travel time comparisons, it is estimated
that these savings will attract to the Arica road at least 802 of general
cargo exports and 502 of general cargo imports ow using Matarani, together
with 101 of all general cargo traffic now using Antofagasta and the Arica
rail route. Specifically, the new road is expected to capture all imports
of passenger cars, whether arriving at Arica or at Iquique. It is not
expected that the road will capture any minerals or wheat traffic, since
they are not time-sensitive, most of the mines are already served direczly
by rail, and over the distances involved rail costs for large volumes will
continue to be lower.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
13.      Adding the above diverted traffic to that already using the Arica
road, the total traffic expected in the first year of operation, 1992, is
about 195,000 tons, including 10,500 imported light vehicles (against
53,000 tons in 1986). The number of trucks will show a far smaller
increase, from 35 to about 50 per day, as the expected increase in load
factor and shift to larger trucks will raise the average load from about 4
tons to about 9 tons. The benefits in 1992 are tentatively estimated at
$4.3 million ($3.8 million to imports and $0.5 million to exports).
14.      Economic losses to the Arica-La Paz rail operation due to the need
to continue paying fixed costs while losing traffic, are expected to be
small. If ENFE improves its service (as it has done in the second half of
1988), it may lose no bulk traffic and only some 102 of its general cargo,
equivalent to only two years of normal growth. The general cargo diverted
would be less than 10,000 tons, or under 5Z of the total expected to use
the road.
15.      Consistent with the trade growth prospects set out in Chapter 2,
the growth rate of traffic on the Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado road in the 20
years beyond 1992 is projected to average 5-62 per year, the weighted
average of non-traditional exports growing at 12-13% and of manufactured
imports growing at 3-42. Assuming unit benefits to remain unchanged in
later years, this will yield an economic return in the range 13-172.
16.      This is not a compelling return on investment for a country facing
such severe resource constraints as Bolivia. However, it is worth
stressing that this estimate is distinctly conservative. It does not
include any benefits to new traffic generated by the investment, for want
of any good basis for estimating its magnitude. For high-value exports a
reduction of $10 per ton in the delivered price is less Likely to affect
the volumes sold than removal of obstacles such as excessive documentation
requirements. The main advantage of this road may come from the greater
reliability that it can offer than present routes, particularly if full
advantage is now taken of the benefits offered by containers. The road
investment is a necessary condition for this to develop, though not a
sufficient one. No good methodology is available to place a value on this
greater reliability, though users are undoubtedly willing to pay for it.
The projection of diverted traffic is also conservative; it implies that
this road will capture no more than 15Z of Bolivia's non-bulk exports and
332 of its non-bulk imports (i.e. excluding wheat, mineral and natural
gas).
17.      It is worth noting that the simulation of users' zoute choices
underlying the above is only approximate, and that rail freight rates are
not necessarily identical with economic resource costs. The ER of about
15% derived from these assumptions is acceptable, but the range of
uncertainty on either side of it is no doubt fairly wide. The purpose of
the full-fledged feasibility study now being carried out is precisely to
narrow down this uncertainty (i.e. reduce the down-side risk) before a
final decision to proceed with the iuvestment is made.



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
DEFERRED MAINTENANCE ON EL ALTO (LA PAZ)-ORURO HIGHWAY
1. *    The works proposed on the El Alto-Ocuro highway encompats pavement
overlay and reconstruction of some sections of the El Alto-Oruro highway
itself (211.6 km) and the Caracollo-Caihuasi branch (16.8 km) linking to
the Oruro-Cochabamba highway, that is, a total length of 228.4 km of
pavement rehabilitation.
2.       The final design required prior roughness measurements and field
surveys. For the section where the analysis showed that more information
was necessary deflections, with a Benkelman beam, and if needed sample
cores, were taken to know the road-bed state, the thickness of the
different layers and the quality of the materials of those layers.
3.       Based on this analysis, three different solutions were adopted:
(a)   total pavement recoastruction over 34 km, on sections with high
deflections and low CBR subgrade valuesl
(b)   partial pavement reconstruction, affecting the base but not the
lower layers, over 11 km, on sections with low CBR base values;
and
(c)   5-cm asphalt concrete overlay on the remaining sections of the El
Alto-Oruro road and on the Caracollo-Caihuasi branch that showed
acceptable CBR values for base, sub-base and sub-grade and
moderate deflections.
4.       For design of the pavement thickness, empiric procedures (CBR,
AASHTO and DNER of Brazil) were used, jointly with the equivalent thickness
theory. These procedures are decreasingly used for final design, but
nevertheless they can be considered a valid option. In this case, the
following results were obtained:
Sections with total pavement reconstructions
5 cm - asphalt concrete
15 cm - granular base
38 or 25 cm (depending on CBR) granular sub-base
Sections with partial pavement reconstruction:
5 cm - asphalt concrete
15 cm - granular base
Sections with overlay only:
5 cm - asphalt cohcrete



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
5.       The final design also includes 4-m widening of the platfonm on
each side for bus-stops, mergings and exits of side streets in urban
sections and drainage and road signing works.
6.       The civil works budget is US$17.2 million plus supervision and
procurement services, physical contingencies and price escalation.
7.       Economic iustifications  The economic feasibility of the project
was confirmed using the above direct cost and the Bank's HDM III model.
Savings will come from reduced vehicle operating costs on the improved
surface and from the avoidance of a full reconstruction of the road, if the
pavement were to break up before action was taken. The resulting ER is
62X.
8.       Recommended Works Schedule:  The present road condition is
precarious, especially in some sections, and pavement break-ups are
possible. Accordingly, rapid action is advisable. With this purpose, the
project should be divided Into two or three contracts to allow its
conclusion in one year from the contract signature, that should take place
as soon as possible.
Abbreviations
AASHTO - American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
CBR    - California bearing ratio
DNER   - Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem (Brazil Federal
Highway Authority)
HDM    - Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (World Bank)



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
SNC 'S ROAD MAINTENNCE PROGRAM
Is SNC's road maintenance budget sufficient?  The Government puts
maintenance at the top of its transport priorities, but the funds allocated
to it in the indicative plan for 1988-1991 are still only 12% (?] of the
roads budget. Bolivia, unlike many borrowers, is still far from completing
construction of the basic transport network it requires. It is hard to
deny to substantial parts of the population the radical improvement in
access to other areas that new roads offer, in favor of repairing roads for
communities that already have them. But at the same time the future cost
of allowing existing paved roads to break up is great, compared to the cost
of repairing them today.
2.       Paved roads make up less than 5% of Bolivia's network.  In 1986,
when the last assessment was made, approximately one third of the paved
length was in good condition, one third was in fair condition and one third
was in poor condition. Gravel roads, which make up about one fifth of the
network, were in generally worse condition: good 20%, fair 35% and poor
45%. Earth roads, which make up the remaining three quarters of the
network, were --and very probably still are-- yet worse: about one seventh
good, 317 fair and 3/7 poor. (Statistics on the latter are too unreliabli
to command much confidence --and their condition varies greatly between the
wet and dry seasons. Since traffic is concentrated on the paved and gravel
roads, it is appropriate to focus on them.)
3.       Compared with 1984, the 1986 situation showed two conflicting
developmentss more paved roads in good condition, but simultaneously more
in poor condition. This probably reflected the fact that after the 1980-85
economic collapse a start was made to rehabilitate roads in a state of
advanced fatigue, having received no preventive resealing or overlays in
good time, that is, no periodic maintenance. However, the effort was not
extensive enough to catch many sections before they cracked up. On gravel
and earth roads, the 1986 assessment showed some effort to improve the
condition from poor to fair. In all categories, however, the length of
road treated fell far short of that needed, only 9% of paved roads and only
8% of gravel and earth. The Association has estimated that in 1986, the
accumulated backlog of periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of paved
roads amounted to as much as 60% of the paved network and just over 50% of
gravel roads.
4.       Over the past four years the maintenance allocations under the
current account have increased substantially, but they are still not
sufficient:
1985           US$ 2.4 million
1986               5.7
1987              10.0
1988              18.0



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
The 1988 allocation was only about 20S of the total budgeted for roads,
capital and current. Other items in the capital account present
definitional problems, as they involve the reconstruction of existing
roads, but fully half of the capital budget was for new roads.
5.       Routine maintenance in 1988 was concentrated almost entirely on
the one third of the network that is paved or gravel-surfaced.
Surface type   Total length   Km Receiving Work    Percent
paved              1,700              1,405           832
gravel            12,000             11,575           96Z
earth             27,300                602            22
total             41,000             13,582           332
6.       Thus the average budgeted cost per km of paved and gravel road
receiving attention was US$1,340. This is more than adequate for routine
maintenance alone, but not enough to cover periodic maintenance needs,
which should be at least as much again, if not more.
7.       SNC employs about 4,000, of whom about 3,800 are involved in
maintenance. This is high (3.6 km maintained per employee). The age
composition is heavily weighted to men over 50.
8.       SNC does not contract out any maintenance work, other than minor
works being financed through the Emergency Social Fund.
9.       Maintenance equipment presents a major problem.  Of 2,100 items in
SNC's inventory, 700 are out of service.
10.     In evaluating the 1989 maintenance program, the Association
examined the trade-offs being made at the margin between new construction
on the one hand and maintenance and rehabilitation on the other, and
estimated a minimum total expenditure and a minimum share of that total for
maintenance which could be considered acceptable. This review concluded
that an expenditure of at least US$ 27 million on road maintenance' the sum
of current and capital account maintenance expenditures, was a minimum
acceptable. The budget for roads approved by Congress in January 1989,
indicates a considerable change from 1988, with 45Z of total expenditure
allocated to maintenance and rehabilitation. The budget satisfies the
Association's requirement, having a proposed current account maintenance
exienditure of US$ 23.6 million and a US$ 25.6 million capital budget for
maintenance and rehabilitation. The average proposed expenditure is
therefore US$ 1,200 per km over tne whole network.
11.    To ensure that this changed balance is not a one-off occurrence,
resulting from Association pressure or a temporary accounting aberration, a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit will be that SNC prepare
a three-year maintenance program, within which future maintenance budgets
can be developed. A covenant will ensure that future annual maintenance
budgets are acceptable to the Association.



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
1989 ROAD HAINTEANANC AND RKHABILITATION BUDGET
(FINAL tEQUST TO CONGRESS. JANUARY 1989)
(USS 000)
New Constrl MaintI
Uptradina    Rehab    Studies   Total
Current budget                                    23,605             23,605
Capital budget
Programa Naclonal Transportes IDBICAF 14,610
Chimore-Yapacani               IDBICAF  12,063
Equipamionto de Mantemiento      JICA              8,000
Accesos Chimare-Yapacani       IDBICAF             5,915*
Programa Manten. Distritos Sur  CAF                5,319
Santa Cruz-Trinidad            FONPLATA  5,827*
Caminos Vecinales Santa Cruz     IDB     3,294*
Equipo Mantenimiento (San Julian) KFW              3,042
Equipo Mantenimiento (RIC II)    IDA               2,855
Samaipata-Taruma II              IDB     2,443
Construccion Naclonal de Puentes         2,371*
Doe Puentes                     PL-480   1,464
Eatudlo Oruro-Pisiga             IDB                           750*
Pavlmentaci6n La Paz-Cotapata              600*
Construcci6n S.Jer6nlmo-San Luis           324*
Cotagaits-San Juan de Oro                  307
Santa Rosa-Riberalta                       289*
Caminos Vecinales Yungas La Paz UNDP                 236
Proyecto Vial Agro. Norte Chuquisaca                           32*
SUBTOTAL, SNC capital budget            43,592    25,614       782   69,741
of which:
Core                                                      (61,704)
Supplementary (marked by *) (1)                            (8,037)
Reg. Devt. Corporations                                              16,766
GRAD TOTAL                                        49,214            110,112
(1) Core request for Accesos Chimore-Yapacani  3,000
Caminos Vecin. Santa Crux 2,294



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR S.N.C
IN ROAD MAINTENANCE AND CONTRACT MANAGMENT
Terms of Reference
1.       SNC has so far lacked the capacity to formulate a rigorous
national road maintenance program to prepare its annual. road maintenance
budgets. The objective of this technical assistance will be to develop a
program along lines proposed by SNC and MTC.
2.       The principal tasks to be performed are the following:
(a)   implementation of a maintenance management system and formulation
of a pilot program to carry out maintenance works by contract;
(b)   implementation of an equipment management system;
(c)   implementation of computerized analysis and application of cost
accounting to road maintenance;
(d)   preparation of a four-year national maintenance program and its
budget (1990-1993);
(e)   personnel training;  and
(f)   advising on project inspection and control.
3.       Under the Estudio Integral del Transporte and the maintenance
pilot programs (financed by IDA), a start was made in the early 1980s in
generating the technical data needed for the above tasks. Technical
assistance financed by the Government and the Corporacion Andina de
Fomento, begun in mid-1988 and due to run four years, is extending this
process in the southern districts (Oruro, Chuquisaca, Potosi, Tarija and
Tupiza). Its results will be considered by this new technical assistance
as the base to implement the system nationwide.
4.       It is foreseen that a total of 50 man-months will be needed over a
period of 14 months. The budget for this technical assistance will be
US$500,000.



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
ROAD USER CHARGES
1.     One impediment to a freer, less costly flow of freight traffic on
the roads of Bolivia are the SNC's toll barriers out all main roads
throughout the country. These often cause delays to users, and the opinion
is widely held that the revenue collected (which supports SNC's operating
expenses) does not justify the cost of collecting the tolls. At the same
time there is clearly a need to secure for SNC a larger and more stable
road maintenance budget.
2.       In June 1988, the Association commissioned a consultant to study
the revenue collected from the various charges Imposed on road users in
Bolivia and the costs of collecting these revenues, and to recommend any
improvements In the administration of these charges which might be
desirable.
3.       The most significant road user charges are the taxes levied on
fuels and lubricants, generating incomes for the Government in excess of
US$50 million per year. These taxes are not expensive to collect and the
revenue cannot be evaded by non-payment by YPFB, the national oil company.
(Fuel prices are set at border prices plus an adequate distribution margin;
they are adjusted every few months to keep them at that level.)
4.       The study 'ound that the costs of collecting the road tolls, the
second most important source of road user revenue at just over US$6
million, are low as a proportion of the total revenue collected, about 8X.
There is however, a significant loss of revenue through evasion and a
failure to control adequately the activities of the operators of the toll
booths. Although no detailed estimates have been made, the loss of
potential revenue from this source is believed to be several millions of
dollars each year.
5.       The third most important source of road user charge revenue was
found to be from the capital value tax which is levied on road vehicles,
private aircraft and pleasure boats. The revenue from vehicle owners
amounts to some US$3 million per year. The only other road user charge
identified, the national transactions tax of 1% on vehicle sales, yielded
less than US$1 million.
6.       A detailed analysis of vehicle behavior at toll booths revealed a
high user cost in waiting time. The value of this lost time was estimated
at almost US$12 million, about double the revenue collected in tolls.
7.       Given the high user cost in lost time at toll booths and the
difficulties of implementing controls to reduce evasion of tolls and
leakage of revenues, and considering the ease with which fuel taxes can be
collected, the consultant recommended replacing road tolls with an increase
in fuel tax of 2-3 centavos of a boliviano (1 US cent) per liter. The
marginal collection cost of the revenue from this tax would be zero and the
gross revenue would be equal to the current gross revenue from tolls.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
8.       The Ministry of Transport and Comamunications, the Ministry of
Finance and other interest parties are now reviewing these conclusions and
recomendations. Since the Government's macro-economic policies explicitly
preclude earmarking of taxes to specific budget items, the Association is
not pressing for any immediate decision, but intends to continue exploring
the issue in its supervision missions and economic dialogue with the
Government.



^ 42 -
ANNEX 6
RAILWAY ITES TO Bt PROCURED
Local      Foreign  Total
Works   Goods   Goods            Constructor
_____- 0(US$ 000) -
A. PACIFIC CORRIDOR
La Paz - Charana
Tracks easing grade                200     200      400     800    ENFE
Terminalt access tracks            200      40      60      300    Contractor
1,100
B. ATLANTIC CORRIDOR
Santa Cruz-Puerto Qui1arro
Ballast and placement              600     500     900   2,000    Contractor
(300,000 cu. meters
e 0.8 cu.m./linear m.)
Chemicals for vegetation control  180      200     300      680    ENFE
Ditching machinery                                 600      600
Reconstruction of 2 bridges        200     100      700   1.000
4,280
Materials for conversion of
40 boxcars to multi-use cars             20     100      120    ENFE
Santa Crus freight terminal        900     800   1,400   3,100    Contractor
C. SYSTEH-WIDE
Telecommunications equipment               100   1,900   2,000
SUBTOTAL, Works & goods       2,280   1,960   6,360  10,600
D. CONSULTANT SERVICES
Management assistance                  600       2,400   3,000
Audit                                   20           30      50
Terminal design                                     20       20
Terminal management advice                          40       40
SUBTOTAL, Consultant services       620       2,490   3,110
TOTAL                             4,860       8,850  13,710



- 43 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5
FiRNCIAL Su&TION OF BulK
I. Paost and Present Financial Performance
(a)   0perating Results
1.       While in the past ENFE had ups and downs in its financial
condition, since 1985 its financial situation has been satisfactory.
During 1985 and 1986, rates and fares were substantially increased. ENFE's
total revenues therefore fully covered all operating costs (Tables 2 and 3
for Andean and Eastern networks individually and Table 1 for the
consolidated figures). The working ratios of 692 in 1986 (Eastern 61S and
Andean 75%) and 821 in 1987 (Eastern 79Z and Andean 85%) were better than
the target of 1001 specified in the RIC I credit agreement. The annual net
working revenues were 9 to 10 million pesos during 1985 to 1987.
Encouraged by such improvements, ENFE and IDA agreed on a mors demanding
target under RIC II of 901 from 1988 onwards. The estimated working ratio
for 1988, based on actual income and expenditure in the first 10 months of
the year (Table 1), is 861. This shows some deterioration from the 821 in
1987, although it is still better than the RIC II target of 901. Several
reasons contributed to this deterioration.
(i) The Brazilian railways raised rates for Bolivian freight;  this
and a strike in the two Brasilian railways caused a reduction in
Bolivian export traffic.
(ii)  A broken railway line interrupted traffic in Northern Argentina.
(iii) The price of Brazilian goods imported into Bolivia increased,
thereby reducing the volume imported.
2.       ENFE expects that these set-backs will be eliminated in 1989.
EIE , however, needs to ensure that increases in staff costs are properly
controlled to avoid any adverse effect on its finances. Wages were
increased by 151 in March 1988 to match general increases in the country,
followed by another 6 to 7X increase in August 1988.
3.       The consolidated cash flow position of ENFE was quite satisfactory
at the end of 1987, showing a closing cash balance of about Bol$ 2.8
million (Tables 4 to 6). ENFE must continue to maintain a healthy cash
position in the future, which should be possible because in July 1987 the
Government took over all ENFE's long-term loans outstanding at December 31,
1986, to enable it to make substantial reductions in freight tariffs. ENFE
however will be responsible for paying all its future debt obligations
without any government subsidy.



- 44 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 5
(b)   CostinR and Pricing Policy
4.       Due to the mountainous terrain and low traffic density, ENFE's
operating costs are high. Upon introduction of the New Economic Policy in
1985, ENFE substantially increased its freight rates. This caused the
rates in the export corridors to rise to about US 5.5 cents per ton-km.
(The ideal minimum, in easy terrain and with dense traffic, is about US 1.9
cents per ton-km, as achievred by some US railroads.) The export of tir. and
other minerals was being adversely affected. The Government therefore
instructed ENFE to discount rates on exports by 60X and domestic traffic by
30Z, with effect from July 1, 1987, while the rates for import traffic
remained the same. At the same time passenger fares were increased b.y 501.
5.       In December 1988 a consultant hired under IDA's Second
Reconstruction Import Credit completed a study of ENFE freight tariffs. The
study recommends a substantially reduced and simplified commodity
classification and a revised tariff structure. The proposed structure is
cost-oriented. Rates are about 7 to 101 less than the present tariff for
distances of 500 km and up. For 300 to 500 km the new tariff has not
changed, and for less than 300 km. the proposed tariff has gone up. These
tariffs will cover at the minimum the long-run variable costs of railway
operations. The term "long-run variable cost' may be defined as the cost
which varies directly with variations in the traffic volume and will
consist of all costs directly related to tha railway operation of the
respective services, including administration, adequate maintenance, and
provision for capital recovery consisting of depreciation of, and return
on, assets that will need to be replaced in due course. If the Government
continues to require ENFE to charge rates lower than long-run variable
costs, then it will have to compensete ENFE the difference between the
tariff actually charged and the tariff that ENFE could have charged. ENFE
and MTC fully agree with the consultant's recommendation. The consultant
has also introduced container tariffs for 20 feet and 40 feet containers
separately. ENFE intends to introduce the new structure in March 1989.
Passenger fares will be studied by the same consultant, who will propose
cost-based fares by the end of March 1989.
(c)   Revaluation of Fixed Assets
6.       ENFE has carried out a physical inventory and revaluation of all
fixed assets in both regions. A full report is to be submitted to the
Patrimonio Nacional for review and approval. As soon as the approval is
received, ENFE will incorporate the results in the provisional balance,
have them examined by external auditors and send the report to the
Association for review and comment. The 1989 balance sheet should
incorporate the results of the revaluation.
(d) Budgets. Accounting and Auditing
7.       ENFE's current practices seem adequate.  It prepares the annual
budget in two main parts. the Capital Expenditure budget and the Recurrent
budget. The budget goes to the Government for approval. ENFE follows a
commercially oriented accounting system. The classification of accounts
helps the cost analysis for railway costing. ENFE is gradually mechanising
its financial reporting.



- 45 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 5
II. Future Financial Performance
(a)   Financial Objectives
8.       The long-run financial objectives of the railway should be to
become a revenue-earning public enterprise with full financial viability.
It should be able to generate sufficient revenues to cover all its costs
including debt service charges and a satisfactory contribution toward
future investments. It should not receive any operating subsidy from the
Government. If the Government wishes ENFE to provide any specific service
at below-commercial tariffs, it should pay specific compensation as if it
were another user. ENFE should operate under commercial principles with
increased attention to pricing and marketing.
(b)   Financial Forecast
9.       Based on the financial objectives described above, ENFE's
financial forecast has been prepared for seven years, 1989-95. Major
assumptions used are stated in Attachment ' to this Annex. ENFE's IncoiLe
Statement, Flow of Funds Statement and Balance Sheet for 1989-95 (Tables 1
to 6) have been prepared for each network (Andean and Eastern) as well as
for the consolidated operation. The consolidated revenues are expected to
increase from Bol$ 95 million in 1988 to BolS 148 million in 1995 --a 55%
increase. The working costs, on the other hand, are expected to increase
from Bol$ 82 million to Bol$ 115 million for the same period --a 401
increase. Therefore the incremental revenues for this period will be
Bol$ 52 million, whereas the incremental cost will be Bol$ 33 million. The
working and operating ratios are expected to show continued improvement
from 861 and 100% in 1988 to 78 and 90% respectively in 1995. It is
expected that the staff costs, which are about 571 of working costs in
1986, will decrease in real terms gradually to 522 inspite of the traffic
increases, but ENFE could reduce its manpower further with better planning
and improved productivity. ENFE should carry out a manpower study to
assess the number of staff that can be reduced, the total cost of
indemnities to the laid-off or retired staff (including early retirement),
and how much ENFE can afford to pay and how mich outside financial help is
needed. Based on such a study a detailed plan of action could be prepared
for staff reductions. This would make a major contribution to lowering
ENFE's costs, the benefit of which could be passed on to the exporters of
Bolivia through reduced tariffs.
10.      As to the individual network performance, the Eastern network is
expected to show better improvement in working ratios than the Andean
network. During the forecast period the Eastern network is expected to
increase its revenues by 60% higher and the Andean network by 501. The
working ratio for the Eastern network in 1995 will be 771 as compared with
Andean network's 79% (Tables 2 and 3). It should be noted, however, that
the depreciation charges included in the forecast are based on ENFE's
revaluation of fixed assets. This has to be approved by the Controller
General of Bolivia and to be audited by external auditors whose appointment
is expected before June 1989.



- 46 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 5
11.      The Flow of Funds Statements (Tables 4 to 6) show a gradual
$mprovement in the cash balance from Bol$ 1.0 million in 1988 to Bol$ 3.8
million in 1995 for the consolidated operations. No operating subsidy from
whe Government is included in the forecast. During the project
Implementation ENFE's revenues are expected to cover its total operating
costs, debt service charges and about 40X of Its investments.
12.      The balance sheets for Eastern and Andean networks and for the
consolidated operations of ENFE are shown in Tables 7 to 9. The
consolidated position indicates that the financial rate of return with
revalued fixed assets will gradually improve from about 12 in 1987 to about
3.52 in 1995. The atnual debt/equity ratio will remain at a satisfactory
level of 0.39 up to 1993 and the liquid ratio will improve from 1.0 In 1989
to 1.9 in 1995.
III. Financint Plan
13.      The financing of ENFE's portion of the Export Corridors Project is
the following:
ENFE's total investment in constant dollars
of 1988, including physical contingency        US$ 15.2 million
-  IDA financing                                 $ 10.5    a
-  ENFE'F own financing                          $  4.7    a
IV.   Sensitivity Analysis
14.      A sensitivity analysis have been carried out to assess the
robustness of ENFE's financial prospects. Two risk elements have been
tested as follows:
(a)   If traffic growth is only 50Z of the forecast;
(b)   If staff costs are increased by 102 annually;
15.      The effects of the above changes on the working ratios would be:
1990     1992    1995
Working ratios, consolidated (7)
as per forecast (base case)            83       80       78
Working ratios if:
(a)  traffic growth is 502 of forecast   84        85      87
(b)  staff costs rise by 10X              98      110      130



- 47 -
ANN= 7
Page 5 of 5
16.      ENFE'e operations are sensitive to changes in both the above risk
elements. A traffic decrease of 502 would create a deficiency in cash of
about Bol$ 53 million dtring the forecast period. A 102 annual increase in
staff costs would cause a cash deficiency dur'.ng the forecast period in the
order of Bol $95 million. If costs were to rise by more than 151 and the
traffic were to decline, then ENFE would be in a serious financial
condition.
17.      ENFE should therefore make every attempt to reduce its operating
costs, particularly by improving its productivity and decreasing staff
numbers. ENFE should also focus on developing pricing incentives and
service improvements to increase its freight traffic.



- 48 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Major Assumptions and Notes
for the Financial Forecast for ENFE
(a)      Currency Value and Exchange Rate
1.  The forecast was prepared in constant Bol$ of October 1988,
when the exchange rate was Bol$ 2.42 - US$1. The forecast
period is 1989-95.
(b)      Traffic. Tariffs and Revenues
2.   The forecast is based on actual results of 1986, 1987 and
first 10 months of 1988.
3.   The tariffs recommended by the consultant have been used for
the forecast.
(c)      Oieratina Costs
4.  Staff costs are based on the existing staff strength and
level 1 salaries of October 1988. No increase in real terms
is assumed during 1989-95. It is assumed that aay increases
in wage levels will be offset by decreases in manpower.
5.   The fuel and lubricant cost is taken as a function of gross
ton-km for each network.
6.   The duty and tax (VAT) is taken at 112 less c.redits from
government for each transaction. Insurance costs are based
on the self-insurance system now used. Future estimates have
been adequately increased to cover risks.
7.   Depreciation is estimated by using an overall depreciation
rate for fixed assets on partially revalued old assets plus
new investments included in the project.
(d)      Borrowing conditions
8.   The IDA funds will be on-lent to ENFE on the following terms:
Interest rate          s  LIBOR + 0.5X
Amortization            s   15  years
Grace period            s   3  years



E N F E
WPORT CORRIDORS PROJECT
Income Statements- Actual  1986-67, Estimate 1988, Forensat 1969-96                                                    t
In Constnt Oct. 1998 Solivianos In Thousand
1,996.0  1,986.0  1,967.0  1,988.0              1,9980  1,990.0  1,991.0  ,92.0  1,993.0  1,994.0  1,995.0
Operating Revenues
Passengers                  .          11,014    9,977   14,692   12,958                13,385   18,724   14,125   14,E39   14,968   15,409   16,66
Freight & Parcels                      74,860   62,401   99,970   78,46t               100,696  104,654  109,623  113,219  117,329  121,704  12t,400
Other                                   3,404    2,228    2,012    a,694                 4,402    4,661    4,727    4,900    5,058    t,226    5,408
Total     A                          89,266   64,604  11,674   96,232              118,432  122,939  127,675  132,658  137,355  142,839  147,661
Operating Costs :
Staff Costs                            47,488   25,489   46,965   48,619                67,283   67,682   57,964   68,351   58,?26 59,130.0   59,571
Fuel A Lubricant                        5,60   6,OB9   10,286   10,004                  9,911   10,296   10,704   13,186   11,637 11,969.0   12,493
Moatrials                               8,070    6,067   19,872   11,083                11,985   12,866   18,789   24,692   15,594 18,496.0   1?,896
Contoactore                               685       789    3,554    2,777                8,111    8,158    8,204    3,265    3,311  3,871.0    8,486
Interchange                             4,928    2,888    8,886           0              2,8U6    2,4S4    2,581    2,718    2,686  8,026.0    8,201
Taxes etc. (IVA)                             0    1,388    7,d37    6,843               10,217   10,672   10.960   11,852   11,726 12,126.0   12,561
Insurance                                    0    1,221    1,805        616              1,340    1,614    1,708    1,624    2,166  2,868.0    2,607
Other                                   8,068       868    8,223    2,721                3,101    3,173    3,247    3,823    3,399  3,477.0    8,66  4I
Total Working Costs       B          69,960   44,624   95,142   81,968               99,284  101,633  104,187  106,760  10S,828  112,968  114,766
D.preciation                               176    9,480   17,006   18,723               14,432   16,162   18,169   19,068   19,270 19,061.0   18,214
Total Operating Costs   C            70,166   54,064  112,160   96,666              113,666  117,815  122,306  126,603  128,698  131,024  132,979
Not Working Rev.   DA-B                  19,288   19,960   20,632   13,269                19,198   21,306   23,638   25,908   26,082   80,376   82,904
Not Oper. Rev./(Loss)   EmA-C            19,112   10,550    8,624        (454)             4,766    5,124    5,869    6,8S5    8,762   11,315   14,690
Net Non-Operat. Rev.   F                   1,689    1,641    1,986    1,676                1,690    1,590    1,590    1,690    1,690  1,690.0    1,590
Net Rev. Before Interest   0             20,801   12,191    5,487    1,122                 6,8S6    6,714    6,969    8,44S   10,362   12,90S   16,260
Interest Charges   F                     14,076   10,008    3,171           0              2,743    4,680    6,600    7,428    7,179  6,S20.0    5,803
Net Surplus/(Deficit)  I=G-F              8,728    2,183    2,816    1,122                 3,618    1,834       459    1,022    3,173    0,385   10,477
Significant Ratios:
Working   I   (A/B)                           78       69        82        86                 84       88        82        80       80        79        78
Operating Ratio   X   (A/C)                   79       64        97       100                 9S       g6        96        9S       94        92        90
Source:   E N F E
January 1989
0 
0.



E N F E
13PORT CORRIDORS PROJECT
Income Statcoents- Actual 1985-87, Estimto e1998,Forcast 1989-96
In Constnt Oct. Im8 Solivisnos In Thoeund6
1,96.0  I,988.0  1,987.0  ,901,98.0  1,990.0  1,991.0  1,992.0  1,993.0  1,9S4.0  1,965.0
Operating Revenues
Passengers                             S,806    4,065    7,02S    6,031              e,099    8,843    8,6s0    8,6se     7,135    7,420    7,71?
Froight a Parcels                     2?,440   23,346   4s,017   35,667             43,780   46,956  48,284   60,782   63,489   68,38s   69,507
Other                                  2,004      9S0      see    1,690              1,432    1,601    1,7S    1,et      1,739    1,831    1,029
Total     A                         as,260   28,840   53,606   43,178             61,311   53,799   68,4S6   69,296   62,343   SS,620   69,1U8
Operating Costs.
Staff Csts                            19,768    9,321   18,909   17,946             20,198   20,41S   20,852   20,908   21,188   21,496   21,M33
Fuel & Lubricant                         743    2,328    4,226    4,893              4,178    4,92    4,627    4,880    6,164    6,451    5,n7a
Matorilss                              1,269    2,495   10,424    6,18S              6,968    7,762    6,6g6    9,318   10,101   10,88s   11,669
Contractors                              68s      620    2,4U4   2,607               2,829    2,858    2,891    2,927    2,968    3,009    3,05G
Interchangc                            1,940    1,166    1,960        0              1,682    1,783    1,839    2,003    2,128    2,264    2,414
Taxes etc. (IVA)                                1,134    4,117    2,526              4,098    4,262    4,443    4,842    4,361    6,103    6,370
Insurance                                           9      355      364                700      766      888      900       967      967      967
Other                                  1,768      312    2,038    1,889              1,496    1,568    1,i83    1,876    1,738    1,804    1,B73 '1
Total Working Costs      B          26,212   17,874   42,618   86,26e             42,143   43,781   45,483   47,2S3   49,103   50,979   52,956   0
Depreciation                              49    8,734    9,401    8,848              7,08    ?,788    8,823    9,360    9,686   9,618    9,209
Total Operating Costa   C           25,261   24,106   51,914   42,108             49,198   61,610   64,806   68,613   68,619   60,406 K   2,164
Wet Working Rev.   DsA-4                10,038   10,966   10,995    7,920              9,168   10,01   10,972   12,043   13,240   14,641   16,298
Net Oper. Rev./(Loss)   E=A-C            9,989    4,232    1,594    1,072              2,116    2,280    2,249    2,883    8,724    5,125    6,9c9
Net Non-Operat. Rev.   F                   320      488      77s       726               730      730       780      730      730      780       730
Met Rev. 0efore Interest   a            10,309    4,700    2,389    1,797              2,946    3,010    2,079    8,413    4;464    5,866    7,719
Interest Charges   F                     6,192    3,891    1,486        0                671    1,385    1,972    2,276    2,223    1,997    1,771
Wet Surplus/(D(ficit)  IzG-F             4,117    1,300      684    1,797              2,274    1,625      907    1,138    2,281    3,868    6,943
Significant Ratio:
Working   I   (A/0)                                  61      7n        82                 82       el       61        so       79       76       ?7
Operating Ratio   S   (A/C)                          86       9?       98                 96       96       go        9S       94       92       90
Source:  E N F E
January 1989
'ft



E N f E
WXORT CORRIDORS PROJECT
Income Statements- Actual 1986-87, Estimate 1988,Forecost 1989-96
In Constant Oct. 198 Bolivian** In Thousands
1985     198      i987      18m                1989      1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1996
Operating Revenues
Passongers                              5,208    6,912    7,667    6,022                7,236    7,361    7,529    7,679    7,633    7,989    8,149
Freight & Parcels                      47,410   29,066   53,863   42,928              66,915   58,699   60,639   62,437   63,860   66,335   ee,883
Other                                   1,400    1,296    1,146    2,304               2,970    3,060    8,162    3,246    3,319    3,396    3,474
Total     A                          64,018   36,264   62,166   52,064              67,121   69,140   71,220   73,362   75,012   76,719   78,616
Operating Costs
Statf  Costs                           28,696   16,118   29,042   30,674              87,086   37,16?   37,302   87,442   37,538   37,636   37,740
Fuel & Lubricent                        4,863    4,342    6,089    6,610               6,787    5,905    6,077    6,256    6,383    6,Sle    6,660
materials                               1,782    3,661    8,948    4,398               6,017    6,185    5,254    5,373    6,492    5,611    6,729
Centractors                               160       169    1,070      270                288       298       812      328       345      862      330
Interchange                             2,983    1,228    1,876          0               650       671      692       716       738      762      787
Taxes etc. (IVA)                                     49    8,620    8,918              6,119    6,810    6,506    6,709    6,863    7,028    7,191
Insuronce                                        1,212    1,460        152               689       748      876    1,024    1,198    1,401    1,640
Other                                   6,295      671    1,186    1,882               1,606    1,620    1,684    1,649    1,660    1,672    1,664
Total Working Costs       9          44,768   27,260   62,629   46,704              67,066   67,054   68,662   59,49K   60,217   60,984   61,811
Depreciation                              127    2,696    7,608    6,875               7,789    8,444    9,346    9,690    9,764    9,646    9,00E
lotal Operating Costs   C            44,896   29,946   60,287   63,679              64,826   66,298   67,998   69,188   69,971   70,629   70,816
Not Working Rev.  D=A-B                   9,250    9,014    9,587    5,850               10,086   11,286   12,668   13,867   14,796   16,736   16,706
Het Opr. Rev./(Loss)   ExA-C              9,128    6,318    1,929   (1,626)               2,296    2,842    3,222    4,174    6,041    6,190    7,700
Het Non-Operat. Rev.   F                  1,869    1,174    1,188        851                860      8o6       8S0      660       860      860       nO
Net Rev. Befor, Interest   G             10,492    7,492    8,117       (674)            8,1je    8,702    4,062    6,034    5,901    7,050    8,560
Interest Chargs   F                       7,886    6,617    1,685          0             2,172    3,496    4,527    5,148    4,966    4,624    4,033
Net Surplus/(Deficit)  I G-F              2,606       875    1,432      (674)               984      207      (446)    (1)4)      940    2,S26    4,527
Significant Ratior
Working   I   (A/B)                          83        76       85        90                 85       64        62       61        80       79        79
Operating Ratio   %   (A/C)                  83        83       97       103                97        96        96       94        93       92       90
Source:   E N F E
January 1989                                                                                                                                     "
a ft s



- 52 -
MOX 7
eN F e                                                     Table;
EXCT8T CllRRIOOR! PROJET                                           Consolidated
Fund Flow Statemet, Actual 1965-  19i7, EstImate 1988, Forecest 1981-1995
In Constant Oct. 1988 Boliviano. In 7lhuaands
Applicat;on Of Fund,                      1,905.0    1981    1987    19t8    1989    1990    1991    1992   1.993   1,994 1,99S)0
Investment:
E.port Corridor Projest                                                         9.200.0 17.99.0 9,200.0
Other:
t1FE'   Own InveCt. t TCN              3.126  10.242   5.995  12,576   9,258   s,500   8.000  10.000  12,500  12.800  12.500
Other(RIC.KfW.Arg.etc)                     0   1.558  28.290   6.7-3  3S,bW5  29.579  10.976
Sub Totl                             3,126  16.00  34.292  19.334  43,515   47.279  35.375  19.200  12.500  12,50   12,500
0Obt Service Charges
Interests                             10.369  10.008   S,170             2.643   5.065   6,798   8.052   7,869   7.125   6.348
Lown Repayment                        11,40S   5.068   1.176                      2,158   2.158   2,312   7.015   8.727   9.523
Sut Total                           2.7M   15.078   ',346              2.,43   7.223   8MM56   10,364   14,854  15.852  15.871
Iner. Workg. Cap. Excl. Cash             2.123  26.182  83.201   1,761   2,430   2.272        782   1,923      636     921   2.301
Other                                    1,820                     2,693   2,460   2,460   2.480   2.476   2,476   2.476   2,476
Soci-l Benefits                            227      730     560   2,361   2.915   3,000   3,100   3.750   3.900   *,400   4.90)
Sub Total                            8.670  26.912  3S.761   5,815   7,813   7.732   6,342   8,149   7.012   7.797   9,737
Total Application                       28,660  58.788  75.400  26.149  S4,014  62,234  51,673  37.713  34,366  36.149  30.100
Sources Or Funds
Net Woriking Revenue                    19,288   19,900  20.,52   18,270   19,203  21.304  23.540  25,910  28,035  30,316  32,903
14it Non-Operating Revenu.s              1.699   1,642   1,983   1,576   1.590   1,590   1,590   1.s90    1,500   1,50    1,590
Sub Total                           20,987  21.622  22.495  14.846  20,793  22.894  25.130  27.500  29,625  31,9S6  34,493
Longterm Loans
Evport Corridor Project                                                           7,165  14.329   7.165
On-going Projects                      1,150  12.885  34.779   6.7s8  34.299  29.579  10,976
Oovt. TON                             10.929   5,147   1.849
Sub Total                             12,079  18.032  3,628   6.7t58  34.299  36,744  25.305   7,165
Soc. Senefita a other                  5.7S9  15.337   11,188   1,400   2.006   2,006   2,006   2.006   2.006   2.006   2,004
TotAl Soure.S                           o8.825  58,829  t4,702  24,397  58,101  62.647  53.444  37.694  32.654  34,99S  37.5-2
Cash
At lh. 8oegnging Of The Yes.                                       2.788   1,031   5,118   5.531   7,302   7,283   5.571   4,417
At the End Of The Year                                             1.031   5,110   t.5U1   7,302   7.283   5,571   4,417   3.831
Incr. Or ( Decr.) During Tho Year       10.257      41    (610)  (1.752)  4,087      413   1.771       (19) (1.712)  (1,154)   (586)
Souree e N F E
January. 1989



- 53 -
E i F E
EXPORT CiRRWOR  PROJECT                                              NEX 7
Fund Flow Sttement, Actul 1985-  17, Estiate 1988, Forecet 1989-1993                Table 5
In Constant Oct. 1988 Bolli inca In Thou.nds                                Ematern Networlk
Aplcatlon Of Funds                       1,985.0    1986    1967    198i    1989    1990    1491    1992   1,993   1,094   1,995
Investeuitei
Export Corridor Project                                                          7r501  14,001   7501
Other:
EWE,& Own Inv..asmt A TON              1,491   3,522   4,954  4*756   4,737   4,500   4,000   5,0O   7,500   8.0000   8.000
Oth*r(RIC,KfVAre.)                              6.558   11.649   6,7e8   9,052   8.678
Sub Total                             1.491  10.080  16. 603  11,51S  1.789  20.879  16,001  13,001   7.500   8.000   6.000
Debt Service Charges
Interest.                              3.287    1.'891   1.485             500   1.541   2,270   2,904   2.884   2.601   2.315
Loan R"qyments                         3.128   1 689      S34                       S78     378      767   3,082   3.082   3.082
Sub Total                            6.415    ,080   2,019         0     5OO   1,919   2,648   3,671   5,96   5,683   5.397
Incr. Worlg. Cop. ExcI. Cnsb e.218   9.247  15,534   2,117   1,520   1.511                    112     SO       1"      771   1,549
Otl*r                                    1.320                     2,693     609      609     609      62S     825      82S     825
Socirl en*f It                              86      780     560      307     015      900   1.000   1,6S0    1,800   2,300   2,80"
Sub Total                            4,639   0,977  16.094   5.117   8.144   3,220   1.921   2.978   2,769   3.898   5,174
Total Application                       12,S95  25.137  34,716  16,633  17.43S  26,018  22.570  19. 650  16.235  17.579  18,571
Sources Of Fund-
Nnt Working Revenues                    10.038  10.966   10,95S   7.920   9,168  10.018  10.972  12.043  13,240  14,641  16,198
Not Nlon-Operating Re.nue                  320      468     775      725     780      730     730      730     730      730     730
Sub Total                            10,58  11,434  11.770   8.645   9,898   10,748  11,702  12.773   13.970  15,371  16,928
Longterm Loon.
Export Corridor Project     IDA                                                   5,600   11,6O0   Sp800
On-going Projects                               0,192  15,888   6.758   9.052   8.678
Goat. TON                              4.070      879   1,849
Sub Total                              4.070   9,071  17.735   6,758   9.052  14.678  11.600   5.600           0        0       0
Soc.lSensfits A Other                    3.308   3.8W8   4,471   1,893   1.003   1,003   1.003   1.023   1,023   1,023   1,023
Total Sources                           17,786  24,343  83,976  16.798  19,953  26,429  24,305  19,596  14,993  16,394  17,9S1
At The 8eginning Of The Year                                         28      191   2,711   3,122   4.857   4,e03   3.561   2,376
At the End Of The Year                                               191   2,711   3,122   4,857   4,003   3,561   2.376   1,756
lncr. Or ( Decr.) During The Year        5,141    (794)   (740)    163   2,520       411   1,735       (54)  (1,242)  (1.185)   (620)
Soure ! E N F E
January 1969



- 54 -
ANEX 7
ENF E                                                        Table 6
ExPoRT CORRIDORS PROJECT                                              Western NHetwrlk
Fund Flow Stete.nt, Actual 1985 - 1987, E;tilat 1988, Foreca.t 1989-1995
In Constant Oct. 1988 8.6iviefk. In Thousands
Application Of Funds                        1,985.0    1966    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1,003    1,994  1,995.0
Inveat_ents
Esport Core*dor Pro).                                                               1.699   3.398    1,699
Othoer
8E's Owan Invest. & TOR                  1.635   6,720    1,041    7.816   4,521    4.000   4.000   4,500    5,000   4,500   4,5Y
Other (RIC,Kf.Arg.etc.)                                  16,649            25,246  20,701   10,976
Sub Tott                               1.635   6,720   17.690   7,016   29.769  26,400   18.374   f,199    5,000   4,500   4,500
Debt Servlce Charges
Interests                               7,062   6,617   1.68S              2.143   3.524   4.528    5,148    4,955   4,524   4,033
Loan Repayents                           8,27S   3.379      642                      1,780    1.760    1.545    3.933   S.645   6,441
Sub Total                             15.357    9.996   2.327             2,143    5.304    6.300    6,69.3   8,688   10,169   10,474
Incr. Worhg. Cao. Enl. Cash               (1.160)  16.935  20.667    (856)    918       761      670    1,42Q     492      5SO      812
Ott-r                                                                         1.651    1.651    1.651    1.651    1,651   1,651    J,Cn'
Social Oenotita                              141                     2,054   2.100   2.100   2,10"    2,109   2,100   2.100   2 ly'
Sub Total                             (1.019)  16,938  20,667   1,698    4,669    4,512    4,421    5,171    4,243   3.901    4,563
Total Appliestlon                         15,973  33,651  40,684   9.516  36,s51  36,216   29,103   19.06S   16,131   18.570  19,311
ource- Of Funds
Not Working Revenuoe,                      9,250   9.014    9.537   5.350   10.035   11,286   12.56e   13,867   14.795   15,735   16,705
hit Non-fOerating Revonue.                 1.379    1.174    1,188     851     860      3S0      eR       860      86n     860    R5l
Sub Total                             10.629   10,188   10.725   6,201   108'S   12.146  13.428  14,727   15.655   16.595  17,5fi
Lontarm Loans
EXport Corredor IDA                                                                  1.365    2,729    1.365
On-going Project(RIC,kfW.Arq.etc)        1.150    4,e93   16.693           25.247   20,701   10.978
t - TO;                                  6,859   4.269
Sub Total                             86009   6.961   16.689             25.247  22,066   13.705    1.365
Soc. 8enefIts A Othbrs                     2,451   15,337   11,168    1.400    2,006    2,006   2,006    2.006   2,006   2,006   2,rfm)
Tutsl Sources                             21.089  34,486   40,806   7,601   36,148   36,218   29,139   18.098   17,661   16,601   19.571
#:Gob
At The b'ginning Of Thl Year                                         2,75S     840   2,407    2,4")   2.445   2.4eu   2,010   2,t41
At the End Of Th. Your                                                 840   2,407    2,409    2.445   2.480    2,010   2,041   2.0nS
Incr. Or t Oecr.) During The Year         5.116      835      122  (1,915)   1.667        2       !A       35    (470)      31       14
rource9 :FE
January 1989



EN F E
EXPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Balance Sheets, Actual 1985-87, Esti mate 1988, Forecast 1989-96
In Constant Oct. 1988 Bolivianos In Thousands
1986     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995
ASSETS
Crocs Fixed Assots         1,689,334  424,495  806,848  637,403  580,655  607,056  626,430  637,670  863,029  674,117  s83,082
.ess Accum. Deprec.             2,072  101,628  169,495  153,120  167,562  183,734  201,903  220,956  232,498  243,812  254,287
Not Fixed Assets           1,860,406  526,123  765,343  890,623  748,207  790,789  827,833  8s8,626  895,517  917,929  937,349
Current Assets
Cash & Bank                   7,250    1,798    1,722    1,807    4,262    4,354    4,480    4,671    4,887    4,804    4,927
Aects. Receivable            18,999   11,522   23,888   6,8,9      28,646   30,199   31,238   32,977   35,006   37,820   40,172
Inventory                     6,172   18,138   38,696   46,078   60,868   62,046   58,361   64,319   54,668  SS,106   66,597
Sub-Total                   37,097   33,114   72,949   58,979   84,236   90,428   93,026   95,366   98,364  102,214  106,744
Othor Assets                   6,678   14,051   49,431   46,902   48,779   83,167   74,188  79,869   80,189   81,582   86,637
Differred Assots               862,573  164,677  251,976  222,964  179,618  157,010  146,138  141,38S  120,766  113,249  110,022
Totel Assets             2,353,610  534,709  820,709  712,148  725,787  733,928  736,867  733,114  729,819  727,350  732,178                         1
Liabilities
Current Liabilities          109,825   24,903   32,641   21,837   33,980   32,060   30,820   29,583   28,117   26,908   25,717
Provisions                    84,279   20,909   44,804   39,296   41,868   39,602   88,880   36,108   34,669   31,395   31,091
Long Term Debts              663,777  162,406  280,414  265,837  247,100  257,551  281,874  262,168  267,562  253,182  249,028
Other Debts                       288    9,847   11,019       202       202      202       202      202       202      202       202
Capital                    1,613,491  826,644  461,831  399,178  402,789  404,621  405,081  406,105  409,279  415,663  426,140
Total Liabilities        2,362,610  634,709  820,709  712,148  725,737  733,926  736,867  733,114  729,819  727,360  732,178
Liquid Ratio                     0.3       0.6       1.0      0.6       1.0      1.2       1.3      1.4       1.8      1.8       1.9
Debt Equity Ratio                     32/68    38/62    39/61    38/82    39/81    39/61    39/61    39/61    38/62    37/63
Source   E N F E
January 1989
Ia 1Q
Pt



E N F E
EXPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Balance Sheets, Actual 1985-87, Estimate 1988, Forecast 1989-96
In Constant Oct. 1988 Bolivlanos In Thousands
1985     1988     1987      1988     19       1990      1991     1992     1993      1994     1995
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets           773,574  197,620  278,791  244,779  261,162  266,162  289,182  279,703  286,703  293,291  297,736
Less Accum. Deprec.              738   33,683   56,841   56,362   63,405   71,143   79,966   89,326   98,842  108,358  117,667
Net Fixed Assets             772,836  163,937  222,150  188,427  197,757  194,019  189,196  190,378  187,8e1  184,93a  180,169
Current Assets
Cash k Bank                   6,744    1,292    1,216    1,301    3,748    3,848    3,964    4,066    4,181    4,298    4,421
Acets. Receivable             8,088    2,268    2,130    8,192    3,340    3,203    2,826    2,011    1,842    2,102    2,181
Inventory                     4,037    6,702   24,093   19,980   22,689   23,948   26,264   26,222   26,469   27,009   2e,600
Sub-Total                   13,847   10,262   27,489   24,478   29,655   30,999   81,533   82,298   32,482   33,40e   35,052
Other Assets                   2,660   10,301   26,867   32,090   89,123   68,601   64,602   70,003   70,603   71,916   76,971
Differred Assets              214,409   62,194  s8,ao3   78,909   67,200   54,808   62,686   46,984   48,892   42,669   41,798
Total Assets             1,003,742  236,894  884,759  823,899  323,786  383,127  837,888  338,643  384,738  a82,826  833,990
Liabilities
Current Liabilities           43,778    8,3865   18,16    8,699    9,916    9,s46    9,982   10,114   10,038   10,076   10,047
Provisions                    19,416    6,420   18,810   17,162   18,240   16,827   16,019   14,213   12,782   11,33s   10,734
Long Term Debts              180,239   62,901  107,779  100,9S6   98,219  10e,670  110,993  111,287  106,881  102,301   96,147
Other Debts                       94    1,986
Capital                      780,216  167,073  228,854  197,092  199,380  200,984  201,892  208,029  206,27  209,114  216,062
Total Liabilities        1,003,742  238,694  364,769  823,699  323,786  883,127  837,888  838,843  334,788  332,828  333,990
Liquid Ratio                     0.2      0.4       0.2      0.5      0.7       0.7      0.6       0.8      0.6      0.8       0.7
Debt Equity Ratio                    24/f76    32/88    24/76    32/68    84/86    36/86    36/86    34/68    38/67    31/69
Source   E N F E
January 1989
rt A
0ll
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



E N F E
EXPORT CORRIDOR PROJECT
Balance Sheets, Actual 1985-87, Estimate 1988, Forecast 1989-96
In Constant Oct. 1988 Bolivianos In Thousands
1986     1988     1987     1988     1989     1990     1991     19        1993     1994     199S
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets          885,780  226,975  327,067  292,624  319,493  841,893  36B,288  857,967  378,326  880,826  385,326
Less Accum. Deprec.             834   67,945  102,854   96,788  104,147  112,591  121,987  131,831  133,646  135,464  136,720
Net Fixed Assets            886,426  158,980  224,203  1956,16   216,348  229,302  234,331  228,338  242,680  246,372  248,606
Current Assets
Cash & Bank                  5,182    2,162    9,200    4,802    1,278    4,838    4,483    4,006    4,611    5,190    5,554
Accts. Receivable           16,933    9,264   21,708    3,806   25,206   28,998   28,913   30,98   383,184   35,519   38,041
Inventory                    2,136   11,438   14,602   28,098   28,097   28,097   28,097   28,097   28,097   26,097   28,097
Sub-Total                  23,250   22,et2   45,510   34,506   54,681   59,429   61,493  83,069   86,872   88,806   71,892
Other Assets                  3,028    3,750   22,564   13,812    9,856    9,8e8    9,86    9,6s6   9,888    9,888    9,888
Differred Assets             438,184  112,483  183,673  144,076  122,419  102,402   93,601   96,401   76,883   70,880   88,224
Total Assets            1,349,988  298,015  465,950  388,249  402,002  400,799  898,99   394,471  895,0S8   894,s24  398,198
LiabilitiosI
Current Liabilities          88,047   18,538   15,825   12,938   24,084   22,404   20,858   19,419   18,079   16,832   15,670
Provisions                   44,8s8   14,489   11,494   22,144   23,428   28,876   23,881   20,893   21,897   20,080   20,367
Long Term Debts             388,538   99,506  172,836  150,881  150,881  150,881  150,881  150,881  150,988  150,881  150,881
Other Debts                     144    7,912   11,019       202      202      202      202      202      202       202      202
Capital                     853,276  159,571  224,977  202,0e4  208,429  208,637  203,189  203,070  204,022  206,549  211,078
Total Liabilities       1,347,688  299,015  455,950  388,249  402,002  400,799  398,991  394,471  395,091  394,524  398,188
Liquid Ratio                    0.3      0.7      1.9       0.8      1.1      1.3      1.6      1.8      2.0      2.4       2.8
Debt Equity Ratio         81/69     38/62    43/57    43/67    43/67    43/67    48/57    48/67    42/68    42/58    41/59
Source   E N F E
January 1989
%O %J



- 58 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENFE
IN RAILWAY MNMOEMENT AND MARKETING
iserms of Reference
1.       It is proposed to provide assistance in three phases.  The first
phsse, beginning in February 1989 and financed under IDA's Second
Reconstruction Import Credit, will provide a detailed diagnosis of the
current management problem of the railway, together with proposals for
remedying them. In the second phase, a team of railway operators and
managers, with experience relevant to the task cf converting a production-
based railway into a market-oriented one, will provide direct managerial
assistance to the railway for a transitional period of about three years.
During this period, members of the ex-patriate team will be assigned to
assist specific senior managers in the performance of their tasks. By the
end of the period, the local management would have gradually resumed full
operational and managerial responsibility.
2.       The specific objectives of the assistance to be provided under the
project is to help ENFE:
(i) to Implement the recommendations of the Diagnostic Study, as
mended or revised by MTC; and
(ii) to achieve its corporate objectives as defined in the corporate
plan and performance agreement (lacuerdo programa") to be
established between ENFE and MTC.
3.       The consultant will provide technical assistance to ENFE in all
aspects of its operations, including the following:
(a) operations and management;
(b) maintenance of equipment;
(c) maintenance of track and structures;
(d) marketing;
(e) cost accounting and pricing;
(f) purchasing and stores;
(g) economic and financial planning and budgeting;
(h) operating rules (radio procedures);
(i) management information system (operational, statistical and
financial); and
(j) office supervisor.
4.       Although the distribution of the consultant's effort is a matter
for the consultant, the following allocation of the proposed 200 man-months



- 59 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
is provided as a guide as to what is considered necessary. The results of
the Diagnostic Study will be available to sssist consultants in preparing
their proposals. The work program proposed presupposes that each
specialist will spend two periods in Bolivia, the first to define and start
the implementation of the changes to be mede and the second to monitor
progress and implement any further measures necessary to achievo the
railway's corporate objectives.
(a) Operation and Management - 30 man-months
This will be the senior member of the team, who will co-ordinate
the activities of the others. He will advise on management structural
changes and work with senior management to effect the changes proposed.
He will also advise on train main line and yard operations, train
formations, service levels, crew size, station staffing, dispatching
strategies, empty car management and locomotive control.
(b) Maintenance of Equipment - 24 man-months
The major emphasis will be on maintenance of locomotives --
scheduling, standards, quality, parts supply, facilities, work methods,
staffing and training-- but will also include similar aspects of freight
and passenger rolling stock.
(c) Maintenance of Track and Structures - 24 man-months
The expert will advise on the maintenance standards of track and
other infrastructure works, maintenance staffing levels and practices,
strategies for cost reduction and more effective work methods. He will
also review and advise on signalling and communication equipment standards
and maintenance.
(d) Marketing - 18 man-months
The marketing consultant will review and advise on techniques to
improve strategies to increase revenue generation. In conjunction with the
Operations Specialist, he will review services offered and institute
changes in service levels, equipment assigned and advise on the use of
containers.
(e) Accounting. Costing and Pricing - 18 man-months
The consultant will improve the accounting practices to ensure
accuracy and ability to do costing of services performed and to allow
reliable decisions in the application of rates and fares. He will also
review the computer practices and ensure that modern procedures are being
used and that optimum use of computer facilities is practised.



- 60 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
(f)   Purchasing and Stores - 18 man-months
The consultant will install a stores management system which will
allow accurate forecasts of inventory with correct lead times for
purchases, and provide sufficient training to ensure a working system.
(g)   Economic and Financial Planning and Budgeting - 18 man-months
The consultant will train the incumbents in modern practices, so
that sufficient analysis is carried out to fully inform management to
prioritize its decisions.
(h) Operating Rules (Radio Procedures) - 6 man-months
The consultant will institute training in all departments
connected with train operation to apply modern and safe radio procedures,
to minimize possibilities of comaunications errors.
(i)   Management Information System - 18 man-months
The consultant will design a system which will economically inform
management of operating and financial statistics, to allow decisions to be
taken in a timely manne.:.
(j)   Office Supervisor - 30 man-months
It is recommended that the consultant supply an office
coordinator.



- 61 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT (ACUERDO MROGRAMA-) BENEEN HTC AND EME
MAIN FUATURES
ENFE Responsibilities
1.       Basic Obiective:  ENFE to become more efficient and competitive
with other transport modes and financially self-sufficient. ENFE should
produce a corporate plan, to be agreed with MTC, which will $orm the basis
of the agreement.
2.       Management:  ENFE to propose changes to its management structure
which will increase its ability to operate as a commercial railway. These
proposals will be compatible with the recommendations of the Diagnostic
Study and any other consultant studies to be undertaken in 1989.
3.       Corporate Plan:  ENFE to produce a corporate plan, indicating:
(i) traffic and revenue projections;
(ii) operating plans, including principal operating parameters and
statistics and detailed operating costs;
(iii) investment proposals; and
(iv) full financial projections.
4.       Financial Obiectives:  ENFE to ensure that it achieves the rate of
return on fixed investment, working and operating ratios indicated in the
agreed corporate plan. ENFE should revalue its assets on an annual basis
using accepted price indexes and at periodic intervals using current value
methods.
5.       Revenues:  ENFE to ensure that its revenues from freight and
passenger services and other sources will be sufficient to cover total
operating costs, including amortization and interest charges and a
substantial contribution to investments. Other sources of revenue may
include contracts with the Government for the provision of non-commercial
services which the Government requires to be operated, and for the
operation of other services at rates or fares lower than ENFE would
require.
6.       Manpower:  ENFE to determine its labor requirements on the basis
of operational requirements. If the Government requires that more staff be
employed, the costs of these additional staff should be the responsibility
of the Government. ENFE to control wage increases in line with government
policy for private industry.
7.       Services:  ENFE to promote the provision of services to clients on
a contractual basis. An important contract will be that with the
Government for the provision of non-commercial services.



- 62 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
8.       Investments:  ENFE only to undertake investments which will
improve the financial position of the railway. The corporate plan will
include financial appraisals of all investment proposals having a total
cost of more than US$10,000.
9.       Debt Limitations  ENFE to refrain from undertaking additional
loans to those already committed unless the projected net working revenue
is at least 1.7 times the total debt obligation in the year.
10.      Penalties:  Should ENFE fail to achieve the financial projections
for 1990 included in the agreed corporate plan, the plan will be revised
for 1991. The revisions will include such reductions in railway operations
and investmento as &re necessary to produce a projected compliance with the
agreed financial objectives.
11.      Reports:  ENFE should prepare periodic reports for the MTC so that
compliance with the financial and operational targets can be monitored and
necessary remedial action agreed should it appear that the targets are not
being met.
Government Responsibilities
12.      The Government will eliminate all operational and investment
subsidies to the railway and not interfere in the day-to-day operations of
the railway. The Government will allow ENFE autonomy to achieve the
financial and operational objectives indicated in the corporate plan.
13.      The Government will supervise the implementation of agreed changes
In the management structure of EWE.
14.      The agreed corporate plan will include proposed freight tariffs
and passenger fares. Proposed changes to these agreed rates will be
submitted to MTC for approval. Approval will only be denied should there
be evidence of monopoly pricing. Approval will be automatic after 30 days
without comment from MTC.
15.      The Government will enter into contracts with ENFE for the
provision of any services which ENFE would not operate on a commercial
basis. Contracts will also be agreed for the transport of freight or
passengers at rates below those which would allow a full cost-recovery by
WNE.
16.      The Government will accept financial responsibility for any
requirement of ENFE to employ more staff than is necessary to operate the
railway.
17.      The Government will monitor ENFE's compliance with financial and
oporational objectives and instruct ENFE to take such remedial action as is
necessary, should it appear that the objectives are not being met.



- 63 -
LABOR-IITEISIVE MAINTE M-CE AND DRUMAGE ORKS
TENTATIVE LIST OW SUBPROJECTS
Estlmated
SPonsorinQ       Cost
Subproiect Name                               Anency        (US$000)
Improvement Concepcion-P. Quijarro road          Iclhilo Munic.    210
Improvement Tupiza-Villazon road                 SNC                135
Maintenance Cochuingenio-Vitichi                 SNC                209
Maintenance East Sec. Sta Cruz-P.Quijarro line   ENFE               127
Maintenance South Sec. Sta Cruz-Yacuiba line     ENFE                58
Improvement Parquipugio-Catacora road            SNC                106
Improvement Capiri-Central Chama road            SNC                95
Improvement Berenguela-iio Maure                 SIC                145
Improvement Rio Maure-Charana road               SNC                141
Improvement Central Chama-S.D. Machaca road      SNC                155
Improvement Toledo-Turco road                    CORDEOR             76
Improvement Tarija-Berulejo road                 SNC               279*
Improvement Tarija-Camargo road                  SNC               293*
Maintenance Sta Cruz-P.Quijarro line (Km 6-56)   EIFE               179
Maintenance Sta Cruz-Yacuiba line (Km 447-497)   ENFE               247
Improvement Catacora-Hito 4 road                 SNC                130
Improvement Chaguaya-Escomsa road                SNC                66
Improvement Potosi-Puente Mendes road            SNC               '89
Improvement Machacamarca-Tolapalea road          SNC                140
Improvement Oruro-ConfUtal road                  SNC                48
Improvement Quillacollo-Confital road            SNC                125
Improvement Humacha-Cho3napata road              SNC                142
Improvement Cochabamba-Comarapa road             SNC                196
Improvement Bermejo-Trementinal road             SvC               212
Improvement San Andres M.-Santiago M. road       SNC                100
Improvement Santiago M.-Berenguela road          SNC                100
Total, 26 subprojects                                             3,904
* Eligible for LCB (over US$250,000)



- 64 -
ANNEX 11
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR N.T.C.
IN PLANNING AND POLICY ANALYSIS
Terms of Reference
(A full text in Spanish has been furnished by MTC.)
The proposed assistance to the Ministry of Transport's
Subsecretariat for Planning will take the form of seven studies:
Man-months
Local Intern. Total
1. Organization of the MTC, including
management information systems                    9       3      12
2. Establishing priorities and funding
sources for identified transport investments    15       3       18
3. Setting up a transport data base and
issuing a yearbook of transport statistics       11      -       11
4. Operating and investment requirements
of the La Pasz-Cochabamba-Santa Cruz
transport corridor (all modes)                   21      15      36
5. Preinvestment studies for transport
investments to be identified                     20      5       25
6.  Revision of road design standards                 6       2       8
(in close collaboration with SNC)
7.  Setting up an axle-load control system            8       2      10
Total                                            90     30      120
Cost Estimates
Local consultants               90 m/m  @ US$2,700 a US$243,000
International consultants       30           9,000      270.000
Total                                       US$513,000



- 65 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
ICOU.ARGING USE OF CONTAINERS
(TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO INPCX)
Terms of Reference
1.   Objectives:  The purpose of the assistance is to identify obstacles
discouraging greater use of containers in Bolivia, and to formulate a
strategy for promoting their use.
2.   Responsibilities:  The work plan for the study should begin with a
diagnostic phase, covering (but not limited to):
- traffic flows, containerized and containerisable
- present container movements (stressing delays in returning
and their costs to users)
- in-land warehouses and consolidation/deconsolidation depots
- legislation and institutional aspects
- costs and forms of pricing
- telecommunications
-  documentation
- insurance
- banking
3.       As a second phase, the expert should develop a strategy for
promoting container use, covering (but not limited to):
- possible container users
- refrigerated containers
- consolidation and deconsolidation services
- "dry ports' (in-land container terminals), their
characteristics, design, ownership and rental options
-  ancillary services (customs clearance, insurance, banking,
etc.)
- costs of each service
- management of each service
- information requirements (computerized systems)
- telecommunications
-  standardized documentation
- marketing ant publicity campaigns
- possibility of constructing containers in Bolivia:
technological requirements
- technical assistance needed
- training needed
4.       The consultants should also identify and evaluate concrete
business contacts, both inside and outside Bolivia, for possible joint-
venture investments in this area.



- 66 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
5.       Expected Results:   Draft final report after three months on the
diagnosis and recommended strategy, including prospects for public and
private investments in this areag final report one month after receipt of
the Government's comments on the draft.
6.       Duration of Assianment:  One international expert for 2 months
with expertise in freight consolidation iperations and international joint
ventures; one national expert in container marketing for 2 months; one
national expert in relevant legislation; and one national expert in
intermodal transport for 2 months.
7.       Qualifications and Ex2erience Requireds  Expertise in intermodal
transportation, with at least three years of practical experience in the
movement of containers and the operation of in-land multi-user freight
terminals, stuffing and unstuffing of containers, and related services.
Understanding of legislation and institutional aspects.
8.       Counterpart Aftenciess  The experts will be attached to the
National Institute for Export Promotion (Instituto Nacional de Promocion de
Exportaciones - INPEX) and work closely with AADAA (Administracion Autonoma
de Almacenes Aduaneras) and operators of intermodal transport services.



- 67 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 3
FACILITATING AIRTREIGET FOR BOLIVIAN EXPORTS
(TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO INPFE)
Terms of Reference
Obiectives
1.       The Government of Bolivia attaches great importance to the
promotion of exports, both traditional and non-traditional. In view of the
difficulties inherent in surface transportation to and from Bolivia, it
wishes to develop to the maximum the use of airfreight, taking advantage of
the high-standard international airport at Santa Cruz as well as those of
La Paz and Cochabamba (for which a new, safer runway is now under
construction). Bolivia is, however, currently bandicapped by the fact that
none of the airlines presently serving Bolivia use wide-body aircraft. The
purpose of this study is to identify impediments to expansion of airfreight
and advise the Government on measures it can take to encourage and assist
private exporters and transport operators to penetrate promising markets,
develop consolidation facilities at or near the airports as well as
suitable packing arrangements, and negotiate transport contracts with
Bolivian and international airlines, including such exchanges of operating
rights as would facilitate use of wide-body planes. Simplification of
documentation procedures may also be among the recommendations.
Responsibilities
2.       The consultant is required to:
(a) analyse the markets in North America, Europe, Brazil and elsewhere
for Bolivian products that, by virtue of unique characteristics or
high value-to-weight ratios, could be exported profitably by air,
and idettify promising opportunities;
(b) analyse freight rates currently being charged by airlines serving
Bolivia for the above products (the largest aircraft normally
being the Boeing 727), and rates being charged elsewhere in South
America using wide-body aircraft, with attention to the impact of
aircraft size, shipment size, frequency of shipping and routing on
airfreight charge per kilo;
(c) analyse the current costs and quality of production, surface
transport, handling, packing and storage for these goods within
Bolivia;
(d) identify the main factors deterring international airlines from
operating wide-body planes into Bolivia;



ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 3
(e) on the basis of the above analysis, make preliminary forecasts of
aggregate sales volumes that could be reached by 1990 and 1995 for
those few products which appear to promise the greatest profit
potential;
(f) make recommendations to potential exporters, the city governments
and regional development corporations, among others, as to
consolidation, packing and storage facilities required at or near
the Bolivian airports;
(g) make recommendations to the Ministry of Finance and the Customs
Department, among others, on ways to simplify export documentation
and procedures;
(h) make recommendations to Lloyd Aereo Boliviano, among others, on
modifications they could make to thqwir existing aircraft and
loading equipment to make better use of available carrying
capacity;
Mi) make recommendations to the Civil Aviation Ministry on matters
relating to exchanges of operating rights with trading partner
nations, with a view to encouraging use of wide-body planes; and
Cj) make recommendations to Bolivian consulates on ways to aid
Bolivian exporters in the countries of destination.
Expected Results
3.       The consultant will submit a draft final report after three
months, and a final report within a month of receiving the Government's
comments on the draft.
Duration of Assianment
4.       One international expert for 4 months and two national experts,
one senior and the other junior, each for 4 months.
Qualifications and Experience Required
5.       The international expert should have at least three years
practical experience in fields related to air freight. The national
experts should have at least two years experience in relevant fields and
academic qualifications in commercial engineering or transport economics.
Counterpart ARencies
6.       The agency financing the study will be the Ministry of Trade,
Industry and Tourism. Management and supervision will be delegated to the
National Institute for Export Promotion ("lnstituto Nacional de Promocion



- 69 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 3
de lee Exportaciones" - INPEX), which will provide premises and support
services. The experts will work in close collaboration with Lloyd Aereo
Boliviano and the Subsecretariat for Civil Aviation.



- 70 -
ANNEX 14
RIWOKTACT ASRSSMENT
Rehabilitation of Santa Cruz-Corumba Rail Line
1.       The works proposed for the Santa Cruz-Corumba rail line are:
(a) placing ballast on parts of the track that now lack it;
(b)   applying weed-killer within the ballasted width of the track;
(c)   replacing two small bridges with stronger structures;  and
(d)   Improving drainage by excavating side drains and cross drains.
Possible issues and our approach to each are as follows.
2.       Herbicides:  None of the herbicides banned by the Bank will be
used.
3.       Quarries for ballast:  Two existing quarries adjoining the line
will be used. The Bank will review the bidding documents covering the
supply of ballast to ensure that the contractor takes all relevant
safeguards, such as to minimize erosion and intrusion on local communities
(cf. World Bank Guidelines on Environmental Issues in Transport Projects).
4.       Work camps: The bidding documents will incorporate appropriate
safeguards regarding work camps (e.g. use existing facilities and
infrastructure as far as possible so as to minimize intrusion, particularly
in areas populated by indigenous peoples, clear sites on completion, etc.).
Qualified agencies in Santa Cruz may be consulted as to the possibility of
their assisting in planning and monitoring these activities.
5.       Drainages  The proposed works will have a benign effect, insofar
as they aim to end the localized ponding effect that the line and other
earthworks have had in s.me stretches near Km 600.  This will eliminate
existing seasonal ponds which serve as breeding grounds for mosquitoes.
6.       Alianment:  No change in the alignment is contemplated.  Attention
is warranted as to whether it is advisable to encourage opening up of the
Tucavaca Valley to settlement and agriculture. In Santa Cruz there i8
considerable interest in doing so. The rail line passes across the lower
end of this valley (at about Km 500). Local rail traffic is minimal, even
though the service has operated for the past 30 years. It is intended that
ond-to-end traffic on the line should grow, while local stopping services
are trimmed back. By far the greater impulse to settlement would come from
construction of an all-weather road through the valley. This questLon
should be studied in connection with the natural gas pipeline that is now
under negotiation with Brazil, since an access road would have to be built
alongside the pipeline throughout its length.



- 71 -
ANNEX 15
PROJECT PILE - DOCMET
ENFEt               Estado de Ingresos y Gastos, Red Oriental, 1987 (12188)
SNC:               Documentos de Invitacion para los Estudios Patacamay.-
Tambo Quemado, (718187)
World Bank:         Evaluation of Alternative Transport Systems in the Santa
Cruz- Puerto Quijarro Corridor, Robin Carruthera
(Consultant), (5/30/88)
United Nations:    Sistema Integrado de Transito para Mercaderias
Bolivianas transbordadas a traves de Puerto de Aricas
Evaluacion a los 12 anos de Funcionamiento, (7/12187)
INPEXt             Report on a Mission on Institutional Aspects of Trade
Promotion, DIvision of Trade Services, International
Trade Centre UNCTADIGATT, Camilo Jaramillo (10/88)
INPEXs             Informe sobre Seminario - Taller sobre Terminales de
Transporte Multimodal, (9/16/88)
World Bank:         Estudio patz la simplificacion de recaudaciones por
concepto de peaje y otros gravamenes a vehiculos, Hector
Revuelta (Consultant), (11/88)
INPEX:             Informe sobre servicios actuales de Carga Aerea,Jorge
Iturri (12/7/88)
Presencia:         Article relating to the choice of development of the
Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado and Oruro-Pisiga roads,
(12122/88)
Bolivia Export Corridors Study: Report 7298-BO, World Bank, (6116/88)



B R A Z I L                                                                             BC
~~~who                                * R~~~~~~~A S - 'A' _                              'Wl_-R
RAILROADM                          ROAD.
to910o  t _                              --5--Undor CcnstrueHn                         Main
TO go                                                                                                      Unde,r Co. t,Lo                     Secyon_a
RdW                                                                             Ta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~trks
o     Ton,s
.      Notinal Capital
a1b             \ d ft                       1t             |n8 9 L                                                                    bt meliwouatnol b mdrn
Altiplano
Volleys
t  t  SS . U A Y tMft 
-                       1<7, ~~~ooton 1s
C H ~~~~~nnIa                                                   NL~A                                E,7                                wit Ts>"'i}{
AP*p4                             PaPili    tbfn                    o90 _7
.,  I f   \E1t            X    _*d.^                          (ARGKINA   /
konouvj  /    PARAGUAY
PARAZI
FEBRUARY



