Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16606
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
EXPORT CORRIDORS PROJECT
(CREDIT 2012-BO)
May 15, 1997
Environment and Infrastructure Division
Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
Average Exchange Rates (Bolivianos per US$)
1989 - 2.69
1990 - 3.17
1991 - 3.58
1992 - 3.89
1993 - 4.00
1994 - 4.50
1995 - 4.77
1996 - 5.07
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January' 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ENFE          National Railway Company (Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles)
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
ESF           Emergency Social Fund (Fondo Social de Emergencia)
GOB           Government of Bolivia
IDA           International Development Association
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
fNPEX         National Institute for Export Promotion (Instituto Nac. de Promoci6n de Exportaciones)
MTC           Ministry of Transport and Communication (up to August 1993)
PSO           Public Service Obligations
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SAE           Equipment Management System (Sistema de Administraci6n de Equipos)
SAM           Maintenance Management System (Sistema de Administraci6n del Mantenimiento)
SDC           Departmental Road Service (Servicio Departamental de Caminos)
SIF           Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversion Social)
SNC           National Road Agency (Servicio Nacional de Caminos)
SNTCAC        National Secretariat of Transport, Communications and Civil Aviation (from Aug. 1993)
SRMP          Second Road Maintenance Project
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Director    : Paul Isenman, LA3DR
Division Chief: Eugene McCarthy, LA3EI
Task Manager: Aurelio Menendez, LA3EI



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .......................................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................                                                                                      iii
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...........................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ..........................................                                                                 I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ..........................................                                                                          2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .......................................... 7
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..........................................                                                                            10
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ..........................................                                                                                 11
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..........................................                                                                              14
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..........................................                                                                            15
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ..........................................                                                                                 16
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..........................................                                                                              18
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..........................................                                                                           23
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..........................................                                                                     23
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................................                                                                 24
Table 3: Project Timetable ..........................................                                                                          25
Table 4: Loan Disbursement ..........................................                                                                          25
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..........................................                                                  26
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ..........................................                                                       26
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ..........................................                                                                27
Table 8A: Project Costs ..........................................                                                                             28
Table 8B: Project Financing ..........................................                                                                         29
Table 9: Economic Cost and Benefits ..........................................                                                                 30
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................                                                                 31
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Statements ..........................................                                                   35
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................                                                              35
Table 13: Bank Resources Missions ..........................................                                                                   36
Appendix A: Completion Mission's Aide Memoires ..........................................                                                      37
Appendix B: Borrower's Contributions to the ICR ..........................................                                                     53
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
EXPORT CORRIDORS PROJECT
CREDIT 2012-BO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Export Corridors Project in Bolivia,
for which Credit 2012-BO in the amount of SDR28.3 million (US$40.15 million equivalent) was approved
on May 11, 1989, and made effective on February 21, 1990.
The original closing date was June 30, 1995. The credit was extended for one year and closed on
June 30, 1996. The credit was 93.33% disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on November 15,
1996. Undisbursed funds in the amount of SDRI,888,575.48 (US$2,679,624.00 equivalent) were canceled
on November 15, 1996. Though in SDR terms the project was closed with an undisbursed amount, in US$
terms the project actually was completed with disbursements slightly above the initial US$ value of the
credit SDR amount.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Aurelio Menendez (LA3EI) and Adolfo Navarro (Consultant),
and reviewed by Messrs. Eugene McCarthy (Division Chief, LA3EI) and Robert Crown (Project Adviser,
LA3DR) of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in September 1996.
It is based on material in the project file and discussions with the Borrower's five project executing entities.
These entities contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing their respective operational plans,
providing statistical data and retrospective assessments of the project, and conducting an ex-post evaluation
of the sub-projects financed under the credit.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
EXPORT CORRIDORS PROJECT
CREDIT 2012-BO
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.   After an hiatus without operations in the transport sector due to difficult macro-economic conditions,
this project followed two previous operations (Loans 1422-BO and 1587-BO) in the transport in Bolivia,
that were initiated in 1977 and 1978, and completed in 1981 and 1986, respectively. It also followed two
sector reports on transport strategy and an analysis of export corridors. On the basis of these reports, the
project was deemed a priority to lessen the bottlenecks that transport infrastructure was posing for the
access of Bolivian imports and exports to their international trade routes.
Project objectives
ii.   The main two goals of the project were: (a) to upgrade key links in the transport network,
particularly on those corridors connecting Bolivia to its two export routes, one to the Pacific (to the port of
Arica in Chile) and the one to the Atlantic (to the river port of Puerto Quijarro); and (b) to strengthen the
functioning of key transport sector institutions, particularly the National Railway Company (ENFE) to
make it more market-oriented and the National Road Agency (SNC) to improve road maintenance. These
main goals were to be achieved by: (a) deferred maintenance on the La Paz-Oruro highway; (b) minor track
improvements on the La Paz-Arica rail line and at the La Paz rail freight terminal; (c) rehabilitation of
track and replacement of two bridges on the Santa Cruz-Puerto Quijarro line; (d) conversion of boxcars to
multiple use on ENFE's Eastern network; (e) construction of a new freight terminal at Santa Cruz; (f)
maintenance works and drainage improvements on the main road and rail export routes, to be carried out
by labor-intensive small contracts through the Emergency Social Fund (ESF); (g) purchase of
telecommunication equipment for both Andean and Eastern rail networks; and (h) technical assistance to
the Ministry of Transport (later to become, the National Secretariat of Transport, Communications and
Civil Aviation, SNTCAC), the SNC, ENFE, and the National Institute for Export Promotion (INPEX). In
addition, the project would undertake the studies for the Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado Road, which would
be financed with loans from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and Japan's OECF.
Achievement of objectives
iii.  In overall terms, the project's objectives were successfully achieved. However, the sustainability of
some of the development impacts is currently uncertain. The main physical investments in road
infrastructure (with the SNC and the ESF) were fully accomplished and even expanded, while the railway
investments were only partially achieved. Conversely, the railway institutional development objectives
were surpassed while the impact of the road institutional components cannot yet be assessed and remain
uncertain. The institutional actions for INPEX were largely achieved, while those for the Ministry of
Transport did not produce the expected results.
iv.  The two export corridors specifically targeted by the project were upgraded in two different ways.
On the corridor to the Pacific, two major road links were fully completed--the 228.0 kms of the El Alto-



- iv -
Oruro road and the 188.0 kms of the Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado road--and, partially, the 48.8 kms of
Machacamarca-Pazfia (later completed under the Second Road Maintenance Project). However, the
projected works on the railway infrastructure were not carried out--except for the installation of a
telecommunications network. On the corridor to the Brazilian border, the project partially upgraded the
railway infrastructure on the Santa Cruz-Puerto Quijarro line--through the reballasting of the tracks, the
application of vegetation-control chemicals, and the installation of a telecommunications network.
v.   The strengthening of the railway management ultimately took place through the privatization of the
railway company. This component was initially conceived as strengthening the existing public company
through the incorporation of an expatriate management consultant that would work alongside the
company's management and train them in the process. The application of performance contracts with the
government was going to set the rules for the market orientation of the company. Both instruments
however did not produce the expected results and eventually, with the arrival of a new administration in
1993, the component was restructured to undertake the full privatization of the public company. This was
finally accomplished on March 14, 1996, through the process of capitalization. The objective of
transforming the railway company into a market oriented enterprise was, therefore, fully completed. This
was successfully achieved because of the commitment of the new administration to undertake the then
radical steps for the privatization of railway services. The technical assistance studies financed under the
credit proved useful for the subsequent privatization of the company and formed the basis for the additional
studies that were undertaken. The process--which involved substantial reductions in the number of
employees--has led, one year after it became effective, to enhancements in the functioning of railway
operations and reductions in tariffs and travel times.
vi.  The project was successful in putting in place the maintenance and equipment management systems
and by its end the systems were widely used by the district offices of the SNC and transmitted as executive
reports to the management of the SNC. In August 1995, the Congress approved the Administrative
Decentralization Law (ADL), creating new regional entities--the Prefecturas--and subsequently the
Government issued Supreme Decree 24215 to develop the law for the road sector. The swiftness in the
application of these legislative initiatives (within a period of less than a year) has created certain difficulties
in the management of the road sub-sector. In particular, the central government has lost track of
maintenance expenditures on the road network, as new units--the deconcentrated Departmental Road
Agencies (SDCs)--are now entrusted, under the direction of the Prefecturas, with the maintenance and
rehabilitation of the roads within their jurisdictions. This issue is being pursued further as part of the
supervision of the on-going Second Road Maintenance Project (Credit 2395-BO).
vii.  The component aimed at revamping the Government's capacity in sector planning did not achieve its
expected results. In 1993, with the advent of a new administration, the Ministry was disbanded and
reorganized as a Secretariat under the Ministry of Economic Development. The new Secretariat--the
SNTCAC--was not given a clear mandate for revamping these planning functions. It focused on mobilizing
political support first for the capitalization and second for the decentralization processes. Several attempts
to accomplish these objectives were thwarted by a lack of qualified staff and of the necessary support for
the technical assistance consultants. The activities related to the promotion of containerization and air
freight were fully accomplished with the pertinent studies completed on time and expanded to include the
development of a computer system that can provide information on alternative transport distribution routes
and the costs of those alternatives. The lack of staff continuity and financial resources to reach out



transport companies, export producers and other users may prevent the long-term achievement of this
objective.
viii. A full economic evaluation was undertaken for the main road components, comprising about 85
percent of the cost of the project's physical works and 77 percent of the project's works and goods
investments. The economic rate of return for the works on El Alto-Oruro road yields a value of 17 percent
and the preliminary rate of return for the works on the Machacamarca-Pazmia road (being completed under
the Second Road Maintenance Project) is 27.4 percent. The prorated value (on the basis of costs) of these
two physical investments is 19.2 percent. The economic indicators are therefore satisfactory, though lower
in the first case than the one of 62 percent anticipated at appraisal. The main reason for the discrepancy is
the 25 percent higher costs associated with upgrades to the road shoulders and the lower than expected
growth in traffic. The ENFE component was subject to compliance with financial ratios, requiring the
entity to reduce its operating ratio from a value of 0.86 in 1988 to below 0.83 by 1991 and thereafter.
These values were steadily reduced and, by 1994, they were 1.05 and 0.62, respectively. For 1995, when
the final extemal audit was completed with an unqualified opinion, the corresponding values were 1.3 and
0.7. The numbers reflect a limited and uneven improvement in the financial position of ENFE, whose
extemal audits often failed to provide an opinion in light of the difficulties of reconciling accounts. Taking
into account govemment transfers for public service obligations (PSO), the financial ratios showed
effective compliance with the financial covenants of the project. However, such compliance did not
actually reflect major improvements in ENFE's financial position.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
ix.   Several extemal factors had a significant impact on project execution. Some spurred the swifter
implementation of particular project components while others have added uncertainty to the ultimate
sustainability of the project's overall development objectives. The most critical factors were the
institutional reforms and the continuous shift of personnel at the Ministry of Transport (later, SNTCAC),
ENFE and INPEX.
x.   Two major institutional reforms took place with the advent of a new administration in 1993. The
first was the capitalization of the major public enterprises, including the railway company (ENFE). The
second was the Administrative Decentralization Law (ADL) that was approved in August 1995, about ten
months before the credit's closing date. The former spurred the market-oriented reform that was the
underpinning objective of the project's railway component. The latter added major uncertainty to the
sustainability of the physical and institutional components in the road sector.
xi.  In all the five institutions involved in the execution of the project there was substantial reshuffling of
personnel during project implementation. The SNC was a stable institution with a long-standing cadre of
engineers. However, with the advent of the ADL, the institution was reduced to less than 300 people and
its activities were increasingly controlled by the National Secretariat of Transport, incorporating non-
technical views into those activities. Key staff resigned from the institution and no new replacements were
incorporated. Though it may be argued that the SNC was an over-staffed institution, it remains to be seen
whether the shake-up brought about by the ADL can effectively lead to improvements in the management
and maintenance of the national road network, given that the decentralized institutions lack the management
skills to operate a vast and dispersed road network and the new core SNC lacks the leverage and capacity
to enforce the necessary maintenance standards. At ENFE, during the six years of project execution, the



-vi -
general manager--a position later renamed as president--changed seven times. The creation of the Ministry
of Capitalization in 1994, subordinated the policy and institutional reform of ENFE to decisions of the
politically more powerful Ministry of Capitalization. Having the policy developments determined by an
outside institution but requiring the institution to do the necessary activities helped complete the
capitalization of ENFE.
xii.  A final factor that affected project implementation was the continuous reliance of the institutions on
government transfers. In particular, that was the case of PSO financial payments for ENFE, or the
continued reliance on those transfers for road maintenance activities. Overall, this factor ultimately affects
the sustainability of some of the project's components.
Project Sustainability
xiii. The sustainability of some of the project components appears solidly grounded while others are still
uncertain. The sustainability of the results of the railway component--its full commercialization--appears
robust, based on the satisfactory results initially obtained by the new private operator and the reasonable
prospects for a share of the transport market in the medium term. The main risk to this sustainability could
come from opposition to the whole concept of capitalization by a future administration. In addition, other
risks may come from the deteriorating condition of the competing mode--roads. If the road network
deteriorates, the railways may have to play a bigger role in the transport of goods and passengers and with
it pressures for subsidies and lower tariffs would re-emerge.
xiv. Uncertainty will exist when institutions, in order to carry out their programs in the long run, still
must: (a) clarify their responsibilities and accountability; (b) further their institutional strengthening
programs; and (c) secure financial resources. In particular, a key objective of the project was the timely
application of road maintenance practices which in turn will determine the project's sustainability.
Experience in other countries shows how difficult it is to move entities towards a "continuous" maintenance
culture. The ADL has yet to provide the needed incentives to move back in this direction.
Bank Performance
xv.  Project preparation benefited from previous sectoral studies regarding the access of Bolivian
products to export markets and the extent to which the transport infrastructure had become an impediment
to facilitate exports, through high costs or sheer lack of infrastructure. The Bank had not undertaken a
project during several years--due to the deteriorating macro-economic situation in the country during the
eighties--but had the experience of two previous loans initiated in 1977 and 1978. The appraisal correctly
identified the major strategies that had to be addressed to establish the necessary basis for the future
expansion of the sector and the institutional strengthening of institutions,
xvi. However, the expectation was that ENFE was a sound institution; only later did it become clear that
it was not. The advent of a new administration and, which coincided with the preparation of a sector report
(Bolivia Transport Strategy Paper, No. 11 899-BO), the Government concurred with the IDA on the need to
further the reforms in the railway sector, attempting to achieve full market-orientation which the project
had as one of its main objectives. The Govemrnent fully agreed with this perspective and the credit was
restructured to address it. IDA also had some specific recommendations in regard to the road sector; in
fact, the Government went beyond those and embarked on a full decentralization of the road sector



- vii -
(including the national network). The implementation of this scheme became effective one month before the
closing of the credit. It is still too early to make an assessment of its ultimate impact and follow-up is being
undertaken as part of the supervision of the Second Road Maintenance Project (Credit 2395-BO).
xvii. In January 1995, in view of the major difficulties in advancing the ENFE components, IDA agreed
to restructure the project and allocate the funds initially slated for the construction of the terminal in Santa
Cruz and for the rehabilitation of certain parts of the railway network to the capitalization of the railway
company. The re-structuring meant that instead of entrusting ENFE with the design and implementation of
the capitalization process, this task was assigned to the Ministry of Capitalization. In the end, after seeing
the results, the restructuring of the project was the right thing to do and the implied strategy the appropriate
way to go.
xviii. IDA did in fact advise the Government about the risks associated with a drastic decentralization of
the road network. In three subsequent missions, IDA provided a blueprint for a more gradual process,
which would have permitted the assumption of new responsibilities by both the decentralized institutions
and the core SNC. IDA recognized the merits of the reform in leading to increased efficiency in the
provision of public services at the local level, but also advised the SNC and the SNTCAC about the risks
associated with a drastic process for the entire road network. The major changes that came about in the
institutional organization and the much more rapid progress of the decentralization agenda could not have
been foreseen at appraisal.
Borrower Performance
xix. All institutions involved in the project carried out project preparation activities in a timely and
efficient manner, with advice provided by the Bank. During implementation, the road components were
executed largely on time and within budgets (by both the SNC and the ESF). The supervision of the La
Paz-Oruro highway was capably undertaken by the SNC.
xx.  With regard to the railway component, ENFE's performance was unsatisfactory. Three years after
project effectiveness, the railway company had still not been able to complete any of the procurement
processes planned under the project (track improvements, intermodal terminal, etc.) except for the partial
reballasting of the Oriental network and the application of the vegetable-control chemicals. This poor
performance led to the recommendation to restructure the project and to entrust most of the studies for the
capitalization of the railway component to the Ministry of Capitalization. This Ministry, after a hesitant
start due to its newness and the visibility of its mandate, was able to carry out the process with a high
degree of professionalism and efficiency.
xxi. The Credit was extended for one year to give enough time for the completion of the capitalization of
the railway company. The extension responded more to the new framework than to delays in the
implementation of project, though the works on the Machacamarca-Pazfia road would have been largely
unfinished had the credit not been extended. Compliance with loan covenants was generally satisfactory,
with the exception of the financial and audit covenants of ENFE. With the advent of the capitalization,
ENFE finally became up to date with the delivery of its audit reports.



- viii -
Assessment of Outcome
xxii. The project's overall outcome has been satisfactory. Given the implementation scenario and the
change in administration that took place in 1993, overall performance was better than could be expected.
The majority of the sector policy objectives were achieved, except for the important issues opened up at the
end of the project by the application of the decentralization policies of the ADL to the road sub-sector. The
achievement of the physical targets planned in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was substantial,
contributing to expanding and improving the condition of key links of the export corridors. The economic
analysis performed upon project completion shows that the investments had a positive impact on transport
costs and have facilitated access to export routes. In regard to the railway component, the restructuring of
the project to directly address the capitalization of the railway entity helped achieve the project objective of
incorporating commercial practices in the railway sub-sector.
xxiii. The results of the long term efforts to build capacity for road maintenance were uncertain, as a
consequence of the sudden decentralization of the road network and the capacity of the government to
monitor the impact and incorporate the corrective measures remains to be seen. In retrospect, the project's
outcome regarding the road component would have been better, had the reform mandated a more gradual
decentralization of SNC's activities and emphasized the strengthening of the SNC to undertake its
supervisory and normative responsibilities, consistent with the new decentralization policies.
Future Operations
xxiv. Government is taking actions in three main areas that will eventually contribute to improving project
sustainability, namely (1) clarifying and strengthening the roles of the SNC, the Departmental units
(SDCs), the SNTCAC, and the Superintendency of Transport, (2) developing strategies to enhance road
sector funding and other maintenance policies, and (3) developing a viable investment program (including
maintenance) to further reduce transport costs.
Key Lessons Learned
xxv. The lessons discussed below pertain to issues related to the implementation of institutional reform,
the design of institutional building programs, and the impact of reforms in the redefinition of the road sub-
sector. Lessons are also drawn from the factors that affected project implementation.
xxvi. The experience of the implementation of the Bolivian institutional reforms confirms that reform
processes when undertaken without a clear consensus, with no pre-defined strategies, rarely produce the
intended results. In the case of Bolivia, the application of the ADL to the road sub-sector lacked a clear
strategy. The experience shows that it is not enough to pass legislation: it is also necessary to internalize
strategies and concepts, and to define an incremental process which would allow change to take place in
light of the acquired practice and institutional capacities.
xxvii. In the road sub-sector, the lack of a strategy and the sheer magnitude of the task, required the
issuance of a specific law decree for the purpose of limiting the overall impact of the ADL and clarifying
the new institutional structure. However, the decree attempted to achieve a compromise in order to pass on
some functions to the SNTCAC which, in light of the capitalization of the public enterprises under its
jurisdiction, was being divested of major responsibilities. The decree also established normative and



- ix -
supervisory concepts which require a strong institutional base and a clear structure of incentives. Most of
them have not been fully implemented because of the weak institutional base, and insufficient efforts to
overcome it through institutional building programs. Rapid approval of legislation and the lack of an
integral strategy to support the changes--in a country with limited institutional capacity--has led to an
uncertain outcome.
xxviii. Conversely, the capitalization of ENFE responded to a clear strategy to reduce the role of the
Government in services whose provision could be undertaken by the private sector and to modernize
productive sectors of the economy. This strategy was unequivocally supported by the creation of a single,
politically-leveraged entity, which assumed a clear responsibility and a clear mandate. This "centralized"
version of a reform clearly performed better than the "decentralized" (looser) version of the application of
the ADL to the road sub-sector.
xxix. The prospects for sustainability of the decentralization process in the road sub-sector can be
improved by: (a) promoting technical assistance and building partnerships between the remainder of the
SNC and the SDCs. This requires changing the current confrontational stance between the SNC and the
SDCs towards one of partnership in which the SNC provides its pool of experts and the SDCs accept the
role of the SNC. This also requires the strengthening of the SNC as an autonomous, high-performance
entity which in addition to supervising the execution of mutually-agreed programs by the deconcentrated
entities also provides technical support; (b) tailoring the decentralization responsibilities to the capacities
and requests of these entities, in such a way that, if necessary, the SNC could be entrusted by particular
Prefecturas with the management of their network (and with the transfer of the necessary financial and
human resources). The SNC should start launching an institutional development program which, rather
than following a rigid agenda, would finance organizational and management technical assistance in those
departments that request that assistance, with the agenda defined jointly with the beneficiary department;
and (c) developing a clear purpose, well understood by the participating entities, and ensuring sustained
commitment to it while seeking incremental results. More attention should be devoted to defining an
appropriate sequence for the interventions needed and setting progressive benchmarks--on the basis of
mutually-agreed maintenance programs and performance development measures. The use of these
benchmarks will help focus the institutional actions on a few priority goals, facilitate the evaluation of
progress and of outcome, and increase motivation by showing results.
xxx. Another aspect that posed difficulties in the application of sectoral reforms was the apparent
diminished role of the SNTCAC in light of the impending privatization of the railway, aviation, and
telecommunication services and the establishment of the pertinent regulatory bodies. The SNTCAC
reluctantly assumed the less politically visible activities of policy planning and norm setting, both largely
technical. In an effort by the SNTCAC to recoup some functions and responsibilities of the SNC, the SNC
has been weakened while the SNTCAC lacks the capacity to assume them. The alternative, more
promising approach, would have been for the SNTCAC to assume more limited but specialized
responsibilities in policy planning and develop SNC as an autonomous executing agency of the road sub-
sector policies established by the SNTCAC.
xxxi. Another lesson leamed during the implementation of the project concerns the need to design
mechanisms that shield projects from the inevitable changes in administration and/or staff of the executing
entity. The implementation of the project's many components often suffered from continuous reshuffling of
staff; if it finally was brought to a satisfactory conclusion, it was mainly because of general agreement with



- x -
the project's objectives. Shielding project implementation from staff changes is not a simple task, but it
could be improved by: (a) engaging key long-term consultants that sustain the implementation pace in spite
of staff or administration changes, though this approach may be to the detriment of achieving the intended
institutional development objectives, (b) designing projects in an incremental or stepwise fashion in such a
way that each stage must be completed within a given governmental administration and subsequent stages
are contingent on the accomplishment of the specified implementation and development
indicators/benchmarks and the continued commitment to the project's objectives and components by the
incoming administration, or (c) carrying out reforms in the civil service (which Bolivia is currently
undertaking) through which a more limited but well-remunerated human resource base, subject to
satisfactory performance, assumes the responsibility for managing investment projects in the public sector.
This lesson is particularly critical in situations where, like in Bolivia, the managerial and technical resource
base of public institutions is limited.
xxxii. Finally, the project, with five different components, executed by a similar number of different
entities, did not have a substantive impact on some of its objectives-like the ESF and INPEX objectives--
and was perhaps too ambitious because of the breadth of its interventions. In this regard, the lesson leamed
has been that, in order to achieve a greater impact, either the objectives of particular project components
need to be less ambitious or the number of sub-sectoral components must be reduced to allow for a sharper
focus and a more specific intervention (or, still, a third altemative would be to split a project into several
concurrent or sequential projects, each on its own terms with a commensurate set of development impacts).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
EXPORT CORRIDORS PROJECT
(CREDIT 2012-BO)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The main objective of the project was to promote Bolivia's exports and reduce the costs of its
foreign trade by: (a) providing two well-functioning transport corridors, one to the Pacific and one to the
Atlantic; (b) improving road and railway maintenance; (c) strengthening management of the railway to
make it more market-oriented; (d) strengthening the Ministry of Transport and Communications (which,
later became the National Secretariat of Transport, Communications and Civil Aviation) in planning and
policy making; and (e) encouraging the use of containers and air freight.
2.    These objectives were consistent with the Government's overall policies of promoting the
expansion of the export sector, through the upgrading of transport links to the ports of exit in the Pacific
(Arica, Chile) and the border with Brazil (Puerto Quijarro) and from there to the Brazilian ports or the
Paraguay-Parana river. They were also in line with the Bank's country and sector strategies--spelt out in
the Transport Strategy Papers No. 6882, of July 10, 1987, and No. 11899-BO of June 30, 1993, and in the
report "Bolivia: Export Corridors Study" (No. 7298-BO) of June 16, 1988--that emphasized the
importance of upgrading the main corridors for Bolivian exports (and imports) to expand the access of
Bolivian products to intemational markets. The 1987 report stated that transport users (road and rail)
spent the equivalent of 19 to 24 percent of GDP on vehicle operating costs, compared to a corresponding
figure in many developing countries of only 12 to 13 percent. In addition, the 1993 Country Strategy Paper
(No. P-6095-BO) stated that "inadequate transport is the most serious infrastructural deficiency affecting
investment and competitiveness" and that "a private investment survey found that companies cited high
transport costs most frequently as a constraint to new investment." While the objectives remained
unchanged during implementation, the project witnessed major reforms in economic policy and institutional
framework. The reforms affected the implementation of the project with some positive effects and some
uncertain ones whose ultimate impacts cannot yet be properly evaluated.
3.    The objectives of the project were to be achieved by: (a) deferred maintenance on the La Paz-Oruro
highway; (b) minor track improvements on the La Paz-Arica rail line and at the La Paz rail freight
terminal; (c) rehabilitation of track and replacement of two bridges on the Santa Cruz-Corumba (Brazil)
line; (d) conversion of boxcars to multiple use on ENFE's Eastem network; (e) construction of a new
freight terminal in Santa Cruz; (f) maintenance works and drainage improvements on the main road and rail
export routs, to be carried out by labor-intensive small contracts through the Emergency Social Fund; (g)
purchase of telecommunications equipment for both Andean and Eastem rail networks; and (h) technical
assistance to the Ministry of Transport (later to become, the National Secretariat of Transport,
Communications and Civil Aviation, SNTCAC), the National Road Agency (SNC), the National Railway
Company (ENFE), and the National Institute for Export Promotion (INPEX). In addition, the project
would undertake the studies for the Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado Road, project which would be financed
with loans from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and Japan's OECF.



- 2 -
4.    The project design was comprehensive, encompassing sub-sectoral investments and institutional
components. This comprehensiveness, however, resulted in a far more complex execution and supervision
because implementation involved five different executing institutions and dealing with technical issues in
three different sub-sectors: roads, railways, and multimodal. The project, in addition, lasted over two quite
different public administrations and required the restructuring of the railway component to accommodate
changing governmental policies and institutional framework.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.    In overall terms, the project's objectives were successfully achieved. However, the sustainability
of some of the development impacts is currently uncertain. The major road physical investments,
implemented by the National Road Agency (SNC) and the Emergency Social Fund (ESF), were
accomplished and even expanded while the railway investments were only partially executed. Conversely,
the railway institutional development objectives were surpassed while the impact of the road institutional
components cannot yet be assessed and remain uncertain.
6.    Upgrading two corridors. The two export corridors specifically targeted by the project were
upgraded in two different manners. On the corridor to the Pacific, two major road links were fully
completed--the 228.0 kms of the El Alto-Oruro road and the 192.0 kms of the Patacamaya-Tamnbo
Quemado road (financed by the IADB and OECF)--and, partially, the 48.8 kms of Machacamarca-Pazfia.'
The upgrading of these links has reduced transport costs from the Bolivian highlands (mainly, the highlands
in the departments of La Paz and Oruro) and from points beyond those lands (mainly, the departments of
Cochabamba and Santa Cruz) to the exit port of Arica on the Chilean Pacific coast. The projected
rehabilitation works on the railway infrastructure however were not carried out--except for the installation
of a telecommunications network--and the railway services on the Andean network, due to the deteriorating
conditions of the infrastructure, compounded by the difficult topography it traverses, lost competitiveness
and market share to road transport.
7.    On the corridor to the Brazilian border--and from there to the Brazilian Atlantic ports and to the
Paraguay-Parana river--the project partially upgraded the railway infrastructure on the Santa Cruz-Puerto
Quijarro line--through the reballasting of the tracks, the application of vegetation-control chemicals, and
the installation of a telecommunications network. The construction of an intermodal terminal in Santa
Cruz, however, was not undertaken. Ultimately, the improvement of railway services came about not from
the physical investments but through the process of privatizing the railway company, which has allowed for
major enhancements in the functioning and management of railway operations. The process--which
involved substantial reductions in the number of employees--has already produced, one year after it became
effective, operational improvements and reductions in tariffs and in travel times.
8.    The ESF maintenance component was able to almost fully achieve its objectives, completing 28
small rehabilitation road and railway works (out of the 29 identified) for a total amount of US$4.5 million.
This component of the project was executed following simplified procurement procedures that resulted in
an unexpected response from local, non-registered contractors. These contractors consisted of firms not
prepared to deal with more formal procurement processes but with enough capacity to satisfactorily
' About 20 percent of the works for this road remained outstanding by the Credit's closing date. They were later
completed with proceeds from Credit 2395-BO (Second Road Maintenance Project).



- 3 -
undertake works of under US$250,000. This infrastructure rehabilitation program however was not
continued under the successor of the ESF, the Social Investment Fund (SIF), losing the opportunity to
further develop the latent local construction industry. In 1994, with the enactment of the Popular
Participation Law, the responsibility for works on the tertiary network was transferred to the
municipalities, opening up new opportunities in that direction.
9.      Strengthening railway management to make it more market-oriented. As mentioned in the
previous paragraph, the strengthening of the railway management ultimately took place through the
privatization of the railway company. This component was initially conceived as technical assistance to the
public company through the incorporation of an expatriate management consultant consortium which
would work alongside the company's management and train them in the process. In addition, the
application of performance contracts with the government was going to set the rules for the market
orientation of the company. Both instruments however did not produce the expected results and
eventually, with the arrival of a new administration in 1993, the component was restructured to undertake
the full privatization of the public company. This was finally accomplished on March 14, 1996, through
the process of capitalization (see Box 1).
Box 1.- Summary of Key Elements of Capitalization Process and its Application to ENFE
On March21, 1994, the Bolivian Congress approved the Capitalization Law (No. 1544) and on October 28, 1994, it
approved the Sectoral Regulation System (SIRESE) Law (No. 1600). T he former allowed the Government of Bolivia (GOB) to
create new mixed capital corporations with the assets of the state companies and then sell through international public bidding
new share issues resulting from the increase in capital in the companies subject to the Capitalization process. The transfer of
the administration of the state companies to private hands allowed by the Capitalization Law created as well the legal
framework to regulate their activities (and protect users and consumers). The SIRESE Law created the regulatory institutions
and the general framework for the development of the various sectoral regulatory laws. With the Capitalization, the GOB did
not sell the companies' assets but instead contributed to the formation of a corporation with a 50% participation of a private
partner, an amount which stays in the company, thus increasing its value. The shares owned by the GOB were transferred to a
fiduciary ust, which became the custodian of theses shares and they were then transferred again to Pension Fund
Administrators which will manage those slwares and distribute the benefits among the Bolivian population.
ENFE was created on October 6, 1964, but its operations were regulated by a railway law dating back to October 3,
1910. The lawwas ample enough to allowfor the promulgation of a Supreme Decree (No. 24177 of December 8, 1995) to
regulate the requirements of the capitalization process. In the case of ENFE, the capitalization process involved: (a) the
determination of the book value of the company, in accordance with intemationally accepted accounting and auditing standards;
(b) the conversion of the public company into two Mixed Capital Corporations-the Andean FCA S.A.M. and the Oriental FCO
SA.M. Railway Companies; (c) the offer to ENFE's employees the subscription of the shares of these companies at book value
(90 and 40 percent of the employees of the Andean and Oriental networks, respectively, subscribed shares), up to the value of
their social:benefits; (4) increasing the capital of the two Mixed Capital Corporations with a new share issue, equivalent to 50
percent of the capitalized company's capital, and then offcr the subscription of this new share issue to pre-qualified strategic
partners; and (e) the creation of the Transport Superintendency (on December 8, 1995, by Supreme Decree No. 24178) to
regulate future railway operations. The two successful bidders-both the same company-after depositing their economic bids-
the only qualified bids, for an amount of US$25.85 million for the Oricntal Network and US$13.25 million for the Andean
Network-received the share certificates and signed the share subscription contract-to take ownership of their shares-the
administration contract-to assume their management responsibilities of the new company-the licensing contract-to administer
and use the facilities, not owned by the new company, but affected by the railway operations -and the concession contnct-that
gives the new company the rights and establishes the conditions to operate the railway services for 40 years. (The overall
procedures for the contracts were regulated under Supreme Decree No. 24179.) Subsequently, the rolling stock and inventoies
to provide services were trasferred to the new companies. T he track and infrastructure have remained in the hands of the
Govennent and their mamtenance and improvement will be carried out by the capitalized company.



10.   The objective of transforming the railway company into a market oriented enterprise was,
therefore, fully accomplished. Success was possible because of the commitment of the new administration
to take the radical steps necessary for the privatization of railway services. The initial concept of
strengthening the public company proved difficult to implement due to the entrenched vested interests of the
railway company in continuing past ways of managing the business--which was based on government-
mandated tariff rebates and the corresponding compensations, deficient maintenance practices, large labor
pool, and limited market competition. The failure to achieve the objectives set for the expatriate
management consortium underscored that situation, though this failure was not entirely due to the railway
company but also to internal disagreement within the consortium and communication difficulties between
the consortium and the company. In any event, the technical assistance studies of the management
consortium, with a market orientation, proved useful for the subsequent privatization of the company and
formed the basis for the additional studies that were undertaken.
11.   The privatization process involved the retirement of a substantial amount of employees. Because
the retirement involved the payment of redundancy packages which included accumulated social benefits,
the retirement was largely voluntary. Starting from a number of about 5,400 in mid- 1993, the number of
employees was successively reduced to 3,900 by the initiation of the capitalization process. At that
moment, 1,700 were slated for transfer to the capitalized companies and the remaining 2,200 were offered a
voluntary retirement package; 1,723 employees eventually selected this option. The cost of this redundancy
program of about US$ 10.1 million was financed partly by the general budget and partly through the use of
funds from a structural adjustment credit. (Subsequent legal claims required additional disbursements for
about US$2.5 million, drawn from ENFE own funds from clearing accounts receivable and selling assets;
about US$3.5 million are still pending on judicial decisions.) The capitalized companies then absorbed
1,700 employees, among whom 421 elected early retirement and the companies finally kept 1,288. The
remaining ENFE/Services--the company that was left after the capitalization process in charge of the
surplus labor, the management of the non-operative real estate holdings, and certain liabilities--kept 477
employees who were retrained (on the basis of micro-enterprise development studies undertaken under the
credit). Later, 357 decided to retire voluntarily and, by March 1997, the remaining ENFE/Services kept
about 120 employees.
12.   Improving road maintenance. The project was successful in putting in place the maintenance and
equipment management systems; by its end the systems were widely used by the district offices of the SNC
and transmitted as executive reports to the management of the SNC. This effort had been initiated under
the (first) Highway Maintenance Project (Ln. 1587-BO) completed in December 1986. This project failed
to improve maintenance practices but did sow the seeds for creating a maintenance "culture" among some
SNC staff which later would facilitate the development and implementation of the above-mentioned
maintenance and equipment management systems. This success was further facilitated by the incorporation
of consultants hired to developed the systems into the SNC, making possible the technology transfer to this
institution.
13.   In August 1995, the Congress approved the Administrative Decentralization Law (ADL) and
subsequently the Government issued Supreme Decree 24215 to develop that law for the road sector. The
swiftness in the application of these legislative initiatives (within a period of less than a year) created--and
appears to continue to create--certain difficulties in the management of the road sector. In particular, the
central government has largely lost track of maintenance expenditures at the departmental level, where new
units (the Departmental Road Agencies) are now entrusted with the maintenance and rehabilitation of all



- 5 -
the roads within their jurisdictions (including those formerly under the SNC). This issue is being currently
followed as part of the supervision of the on-going Second Road Maintenance Project (Credit 2395-BO).
14.   The transfer of roads under SNC to the newly created Prefecturas mandated by the Administrative
Decentralization Law in August 1995 and subsequently by Supreme Decree 24215 in December 1995, also
implied shifting the priorities for the institutional strengthening prograrn, as it required accommodating a
new institutional framework which assigns a new critical role to the Prefecturas. These shifting priorities
are being analyzed under the on-going Second Road Maintenance Project (Credit 2395-BO). The law
required the transfer of all the roads to the newly created departmental institutions--the Prefecturas--and
within them to the Departmental Road Agencies (Servicios Departamentales de Caminos or SDCs). These
departmental agencies were formed on the basis of the former SNC's district offices, which in the past
functioned as operating arms of the SNC under its technical and administrative tutelage. Most staff and
equipment were transferred to the SDCs and the SNC remained as an institution to manage the on-going
and under-preparation externally-financed projects until their conclusion. In this process, however, the
effort of the maintenance and equipment management systems has been squandered and the commitment of
the new Prefectura management and the pertinent incentives would be necessary to revive them. In
addition, the law requires the dismantling of the SNC, though the subsequent Supreme Decree states that
the SNC would remain in its initial legal status until the conclusion of all internationally-funded projects.
The Supreme Decree further states the responsibilities of the SNC to supervise and ensure the
implementation of adequate maintenance programs. But the SNC lacking the leverage to enforce the
requirements of its mandate has not been able to carry out its responsibilities. In all, this situation has put
in jeopardy previous efforts to create the institutional capacity to maintain the substantial road investments
undertaken in Bolivia since 1990 and to promote a maintenance culture that would emphasize the
preservation of the infrastructure.
15.   Another objective in the SAR was to strengthen investment programming and maintenance
management capability with particular emphasis on training staff of the SNC district offices and the former
Regional Development Corporations. In coordination with the German Technical Cooperating Agency
(GTZ), this initiative was to be applied incrementally, starting with a pilot in the Department of Santa
Cruz, but its full implementation could not be carried out much farther in light of the impending
decentralization process. Nevertheless, the initiative did not progress either because of a lack of interest
from the part of the former Regional Development Corporations.
16.   Strengthening the Ministry of Transport in planning and policy-making. This component
attempted to revamp the Government's capacity in sector planning, through the contracting of technical
assistance consultants. The implementation of this component however was piecemeal and the Ministry
was not able to effectively assume the planning and policy-making roles. In 1993, with the advent of a new
administration, the Ministry was disbanded and reorganized as a Secretariat under the Ministry of
Economic Development (initially under the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, which was in
mid-1994 split in two). The new Secretariat did not have the staff or the clear mandate for the revamping
of these functions. The Secretariat focused on galvanizing political support first for the capitalization of
transport and telecommunication entities and second for the decentralization processes. Several attempts to
accomplish the objectives were thwarted by lack of qualified staff and of the necessary institutional support
to consultants hired under the project. Currently, the IDB has been providing financing for the
development of a Transport Master Plan and the training of staff to make use of such a tool. The final
results remain to be seen, however.



- 6 -
17.   Facilitating the use of containers and air-freight. The activities related to this objective were
fully accomplished, with the completion of the pertinent studies, and, towards the end of the project, with
the expansion to include the development of a computer system to provide information on alternative
transport distribution routes and the costs of those alternatives. However, the lack of indicators to measure
the actual use of containers and air-freight at the beginning and the end of the project prevents a more
precise quantification of the level of achievement of this objective.
18.   The institution in charge of this component (INPEX) suffered from continues management changes
and its temporary absorption by the office of the Secretary of Commerce. The lack of staff continuity and
financial resources to reach out transport companies, export producers and other users may prevent the
long-term achievement of this objective. Nevertheless, the completed studies and technical assistance have
constituted a valuable source of informnation and development of the needed expertise and, if the operational
plan established by the institution is implemented, could yield the expected results. The status of this
institution remains uncertain, and, consequently, the sustainability of this objective. In addition, to actually
facilitate the use of containers and air-freight requires more than information, particularly encouraging
particular practices through the dissemination of best experiences and the supporting facilities that would
encourage transport companies to assimilate those modalities of transport.
19.   Economic Results. The combination of various sub-sectoral components and the emphasis on
institutional development for some of them, do not allow reporting an economic rate of return for the
overall project. A full economic evaluation was undertaken for the main road components, comprising
about 85 percent of the cost of the project's physical works and 77 percent of the non-institutional
components. The economic rate of return for the works on El Alto-Oruro road yields a value of 17 percent;
the preliminary rate of return for the works on the Machacamarca-Pazina road (being completed under the
Second Road Maintenance Project) is 27.4 percent. The prorated value (on the basis of costs) of these two
physical investments is 19.2 percent. (For the recently completed but not yet post-evaluated Patacamaya-
Tambo Quemado project, the economic rates of return are 19.4 percent for the segment between
Patacamaya and Ojsani and 14.6 percent for the Ojsani-Tambo Quemado segment. This road was actually
financed by the IDB, but remains a part of the Export Corridors Project.)
20.   The economic indicators, though satisfactory, turned out to be lower than the ones anticipated at
appraisal, particularly in the case of El Alto-Oruro road. The SAR estimate for El Alto-Oruro road was 62
percent and that for Machacamarca-Paznia, on the basis of the economic analysis undertaken in 1993, was
30 percent. For El Alto-Oruro road, the main reason for the discrepancy is the 25 percent higher costs
associated with upgrades to the road shoulders. These additional works have increased safety (and the life
span of the pavement) but this associated benefit has not been factored into the economic evaluation of the
completed road. In addition, the annual growth of traffic has on average oscillated around 2.7 percent
between appraisal and 1995 (latest available statistics) compared to an estimate of about 5 percent at the
time of appraisal.
21.   The other main physical investment of the project was the telecommunications equipment for the
railway company. About ten months after implementation, an evaluation of its impact shows
improvements in productivity with a reduction, for example, in personnel from 107 employees to 15 in the
Andean network. The system has allowed major operational improvements on the Oriental network,
reducing rolling stock turnaround time and travel times from Santa Cruz to Corumba.



- 7 -
22.   Finally, the economic evaluation of the ESF component, comprising small projects ranging from
US$58,000 to US$245,000, could not be carried out due to the fact that almost 50% of the sub-projects of
this component were completed before the Credit became effective and the rest within about one year after
that date. Five years later, at the time of project closing date, it was not feasible to measure the economic
impact of these smaller projects. Given the cost, the nature of the works, and the fact that about 17,000
man-months of employment were generated, it is safe to assume that the sub-projects were economically
feasible. The works had a wide geographic distribution, extending over six of the nine departments of
Bolivia.
23.   Financial results. The ENFE component was governed by a need to be in compliance with
financial ratios, requiring the entity to reduce its operating ratio from a value of 0.86 in 1988 to below 0.83
by 1991 and thereafter. Poor accounting however did not allow obtaining reliable information until the last
fiscal year before capitalization. The transfers for public service obligations (PSO) provided in the form of
fiscal credits for Government-mandated rebates in the tariffs of export products, wheat imports, and
passenger services further distorted the financial incentives and results. And by being signed (under
performance contracts) and credited to ENFE accounts well after the closing of a fiscal year, the PSO
transfers did not encourage efficiency gains. In 1992, the working ratio was estimated at 1.26 without PSO
transfers, and 0.89 with PSO transfers. Subsequently, these values were steadily reduced and, by 1994,
they were 1.05 and 0.62, respectively. For 1995, when the final external audit was completed with an
unqualified opinion, the corresponding values were 1.3 and 0.7. The numbers reflect a limited and uneven
improvement in the financial position of ENFE, whose external audits often failed to provide an opinion in
light of the difficulties of reconciling the accounts of ENFE. When one takes into account the PSO
transfers, the financial ratios do show effective compliance with the financial covenants of the project.
However, the compliance did not actually reflect substantive improvements in ENFE's financial
position.
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
24.   Several external factors had a significant impact on project execution. Some spurred the swifter
implementation of particular project components while others have added uncertainty to the ultimate
sustainability of the project's overall development objectives. The most critical factors were the
institutional reforms and the continuous turn over of personnel at SNTCAC, ENFE and INPEX.
25.   Major institutional reforms. Two major institutional reforms took place with the advent of a new
administration in 1993. The first was the capitalization of the major public enterprises, including the
railway company (ENFE). The second was the Administrative Decentralization Law that was approved in
August 1995, about ten months before the credit's closing date. The former spurred the market-oriented
reform that was the underpinning objective of the project's railway component. The latter has added major
uncertainty to the sustainability of the physical and institutional components in the road sector.
26.   The change in administration also brought about a new ministerial organization and the dismantling
of the Ministry of Transport and its reorganization as a Secretariat. The substantial reshuffling of
personnel as a consequence of these changes slowed down the execution of the project's components and
delayed the initiation of the works on the Machacamarca-Pazfia road. This road had been added to the
project to make use of its unallocated funds. The delay did not permit the completion of the works before



- 8 -
this credit's closing date, though they are being completed under Credit 2395-BO, Second Road
Maintenance Project.
27.   The ESF component was not affected as it was quickly implemented under the clear mandate of
(and the consensus in) undertaking low cost works to generate employment and, in the process, upgrading
economic infrastructure. In addition, this component comprised physical investments partly under
execution, and the credit financed the completed works retroactively.
28.   Changes in personnel. In all the five institutions involved in the execution of the project there was
a substantial reshuffling of personnel during project implementation. At project outset, the ESF became the
SIF. This change however did not produce much disruption to the completion of the ESF component
because, as was said before, most physical investments were already underway. The INPEX suffered
frequent changes in the position of its Executive Director and increasingly was absorbed within the sphere
of the Secretariat of Commerce, whose under-secretary temporarily assumed the functions of Executive
Director of INPEX. Being an institution with little staff, every change of the Executive Director led to
changes in most of its staff. This lack of staff continuity affected the implementation and dissemination of
the studies and their ultimnate impact. The Ministry of Transport was transformed in 1993 into a
Secretariat under the Ministry of Economic Development and its Secretary changed four times in the last
three years of project implementation. With the privatization of most of the enterprises under its
supervision and the creation of the SIRESE for the regulation of the capitalized enterprises, the SNTCAC
lost most of its political leverage and in its attempt to absorb competencies from the SNC weakened in turn
this institution, without it ever acquiring the skills and staff to undertake a more limited (regulatory)
function. The consequence has been that the component of the project related to the strengthening of the
Ministry of Transport in policy making and planning was barely achieved and its sustainability is highly
uncertain.
29.   The SNC was a stable institution with a long-standing cadre of engineers. The change in
administration in 1993 brought about new impetus and initiatives to strengthen the management of the
institution and its internal control processes. The implementation of the SAM and SAE helped the initial
implementation of those initiatives. However, with the advent of the ADL, the institution was reduced to
less than 300 people and its activities were increasingly controlled by the SNTCAC, with an increasing
politicization of its activities. Upon the approval of the ADL and the enactment of Supreme Decree 24215,
the Executive Director of the SNC resigned but a new one was not named until five months after credit
closing, weakening its leverage to enforce responsibilities assigned to the SNC by the new legislation. The
entire maintenance system, increasingly built up from the beginning of the project and reinforced under the
implementation of the Second Road Management Project (Credit 2395-BO), went into disarray. Key staff
resigned from the institution and no new replacements were incorporated. Though it may be argued that
the SNC was an over-staffed institution in the first place, it remains to be seen whether the shake-up
brought about by the ADL will effectively lead to improvements in the management and maintenance of the
national road network, given that the decentralized institutions lack the management skills to-operate a vast
and dispersed road network and the core SNC which remains lacks the leverage and capacity to enforce the
necessary maintenance standards.
30.   At ENFE, during the six years of project execution, the general manager--position later renamed as
president-changed seven times. With these changes, reshuffling of top managers and consequently
shifting of priorities came about. The creation of the Ministry of Capitalization in 1994, subordinated the



- 9 -
policy and institutional reform of ENFE to the policy directives of the politically more powerful Ministry of
Capitalization. The unification of the privatization agenda under a single Ministry provided the critical
political mass and unified thrust that allowed the capitalization of the Government's major enterprises
during a period of three years. ENFE as one of those enterprises--though one of the more difficult ones
because it pertained to a declining sector--was capitalized in due course by the requirements of the Ministry
of Capitalization. Having the policy directives coming from an outside institution but requiring the
institution to do the necessary activities, helped complete the capitalization of ENFE.
31.   In addition, at ENFE, before its capitalization, putting expatriate management consultants to work
alongside the management of the railways proved a difficult endeavor that affected the implementation of
the project's railway component. Being an entrenched, labor intensive institution, ENFE could not
assimilate the new perspectives designed by the expatriate consultants, with an emphasis on commercial
marketing strategies and labor rationalization. Before the advent of the capitalization process, the general
managers of ENFE were former ENFE staff, with strong links to labor, making it difficult to change old
practices. This problem was aggravated by a lack of knowledge of the Spanish language amongst the top
staff of the management consultants.
32.   The project envisioned the implementation of performance contracts to regulate the operations of
the railway company and guide its commercialization. The experience of the first performance contract
was not very positive, because the contract established performance indicators on the basis of tons
transported, instead of productivity indicators. ENFE was able to achieve the established freight levels and
the employees received a bonus on top of their salaries. The contract was then viewed as a give-away by
the government and thereafter the performance contracts were simply used as a way to establish the
financial transfers for the provision of specific services at reduced tariffs. The contracts were then being
signed after the completion of each calendar year and lacked any incentives built into them. Nevertheless,
they constituted a document for discussion of ENFE's financial performance among the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Transport (later the SNTCAC) and ENFE, but did not serve the "performance"
side of its name. Furthermore, by being approved late during the year (or even after the year was passed),
the transfers were received by ENFE (in the form of fiscal credits) much later that they had been incurred,
negatively affecting its cash flow. In all, the performance contracts did not start well nor were they
effectively implemented. The direct link between ENFE and the Government through the PSOs rendered
the performance contracts ineffective, which ultimately affected the possibility of a more appropriate
financial management of the company.
33.   A final factor that affected project implementation was the continuous reliance of the institutions
on government transfers. The last paragraph mentioned the issue of PSO transfers for ENFE. SNC also
relied on Government funds for its operations and, sometimes, though it was not a critical factor, it affected
the speed of project implementation. At INPEX the lack of Governmental financial support prevented a
more aggressive stance being taken on the implementation of the studies financed under the project. (The
Ministry of Capitalization in contrast--with a time-bounded but specific mandate-was fully funded with
external funds and, in this respect, did not have major difficulties in undertaking its activities.) Overall,
this factor has ultimately affected the sustainability of some of the project's components.



- 10-
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
34.   The sustainability of some of the project components appears solid while others are still uncertain.
The sustainability of the results of the railway component--its full commercialization--appears robust,
based on the satisfactory results initially obtained by the new private operator and the reasonable prospects
for a share of the transport market in the medium term. The main risk to this sustainability could come
from opposition to the whole concept of capitalization by a future administration, and particularly to the
capitalization of a company-i.e., ENFE--for which there is a strong nationalistic sentiment (enhanced by
the fact that the capitalization partner is a company from Chile), which could attempt to reverse the process
simply for the sake of revoking the policies of a previous government. At the same time, other risks may
arise from the deteriorating conditions of the competing mode--roads. If the road network deteriorates the
railways may have an even bigger role to play in the transport of goods and passengers and with it the
pressures for subsidies and lower tariffs would surface. On the other hand, with continuous improvement
to the road network, a competitive environment can effectively work and the capitalized company can
continue to focus on serving, on a market-competitive basis, the transport of goods in those areas where it
has a competitive advantage (bulk minerals and grains).
35.   Uncertainty will exist when institutions, in order to carry out their programs in the long run, still
must: (a) clarify their responsibilities and accountability; (b) further their institutional strengthening
programs; and (c) secure financial resources. The uncertainty affects the sustainability of the overall
transport infrastructure and as such affects the sub-projects financed under the Export Corridors Project.
Specifically, the following elements are key to the sustainability of the project investments and institutional
components:
a) clarification of responsibilities between SNC and the Prefecturas and their SDCs, and the National
Secretariat of Transport (and between the Prefecturas and the Municipalities) in regard to the
management of the road network and of the responsibilities for ensuring its adequate maintenance;
b) clarification of the responsibilities between the Superintendency and the National Secretariat of
Transport, in respect of advancing the participation of the private sector in road maintenance and
in the definition of particular sector regulatory policies, such as axle load control or safety norms;
c) improved access by the SDCs to technical and institutional support in order to strengthen the
concept of continuous maintenance at the Prefectura level (which was already ingrained at the
national level);
d) an adequate information system for increased accountability at all levels; road construction and
maintenance is an area in which the Prefecturas have now become very active. However, no
systematic information is available regarding the coverage of those activities or the outcome of
such initiatives. At the Prefectura level, an effective decentralization starts by creating a
constituency to whom the SDCs would become accountable. This constituency must know the
results achieved by the Prefecturas, and to judge them appropriately must be able to compare them
with those in other Prefecturas. At the national level, the SNC, the SNTAC, and even the Ministry
of Finance also need to monitor the progress of those programs executed through departmental and
municipal governments to assess the outcome of national transport policies. The national



- 11 -
evaluation system, to which (according to the ADL) the Prefecturas must respond, provides an
excellent opportunity to put the information and monitoring systems to work.
e) improved financial mechanisms; to ensure that the maintenance of the road network is carried out
on time and to standards commensurate with the demand. The first priority is to implement the
tariff concept, based on road user-charges managed at the national, departmental and local levels in
order to reduce the existing dependence on intergovernmental transfers;
f) ensure adequate financing for INPEX and the Superintendency of Transport, to attract highly
qualified staff and develop the relevant information systems. In both cases, the funds can come
from the entities either served by INPEX or being regulated by the Superintendency. For the latter,
the concession contract establishes the amount of money to be charged. For the former, funds must
be provided up-front to develop the systems, and then sell the information for a fee to reduce the
dependency from the central government budget. Needless to say, political interference in the
workings of these two institutions would thwart the sustainability of their actions.
36.   For the ESF, the outcome was fully achieved but it remains to be seen if the SIF or the
municipalities and Prefecturas are able to take over the ESF actions on secondary and rural roads. The
project due to its breadth did not provide for this capacity to be built up.
37.   A key objective of the project, and whose sustainability is critical for its success, is the timely
application of road maintenance practices. These practices now rely on the Prefecturas (for budgeting) and
the SDCs (for execution), while the supervision of compliance relies on the SNC. The ADL mandated that
toll revenues should be earmarked for road maintenance, but no enforcing capability and accountability has
been put in place to check that the Prefecturas are, in fact, complying with the ADL mandate. With many
roads in poor condition and Prefectura budgets which must look after several competing sectors, it is
understandable that Prefecturas would give preference to periodic maintenance and rehabilitation over
routine maintenance. Under these circumstances, such decisions may reflect local priorities. However,
these priorities, when affecting the national network, may be in contradiction with national priorities and
thus may affect achieving national economic policies. Experience in other countries shows how difficult it
is to move entities towards a "continuous" maintenance culture. The ADL has yet to provide the needed
incentives to move in this direction.
38.   Though these issues still remain to be addressed, the prospects for improved sustainability are
nevertheless reasonably good since Government is already aware of the risks involved in the more
contentious aspects of the decentralization of road management and has already initiated actions to improve
this decentralization to make it work--such as clarification of roles and responsibilities and better
enforcement leverage from the central level regarding the maintenance of the national network. The issues
are being pursued as part of the supervision of the on-going Second Road Maintenance Project.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
39.   Project identification and preparation. The project followed two previous operations (Loans
1422-BO and 1587-BO), approved in 1977 and 1978, in the transport sector in Bolivia. The achievement
of the objectives of those two operations was partial, in part due to the unstable social and macro-economic
conditions in the country during the first half of the eighties and in part due to procurement difficulties and



- 12 -
frequent staff changes. These conditions forced an hiatus in the preparation of new transport projects in
Bolivia. With an improving economic framework, in 1986, the Bank initiated sector work activities that
resulted in the Transport Strategy Paper No. 6882, of July 10, 1987, and later in the report "Bolivia:
Export Corridors Study" (No. 7298-BO) of June 16, 1988. This sector work served as valuable sectoral
background information for the preparation of the project. And as a result, the identification of the issues
and the main project components was adequately carried out.
40.   Project appraisal. Based on the preparatory analysis realized during the identification phase as
well as on the previous sector work, the appraisal correctly identified the main issues, risks and direction of
the objectives. The road component was adequately dimensioned for the capacity of the executing
institution and adequately incorporated the development of a maintenance "culture" in the institution (later
pursued with the preparation and implementation of the Second Road Maintenance Project). For the
railway component, however, the appraisal assessed too optimistically the institutional capacity and
commitment of the railway company to undertake the proposed investments and management changes. The
entity actually lacked the commitment to change to a commercial enterprise, and continuous problems with
procurement prevented the timely execution of most of the project's railway works. In addition, the
financial strength of ENFE was overestimated at appraisal and a more thorough analysis of risks would
have helped identify the potential shortcomings of its financial position despite the change in tariff policy
that was implemented to better reflect long-run average costs (a condition for ENFE disbursements).
Regarding the ESF component, it appears in restrospect as an isolated, temporary attempt to generate
employment through the execution of labor-intensive public works. The project, due to its breadth, did not
allow consideration of a more encompassing strategy to develop capacity at the local level to address this
goal on a more sustainable basis. Furthermore, regarding the INPEX component, the objective to be
achieved--encouraging the use of containers and air freight--besides lacking indicators to measure whether
they were being achieved was too ambitious, given the limited scope of the INPEX technical assistance and
the absence of long-term strategies and additional funding to pursue the technical assistance efforts.
41.   Overall, the project design did not adequately anticipate the effort that would be required to bring
the components executed by five very different entities to a satisfactory level of completion. In the end,
however, the project, aided largely by the commitment of the 1993 administration to the capitalization of
ENFE, achieved most of its intended objectives. The sustainability of the actions in the road sector,
particularly in strengthening planning and policy making functions, and in promoting containerization,
remains to be seen.
42.   Supervision. Project supervision utilized about 110 staff weeks throughout the implementation
period (about 6.5 years). Thirteen supervision missions--including the completion report mission--visited
Bolivia from February 1990 to September 1996. The Back-to-Office reports provide for an easy follow up
on the progress of project implementation as well as on the institutional reforms that had an impact on the
project development objectives being achieved. Bank missions drew the attention of: (a) the (then)
Ministries of Planning, Transport and Finance in regard to the performance of the ENFE component; (b)
the Secretariat of Transport on key steps to address the long-term sustainability of the decentralization
reform; and (c) the Ministry of Finance regarding the overall performance of the project and some of its
shortcomings. Though acknowledging the difficulties surrounding the implementation of the project, the
monitoring indicators for project implementation and development objectives were always rated
satisfactory. Unsatisfactory ratings were mostly given to the financial and auditing indicators, and
occasionally to project management.



- 13 -
43.   In January 1995, a supervision mission, including a financial management specialist, was fielded to
devise strategies to improve covenant compliance. The aide-memoire included specific strategies to address
audit compliance and enhance the SNC's financial management systems. (Follow-up on this matter is
being taken as part of the supervision of the Second Road Maintenance Project.) In addition, in view of the
major difficulties in advancing the ENFE components, IDA agreed to restructure the project and allocate
the funds initially slated for the construction of the terminal in Santa Cruz and for the rehabilitation of
certain parts of the railway network to the capitalization of the railway company. The restructuring meant
that instead of entrusting ENFE with the design and implementation of the capitalization process, this task
was assigned to the Ministry of Capitalization. (The impending privatization of ENFE--which required the
audit of this company--compelled the full compliance with the audit requirements for this executing
institution.) In the end, seeing the results, restructuring the project was the right thing to do and the implied
strategy the appropriate way to go.
44.   In spite of having an on-going dialogue on the main policies for the decentralization, the Bank had
little involvement in drawing up the decentralization law issued in August 1995. Further discussions
between the approval of that law and the enactment of the subsequent Supreme Decree 24215 of December
1995, allowed for some degree of softening in the stance of the ADL in regard to the road sub-sector. As a
matter of fact, the Supreme Decree 24215 was issued exclusively for the road sector. Nevertheless, in spite
of IDA efforts, the momentum did not prevent a drastic decentralization of the entire road network within a
six month period. IDA advice however translated into the enactment of articles in the Supreme Decree that
reversed the ADL-implied disappearance of the SNC, postponing the dismantling of the SNC until the
completion of all the internationally-financed projects. The future of the SNC and the entire institutional
framework in the sector still remains to be seen. Follow-up is being taken as part of the supervision of the
Second Road Maintenance Project.
45.   IDA advised the Government about the risks associated with the drastic decentralization of the road
network. In three subsequent missions, IDA provided a blueprint of a more gradual process, which would
have permitted the assumption of the new responsibilities by both the decentralized institutions and the
remainder of SNC. IDA recognized the merits of the reform in increasing the efficiency in the provision of
public services at the local level, but advised the SNC and the SNTCAC about the risks associated with a
drastic process for the entire road network. IDA in fact recommended the decentralization of the
departmental (secondary) network--about 12,000 kmns of maintainable roads-- keeping the national
network--about 8,000 kms--with the SNC, and, as capacity was built up at the departmental level, the
transfer of the management of particular sections of the national network under specific agreements. IDA
supervision missions--in respect of both the Export Corridors and the on-going Second Road Maintenance
projects--further discussed with high level officials at the SNTCAC and the Ministry of Finance the
implications of the decentralization agenda for achieving the objectives of the project, and drew the
attention of the sector authorities to the issues that the agenda should address to ensure long-term
sustainability.
46.   The major changes in the institutional set up and the rapid implementation of the decentralization
agenda could not have been foreseen at appraisal. With the decentralization coming at a time when all
physical investments were committed, IDA did not consider it feasible to further restructure the project and
adapt it to the changing institutional responsibilities. This issue is being followed up as part of the
supervision of the Second Road Maintenance Project (Credit 2395-BO).



- 14 -
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
47.   Preparation. All the institutions involved in the project carried out the project preparation
activities in a timely and efficient manner, with advice provided by IDA. Contributions made on
information and strategies were timely and adequate for the preparation of the Staff Appraisal Report. The
preparation benefited from previous sector work undertaken by IDA with the collaboration of the Bolivian
counterpart institutions.
48.   Project implementation. The loan agreement was declared effective three months later than
initially planned, once Government had complied with the IDA condition for effectiveness (presenting a
detailed road maintenance program for 1990 and an outline of a program for 1991-93). Implementation of
the project components did not suffer any major delays because of a lack of counterpart funds.
49.   The road components were executed largely on time and within budgets. The increase in costs on
the La Paz-Oruro highway was due mainly to increased investments on the road shoulders. The supervision
of the La Paz-Oruro highway was capably undertaken by the SNC itself with the credit providing the funds
to purchase the necessary vehicles and laboratory equipment and materials; a facility was built next to the
contractor's compound for that purpose. The commendable performance of the SNC in managing the
execution of the La Paz-Oruro works (and directly supervising them) was the reason for using the credit's
unallocated funds for undertaking additional rehabilitation works on another segment of the La Paz-Potosi
road. The reallocation was approved in January 1993. The rehabilitation of the new project took longer to
complete because the change in administration in mid-1993 delayed the procurement process. By the
credit closing date, about 20 percent of this component remained unfinished and the financing of its
completion was transferred to Credit 2395-BO (Second Road Maintenance Project). The ESF component
was completed rapidly because of the strong commitment and efficient functioning of the executing
institution and also because it included previously-completed works.
50.   With regard to the railway component, ENFE's performance was unsatisfactory. After three years
since project effectiveness, the railway company had not been able to complete any of the procurement
processes considered under the project (track improvements, intermodal terninal, etc.) except for the partial
reballasting of the Oriental network and the application of the vegetable-control chemicals. Another
component--conversion of box cars--was completed on time but could not be disbursed because of lack of
the necessary documentation. Still another component--bridge rehabilitation on the Oriental network--was
purchased but their installation could not be undertaken before credit closing. The only important
component that was completed was the telecommunication equipment, but even this one was carried out
with substantial delays. Finally, the major institutional component--the management consultants providing
technical assistance to ENFE's management--failed to achieve its main objective of changing the entities'
management style--to a commercial orientation--because the institution even if apparently eager was less
enthusiastic about assuming the necessary transfer of knowledge and skills and adopt the necessary
institutional changes. This poor performance led to the recommendation to restructure the project and
entrust most of the studies for the capitalization of the railway component to the Ministry of Capitalization.
This Ministry, after a hesitant start due to its newness and the visibility of its mandate, was able to carry
out the process with a high degree of professionalism and efficiency. The Ministry hired young staff that,
even if they were not familiar with the railway sub-sector, had a drive for results and to push the process
ahead, under the full support of high level officials in the Ministry.



- 15 -
51.   The Credit was extended for one year to give enough time for the adequate completion of the
capitalization of the railway company. The extension was agreed to more in response to the new
framework than to delays in the implementation of project, though the works on the Machacamarca-Pazna
road would have been largely unfinished had the credit not been extended.
52.   Compliance with loan covenants. Compliance with loan covenants was generally satisfactory,
with the exception of the financial and audit covenants of ENFE. In its audits reports, the external
auditors pointed out several deficiencies in ENFE's accounts and internal control procedures which led to
no opinion on the financial statements of the agency, though not for the project accounts (which did not
present any difficulties). The annual audit reports were always late, four to eight months later than the
covenant date, and towards the end of the project even two years late. With the advent of the capitalization,
ENFE became eventually up to date in the delivery of the reports. ENFE also failed to comply readily with
the requirement that the average queue of freight cars awaiting traction in Arica (Chilean port) and
Charafra (Bolivian border) should be less than 100 in a month. This condition was finally complied with in
mid- 1993, right before the change in administration. ENFE had undertaken part of the slope-improvement
works on the La Paz-Charania segment, but by the time disbursements needed to be done, ENFE could not
locate the necessary documentation. The same situation happened with the boxcar conversion. Similarly,
for the construction of a intermodal terminal in Santa Cruz, ENFE had to secure the land, undertake the
designs, and award a management contract for operation of the terminal to a qualified operating company.
Continuous difficulties in securing the land--whose location had to be shifted because the initial location
was in a potentially flooded area and then became difficult to secure because of disagreements with the
customs administration over the ownership and use of a lot previously owned by ENFE--and inaction in
awarding the management contract, delayed the initiation of this component which was ultimately not
undertaken and its funds transferred to the Ministry of Capitalization to finance the studies and technical
assistance for the capitalization of ENFE.
53.   The SNC complied with the loan covenants, submitting the required investment plans and
maintenance programs but failed to submit the audit reports on time and with an unqualified opinion. The
audit reports showed shortcomings in the internal control systems. Though the project accounts did not
present any difficulties, the financial management systems of the institution lacked the necessary reliability
and accuracy that the project's covenants required. In February 1995, a supervision mission included a
financial management specialist and the corresponding aide-memoire included specific actions to strengthen
the SNC's financial management systems. Follow-up on this matter is being pursued as part of the Second
Road Maintenance Project.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
54.   Overall rating. The project's overall outcome has been satisfactory. Given the implementation
scenario and the change in administration that took place in 1993, overall performance was better than
could be expected. The majority of the sector policy objectives were achieved, except for the critical issues
that were opened up towards the end of the project by the application of the policy directives of the ADL to
the road sub-sector.
55.   The achievement of the physical targets planned in the SAR was substantial, contributing to the
expansion and improvement of the condition of key links of the country's export corridors (specifically,



- 16 -
those radiating from its two main cities, La Paz and Santa Cruz). The economic analysis performed upon
project completion shows that the investments had a positive impact on transport costs and have facilitated
access to export routes. The economic indicators are satisfactory, though generally lower than those
anticipated at appraisal.
56.   In regard to the railway component, the restructuring of the project to directly address the
capitalization of the railway entity helped achieve the project objective of incorporating comnmercial
practices into the railway sub-sector. Conversely, most of the railway physical components were not
implemented, but ultimately the country should benefit from the capitalization of the railway company. In
this process, the regulatory function has been initiated (SIRESE) and, though it still needs to be
strengthened, it is providing the needed experience to improve the competitive functioning of the transport
sector.
57.   The results of the long term efforts to build capacity for road maintenance were mixed, as a
consequence of the sudden decision to decentralize of the road network. The project made an initial
important contribution in this area, which is being pursued under the on-going Second Road Maintenance
Project. The capacity of the government to monitor the impact and incorporate the corrective measures
remains to be seen. In retrospect, the project's outcome regarding the road component would have been
better, had the reform mandated a more gradual decentralization of SNC's activities and emphasized the
strengthening of the SNC to undertake its supervisory and normative responsibilities, consistent with the
new decentralization policies.
58.   Another outcome that remains to be seen is the structure for the National Secretariat of Transport,
where frequent reshuffling of staff has not permitted it to build up the technical expertise to carry out the
more limited but specilized task of transport sector planning and policy making. For INPEX, the outcome
can be assessed as satisfactory since the objective of providing the institution with the tools necessary to
strengthen its activities and promote containerization and air freight was achieved. For the ESF
component, except for the caveat made in para. 8 in reference to the mnissed opportunity to further advance
its objectives, the outcome was fully attained.
H.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
59.   Government is taking actions in three main areas that will eventually contribute to improving
project sustainability, namely (1) clarifying and strengthening the roles of the Superintendency, the
SNTCAC, the SNC and the Departmental units, (2) developing strategies to enhance road sector funding
and other maintenance policies, and (3) developing a viable investment program (including maintenance) to
further reduce transport costs.
60.   Clarifying and strengthening the redefined role of the sector institutions. After the institutional
changes undertaken by the current government, several institutions are in charge of various aspects of the
transport sector. Currently, the SIRESE Transport Superintendency, the SNC and the SNTAC have
various, if sometimes overlapping, roles in the sector. In principle, the SNC is in charge of executing the
investment programns set by the SNTCAC and of ensuring that the necessary maintenance is carried in the
network. The SNTCAC is the policy-making entity and in charge of defining the long-range development
plans in the sector. Finally, the Superintendency is in charge of regulating the operations of the new private
companies (including the railways but also the aviation) network and those that may come in relation to



- 17 -
road concessions. The new institutional enviromnent appears justified but a major revamping of their roles
is necessary if the new institutions want to contribute with their newly acquired functions and to fulfill the
related responsibilities. To achieve this, the government needs to acknowledge the importance of the new
functions and assign the necessary resources and staff to undertake them. There also remain a need to
clarify responsibilities and provide the necessary legal tools to enforce the new mandates.
61.   The clarification and strengthening of roles is particularly critical in the case of the road sector,
where the new SNC--a reorganized autonomous national entity--must supervise and enforce maintenance
activities at the departmental level. In addition, the SNC has to play a leading role in coordinating and
monitoring the implementation of technical assistance programs at the sub-national level. The SNC should
also have the prerogative of receiving back the national road network of any Prefectura--through this entity
transferring under contract the assets and the necessary resources--that has not shown the technical,
administrative and financial capacity to manage such a network, as measured by objective indicators (e.g.,
specific maintenance targets). This approach may be the only way under the current legal framework for
the reorganized SNC, for it to carry out the functions entrusted to it by Supreme Decree 24215 and to have
the leverage to enforce national policies (e.g., maintenance). The Government has already taken certain
actions--securing, for instance, the service of specialized management consultants-to revisit the
institutional framework and devise ways--in line with those indicated before--to make it work. The specific
operational actions are summarized in the form of a logical framework table in Appendix B (Table 1). The
upcoming change in administration in August 1997 could either hinder or encourage more progress towards
this objective.
62.   Strengthening road sector funding and axle load control policies. This action is being pursued
as part of the Second Road Maintenance Project. It is an action necessary to ensure that the resources
generated by road user charges are reinvested in the road network so that its deterioration is stopped on
time to prevent high vehicle operating costs and higher rehabilitation costs in the future. The new
decentralized scheme requires fiscal discipline to enforce adequate maintenance of the network. The law
indicates that the tolls collected on the roads should be reinvested but there is a need to ensure compliance
and, in addition, generate additional financial mechanisms to cover the existing gap. Also, trucks are often
overweight (a survey undertaken in 1995 showed that 60 percent of the trucks are overweight with an
average of 40% above the then applicable axle-load limits); the government has put forward a Supreme
Decree establishing the maximum dimensions and weights for vehicles. This requires enforcement which is
now in the hands of the Prefecturas. It is too early to assess its impact but further implementation
strategies need to be developed.
63.   The Government intends to ensure the funds necessary to fully implement the systems developed
under the project in the case of INPEX and revamp the infrastructure component of the SIF. In this latter
case, the Government intends to strengthen the implementation of the laws--Popular Participation and
ADL--that assign major resources to the local level and hence spur the development of local infrastructure
towards improving the living standards and reducing bottlenecks in the access of agricultural production
areas to markets.
64.   Investment program. The SNTCAC is developing a transport master plan--with funds from the
IDB--to define priorities for the transport sector in the medium term. The intent is to continue to
rehabilitate the road network and construct key missing links along the main export and integration
corridors in the country. As the needs are very large, the Government of Bolivia has been trying to secure



- 18 -
additional international financing to undertake them. In addition, it has started exploring the possibilities--
however limited they may be due to the generally low traffic levels--of incorporating the private sector into
the financing and operation of road investments. This would not produce spectacular results in the near
future but deserves consideration to build up the institutional expertise to expand it in the future as traffic
levels increase.
65.   In addition, with a view to ensuring adequate maintenance practices by the Prefecturas, the SNC
together with the SDCs is attempting to draw up maintenance programs with time-bound targets, and to
ensure that the needed financing is allocated to achieve those targets. This would be complemented with
institutional building programs to ensure that (a) the mechanisms developed under the project (such as the
Management Maintenance System) are implemented, and (b) that progress achieved under the project (and
continued under the Second Road Maintenance Project) in the management of the national road network is
effectively sustained (and enforced) to the Prefectura level. These efforts would include the elimination of
force account for non-routine activities, the emphasis on the provision of technical assistance services under
the reorganized SNC, and a better understanding of the financing mechanisms for maintenance under a
more decentralized framework. Furthermore, maintenance carried out by contract to take advantage of the
existence of small local contractors--as shown by the response in the implementation of the ESF
component--should be promoted and, as a result, start to build up a constituency that would demand the
appropriate maintenance of the road network.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
66.   Several lessons can be derived from the implementation of this project and from the major
institutional reform that took place between 1995-1996. The lessons discussed below pertain to issues
related to the implementation of institutional reform, the design of institutional building programs, and the
impact of reforms on the restructuring of the road sub-sector. Lessons are also drawn from the factors that
affected project implementation.
67.   The experience in implementing Bolivia's institutional reforms confirms that reform processes
when undertaken without a clear consensus, with no pre-defined strategies, rarely produce the intended
results. In the case of Bolivia, the application of the ADL to the road sub-sector adopted a "top-down"
approach, imposing particular outcomes on the sub-sectoral institutions, with limited dialogue involved. It
also lacked a specific strategy. The experience shows that it is not enough to pass legislation. It is also
necessary to internalize strategies and concepts, and to define an incremental process which would permit
adaptation in light of acquired practice and institutional capacities.
68.   The ADL attempted to apply a unified model across most economic and social sectors and transfer
resources to newly created entities, i.e., the Prefecturas. Not having the resources in hand, the central
government was forced to transfer responsibilities as well but without an enforcement capacity in place. In
the road sub-sector, the lack of a clear strategy and the sheer magnitude of the task, required the issuance
of a specific supreme decree whose purpose was to limit the overall impact of the ADL and clarify the new
institutional structure. However, the Supreme Decree attempted to achieve a compromise in order to
delegate some functions to the SNTCAC which, in light of the capitalization of the public enterprises that
had been under its jurisdiction, was being divested of major responsibilities. Supreme Decree 24215 also
established normative and supervisory functions which require a strong institutional base and a clear
structure of incentives. Most of them have not been fully implemented because of the weak institutional



- 19 -
base, and insufficient efforts to overcome it through institutional building programs. Rapid approval of the
legislation and the lack of an integral strategy to support the changes--in a sector with a weak record of
institutional capacity-has led to an uncertain outcome. Political considerations appear to have forced
quick, radical changes. However, without a sound implementation strategy in place, the risks of delays and
setbacks have increased substantially, and may jeopardize the achievement of the objectives of such
changes. The dismantling of SNC started without having in place neither adequate financing nor the
control mechanisms and appropriate institutions to take over its responsibilities. The current difficulties
could have been avoided had the reform provided for a longer transitional period, linked with the progress
made in establishing the new institutional arrangements and responsibilities.
69.   In contrast, the capitalization of ENFE responded to a clear strategy to reduce the role of the
Government in services whose provision could be undertaken by the private sector, and to modemize the
productive sectors of the economy. This strategy was unequivocally supported by the creation of a single,
politically-leveraged, entity, which assumed a clear responsibility and a clear mandate. This "centralized"
version of a reform clearly performed better than the "decentralized" (looser) version of the ADL in the
road sub-sector, even though both have become effective for only about a year and it may still be early to
judge fully their results. In sum, in the capitalization process, a clear strategy led to a clear structure, while
in the ADL , the lack of a strategy led to a muddled structure, with a lack of incentives and accountability.
70.   The transfer of roads from the central government to the Prefecturas gave rise to often difficult
negotiations over the control of the equipment and material resources, instead of focusing on building up
capacity at the Prefectura level and on the technical relationship between the core SNC and the nine
decentralized road agencies. In addition, the transfer of resources preceded the definition of the
responsibilities, which the central government was complelled to do because it found itself without the
resources to carry them out. The responsibilities however were not clearly spelt out and no requirements
were established to ensure that resources were clearly assigned to particular responsibilities (aside from the
tolls). The mechanisms, financial and otherwise, to support the transfer should have been clearly defined in
advance to avoid this risk The major risk of the current framework lies in the difficulty the Prefecturas
have to promptly develop enough capacity to maintain their networks. In the case of roads, this risk is
more evident due to the higher likelihood of road closures, particularly during the rainy season (December
to March) and in sections of difficult terrain between the Highlands and the Lowlands.
71.   Moreover, disparities between regions and the application of across the board policies may hurt
some regions at the expense of benefits for others. To strike the right balance is a difficult task. In
addition, managerial capacity at the local level is limited and developing the financial and administrative
systems to manage a large labor pool and a vast road network requires time and development of the
necessary skills. The new framework may play a role in developing these systems, but its sudden and
drastic approach has not provided the incremental and flexible process that is needed to respond to the
diversity of regional conditions.
72.   The prospects for sustainability of the decentralization process can be improved by: (a) promoting
technical assistance and building partnerships between the remainder of the SNC and the SDCs. This
requires changing the current confrontational stance between the SNC and the Prefecturas (and their
SDCs) towards one of partnership in which the SNC provides its pool of experts and the Prefecturas and
the SDCs accept the role of the SNC. This also requires the strengthening of the SNC as an autonomous,
high-performance entity which in addition to supervising the execution of mutually-agreed programs by the



- 20 -
deconcentrated entities also provides technical support; (b) tailoring the decentralization responsibilities to
the capacities and requests of these entities, in such a way that, if necessary, the SNC could be entrusted by
particular Prefecturas with the management of their network (and with the transfer of the necessary
financial and human resources). The SNC should start launching an institutional development program
which, rather than following a rigid agenda, would finance organizational and management technical
assistance in those departments that request that assistance, with the agenda defined jointly with the
beneficiary department; and (c) developing a clear purpose, well understook by the participating entities,
and ensuring sustained commitment to it while seeking incremental results. Though it is generally accepted
that building institutional capacity is a long term effort, this is often neglected in practice when the
objectives of such programs are set in a manner that are not consistent with the time needed to produce the
desired changes. More attention should be devoted to defining an appropriate sequence for the
interventions needed and setting progressive benchmarks--on the basis of mutually-agreed maintenance
programs and performance development measures. The use of these benchmarks will help focus the
institutional actions on a few priority goals, facilitate the evaluation of progress, and increase motivation by
showing results. Furthermore, the difficulty of tailoring both sequence and benchmarks to the variety of
regional conditions prevailing in Bolivia cannot be ignored and, hence, actions require flexibility in their
design.
73.   Another aspect that posed difficulties in the application of sectoral reforms such as the ones that
took place under the project was the apparent diminished role of the SNTCAC (formerly, the Ministry of
Transport) in light of the impending privatization of the railway, aviation, and telecommunication services
and the setting up of the pertinent regulatory bodies. The SNTCAC reluctantly assumed the less politically
visible activities of policy planning and norm setting, both largely technical. In an effort by the SNTCAC
to recoup some functions and responsibilities of the SNC, the SNC has been weakened while the SNTCAC
lacks the capacity to assume them. An alternative, more promising approach, would have been for the
SNTCAC to assume more limited but specialized responsibilities in policy planning and develop SNC as an
autonomous executing agency of general road sub-sector policies established by the SNTCAC (regarding
enforcement of maintenance programs, axle load control policies, norms for maintenance and construction,
environmental regulations, etc.).
74.   Another lesson learned during the implementation of the project concerns the need to design
mechanisms that shield projects from the inevitable changes in administration and/or staff of the executing
entity. The implementation of the project's many components often suffered from continuous reshuffling of
staff, if it finally was brought to a satisfactory conclusion, it was mainly because of general agreement with
the project's objectives. The difficulties partially came from the limited availability and continuity of
experienced managers and the absence of incentives for public employees. (This factor also explains the
contrast between the satisfactory conclusion of the ENFE component and the uncertain sustainability of the
SNC and INPEX components.) Shielding project implementation from staff changes is not a small task,
but it could be improved by: (a) engaging key long-term consultants that sustain the implementation pace in
spite of staff or administration changes, though this approach may be to the detriment of achieving the
intended institutional development objectives, (b) designing projects in an incremental or stepwise fashion
in such a way that each stage must be completed within a given governmental administration and
subsequent stages are contingent on the accomplishment of the specified implementation and development
indicators/ benchmarks and the continued commitment to the project's objectives and components by the
incoming administration, or (c) carrying out reforms in the civil service (which Bolivia is currently
undertaking) through which a more limited but well-remunerated human resource base, subject to



-21 -
satisfactory performance, assumes the responsibility for managing investment projects in the public sector.
This lesson is particularly critical in situations where, like in Bolivia, the managerial and technical resource
base of public institutions is limited.
75.    Finally, the Export Corridors Project, with five different components, executed by a similar number
of different entities, did not have a substantive impact on some of its objectives--like the ESF and INPEX
objectives--and was perhaps too ambitious because of the breadth of its interventions. In this regard, the
lesson learned has been that, in order to achieve a greater impact, either the objectives of particular project
components need to be less ambitious or the number of sub-sectoral components must be reduced to allow
for a sharper focus and a more specific intervention (or, still, a third alternative would be to split a project
into several concurrent or sequential projects, each on its own terms with a commensurate set of
development impacts).






- 23 -
PART 11. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial      Partial      Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                               V
Sector policies                                        1
Financial objectives                                   V
Institutional development                              V
Physical objectives                      vs
Poverty reduction                                                                    v
Gender concerns                                                                      I
Other social objectives                                                              V
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                               v
Private sector development               v
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely            Unlikely           Uncertain
Road component                                                                  v
Railway component                        v
Labor intensive works comp.              vs
Transp. inst. strengthening comp.                                               v
Export promotion comp.           H      s
C. Bank Performance                 Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                               v
Preparation assistance                                       v
Appraisal                                                    v
Supervision                                                 v
D. Borrower performance             Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                                  vs
Implementation                                              v
Covenant compliance                                         v
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome              Highly                                       Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
V. 
Note: Even if the sustainability of three out of five components is uncertain, the overall assessment is rated as
satisfactory because most development objectives were achieved and the physical targets were surpassed. Recent
untested institutional reforms have led to the uncertain evaluation of the long-term, sustained attainment of the
project's development objectives.



- 24 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                  Purpose                     Year of      Status
I  I                                     I  approval
Preceding Operations
l.Third Railway Project, Assist ENFE in its modernization and  1977          Completed
Ln. 1422-BO         infrastructure rehabilitation through financing of      Dec. 1981
foreign exchange component of investments
contemplated in ENFE's 77-81 Investment Plan.
2.Highway Maintenance  Acquisition of equipment and spare parts,  1978       Completed
Project, Ln. 1587-BO   construction of warehouses and workshops,            Dec 1986
implementation of maintenance program,
technical assistance to SNC and training.
3.Emergency Social    Support activities of the Emergency Social Fund, 1987  Completed
Fund Project, Cr.   which was then created to alleviate the impact of       June 1989
1829-BO             stabilization policies of 1985. Activities
consisted on small-scale sub-projects in
production and social infrastructure, education,
health, and nutrition.
4.Second Emergency    Support same type of activities as previous  1988      Completed
Social Fund Project,   project.                                            March
Cr. 1882-BO                                                                 1991
Following Operations
6.Second Road         Improve road conditions, road maintenance,    1992     In progress
Maintenance Project,   maintenance management, planning and
Cr. 2395-BO         operation, investment planning. Ensure
maintenance funding. Strengthen construction
industry and transfer maintenance technology to
regional directorates.
7.Capitalization Program  Assist Government to establish the appropriate  1994  In progress
Adjustment Credit, Cr. regulatory framework to attract private
2741-BO             investment. Divest and capitalize key public
enterprises.
8.Regulatory Reform and Assist Government in the planning and  1995          In progress
Capitalization      execution of the capitalization program. Design
Technical Assistance   and establish the overall regulatory framework
Project, Cr. 3250-BO   for the future.
Includes projects in the same sector/sub-sector as this project. A limit of 20 years is observed when listing
preceding operations.



- 25 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                                                             Date planned                                      Date actual
Identification (IEPS)                                                                                                                                           December 1987
.....................................I..............................................................................  .................................................. .........................................................
PreaaiL   pe~pria)June 1988                                                                                                                                           June 1988
.......................................................................................................... .................................................. ......................................................
Appra              ......................a................Oct..............ober  1988                                                                           December  1988
................................................................................................................................................................................................
Negotiations              ...............................January..................                                           1989                        ...f     ray. 1989
Letter of development policy 5if applicable)                                                                                n.a.                                            n.a                         I
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............................... ...............................................................................
L,ay 1989                                   May 11, 1989
S iAugust 4, 1989
.... ...... ............................................................................................... ......... ...............................I......... .......... .................. ........... s
Effectiveness                                                                                                   November 1989                                 Febry21, 1990
.........................            .............................................................................   ................... ............................... I........ . .   .....................................
First tranche rees  i  plcbe)na                                                                                                                                             n.a
.is rnh ees ie ,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ...............                                                                       ...                                                 A................. ,na,....... ,
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                                                              n.a.                                            n.a
........................................................                                .................  ......................... nA...................... ............................ aA........................
LSecond (and tind trnh  releas (if applicable)                                                                              n.a.,,,,,                                        n.a,
Projectcompletion                                                                                            December31, 1994                                December31, 1995
~~~~~~~............................................................................................       .        ............ ........................................... ................................. ............. s........................ ....... 
Loan closing                                                                                                      June 30, 1995                                   June 30, 1996
Table 4: Loan Disbursement
(US$ Million)
FY                                     89                 90               91                 92                   93                 94                    95                     96
Annual Appraisal Estimate                                                            5.8               12.5                13.3                 5.0                 0.4
Cumulative Appr. Estimate                                                            5.8              18.3                31.6                36.6                37.0                   37.0                    37.0
Annual Actual                                                      2.4               4.8                9.7                 8.1                 4.2                  1.2                    4.3                     2.3
Cumulative Actual                                                  2 4               7.2               16.9               25.0                29.2                 30.4                  34.7                 37.0"
Cum. Actual as % of Estimate                                                     124.1               92.4                79.1                 79.8                82.2                   93.8                   100.0
" In US$ terms, the credit amount was fully disbursed. The higher US$ amount at project completion was due to a
higher value of the SDR during the last years of project implementation.
21Final disbursement took place on November 15, 1996. US$2,679,624.00 remaining undisbursed were canceled
on that date.



- 26 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation Indicators in SAR President's Report    Appraisal    Actual
Credit 2012-BO Physical Targets
1. Pacific Corridor
- Deferred maintenance of La Paz-Oruro road (km)               228.4   228.4
- Reconstruction of Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado road (km)         192.0   192.0
- Track improvement La Paz-Charafia (reduction in gradients)  from 2.3 to 1.3%  n./a.
- Railway telecommunication equipment (Andean network)             1       1
2. Atlantic Corridor
- Re-ballast Santa Cruz-Puerto Quijarro line (km)                200     108
- Bridge reconst. on Santa Cruz-Puerto Quijarro line (units)       2       0
- Box car conversion (units)                                      40      40
- Railway telecommunication equipment (Oriental network)           1       1
- Construction of Santa Cruz Intermodal Terminal                   1       0
3. System-wide improvements
- Road and rail labor intensive maintenance (no. of projects)     26      28
- Road and rail labor intensive maintenance (labor-months)       n.a.  17,157
- Road and rail labor intensive maintenance (US$ million)        3.9      4.6
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Indicators in SAR President's Report               Appraisal       Actual
ENFE Financial/Operational Targets
- Working ratio                                  Lower than 0.83    In 1992, 1.26
by 1991        without
compensations
and 0.89 with
compensations.
By end 1995,
1.30 and 0.70,
respectively.
- Number of cars awaiting traction in Arica        Less than 100  By Sept. 94, the
number was 42.



- 27 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study            Purpose as defined at          Status                Impact of study
apraisaU/rederined
Patacamaya-   Justify construction of a paved road on  Completed  * Allowed definition of priority road. This
Tambo         the Atlantic export corridor and define          road was then financed with funds from the
Quemado Road design standards.                                 IDB and the OECF and inaugurated on July
Feasibility                                                    14, 1996, two weeks after the Credit closing
Study                                                          date.
Studies under  Development of road maintenance and  Completed  * Improved the capacity of the SNC to
SNC's         equipment management systems (SAM                formulate road maintenance programs and
Technical     and SAE).                                        annual maintenance budgets. It remains to
Assistance                                                     be seen the ultimate impact under the recent
decentralization of the road lines sub-sector.
Studies under   Studies on: (a) railway operations and   Completed  * Helped ENFE improve maintenance and
ENFE's        management; (b) maintenance                      operating practices, define a corporate plan,
Management   programs for equipment, tracks and                and draft performance agreements.
Technical     structures; (c) marketing strategy; (d)        * Helped ENFE and the Ministry of
Assistance    cost accounting and pricing; (e)                 Capitalization define strategies for the
management information systems; (f)             capitalization of the company.
operating procedures; (g) economic,
financial planning and budgeting; (h)
fixed assets revaluation; (i) staffing;
and (j) financial simulation model and
capitalization strategies.                                                             I
Studies under   Studies related to: (a) elaboration of    Completed  * Helped the Government of Bolivia to define
Ministry of    bidding documents and contracts for             the strategy for the capitalization of the
Capitalization  capitalization transaction; (b) legal          railway company, draft the necessary
Technical     framework for that transaction; (c)              bidding documents and contracts for the
Assistance    strategic approaches; (d) fixed assets           completion of the capitalization transaction
revaluation; and (e) definition of              (which took place on March 14, 1996).
regulatory framework.
Studies under   Studies related to the analysis of: (a)    Completed  * Provided reports on the various topics.
INPEX'        markets for Bolivian products; (b) the           Those analyzing the impediments for the
Management   transport distribution chain; (c) the use         expansion of air freight and the use of
Technical     of containers; and (d) the promotion of          containers have been disseminated to export
Assistance    air freight.                                     companies. Allowed setting up information
system that provides data on transport costs
l________   and alternatives transport routes.
Studies under   Studies related to: (a) the organization  Partially    * Provided initial technical support to the
(formerly)    of the (former) MTC; (b) priorities and  completed    (former) MTC, but failed to establish the
MTC's and    funding sources for investment                    base for strengthening the SNTCAC, mainly
(later)       projects; (c) setting up transport data          due to the frequent reshuffling of its
SNTCAC's    base and elaboration of year book of               management and professional staff.
Technical     transport statistics; (d) pre-investment       * Provided the analytical underpinnings for
Assistance    analyses for the identification of               drafting Supreme Decree 24327 of June 28,
transport investments; (e) revision of           1996, that regulates maximum vehicle
road design standards; and (f) setting          dimensions and axle loads. Its effective
l___________ up axle-load control system.                      implementation must yet be carried through.



- 28 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
(1)
Appraisal estimate       Actuallatest estimate
Category                       (US$M)           |          (USSM)
Loan    Local   Total    Loan    Local   Total
1. Works
Rehabilitation El Alto-Oruro         14.8      3.5     18.3     16.9      4.6    21.5
Rehabilitation Machacamarca-Pazfia (2)                           3.9      1.0      4.91
Sub-Total                   14.8      3.5     18.3     20.8      5.6    26.4
2. Works
Track rehabilitation and construction
of Santa Cruz Terminal                1.4      1.7      3.1      0.0      0.0      0.0
3. Works
Labor intensive road and rail         3.5      0.4      3.9      4.1      0.5      4.6
maintenance
4. Goods
Railway drainage, ballast, placement
equipment, bridge parts               2.5      1.8      4.3      1.0      0.1      1.1
Telecommunication system              1.9      0.1      2.0      2.0      0.3      2.3
Boxcar conversion                     0.1      0.0      0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0l
Sub-Total                    4.5      1.9      6.4      3.0      0.4     3.4
5. Goods
Equipment for track improvements      0.5      0.6      1.1      0.0      0.0      0.0
6. Consultants' services
Ministry of Transport                 0.5      0.0      0.5      0.1      0.0      0.1
Railway company (ENFE)                3.2      0.0      3.2      5.2      0.0      5.2
Road agency (SNC)                     0.5      0.0      0.5      1.5      0.0      1.5
Export promotion (INPEX)              0.2      0.0      0.2      0.2      0.0      0.2
Procurement services                  0.8      0.0      0.8      0.4      0.0      0.4
Sub-Total                    5.2      0.0      5.2      7.4      0.0      7.4
6.b. Consultants' services (2)
3Ministry of Capitalization                                      1.4      0.0      1.4
7. Refund of PPF
Refund of PPF                         0.4      0.0      0.4      0.4      0.0      0.4
Unallocated (contingencies)              6.8      2.0      8.8      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total (3)                 37.0     10.1    47.1     37.1       6.5    43.6
l Project costs for investments and services financed under the Loan.
(2) Components added upon reallocation of project funds (in June 1993) and restructuring of the project (in January
95). The works on the Machacamarca-Pazila road were not completed before the closing of the credit and about
US$0.8 million (including supervision) would be financed with proceeds from on-going Credit 2395-BO, Second
Road Maintenance Project.
(3) The total amount disbursed was SDR26,411,424.52, remaining SDR1,888,575.48 undisbursed. The amount
disbursed in USS was US$37,076,435.28, slightly higher that the equivalent US$ value of the SDRs estimated at
appraisal. Sums may not exactly match up due to rounding.



- 29 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
(1)
j| Apprail estimate                Actual
l   (US$M)       |I(USS$M)
Source              Local   Foreign               Local   Foreign
l____________________   Costs             Costs     Total     Costs     Costs     Total
IDA (2)                                                37.0                          37.1
Government of Bolivia                                  10.1                           6.5
(through national budget and
cofinancing resources)
Total                                    647.1 
(1) Project costs for investments and services financed under the Loan.
(2) See note (3) of previous table.



- 30 -
Table 9: Economic Cost and Benefits
Road                       Length (km)   Subproject Costs       NPV (US$m)             IERR (%)
(OOO'US$)
Subproject                    Plan   Actu    Plan    Actual    Appr.    Ex-post    Appr.    Ex-post
al
SNC
Deferred maint. (El Alto-Oruro)               228.0  228.0  18, 300  21, 500        n.a.       5.4       62%        17%
Rehab. Machacamarca-Pazfia Cl)                  n.a.  48.8      n.a.   5, 400       n.a.       5.9        n.a.      27%
ESF (sample of projects)
Sponsored by ENFE
Maint. East Sec. Sta Cruz-Pto. Quijarro line                  127       127       n.a.       n.a.
Maint. South Sec. Sta. Cruz-Yacuiba line                       58        58       n.a.       n.a.
Sponsored by SNC
Improvement Tupiza-Villazon road                              135       145       n.a.       n.a.
Improvement Parquipujio-Catacora road                         106       106       n.a.       n.a.
Improvement Catacora-Hito 4 road                              130       130       n.a.       n.a.
Maint. San Andres-Santiago de Machaca road                    100       45        n.a.       n.a.
Improvement Anojani-Berenguela road                           100       90        n.a.       n.a.
Total                       2i8.0  276.8                                    11.3  pro-rated      19.2
" This investment was incorporated to the project in June 1993 and was not completed before the credit closing date. The outstanding works (for a value of
about US$1 million) would be financed with the proceeds of on-going Credit 2395-BO, Second Road Maintenance Project.



- 31 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreewent Section Covenant Status  Original   Revised                          Description of covenant                              Comments
type          fulfilent fulflllment
date       date
Credit  3.01 (b)    4       C                          The Borrower shall provide funds totaling at least the equivalent of
JS$10,100,000 as follows: US$0.8 million for its FY89; US$3.3 million
for its FY90; US$4.1 million for its FY91; and US$1.9 million for its
FY92.
Credit  3.03 (a)    9       CP   March 31,             The Borrower shall, before March 31 in each of its fiscal years, prepare
each year             nd submit, or cause to be prepared and submitted, to IDA a report on
e progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the
receding fiscal year.
Credit  3.03 (b)    9       CP    Oct. 31,             The Borrower shall, before October 31 in each of its fiscal years,  In compliance in conjunction with
each year             repare and submit, or cause to be prepared and submitted, to IDA a   the same requirement for the
Road Maintenance Program for the following fiscal year.        Second Road Maintenance Project
Credit  3.03 (c)    9       CP    Oct. 31,             The Borrower shall, before October 31 in each of its fiscal years,  Same as previous.
each year             repare and submit, or cause to be prepared and submitted, to IDA a
report on the progress achieved in the execution of the Road
Maintenance Program during the preceding fiscal year.
Credit  3.03 (d)    9       C    Sept. 30,             The Borrower shall, before September 30 in each of its fiscal years,    Same as previous.
each year             ubmit the Transport Sector Investment Program proposed for the
ollowing fiscal year.
Credit  3.04 (a)    12      C                          The Borrower shall enter into a Performance Agreement with ENFE for Completed.
he period 1990 to 1991.
Credit  3.04 (b)    12     CD    Sept. 30,  Sept. 30, Not later than September 30, 1991, the Borrower shall extend the term  In compliance with delays.
91      each year  f effectiveness and revise the terms and conditions of the Performance
Agreement with ENFE to cover the period 1992 to 1994.
Credit  3.04 (c)    9       CP   March 31,             Not later than March 31, in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall  Same as previous.
each year             repare and submit a report on the compliance by each party of the
Performance Agreement with its obligations thereunder.



- 32 -
AgrieemietSection ICo.venant Staus  Orginal   Revised                          Descriptionote of oe   t                             Comet
type-flilet  uflmn
date       date
Credit    3.08      5       C   June 30, 91            Not later than June 30, 1991, the Borrower shall cause SNC to put into Being followed up as part of a
operation SNC's national road maintenance management system and    similar requirement for the Second
equipment management system.                                    Road Maintenance Project.
Credit    4.02      9       C                          The Borrower agrees to demonstrate that all major road and railway
investments in the Borrower's export corridors which the Borrower
proposes to undertake during the implementation of the Project shall
yield economic rates of return of 12% or more and, in the case of the
railway investments, a financial internal rate of return of 10% or more.
Credit  Sched. 1,   12      C                          No withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures under
3 (c)                                        Categories (2), (4) and (5), unless (i) the Performance Agreement shall
have been executed by the parties thereto and shall be satisfactory to
IDA; (ii) ENFE shall have engaged the consultants for the carying out
of the Technical Assistance; and (iii) ENFE shall have restructure its
tariffs.
Credit  Sched. 1,   10      C                          No withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures under Category
3 (d)                                        (5), unless ENFE shall have furnished to IDA evidence that ENFE shall
have taken all action required to ensure that during each of the two
calendar months preceding any such withdrawals the average number of
empty railway freight cars awaiting traction in each of Arica and Charana
shall not have exceeded 100.
Credit  Sched. 1,   10     N/A                         No withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures under Category The Government has requested to
3 (d)                                        (2), other than for Part B. 1, unless ENFE shall have concluded a  cancel the construction of the
management agreement for the operation of the Santa Cruz freight  freight terminal (and dedicate the
terminal.                                                      funds to the 'capitalization').
Project   2.06      10      CD                           NFE hereby undertakes to take all action as shall be required to ensure
(ENFE)                                                  that at all times, for the duration of the Project, the number of empty
railway cars awaiting traction in each of Arica and Charana shall not
exceed 100.



- 33 -
Agreemnent Section Covenant Status Original   Revised                          Description of covenant                              comments
type          MfuWdnent futfillnent
date       date
Project  4.01 (b)    1      CD    April 30,   June 30,  ENFE shall furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later Though audit reports for project
(ENFE)    (ii)                     each year  each year than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of ccounts were submitted within
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of reasonable time of the agreed date,
such audit by said auditors.                                   those for the entity as a whole
were often submitted with
substantial delay.
Project   4.02      2        C                          ENFE shall maintain for its operations a ratio of total working expenses In compliance if compensations
(ENFE)                                                  to total operating revenues not higher than 87% in FY89; 87% in FY90; were taken into account.
and 83% in FY91 and thereafter.
Project  4.03 (a)    2       C                          ENFE shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the  Same as previous
(ENFE)                                                  revenues and expenditures of ENFE shows that the estimated net
operating revenues of ENFE for each fiscal year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.7 times the estimated debt service
requirements.
Project   4.04      2        C                          ENFE hereby undertakes to restructure its tariffs, based upon a new
(ENFE)                                                  raffic costing system and pricing policy, so as to ensure that said tariffs
shall equal at least the long-term variable cost of ENFE's operation on
each freight commodity and passenger train service.
Project   4.05      5       CD                          ENFE hereby undertakes to revalue, based on current market value for  Revaluation of fixed assets
(ENFE)                                                  the corresponding fiscal year, all of its fixed assets in operation no later completed by technical assistance
than December 31, 1990, for its FY90, and not later than every fifth   by 1995.
Fiscal Year thereafter, and to revalue annually for each of its Fiscal Year
in between all its fixed assets in operations, based on the whole sale
price index ("Indice General de Precios") for the corresponding Fiscal
Year as published by the INE.
Project   4.06      10       C                           NFE hereby agrees to demonstrate that all major railway investments in
(ENFE)                                                  the Borrower's export corridors which ENFE proposes to undertake
during the implementation of the project shall yield an economic rate of
return of 12% or more, and a financial internal rate of return of 10% or
more.



- 34 -
Ageeen Section~ Covenant Status  Original   Revisd                        Description of covenant                              Cmet
4 type   |    t|fulfillment f 
date       date
Project   2.07      9       C   October 1,             FSE shall provide to the IDA no later than October 1, 1989, and
(FSE)                            January 1,             ereafter by the first day of each October, January, April and July,
April 1,            reports of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall reasonably request,
uly 1, each           n the progress in carrying out the FSE component of the Project and of
year               ach Subproject.
Project  4.01 (b)    I      C    April 30,             FSE shall furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later
(FSE)     (ii)                   each year             han four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
Isuch audit by said auditors.
Keys:
Covenant types:
I = Accounts/audit                                                8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries   9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                         10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                                           11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency         12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants                                       13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement
Status
C = covenant complied with                                        SOON = compliance expected in reasonably short time
CD = complied with after delay                                    CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with                                            NYD = not yet due



- 35 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Statements
(Not applicable)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
|   Stage of                  Planned                       Revised                          Actual
l _____ _project cycle            Weeks            US$          Weeks           US$            Weeks               US$
__ __ __  _Through appraisal                                                                          54.8             90,681
l  Appraisal-Board                                                                            29.9             58,568
Board-effectiveness
|____ _Supervision   _                       _                                                       109.2            304,357
Completion                                                                                   6.0             20,000
Total                                                                                   199.9             473,606



- 36 -
Table 13: Bank Resources Missions
1            |          |  Specialized            Performance rating
Stage of project cycle    Month/    Number of   Days in      staff skills   Implementation     Development              Types of problems
year       persons      field      represented         status          Objectives
Through appraisal     Jan-88    5             10        TE, RE, HWE,
CON
Mar-88    1             4         TE
Jun-88    7            10         TE, RE, HWE,
CON
FA
Nov-88   6              10        TE, HWE, FA,
RE, TS, CON
Appraisal trough
board approval
Board approval       Jun-89    2             10        TE, HWE
Through effectiveness  Nov-89   2              9          HWE, RE
Supervision        Feb-90    1             3          FA                      2                 1         PM, CLC, ME
Jan-91    1            4          RE                      2                 1         PM, CLC, PROC, STAP
Oct-91    2            10         EC,RE                   2                 1         PM, PROC, STAP, ME
Jul-92    2            5          TE,FA                   2                 1         PM, PROC, STAP, ME
Dec-92   2             5          TE, HWE                 2                 1          PM, AF, ME
May-93   2              4         TE, HWE                  2                 1         PM, CLC, AF, PROC, STAP
Jul-93    1            5          TE                      2                 1         PM, CLC, AF, STAP, ME
Dec-93   2             8          TE, HWE                 2                 1          PM, AF, STAP, ME
Sep-94    1            7          TE                      S                 S         PM, CLC, AF, PROC, STAP, ME
Feb-95    2            8          TE, CON                 S                 S          PM, CLC, AF, PROC, STAP, ME
Nov-95   2              5         TE, TS                  S                 S          CLC, FP, ME
Mar-96   2              5         TE, TS                  S                 S          CLC, FP, ME
Completion         Sep-96    2             8          TE, CON                 S                 S
Total                 19 missions        130       _
Staff Skills                                             Type of problems
TE      = Transport Economist                            AF      = Availability of funds
HWE   = Highway Engineer                                 PM      = Project management performance
FA      = Financial Analyst                              CLC    = Compliance with legal covenants (mainly, audit covenants)
RE      = Railway Engineer                               STAP   = Studies/Technical Assistance Progress
EC      = Economist                                      FP      = Financial performance
CON    = Consultant                                      PROC   = Procurement delayed
TS      = Transport Specialist                           ME      = Monitoring and evaluation



- 37 -
Appendix A: Completion Mission's Aide Memoires



I



Excerpts from Aide-Memoire with Servicio Nacional de Caminos (SNC)
AYUDA MEMORIA
SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS
26 de Septiembre de 1996
INTRODUCCION
1.    Una misi6n de AIF compuesta por Aurelio Menendez (Economista de Transporte) visit6 Bolivia
entre el 17 y 27 de septiiembre de 1996 con el prop6sito, entre otros, de (a) supervisar el progreso en la
ejecucibii dcl Segundo ?rcyecto de Maitenimiento de CarreIeras (Cr6dito 2395-BO) y (b) discutir la
preparaci6n dl informe de terminaci6n del Proyecto de Corredores de Exportaci6n (Cr6dito 2012-BO). La
Sra. Isabele Girardot-Berg, Representante Residente del Banco Mundial en Bolivia asisti6 a la reuni6n
inicial de la misi6n de supervisi6n con el Secretario Nacional de Transporte y ei Director Ejecutivo a.i. del
Servicio Nacional de Caminos. El Sr. Alberto Nogales (consultor de la Misi6n Residente) particip6 en las
actividades de la primera semana de la misi6n. El Sr. Adolfo Navarro (consultor) particip6 en las
reuniones relacionadas con el Informe de Terminaci6n del Proyecto Corredores de Exportaci6n.
2.    La misi6n desea expresar su agradecimiento al Secretario Nacional de Transporte, al Director
Ejecutivo a.i. del Servicio Nacional de Caminos (SNC), y a los funcionarios del SNC en general, por la
ayuda prestada a la misi6n. (El Anexo 5 muestra la lista de personas entrovistadas durante la misi6n.)
3 .    Durante el dia 21 de septiembre, la misi6n visit6 las obras en las carrfteras Rio Seco-Huarina,
Huarina-Escoma, Huarina-Tiquina, y El Alto-Chacaltaya, cuya rehabilitaci6n esta siendo financiada con
los recursos del credito 2395-BO. La misi6n agradece al SNC la organizaci6n de estas visitas.
ASPECTOS INSTITUCIONALES Y EJECUCION PRESUPUESTARIA
4.     El Decreto Supremo No. 24215 que reglamenta la Ley de Descentralizaci6n Administrativa (Ley
1654) en ei sector de caminos entr6 en vigor el 1 de junio de 1996, haciendo efectivo d traspaso de
fimciones, personal y equipos del SNC a los Servicios Departanentales de Caminos (SDCs). Desde
entonces, el Servicio Nacional de Caminos centra sus actividades en la gesti6n de los proyectos con
financiamiento externo, tanto en curso de ejecuci6n como en preparaci6n, mientras que los Servicios
Departamentales de Caminos (SDCs) asumen sus responsabilidades como administradores de las redes
viales en sus respectivas jurisdiciones, haciendose cargo, entre atWas fimciones y fimdamentalmente, de las
labores de mantenimiento de caminos. El SNC, bajo la nornativa a ser desarrollada conjuntamente con la
Secretaria Nacional de Transporte, Comunicaci6n y Aeronautica Civil (SNTCAC), asume, entre otras, la
funci6n de seguimiento y fiscalizaci6n del mantenimiento. El SNC permanece con aproximadamente 350
personas en las oficinas de La Paz y con 10 personas de coordinaci6n de los proyrctos de inversi6n en
ejecuci6n en cada una de las tres regiones en las que se ha dividido el pals (Vales, Oriente, Altiplano).
5.    La misi6n es consciente de que la implementaci6n del esquema de descentralizaci6n exigira un
periodo de transicion durante el que se deben definir y ajustar las nonnas y los procedimicntos para e
fimcionamiento de los SDCs y su relaci6n con la SNTCAC y ei SNC. Sin embargo, la misi6n expres6 su
preocupaci6n de que, desde el I de junio de 1996, la funci6n de seguiniento y fiscalizaci6n del
mantenimiento no se esta realizando adecuadamente, con lo cual el SNC no cuenta con el oportuno
conocimiento de las actividades de mantenimiento, ni siquiera sobre la red fundamental. En este sentido, la
misi6n recomend6 que los sistemas SAM y SAE, aplicados y perfeccionados desde cl comienzo del



TOTAL P.02
-2-
Segundo Proyecto de Mantenimiento, con elo bjeto de evaluar las necesidades y la ejecuci6n de los
pro;parnas de mantenimiento, sean aplicados de forma sistematica. Por otro lado, al no existir un
segwiumento de cerca sobre ei i so de los fondos de mantenimiento asignados a los SDCs (a traves de las
Prefecturas), se corre el riesgo de que esos recursos (incluyendo ademas equipos y personal) se destinen a
labores de construcci6n, mejoramiento y rehabilitaci6n de caminos por administraci6n directa, revirtiendo
,la tendencia lograda durante los ultimos anios de ejecutar estas labores exclusivamnente por contrato y
mermando el objetivo de fomentar el desarrollo de la industria de la construcci6n y de comenzar el anilisis
de las posibilidades de realizar el mantenimiento tambien por concesi6n o por contrato.
6.    Para poder lograr los objetivos de desarrollo econ6mico (y los acuerdos del convenio de credito)
del Segundo Proyecto de Mantenimiento, es preciso asegurar sin mayor dilaci6n el seguimiento y la
imp1liemtaci6n dol 7.decua-> .>.ninPrflto del patrimonio vial. Esto exige, ademis de la asignaci6n de
recursos financieros para el rnanteniniento, el fortalecimiento de las funciones adrinistrativas y de
planificaci6n de los SDCs y la implementaci6n de procedimientos de seguimiento desde ei SNC. Estos
procedimientos deben asegurar el flujo continuo y oportuno de inforrnaci6n desde los SDCs al SNC y la
fiscalizaci6n de las actividades de mantenimiento. Para tal efecto, la misi6n reiter6 su recomendaci6n de la
Ayuda Memoria del 13 de marzo de 1996 en el sentido de impulsar la celebraci6n de acuerdos
institucionales entre el SNC y los SDCs que precisen los derechos y obligaciaoes de ambas partes en
cuanto no solo a inversiones y contribuciones presupuestarias sino ademas en trmiinos de capacitaci6n de
los SDCs, tansferencia de informaci6n entre los SDCs y el SNC, y fiscalizaci6n de las actividades de los
SDCs por ei SNC. Se recomienda que estos acuerdos sean refrendados por disposiciones legales (decretos,
resoluciones, etc.).
7.    Con el objeto de poder evaluar en los pr6ximos meses eI grado de cumplimiento de los objetivos del
Segundo Proyecto de Manteniniento, el SNC definir las acciones y los procedimientos para recabar de los
SDCs la informaci6n precisa que pernita evaluar las labores de mantenimiento y el uso de los bienes
(balanzas, contadores de traficos, vallas y otros elementos de seguridad) adquiridos bajo el credito 2395-
BO y, en particular, establecera los mecanismos y capacitaci6n para continuar con la aplicaci6n de los
sisxmnas SAM y SAE. Las acciones y los procedimientos que se elaboren en este sentido serin enviadas a
AlF antes del 31 de octubre de 1996.
S.    La misi6n fue inforrnada de que la SNTCAC se encuentra en el proceso de adecuar la organizaci6n
del SNC, teniendo en cuenta la refornas y disposiciones recientes, incluyendo aquellas que afectan las
funciones asignadas al SNC segiSn el Decreto Supremo 24215. La misi6n recalc6 la irnportancia de
fortalecer las funciones de (a) seguimiento y fiscalizaci6n del mantenimiento, (b) programaci6n del
mantenimiento y de las inversiones, (c) evaluaci6n y control ambiental; y (d) control administrativo y
financiero. (El detalle de los principios que deben gobomar el fortalecimiento de estas funciones fue
anpliamente discutido durante las misiones de supervisi6n de encro y noviembre de 1995 y reflejado en los
anexos a las ayudas-memnoria correspondientes.) Dada la urgencia de solventar las dificultades indicadas
en los parnafos anteriores, ei SNC deberia contar en la mayor brevedad posible con la aprobaci6n de la
nueva estructura y el nombranmento de todos los cargos gerenciales y t6cnicos. El SNC enviara a AIF la
propuesta definitiva de nueva estructura, incluyendo el niumero y perfil del personal asignado a cada
unidad, antes de completar la preparaci6n del Presupuesto 1997 y tan pronto como la nimisa sea definida.
Estas acciones son ademais precisas para que el SNC cumpla sus compromisos con la necesaria calidad
tecnica y administrativa, de acuerdo con las obligaciones acordadas en los convenios de cr6dito (secci6n
3.01 (a) y (b) del convenio de credito 2395-BO).
9.    La tablas del Anexo 1 resumen la ejecuci6n presupuestaria durante el primer semestre de 1996 y
otros datos tales como la recolecci6n de peajes, el monto de las transferencias a cargo de los SDCs y los
presupuestos aprobados y ejecutados durante los iiltimos tres anios. A traves de esta infornacion se puede



- 3-
observar la buena ejecuci6n presupuestaria y la mejora progresiva en la recolecci6n de peajes durante los
anos 1993, 1994 y 1995. Durante la primnera mitad del aiio 1996 se mantiene el buen nivel de recolecci6n
de peajes (que de continuar la tendencia, aumentaria un 17% eon respecto al anlo 1995) pero un cierto
retrasw en la ejecuci6n del presupuesto de inversiones. Durante la primera mitad del aflo se han ejecutado
US$36 niillones de nuevas inversiones, frente un presupuesto aprobado para todo el anio de US$94 millones
(el cual adermas es un 18% inferior al ejecutado en el afio 1995). En cuanto al presupuesto de
mantenimiento, los montos asignados al SNC y a las prefecturas para el niantenirniento de caminos
alcanzarian la cifra global de US$28.5 millones, por debajo de los montos acordados en el convenio de
credito 2395-BO. Ante la carencia de inforrnaci6n aludida en el parrafo 5, es dificil conocer en este
momento la ejecuci6n real de estos montos con el fin de comprobar el cumplimiento de las asignaciones
presupuestarias y los acuerdos del convenio de credito. Una vez tomadas las acciones indicadas en los
pirrafos 6 y 7, pero no mis tarde del 31 de octubre de 1996, el SNC enviari a AIF el detalle de la
ejecuci6n del presupuesto de nianteniniiento ai 31 de agosto de 1996.
10.   La mision reiter6 su mejor predisposici6n a apoyar al SNC y a los SDCs en cumplir con las
responsabilidades que les corresponden de acuerdo con ei Decreto Suprerno 24215. Con el objeto de lograr
los objetivos del proyecto y no frenar los avances logrados tanto en l mantenimiento de los camninos como
en el fortalecimiento de las instituciones del sector, la misi6n solicit6 al SNC ci envio a AIF de un plan de
fortalecimniento institucional tanto para la oficina central del SNC como para los SDCs. Los componentes
(e.g., asistencia t6cnica, capacitaci6n) de este plan podrian ser elegibles para su financiamiento con los
recursos del Cr6dito 2395-BO. Coma se expres6 en la Ayuda Memoria del 13 de marzo de 1996, el
desarrollo y la consolidaci6n de los avances mencionados son criticos para reducir los costos de transporte
dentro del pafs y en su comunicacion con los mercados externos, de tal manera apoyando di desarrollo
econ6mico de Bolivia y facilitando la incorporaci6n de sus varias regiones a tal desarrollo.
11.    La misi6n recomend6 el cumplimiento de los acuerdos de esta ayuda rnmoria para poder lograr los
objetivos del Segundo Proyecto de Manteninmento y evitar i incumplimiento de varias clausulas del
Convenio de Cr6dito 2395-BO.



PROYECTO CORREDORES DE EXPORTACION
36.   Las obras de la carretera Machacarwarca-Pazfia se encuentran con un avance de aproximnadamente
el 80%. Hasta el 30 de junio de 1996, fecha de cierre del credito 2012-BO, se logr6 un avance fisico del
70% lo que se traduce en un desembolso remanente de aproximadanente US$920 mil, que sera financiado
con cargo a los recursos del credito 2395-BO. Por tanto, las certificaciones remanentes correspondientes a
las obras realizadas con posterioridad al 30 de junio de 1996, seran transferidas a este credito (Segundo
Proyecto de Mantenimiento). A este respecto, ademis, la mision recomend6 no demorar la tramitaci6n de
desembolsos con cargo al cr6dito 2012-BO (para actividades realizadas antes del 30 de junio de 1996)
considerando que la fecha LTte paa rczliz, tales tramnitaciones es el 31 da octubre de 1996.
37.   La auditoria de las cuentas del proyecto Corredores de Exportaci6n y para el SNC como
instituci6n, para el ejercicio de 1995, sera enviada a AIF antes del 30 de septiembre de 1996.
38.   De acuerdo con las condiciones generales de los creditos de AIF, al trmnino del proyecto
Corredores de Exportaci6n, el SNC debe preparar su propia evaluaci6n retrospectiva de la implementaci6n
del proyeto y un plan para la futura operacion de las obras financiadas con cargo al cr6dito, los cuales
formaran parte del Informe de Terminaci6n de la Irnplementaci6n del Proyecto que elaborara el Banco
Mundial. En estas labores, el SNC recibira el apoyo del consultor de AIF Sr. Adolfo Navarro, quien so
encargara de consolidar la informaci6n recibida del SNC. El SNC elaborara y enviara a AIF la siguiente
informaci6n e informes:
a)     Antes del 15 de octubre, recolecci6n de datos sobre ejecuci6n fisica y financiera de cada
uno de los componentes del proyecto, incluyendo un listado de (i) los subproyectos de
mejoraniento de vias llevados a cabo con financiamiento del proyecto (La Paz-Oruro), con
las metas fisicas alcanzadas, y los costos resultantes, y para aquellos con metas aun
pendientes (Machacamnarca-Pazfia), las previsiones a la terninaci6n de los mismos, y (ii)
las asistencias tecnicas y estudios concluidos bajo el proyecto. La inforrnaci6n de costos
discriminara en recursos de credito y recursos de contrapartida, y entre costos locales y
costos en divisas.
b)     Antes del 15 de octubre, evaluaci6a econ6mica ex-post de las inversiones de
mantenimiento peri6dico realizadas en la carretera El Alto-Oruro, con la incorporaci6n de
los datos rns recientes (al menos al 31 de diciembre de 1995) al modelo HDM.
Asimismo, actualizacion del informe de evaluaci6n econ6mica del tramno Machacamarca-
Paznia (en base a los datos tambien mis recientes sobre trifico y costos estimados de
conclusi6n de las obras de manteninmiento en este tramo).
c)     Antes del 31 de octubre de 1996, el Plan de Operaciones del Proyecto. Este plan
estableceri: (i) los costos estimados para el mnantenimiento de la obras concluidas bajo el
proyecto y aquellos para la conclusion de las obras pendientes y su futuro mnantenimiento;
(ii) las fuentes de estos recursos; (iii) los indicadores de desempeno que se emplearan para
el seguimiento y la evaluacion de las futuras operaciones de mantenimiento rutinario y
peri6dico, y (iv) la manera en que este seguimiento se llevari a cabo. El plan de
operaciones contendra las provisiones para consolidar los objetivos institucionales del
proyecto y los indicadores que se emplearin para medir el progreso en este sentido.



d)     Antes del 31 de octubre de 1996, un informe retrospectivo resumiendo la valoraci6n desde
el punto de vista del SNC, de los componentes del proyecto a cargo del SNC. Este
informe comprendera un anilisis de: (i) los resultados (impactos) del proyecto, (ii) en que
medida se lograron los objetivos de desarrollo econ6mico del mismo (i.e., reducci6n de
costos de transporte y fortalecimiento de las funciones de mantenimiento del SNC); (iii) los
factores que afectaron positiva o negativamente la implementaci6n de los componentes a
cargo del SNC; (iv) las lecciones derivadas de estos factores; y (v) el desempefno del SNC
y de AIF en el cumplimiento de las obligaciones bajo el Convenio de Credito 2012-BO.
NUEVO PROYECTO DE CARRETERAS
39.    La SNTC y e SAIC soklcitaron a la misi6n el inicio de la idcutificaci6n y la preparaci6n de un
nuevo proyecto de carreteras. La solicitud fornal del Gobiemo de Bolivia seria canalizada a travds del
Ministerio de Hacienda. La misi6n indic6 que existen limitaciones de fondos de AIF que pueden suponer
una restricci6n para emprender inmediatamente tal proyecto. Ademas el Gobierno de Bolivia ha expresado
en su fltima reum6n del Grupo Consultivo que las prioridades del pais se centran en los sectores rural y
social. La misi6n expres6 que aun cuando los recursos del cr6dito 2395-BO se encuentran casi
enteramente comprometidos, es preciso dar un impulso importante a la ejecuci6n del Segundo Proyecto de
Mantenimiento, incluyendo la consecuci6n de sus objetivos de sus metas fisicas e institucionales y el
cuniniiento de las claisulas del Convenio de Crniito, para respaldar el inicio de la preparaci6n de un
nuevo proyecto.
RESUMEN DE FECHAS LIMITE PARA CUMPLIMIENTO DE ACUERDOS
FEC1A                                ACUERDO                              PARI
PROYECTO CORREDORES DE EXPORTACION
Cridito 2012-BO
30 de septiembre de  Enviar a AIF los informes de auditoria externa para la gesti6n  37
1996         1995 en relaci6n con la ejecuci6n del Proyecto de Corredores de
Exportacion
15 de octubre de 1996  Enviar a AIF los datos de ejecuci6n fisica y financiera de los  38 (a)
componentes a cargo del SNC para laborar el Informe de
Terminaci6n del Proyecto
15 de octubre de 1996  Enviar a AIF los resultados de las evaluaciones econ6micas  38 (b)
actualizadas de las obras en los tramos El Alto-Oruro y
Machacamnarca-Pazfia
31 de octubre de 1996  Enviar a AIF el Plan de Operaciones del Proyecto         38 (c)
31 de octubre de 1996  Enviar a AIF el informe retrospectivo de valoraci6n del proyecto  38 (d)
desde la prespectiva del SNC
31 de octubre de 1996  Fecha limite para la tramitacion de desembolsos con cargo al  36
Credito 2012-BO (correspondientes a actividades concluidas antes
del 30 de junio de 1996).



FECRA                                  AC1'EKDO                                 PAIL
15 d Oc nOvicMbre de   liMviar a AUl IISLs d.Campmncntos 1 liciar bljn el proyez1o y   25
I 96          dinnbuci6n pot grupos.
15 de novicnibre tc   Enviar a AIF informe dc progreso n las aplicc66n dc la$ acior.Cs  16
1996          vproce4dminos pan tecabar informaci6n de ls SDCs
__                _____. . .--   --_, ..
30 dc n-vinembre de   Eiviar a AL plan de icda6a pars c: foraeciniienuto de la industfia  13
1996          de 1 rQi
IS de d.icienmbr  T de  aon de auditorts c=cnos para realizar la auditnan             4
1996i         oxtcmapara La gesti6n 1996.
31 de dicianbrcic   Envh&r a AZ? Xrjunnos do rlcrnicia, carta d2c invitaci,A,v s,.a  20
1996          com pa  cswnudi  sobre (A) conuttari6n dcd u=ummirento. y (b)
disdlo de norma pa  bra de m ani no iababilitacion y
conmucci6i.
15 de marzo de 1997  Aprobaci6n y elablecimicuto de sisict   de Ammriaiiuo del        18
tanteniienLo.
Cada prixmr dia dc   Emw a AW. UI brev reStU.dut ava=m 4 los componames del          3 5
cada mck .cmezando e proywo. Taa rMe incluiri tablas similares a las incadas en
I da noviembre dc 199  el Anuo 2el estc Ayuds M    ia uSi como la descripcift de
cuclq  ditiu1tad especfca an la gejcuci6Sd dc los coniponmirtes
del pwv=o
C ada immacr      Eiviar a ASF, de Wilt dcl propvps de todos y cada u=o tc los      3S
aMpezmndo el 31 dei   omp=nms del proyco all como Mg dcscuipc6n dc la ejecudoo
diclembre de 1996   p p i    h    1* feeha (do iuveSift y df t andmro).
La Paz, 26 de septicnbre de 1996
I<195 s Gotttl ) ................ r.  .Autclio Nienucz 
^r EjOcutIVO, a. i.  |Ecoonieita do Trnportr
ienvico Naeio"aJ tle C.aminocg                                    BIaico MWudialAF



Ayuda Memoria
Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles de Bolivia (ENFE)
26 de septiembre de 1996
Introducci6n
1.    Una misi6n de IDA compuesta por Aurelio Menendez (Economista de Transporte) y Adolfo
Navarro (Consultor) visit6 Bolivia, entre el 18 y el 26 de septiembre de 1996 para, entre otras tareas,
supervisar el componente de ferrocarriles del Proyecto de Corredores de Exportaci6n (2012-BO). La
mlsi6n des-a exp:.-sr su zgradecimiento a Ja P'residckccia Ejfcutiva de ENFE, a la Gerencia General
de ENFE y al personal de esta entidad por la ayuda prestada en la realizaci6n de la supervisi6n.
Estado de Desembolsos y de Componentes del Proyecto
2.     Con al conclusi6n de la transaci6n de capitalizaci6n el dia 15 de marzo de 1996 el
componente de ferrocarriles del proyecto entr6 en su fase final. Desde tal fecha a la de cierre del
cr6dito, 30 de junio de 1996, la Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles concluy6 los componentes
pendientes y se han realizado todos los desembolsos pertinentes, salvo el relacionado con la
consultoria CANAC, por las razones que se exponen en el parrafo siguiente. El Anexo 1 muestra el
estado final de desembolsos de los distintos componentes del proyecto a cargo de ENFE.
3.     En cuanto a la consultoria de CANAC, la Contraloria General de la Repuiblica emiti6 en junio
de 1996 una serie de comentarios a los informes elaborados por CANAC y particularrnente sobre la
labor realizada en el tema de revaluaci6n de activos fijos. CANAC a su vez envi6 en agosto de 1996
su contestaci6n a los comentarios de la Contralorfa y ha solicitado el pago del saldo del contrato.
ENFE debe sin mayor dilaci6n emitir su propia evaluaci6n del informe de Contralorfa y elevar a la
misma su decisi6n final sobre el nivel de curnplimniento de contrato por parte de CANAC y el monto a
desembolsar en base a tal nivel. La misi6n insisti6 en avanzar rapidamente en este aspecto y llegar a
un acuerdo con CANAC en cuanto al pago del saldo del contrato. La misi6n alert6 que el 31 de
octubre se cierra el plazo para poder hacer desembolsos con cargo a los recursos del credito (por
actividades realizadas antes del 30 de junio de 1996). De no llegarse a un acuerdo antes de esa fecha,
los fondos remanentes con respecto a esta asistencia t6cnica no podrian ser desembolsados. ENFE
enviari a AIF/IDA antes del 15 de octubre de 1996 una definicion sobre este tema y la justificaci6n
correspondiente.
* j>   /( 4.    En cuanto a las consultorfas para la promocion de micro-empresas, con el objeto de crear
actividades para los ahora 197 trabajadores que, hasta que la venta de los activos no operativos
permita el retiro de parte de los mismos, permanecen dentro de la empresa ENFE/Servicios, los
-'   /        consultores concluyeron oportunamente sus informes y ENFE tiene previsto realizar una serie de
seminarios para difundir los resultados de tales estudios. (Desde la misi6n anterior, ENFE/Servicios,
con recursos de recuperacion de cartera y venta de activos, ha podido reducir sustancialmente su
personal de 1,200 trabajadores a los 197 que existen hoy en dia.)
5.     En cuanto a los pagos relacionados con la instalaci6n de los equipos que pernitan preservar
la seguridad e integridad de las transmisiones de radio del ferrocarril de la Red Oriental y la
ejecuci6n de las obras respectivas han sido enteramente desembolsados. Asimismo, la instalaci6n de
5 torres repetidoras se concluy6 el 30 de abril de 1996.



Contribuci6n de ENFE al Informe de Terminaci6n del Proyecto
6.     De acuerdo con las condiciones generales de los creditos de IDA/AIF, ENFE debe preparar
al terminar el proyecto su propia evaluaci6n retrospectiva de la implementaci6n del proyecto y un plan
para la futura operaci6n de las obras financiadas con cargo al prestamo, los cuales formaran parte del
Informe de Terniinacion de la Implementaci6n del Proyecto que elaborara IDA/AIF. En estas
labores, ENFE trabajara con el consultor Adolfo Navarro, quien se encargara de consolidar los datos.
ENFE elaborara y enviara a IDA/AIF la siguiente infornaci6n e inforrnes:
(a) AnLes del 15 de octubre de 1996, datos sobre ejecuci6n fisica y financiera de cada uno de
los componentes del proyecto, incluyendo un listado de los subproyectos de mejoramiento de
vias (e.g., balasteado, aplicaci6n de quimicos), de compra de equipos (e.g., telecomunica-
ciones, estructuras de puentes) y de asistencia t6cnica Ilevados a cabo con financiamniento
parcial del proyecto, con las metas fisicas alcanzadas (cuando corresponda), y los costos
resultantes. La informaci6n de costos discriminara en recursos de credito y recursos de
contrapartida, y entre costos locales y costos en divisas.
(b) Antes del 31 de octubre de 1996, evaluaci6n ex-post. Esta consiste en: (a) un aniAli.oi de
la rentabilidad econ6mica de las inversiones realizadas, en particular aquellas implem_ntadas
en la linea Santa Cruz-Puerto Suarez y el sistema de telecomunicaciones; y (b) un resurnen de
los principales indicadores financieros (ingresos totales, gastos de operaci6n, y razones de
trabajo y de operaci6n) al momento de la conclusi6n de la capitalizaci6n de la empresa.
(c) Antes del 31 de octubre de 1996, el Plan de Operaciones del Proyecto. Este plan
establecerA (a) las acciones que ENFE/Servicios tiene previstas a corto y mediano plazo para
la liquidaci6n/reconversi6n de la empresa; (b) los costos estimados para llevar adelante iales
acciones; (c) las fuentes de recursos para cubrir tales costos; (d) los indicadores de desernpenlo
que se emplearan para el seguimiento de las acciones indicadas; y (e) la manera en que este
seguimiento se llevara a cabo.
(d) Antes del 31 de octubre de 1996, un inforne retrospectivo resumiendo la valoraci6n,
desde el punto de vista de ENFE, de los componentes del proyecto a cargo de ENFE. Este
informe comprendera un analisis de: (a) los resultados (irnpactos) del proyecto; (b) en qu6
medida se lograron los objetivos del mismo (reducci6n de costos de transporte hacia el
Pacifico y hacia el Atlantico, y mejora de la gesti6n/comercializaci6n de la Empresa Nacional
de Ferrocarriles); (c) los factores que afectaron positiva o negativamente la implementzci6n
del proyecto; (d) las lecciones derivadas de estos factores; y (e) el desempefio de ENFE y de
IDA/AIF en el cumplimiento de las obligaciones bajo el Convenio de Cr6dito 2012-BO.
La Paz, Bolivia, 26 de septiembre de 1996
I. G al  rquidi                          Dr. Ing. Aurelo Menendez
Gerente General                         Economista de Transporte
E   esa Nacional de Ferrocarriles                 Banco MundiaVIDA



Ayuda Memoria
Ministerio de Capitalizacion
26 de septiembre de 1996
Introducci6n
1.    Una misi6n de IDA compuesta por Aurelio Menendez (Economista de Transporte) y Adolfo
Navarro (Consultor) visit6 Bolivia, entre el 17 y el 27 de septiernbre de 1996 para, entre otras tareas,
supervisar el componente de ferrocarriles del Proyecto de Corredores de Exportaci6n (2012-BO) a cargo
del Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n. La misi6n desea expresar su agradecimiento al Ministro de
Capitalizaci6n, al Secretario Nacional de Capitalizaci6n, y al personal de esta entidad por la ayuda
prestada en la realizaci6n de la supervisi6n.
2.    La misi6n se reuni6 con el equipo de asesores del Ministro de Capitalizaci6n encargados de la
capitalizaci6n de ENFE asi como con el equipo gerencial de ENFE incluyendo el Presidente Ejecutivo, y
el Gerente General. Esta ayuda memoria resume los acuerdos alcanzados con el Ministerio de
Capitalizaci6n.
3.    La misi6n expres6 una vez mas su satisfaci6n por la labor realizada por el Ministerio de
Capitalizaci6n y su equipo de asesores en las distintas etapas que han conducido a la capitalizaci6n de
ENFE. El Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n realiz6 ademas una efectiva labor de coordinaci6n de las tareas
del Banco de Inversi6n, Asesor Estrategico, Consultoria Legal, Consultoria de Actualizaci6n de
Inventarios, Auditorias Externas, y otras consultorias especializadas, que son las que sirvieron de soporte
para la definici6n de los detalles y la elaboraci6n de los documentos base del proceso de capitalizaci6n de
ENFE.
Asistencias Tecnicas
4.    El proceso de capitalizaci6n de ENFE concluy6 el dia 15 de marzo de 1996 con el cierre de la
transaci6n de capitalizaci6n a las sociedades subcriptoras de las acciones de nueva emisi6n. Con este
paso, el componente de ferrocarriles del proyecto entr6 en su fase final, hasta el cierre del credito el 30 de
junio de 1996, con la conclusi6n del proceso de capitalizaci6n de ENFE y la transferencia de esta
empresa a las dos empresas (Andina y Oriental) que son ahora los concesionarios a cargo de la gesti6n de
los ferrocaniles en Bolivia, segun las condiciones contenidas en los documentos de licitaci6n. En
terminos generales, las operaciones en la Red Oriental se esta desarrollando de manera satisfactoria y en
la Red Andina con algunas dificultades originadas en la falta de clarificaci6n de las tarifas vigentes como
consecuencia de la decisi6n del gobiemo de congelar las tarifas y por el rechazo de los antiguos
trabajadores de ENFE no incorporados a la nueva empresa (quienes han actuado con cortes en las lineas).
La primera de estas dificultades ha sido enteramente solucionada y la segunda esta en vias de soluci6n a
travis de las actividades que esta emprendiendo ENFE/Servicios en cuanto a la promoci6n de
microempresas.
5.    El Anexo muestra la lista de las consultorias a cargo del Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n, los montos
asignados a las mismas, y los desembolsos finales. Todos los desembolsos ya han sido tramitados y los
contratos concluidos.
6.    Durante los Witimos meses del proyecto, el credito financi6 varias consultorias para concluir el
proceso de capitalizaci6n de ENFE y, a trav6s del Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n, una consultoria de apoyo
para el establecimiento de la Superintendencia de Transporte. Estas consultorias concluyeron en la fecha



- 2-
de cierre del credito. Durante la misi6n se discuti6 la necesidad de continuar con el fortalecimiento de la
Superintendencia de Transporte, inciuyendo la reglarnentaci6n de procedimientos. El Plan de
Operaciones al que se hace alusi6n mas adelante servira pars definir este tipo de acciones y estimar el
costo de las mismas.
Contribuci6n del Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n al Informe de Terminaci6n del Proyecto
7.    De acuerdo con las condiciones generales de los creditos de ]DA/AIF, el Ministerio de
Capitalizaci6on debe prepaa al terminar el proyecto su propia evaluaci6n retrospectiva de la
impkinentaciSn-M del proyecto y in. plan parm la futtra operaci6n de las actividades financiadas con cargo
al prestamo, los cuales formaran parte del Informe de Terminaci6n de la Implementaci6n del Proyectvo que
elaborari el Banco Mundial. En estas labores, el Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n trabajara con el conLuitor
Adolfo Navarro, quien se encargara de consolidar los datos. El Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n enviara a
IDA/AIF la siguiente informaci6n e informes:
(a) Antes del 15 de octubre de 1996, datos sobre la ejecuci6n de cada una de las asistencias
tecnicas realizadas bajo el proyecto incluyendo un listado de las mismas y los costos resultantes.
La informaci6n de costos discriminaii en recursos de credito y recursos de contrapartida, y entre
costos locales y costos en divisas.
(b) Antes del 31 de octubre de 1996, elaboraci6n del Plan de Operaciones del Proyecto. Este
plan estableceri (a) las acciones que el Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n tiene previstas a corto y
mediano plazo parm asegurar la sostenibilidad de la capitalizaci6n de ENFE (e.g., fortalecuniento
de la Superintendencia de Transporte y aprobaci6n de reglamnentos y procedimientos de esta
Superintendencia); (b) los costos estimados para llevar adelante tales acciones; (c) las fuentes de
recursos para cubrir tales costos; (d) los indicadores de desempenio que se emplearain para e
seguimiento de las acciones indicadas; y (e) la manera en que este seguimiento se llevara a zabo.
(c) Antes del 31 de octubre de 1996, un informne resumiendo, desde el punto de vista del
Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n, la valoraci6n de los componentes del proyecto a cargo de este
Ministerio. Este informe comprendera un anrlisis de: (a) los resultados (impactos) de las
asistencias tecnicas; (b) en que medida se lograron los objetivos de las mnismnas (capitalizar la
Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles); (c) los factores que afectaron positiva o negativamente la
implementaci6n de las asistencia tecnicas; (d) las lecciones derivadas de estos factores; y (e) el
desempeflo del Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n y de ]DA/A1F en el cumplirniento de las
obligaciones bajo el Convenio de Credito 2012-BO.
La Paz, Bolivia, 26 de septiembre de 1996
J     Asesor                             Economista de Transporte
Min.sterio de Capitalizaci6n                   Banco Mundial/IDA



151
r4   P-PESJUPUESTO COAREDORES DE EXPORTACION ASIGNADO AL MIN. DE CAPITALIZACION
III
t         -
8                         0~~~~~~~~~ocn  DE Q"0           PRECSUPE10 */  410 EXCUAD             SA           UZTDI           SA            XUtTAD         SAZ
NV                                                                                    gunmief)    dA 3off4l         po1d            d3lol         imoSMe         dt  t
A. CONSULTORIAS                                                       
ISA     M    VOtd                                              437600.00      437600.00           000      437,500.00          0.00      437,500.00          o.-o
2 ASESOR ESTRATEGOO                                            218,409.50     216,4W0.50          0.00     IfSS9.60            0.00      2t6C409.50          0.00
S CONTRAPARTE DE CAPITALIZACION EN ENFE                         ta,000.00      t2,000.00      0.00002.      16A,0.00        2900DO0       16,000o0           0.00
_ GI.LLEWA4 WA8W4A ILA PAZ)                                1i2000.00       6o000.00        o00.0D        I00.00         2,000          12,00.00          0.00
C)        '~~~~VICTORNJGOO RTIZ (SANTA CRUZ)                            8,000.00       6.000.00          0.00       6,000.00           0.A0       6.000,00          0.00
4CONSULIORES LOCALES CAPITAUZAO-ON DE FE                       114.1000        78,400.00     3S.OW.700            .00      I             114.1o0.00          0.o0
A ^5tNART    VALOS                                          I b,ODO.Ot0    t2        OD.0  6,0.0         15,000.00 SI000               18.000.OD        0.0
* FERNANDO HNWOJSA                                         It.000.OD      1M200.0W        6,000.00      16,00D.00      6k0,00       t1a,000.00          0.00
LLIA DE AGUtFRE                                            12,000.00      8.00000        4000.03       10,000.00       200000        f 1t.0000D         0.00
* RENE LA WODRD                                             13,800.00       0.200.00       4,0.00        I  100.00      2,300C0       13,800.00          0.00
G1:            ' FRANZ OUIfrANILLA                                          2,50n.03       2,000Do          00.00 so.o0.00                 0.00       2,500.00         000
-;              JAVIER lAPth                                                12,000.00      8,000.00       4,000.00      t,(00.00       2,0000         12,000.00         0.0o
Q  PAU.1OO ARCE                                .            24,000.00      18,00o.00       6,0 000         32,00.00     800,040       24.000.00          0m00
_   AJUO CESAR OOOPEZA                                     3,800.00       9,200.oo       4,60.00 o      t 5000        2300.         13,60000           0.00
t.)s AUJITORiA EXIERINA 1994                                     76,440.00      76.440.00          0.00       0,44D.0            o.eo      744  Co0     0       0DA
6W~FETELE"lA (INTERNACCIONAL)                                  162,lBt4O       80jU.97       78,431.63      ".766.97       7,3?A6.      103.u,,so           :Om
IA7 SESoA EXTErINA                                             46".M"         48"__  _-_ 4,240.                               _0QoM   _  "46240.0           0.00
-        _        & JORGE KOWIOSI                                          20.433.40      204.49            0.00       20,43J.469         0.0       20,43 40    O.0D
A* cRLOS CAFFA-,                                            20,013.4?      20,0z3,47          0.00      20,018.47          0.00       2D.013A?           0.00
' JUAN PABLO MARINEZ                                         5,80.0         S,ao3.00          0.00      s508.00            0.00        S,A00.00          0.00
a SUPERIN rENOENTE IDE TPANSPORTES                               1,0.            6,400.00      0,00.00       10,400.03       4,000.00      14,400.00          0.00
_  OA3ESO9OA EXTE1N4 IBUPEKINT. DE TrtNSPORTES3                 2s6,o0.00          0.00      25,S50.00      28,500.02          0.00       25.500.00         0.00
E         _ ' JDRGE KO :ON                                                  13,000.00          0.r,      13,0.00        13,000.            0.00      1,000.00           0.00
_   ^ CHRIS ROONEY                                         12,S3.0O00         000         ,00.00       12,500.0D          0.00 I     2,50.00           0.00
B. OTROG oSTOS
IC GASTOS DE CONSUTOAA Y O2ROS 1906 Si                         718062.00      7T18,062.00         0.00     716,902A            0.00      718,900             0.QO
I IPUBSC       E'S                                              13.47.58       13,i475183                   13,47588          0.00       13.475.3           0.00
1.0 t2 AER  __T     .                                              48o 000       460S.0           0.0          4610.00         MC0          460.0O           O.o.
,P.OGRAMA DE PROMOCION                                           00,3.00           0.00      200.003.00      0,500.30     119,570,0D                ___        0
45 1MPRESKWITllUL.;- @so^IO'ARlO8                                12.2705  _         000       12,27D0.7      12t27057           0.00      12.270.67    Q     0.0
1< {.e_                           _           _     _        _             Vw.e  -t                                      ,_        _       0 4enD'F_Q0 
,AAr. rMADA9_____                                     50W000,               )           _                       3_____00______      SD______
0'         II CAAtPAWA EFORIdA1A                            .   1         10Q00D.0D |          vD0      rooO000             0.001    10D,00         100'n.00            0.00
^         *~~:NeIoOED IE STOS
21 01FEREDCEA PRESUPU ADO WNOS EJIECUTADO
34 GUSAo0 COL EACDOS
4 JUSYAO AL FINAL ME CREDlrO cONSWERANDO TODAS L3 fCOISOMIAS REALIl^AS,






Ayuda Memoria
Instituto Nacional de Promoci6n de Exportaciones (INPEX)
24 de septiembre de 1996
1.    Una mision de IDA compuesta por Aurelio Men6ndez (Economista de Transporte) y
Adolfo Navarro (Consultor) visito Bolivia, entre el 18 y el 26 de septiembre de 1996 para, entre
otras tareas, supervisar el componente de asistencia t6cnica a cargo del Instituto Nacional de
Pronoci6cu de Expo-aciones (INPEX) del Proyecto de Corredores de Exportaci6rn (2012-BO). La
misi6n desea expresar su agradecimiento al Director del INPEX y al Coordinador del
Departamento de Apertura de Mercados por la ayuda prestada en la realizaci6n de la supecvisi6n.
2.    La misi6n pas6 revista a las actividades recientemente concluidas relacionadas con los
estudios sobre (a) la instalacion de un sistema de informacion para la distribucion fisica
internacional y (b) el diseffo de un sistema de consolidaci6n de cargas. Asimismo, se pas6 revista
al estado de desembolsos y se discuti6 la contribuci6n del INPEX al informe de terminaci6n del
Proyecto (que tuvo su fecha de cierre el pasado 30 de junio).
3.    La misi6n expres6 su satisfacion por el esfuerzo e interes que el INPEX ha puesto en la
contrataci6n, elaboraci6n y conclusion de los estudios mencionados en el plrrafo anterioi asi
como, en su momento, aquellos relacionados con la promoci6n de los contenedores y de la carga
aerea.
Estudios
4.    Los estudios sobre instalaci6n de un sistema de distribucion fisica internacional (DEl) y
sobre el diseflo de un sistema de consolidaci6n de cargas fueron concluidos oportunamente. Todos
los desembolsos relacionados con las actividades realizadas por el INPEX han sido realizados.
5.    La misi6n observ6 el funcionamiento del sistema de DFI que permitirl a los exportadores
y empresas de transporte disponer de la informaci6n necesaria para seleccionar las cadenas mas
eficientes en la distribuci6n internacional de sus productos. El estudio sobre un sistema de
consolidaci6n de cargas permitira al INPEX promover la consolidaci6n de la carga. En el mnismo
se identifican aquellos productos mls suceptibles de consolidaci6n, la ubicaci6n mas efectiva de los
posibles centros de consolidaci6n, y los procedimientos para consolidar la carga. Asimisrmo. el
estudio provee estimaciones de la reducci6n en los costos de transporte de tales productos como
consecuencia de la consolidaci6n de la carga.
6.    Los estudios fueron diseminados a travds de seminarios organizados durante el mes de
agosto (a los que asistieron los dos consultores principales, Dr. Arciniegas e Ing. Revuelta) y
contaron con la presencia de un buen nuimero de empresas de exportacion y de transporte. Durante
la misi6n se discuti6 la necesidad de continuar con la implementaci6n de las conclusiones de los
estudios (incluidos los concluidos anteriormente sobre el fomento del uso de contenedores y de la
carga aerea). El Plan de Operaciones al que se hace alusi6n mas adelante servira para definir este
tipo de acciones y estimar el costo de las mismas.



-2-
Contribucidn del INPEX al Informe de Terminadcn del Proyecto
7.    De acuerdo con las condiciones generales de los creditos de IDA/AEF, el INPEX debe
preparar al terminar el proyecto su propia evaluaci6n retrospectiva de la inplementaci6n del
proyecto y un plan para la futura operaci6n de las actividades financiadas con cargo al pr6stamo,
los cuales formarln parte del Informe de Terminacion de la Implementacion del Proyecto que
elaborar5 AIF/IDA. En esta labor, el INPEX trabajar5 con el consultor Adolfo Navarro, quien se
encargar& de consolidar los datos. El INPEX enviar5 a IDA/AIF la siguiente informaci6n e
informes:
(a) Antes del 15 de octubre de 1996, datos sobre la ejecuci6n de cada uno de los estudios
realizados bajo el proyecto incluyendo un listado de los mismos y los costos resultantes.
La informacion de costos discriminarA en recursos de credito y recursos de contrapartida, y
entre costos locales y costos en divisas.
(b) Antes del 31 de octubre de 1996, elaboraci6n del Plan de Operaciones del Proyecto.
Este plan establecer5 (a) las acciones que el INPEX tiene previstas a corto y mediano plazo
para la implementacion de las conclusiones de los distintos estudios; (b) los costos
estimados para llevar adelante tales acciones; (c) las fuentes de recursos para cubrir tales
costos; (d) los indicadores de desempeflo que se emplearan para el seguimiento de las
acciones indicadas; y (e) la manera en que este seguimiento se llevar5 a cabo.
(c) Antes del 31 de octubre de 1996, un breve informe resumiendo, desde el punto de vista
del INPEX, la valoraci6n de los componentes del proyecto a cargo del INPEX. Este
informe comprender5 un anlisis de: (a) los resultados (impactos) de los estudios; (b) en
qu6 medida se lograron los objetivos de los mismos (facilitar el comercio, y
fortalecimiento del INPEX); (c) los factores que afectaron positiva o negativamente la
realizaci6n de los estudios; (d) las lecciones derivadas de estos factores; y (e) el desempeflo
del INPEX y de IDA/AIF en el cumplimiento de las obligaciones bajo el Convenio de
Cr6dito 2012-BO.
La Paz, Bolivia, 24 de septiembre de 1996
Vease Carta Adjunta
Lic. Juan Carlos Duran               ADr.        ureloen6ne
Director Ejecutivo                    Economista de Transporte
Inst. Nac. de Promoci6n de Exportaciones          Banco Mundial/IDA



!____________________________________ _ ^  iLA  PAZ
f                                     Daa ePdC    6l                 REWS OMT
W                   Ds~~~te Ack'd. ____________ ~~~~~~~~~ESQ. FWERCOZUAZO
AJisgned to                    CS LA F    106
S1uOj /Ln Cr         _mFA591-249122
%                             I                . 1          3M03~__ ___ _ 
LANUEVA                                         ______              FSX
La Paz, 10 de octubre de 1996                                     A
CITE: C - CIC - 1057 / 96    .
COCHABAMBA
PLAZA QUWrANILLA
EOiF LOS TEMPOS
SM. P1o
Sefiores                                                        7ELFS.:59 22
Aurelio Mendndez - ECONOMISTA DE TRANSPORTE                     EL44S9142 59 22
Adolfo Navarro - CONSULTOR EXTERNO
BANCO MUNDIAL / IDA
Presente                                                          A
Ref.:    Ayuda Memoria de la Xisi6n de IDA relativo al Proyscto de
Corredores db Exportaci6n (2012-BO) realizada entre el 18
y el 26 de septiembre de 1996
De nuestra consideracion:
Adjunto a la presente tenemos el agrado de hacer llegar a ustenes,
el ejemplar original de la Ayuda Memoria correspondiente al asunto
de referencia, redactada en la ciudad de La Paz, en fecha 24 de
Septiembre del afno en curso.
Cabe hacer notar que la carencia de la firma correspondiente a la
Direccion Ejecutiva de nuestra instituci6n, representada por el
Lic. Juan Carlos Duran M. hasta el 20/09/96, se debe a que para la
fecha de elaboraci6n del documento mencionado, 61 se habia retirado
de nuestra instituci6n.
Sin embargo, deseamos manifestar mediante la presente nuestra
conformidad con la totalidad de los puntos citados en el mismo.
Con este motivo,   aprovechamos la oportunidad para reiterar a
ustedes la seguridad de nuestra mayor consideracion.
Ing. Jo       do Justiniano
Di   or Ey cutivo a.i.
I)IPEX
c.c.: Archivo
Adj.: Lo citado
JCJ/1 J
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE PRoMoCIoN Di ExPoRTACIoNes              ;     *.



I



- 53 -
Appendix B: Borrower's Contributions to the ICR
The five executing institutions prepared reports on the execution of the project, which were furnished to the
Bank between October and December 1996. This appendix includes excerpts from each of such reports.
Annex I summarizes the outcome of an ex-post evaluation of the road improvement subprojects and the
retrospective view of the SNC. Annex 2 presents a summary of the components executed by the Ministry
of Capitalization. Annex 3 includes ENFE's retrospective assessment of the execution of the project and
the ex-post evaluation of the telecommunication component. Annex 4 presents the retrospective assessment
of the INPEX. Finally, Annex 5 presents a summary evaluation of the Emergency Social Fund (ESF)
comnponent as viewed by the current Social Investment Fund (SIF).






Bolivia
Export Corridors Project
Credit 2012-BO
Excerpts from Retrospective Evaluation by the
Servicio Nacional de Caminos
KVAtrUACxOt  WTRSPRCTIVA DICL PROYIC1T
CORWORIS DR I XMRTACIOk,
CONVNIIO D79 CRXDITO NkR 2012-r0
A.   RRUMM045 12IM._P.BOY=Q-:
t168 resultado0 del proyceto se traduren  orl io  igui-mtz
3.   ReQraepamiento   E1   Alto-Oruro,    Ramal   Corecd3l-
2. -  Mntenimiento del Tramo lachac:mrra-parma.
3.   Hetudio  de factjhilidad  econ6mJoa de  la  Carr6t*ra
.Patftacmaya-Tambo Quemado.
4.   Eitudio de  la demanda de  transporte en el  C.Gorr-e.3or
Santa Cruz-Puerto Su4rez.
&.   Aniatenr ia Tdcnica.
.a  uti.l idad  de  Ia  construpcaifr  y  de  1ba  trabaJos de
mr,ntenimiento  de  caminoe  es  inne.able,  enk  cuanto  a
t,rr.nAorte  de pafajer6a  y  Qarga,  qiie. se  convierto  en
biineficioa do coetoo por eol ahorro de tiempo:
L.s3 entudios  eirvi6ron  para la  toma  de  decisioncr   y
gntf loines  neeezarioe   para  el  financiamiento  de   J. s
r,at.tidio  de  factibilidad y di.sefo  de la carretera  Sa&nt.^
Cruw. -Pxrto Su6rez, Patc.rmaya-Tambo Qieitiado.
Los ae.lttemcie  tEcnica para  el  apoyo  en el  Stctmna  tie
Admin1itraci6n      dleo    Equipo        (SAE)     reforzaron
inatitiacionai3ment1e  al Srvicio NAcl-nal  de Caminom en "I
-onrtrol de warAtenirilien)to doe carreteraE*
lin  la  est,,tetaenA   t6nnica  se  contrat6  un   Cor.ncl -tor
Up1iperonAl para  E1 Alto-Oruro, Rarnal  Caollo-G.ihn.1
e:. o.i,al cnoper6  con el Sfetvivio Nacirnal  de Cminr'o  c:On
J.'i laboresn de fiscalizaci6n y eupervi.e6n.
I }J V.E.~O  WST..Q .......... JUY   PESSL. .P~AR1AQ kBQ2.-
1i  cstguiontes logros  resultaron  con la  ej eculoivn  d-I
1.   En  el   Alto-Oruro,  Ramal  Caracollo-Caihu&Bi,   el
objetivo tue cumrplldo en eu tot&lidad pa0esto q.of T.a
crret,nra he eido co,cluide y estd en uso.
>.  F'.I  tramo  Machacamarca-Paz$ax   el   objettvo   f uL
Cimp31dQ par-cialmerte; $in embrgsO se  mlcnrztron lop
c,bjetivos    dentro   del    Segundo   Proyocto    4n
1;.at,anialiento de Carrsterac, Cr6dlto 2395-WO.



-5R2ICMo NACIONAL ID CAMINOS
3.   El eattudJo de taetibilidlad ec80nfica de  la corretcra
Pat^camanya-Tam7 b    Queomado,  ta.nbi&n   fue   cul*s;ido
porque  Blrvi6 para  impW1ara)  y  geotionar el er 6J to
para   la   construcci6n  y   Pavimentacifn   de   la
carretera .
Obrao  qxe  fIueron  flnanoiadas  con  un  crEdlto  de
confinncO1i.io&nto  ?Or el  BID y  la  OECF dl Jjap6ri
anediarite contrato firmado el 7 de mayo de 19090 y
oolC1uida actualrmente la construcci6.
4.   El  estudio  de  le  demnanda  delI  tranaporte  en  el
corredor Santa  Cruz-Puerto Su&r-ez,  fueron de  muc'ha
uti lidad  para realizar laa. geationes necesariait ptr-a
el ftnanciaiento de  ls cotudio8 de faotibili13Al y
diireflo de 1a carretera.
5.   'e realiz6 el apoyo  al SAM y  SAE y no se  aln^ns.6 a
ciinpl ir   con   el   SIAC,   Sistema   IntegrsA.o   do
Administraci6n  Computarizado por  aU  compleJided  y
dispooc-tiones legales. que determinaeroon  dejar]a para
el fuituro?.
r, X^eelQ;lBlBS_ QUI. A J'AR.L?. !..._A._ IPiJb.ET&(1fl DI. -_1O2
1OQtU.1'ES As. .CAWiQ..DI)h.S r~ N
FE1t  _atJvr.. negt.yQ  fule el  el  inoportuno desenbolso  de
contraparte  local  que  afect6  el  cumplimiento  de  las
einrresNe constructores en el pIazo-
E          t.b *.r. .nQUi.t.YQ fuc que pese  a loa ca.mbios de (1nblF'rno
y  por  O.nde  de  Autoridades  del  Servicio  NaciOrAl  deg
;.';iisJ  ie proyeto nc, eufri6 niraguna altersd.6nr.
O1;r3  poeAtiva  la  wupervisi6n rOr  fidminiatruoi6n direota
*3hd L  .,Pvtcio  Nclocor,al de  Caminos  con  el apoyo  de  un
;.,)ng,ul.t.or Unl.personal S6layrrlbt't.
i1 C,cinvorz o  firnaco  entre el  Goblerno de  Bolivia y  el
I.P.A.  protegi6 aI  prc'yecto Qcontra  lo   cambios qilo:  8e
pretendieron efect,uar laz difercntes autoridadea.
L  F{s,rteoia do. ranavterlinliient,o peri6dico  implantado  .tor cl
s.rr,yer.A,  ca.m,L6  l.a  mentalidad  de  lo   funcic,roArios
t.ni cfl on   del  Servici,  Necional  de  Carninos  en  forma
V(.,i. t,jva,  periw,tierndo acelerar  todos loe  prcin tc,*
,Jairnil:uirt,ei.v<O~ y t6cinacoe en el Segundo Proyecto dc
Maritc3ni.miiflnto de Carreteree.



SERVICIO NACIONAL OR CAMINOS
K    m,)"iINPKsQg .D.4 R.Mf^. QX  ..............I.F.-V
hl S'rvicio,Nacional de Camino  hlzo todo 1o posblbe pora
dsr  cumplimiento  a  llo  estipulado  en  el  Convento  d4
Cr4d ito.
A.I..P.  mnoatr6 una extraordinarl& capacided de compreneMS.
de 3<,s problem4a  laborales y flexibllidad en  au  pojici.-'n
frer,tc   a h na  nerie de  situactiones  eapecl4les  qge  ve
prosent6rcon en la implantacil6n del proyecto.
L.b, di.ferentes misiones  que Ilegarorn al pais ayudaron  an
to4do  momento  la  contiiiuaci6n  del  proyecto   hanta  su
cono lusi6n.
T,0i3  deeembolsoa del  asporte de  A. I.F.  fueron r4pido.e,  y
opocrtunoe  por  lo  cual los  component.e3  ae  1Ileggron  Pi
cumplir en ou totelidad.



Table 1
Logicad Framework
Future Operational Actions to Strengthen Road Sub-Sector Management
Rasia.a .NaTSrrat                     lsdiadoru Verikabks                           Fas de              Sapusos I[pottawns
.                 ~~~~Supamew
1. BrWdund inah    stin  de           Is. Usuario exprsa  veles  de sxisbecift con el  la. E   dcuo    ml
aaporte ecmn6aica y sqpg que          sermicio de:                                   Mario              Desarrollo comercial, ecoo6mico y social del pais
qoyel deslrrollo del pad                      *  60Xe para el do 2000               lb. Es bdlic  de
*  75% paa el aio 2002                a
lb. Flujo de caga c red nacional aumea un
_________________________  8% por do hasta el 2002.
1. Obteawr costed oielo dptimos   1. Reducci6n en costos de tusporie en 20% par   1, 2 y 3. Eocustas a  . Condiiooos econbmicas  vorbles an el pais
2. Red ial V scicul quo sisface as    el 2002.                      .t                     _RWu tistas.  * Observaciones de las roglaciooes del trsio
incexVshWlrs I a.Smancas v corncale,   2 y 3. Auzmlo erA 3aisfacci6n del usuario en  usaios, militeres  .vi
sociacs y de sg daddel pals           10% por afio hasta l 2002.     c.                                 * Mca&doedscrvicios de tupcrbt es dc
3. Acooso vil cniodo y confiabloe                                                                         co      in
.ilciedeo   admiaistraci6d y oM    de otras
_modalidades do Irwpout
1. Ucilizact eficice de lost mrsos    la y 3. Pam fm de 1998, S0% de los pryectos  la y 3. lnformes de   Coordacidcon ates invokados D el
an a red vial nacional                cumplan la proramado                          avance dobnas          bspoute vial
2. Rod via que cample con los         lb. Presupuestos departuneotales cubren 75% de   lb. Repones SAM  * Coordinacioa cOm paises vecics parm
estudaezs de caL;dad y sogmidad       nocesidades do mantenimieuto de la red nacioal   Icc hlforms         planificaci6a de coitedores de exportaci6o
13. Red nacional quo vincula as mdes  para el 2002.                                  mensuJes de uahajo
p entakiis y municipales con los    Ic. S0f del personal cumplo el tabajo asignado    2a. Informs de
mertados nacionales e inienadanaks    menusualmnte pea cl ado 2000.                  umasitabilidad
2a. Transitabilidad do la rod aacional medido por   2b. Infonues de
auOmer de dias ccmdos alcn       IO% en el aflo    inwnutrio de lard
2000, y 0% pa. el aSc 2002.
2b. ladice de servicibilidad promedio aimenta en
las cureras de la red nacional, paza el ado 2002:
.de 3 a 4 en las carret=C pavimetadas
*  de 25 a 3.4 ML las carroas no pavimnsadas
L. Defwir espcicaciones tcenicas para  a Parsocal capacitado                                            . Co=  con rezzso noearios y snficdeuls
l rgulscida do la red vial            . Equipo                                                          * Apoyo poltc comninuo
2. vstigar nuemas tologfas y          . Pograas de investigacifo                                        . Nucvasaormas y eq=ficacis ia sido
-ranes en ptocesos. prodicdos y       . Poificde Truospoctk                                                adoptadas
seoridad de carmTeus                  . Plan Maestro de Trans4te                                         * Prgrunaa de reestcucnci6on na sido
3. Plificar Is rod vial nacional      * Progamas de capacixi6n                                             implemctrado etosamncs
4. PrgrAnar inversiones y la          * Progama de concientiaciOn                                       * Coordinacid6 con SDCs
budianboci6n de foodos del TGN pan    * Esudiscicas viales
maitoaimiu o d4 la red vi nacioual    * Sistemas de informacioa
S. Contmatr, supervWar.y fiscalim la
coaswicci6a de la rd Wial nacional
6. Fwauizar el mantznimim   de la red
1. Capacitar os funcioas del SNC y
SDC en aspecos gcaciales y tcicos
S. Conciondmr fimcarios del sector
vial y l pblioo on  oe  sobe tmas
9. Matem labu e dcdats de
estadisticat VW "les a nivel nacional   __    __   ___    __    __   ___     __   __    ___    __   __.



'CORREDORDEX FXRTAClON
BAINCO MUNDIAL - CREDITO 2012 - BO
INFORME
EYTDIIO DE FACTIBELIDAD ECONOIC'A CARRETRA- PATACAMAYA - T OAMO
QUEMADO
En la gesti6n 1989 se realizaron los estudios de Revisi6n del Diseflo Vial y Actualizaci6n de la
Factibilidad Econ6mica de la carretera Patacnaya - Tambo Quemado, estudios que flhro
realizados por la fima KDROSERVICE - CONNAL. por un monto de $US 398,662.00, monto
del cual $US 388.000 fueri cubiertos cmn fondos del ardito 2012-BO del Banco Mundial y SUS
10.000 cm fondos de aporte local.
Posteriormente, mediante una nota de cambio en abril de 1989, se ampli6 el alcance de trabajo
por un monto adicional de SUS 60,000 para la complementacion del estudio con un Anklisis
Comnparativo de Costos Netos entre los corrdores Patacamaya - Arica y Oruro - Pisiga, que
fueron financiados por el INALPRE con fondos provenientes del BID, m-idito No. 733/SF-BO.
Los estudios se iniciaron el 10 de enero de 1989 y concltuyeron el 13 de noviembre de 1989 con
la entrega del informe final.
El estudio de Actualizaci6Sn de la Factibilidad Econ6mnica de la carretera Patacnmaya - Tambo
Quemado di6 como resutado Indices de rentabilidad buenos para la altemativa de pavimentaci6n
con trataniento superficial doble, superiores a 19,4% y VAN de 3 3 millones de dMlares para los
tranmos Patacamaya - Desaguadero y  Desaguadero - Oj8ani y utia TIR de 14,6% y VAN de 4
nilOles de d6lares parn el tumo OCjnsi - Tambo Quenado. Se recomen&d la construcci    a nivel
de pavimn-taci6n con tmarieuto superficial doble de la totalidad de la carretera de 188 kms de
longitud. Si bien los resultados para la caretera Oruro - Pisiga fueron menos favorables, se
recmend  encrar su estudio v diseflo de ingenieria con caracteristicas de diseflo mAs modestas.
Los informes y recomendaciones de estos estudios permitieron gestionar el cr6dito pare la
construcci6n y pavimentaci6n de la carretera Patacamaya - Tambo Quemado, obras que fuien
financiadas con un cridito cofinancianiiento por el BI y la OECF del Japon mediante contrato
firmado e.l 7 de mayo de 199).
El proyecto de construccioSn de la carretera Patacamaya - Tambo Quemado ha sido concluido y
entregado al servicio en fecha 16 de julio de 1996. Este pryecto , ademAs de la constxucci6n de
carreterad de 192 km de longitud, incluy6 los siguientes progamaS: Plan de Manejo del Parque
Nacional Sajama, Plan de Proteccion de la Fauna y Flora del ea del proyecto, Reconstuccin
de los restos arqueol6gicos y coloniales del Area del proyecto y Fortalecimiento de la capacidad
del pwestatano para evaluar, supevsar y ejecutar programas de proteccifn ambiental, cumpliendo
eo Ins reconiendacionies del estudio de Impacto Ambiental realizado por ln firma  Hidroservice-
Counal que realiz6 los estudios de factibilidad econ6mica.



ESTUDIO DE LA DEMANDA DEL TRANSPORTE EN EL CORREDOR SANTA CRUJZ -
PUERTO SUAREZ
Los esudios fiin adjudicados al Consocio DlE LEUW CAI-ER Intermational Lunited IEEUUI -
Centro de Asesoraniiento Empresarial Multidisciplinario CAEM   (BOL) y comprenieron la
realizaci6n del estudio de Demanda del Transporte y la Evaluaci6n del Iixacto Ambiental en el
Corredor Santa Cnzz - Puerto Suarez.
El costo de los estxdos fue d SUS 185,475.00. Los estudios se iniciaron el 25 de febrero de 1993
y cculeron el 5 de julio del miso  afio, entregandose en fccma oficial luego de las observaciones
del SNC y Banco Mundial en fecha 22 de mayo de 1994.
Este estudio comprede los siguientes infornes: Infome Final del estudio de Demanda de
Transporte. Anexos y Estudio de Impacto Ambiental de la carretera Sanita CruzZ - Puerto Suarez
El esldxo co[xhiye que eiste trAfico suficiente de pasajeros y carga pam la carretera y el ferrocaril,
ya que los servicios que presta ENFE no satisfacen la totalidad de demanda de tansporte. Las
pruyecciones de brifico hmestran que m solamente se mianiene el triifico de ENFE y el de la caretera.
sino que se estha una generacifn de mayor dermanda par ambas vias de traisporte por las
expectativas de la regi6n y el incentivo de la producci6n en este cornedorLa nue-a caretera serA
complementaria al ferrocaril y posiblemente le proporcionaA a este el incentivo que necesita para
mejorar sus operaciones a traN4s e incrementos en su eficiencia.
Estos estxios y las cs obsvadas fueron de mucha utilidad para realizar las gestiones
necesarias par el financiento de los estudios de factibilidad y diseflo de la carretera Santa Cnrz -
Pueno Suarez.
En 1995, luego de vawias gestiones se consigue el financiamiento del Banco Interamericano de
Desarrollo (BID) pea la realizaci6n de los estudios de Factibilidad Econ6mica de la carnetera Santa
Cruz - Puerto Suarez. Revision del Disefo de Ingenierlia del rarno Pail6n - San Jos. de algunos
ses cdlicos del tramo San Jose - Puerto Suarez y prediseflo del puente Rio GJrande. Actuahnente
la Dicd6n de Inversion Publica estA en proceso de califcaci6n de propuestas para la adjudicaci6n
de los estdios.
Se cuenta adeniAs con el campomso del Gobiemo de Corea y del BID para el finranciamnento de las
obsas de costrucci6n y pavimentacion del tramo Pailon - San Jose, una vez concluidos los estudios
de preiniesi6ii



SERVICIO lNACIONAL DE CAMINOS                                      Evaluacien Ecoitomicsg Ec-Post
Departumentot de. Planificaciin                                 El Altni - Orurom - Ramal Cuihuusi
CAPITULO V
ANALISIS DE RENTABILIDAD DEL PROYECTO
5.1    ESTINIACION DE COSTOS Y BENEFICIOS.-
Los beneficios mas preponderantes que capitalizan el presente evaluaci6n, proviene de los:
Ahorros de los costos de operacion de los vehiculos
Ahorros en costos de mantenimiento
Ahorros del tiempo de los pasajeros
Estos beneficios son producto de la comparacion del uso de la carretera en su anterior
condicion, con la via rahabilitada (repavimentada). En el proceso del modelo HDM, se ha
puesto enfasis en aplicar costos economicos
Se adjunta en el presente capitulo, reportes que se obtienen una vez que el modelo ha
efectuado la simulaci6n y evaluaci6n del proyecto, los mismos engloban montos de
inversiones a realizarse durante el periodo de vida util de la carretera en su estado actual como
en la correspondiente a la alternativa de construcci6n. los gastos en mantenimniento de rutina
y los costos de operaci6n vehicular.
Los cuadros correspondientes a la comparacion de los flujos de costos y beneficios, calculan
los indices de rentabilidad al ano 1996 a una tasa de descuento de 12% anual.
( )



SERVICIO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS                                     Ev'aluscion Econ&micau Ex-Pust
Departamento de. Planificaci6n                                 El Alto - Oruro - Ratmul Cuihuusi
Entre los reportes citados, se incluyen:
-     Resumen de evaluaci6n del Proyecto
-     Reporte deterioro de la carretera.
Camino actual
Camino repavimentado
Reporte Analisis Econ6mico:
Valor Presente Neto por inversi6n de capital inicial tinanciera
Razones beneficio - costo y razones beneficio costo incremental
Valores anuales equivalentes por km. y rugosidad media
Valores presentes y tasa interna de retorno
-      :Reporte Flujo de Costos
Camino actual
Camino repavimentado
5.2   INDICES DE RENTABILIDAD DEL PROYECTO
En el presente acapite se presentan los indicadores econ6micos generales instrumentalizados
en la evaluaci6n y en el calculo de la rentabilidad del tramo El Alto - Oruro y ramal Caihuasi.
La evaluaci6n econ6mica nos permitira determinar los beneficios o no de la materializaci6n
del proyecto bajo analisis.
Sl



SERVICTO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS                                       Evaluuci6n Ecoeaomica Ex-Post
Departamento de. Planificaci6n                                  El Alto) - Oruro) - Rumal Cuihuasi
En funci6n a reportes descritos anteriormente, se calcula los indicadores de rentabilidad del
proyecto, que permniten determinar cuan onveniente fui de realizar el mejoramiento,
presentando parametros econ6micos que permiten cuantificar la rentabilidad de la politica
definida. La nomenclatura que se utiliza para los indices de rentabilidad es la siguiente:
TIR   :       Tasa Interna de Retorno
VAN           Valor Actual Neto de los beneficios al final del aho base.
B/C   :       Relaci6n Beneficio - Costo
Los parametros de rentabilidad obtenidos se presentan en el cuadro No. 5. 1. efectivamente
constituyen oportunidades de inversi6n, con una tasa interna de retorno aceptable con un
valor superior a la tasa de oportunidad social de las inversiones.
Despu6s de examinar todos los costos econ6micos, obtenidos en la comparaci6n de los costos
y beneficios actualizados, se puede concluir que el proyecto de construcci6n y pavimentaci6n
de la carretera El Alto - Oruro y Ramal Caihuasi, ha sido factible tanto econ6micamente como
tecnicamente, corroborados por su rentabilidad.
En efecto, la Tasa Interna de Retomo (TIR) alcanzada en el proyecto (1 7 %) esta encima de
la tasa del 12% anual, que es el costo de oportunidad social del capital para Bolivia,
determinado por el Ministerio de Hacienda y Desarrollo Economico. sin embargo muy
cercana al limite.
32



Cuadro No. 5. I
PARAMETROS DE RENTABILIDAD ECONOMICA
Carretera: El Alto - Oruro - ramal Caihuasi
REPAVIMENTACION
CASO: BASICO
TASA`DE-          VAN
_DESCUEUNTO       miles Sus       BIC           PRK            TlR    J
(024)   -   -de .1996
12             5,420.00          1.34          1997         17.00
5.3.   COMPARACION DE COSTOS Y BEN EFICIOS
Cada propuesta de inversi6n debe. casi siempre. ofrecer beneficios, pLies en otro caso no
mereceria atenci6n a]guna desde un principio y, por otro lado, ocasionaria gastos. Por lo tanto
una de las primeras tareas, en la presente evaluaci6n, es determinar cuales son sus beneficios
y costos durante su vida util y por ende, cuantificarlos.
En nuestro caso la comparaci6n de costos y beneficios, puede inferirse que en la presente
justificaci6n solo se computan aquellos beneficios obtenidos directamente por la ejecucion de
la pavimentaci6n y construcci6n, es decir. beneficios directos y no se consideran aquellos que
puedan generarse indirectamente por la implementaci6n del proyecto, tales como mayores
oportunidades a la poblaci6n en salubridad, educaci6n y cultura por la sencilla raz6n de que
son intangibles.
5.6.   CONCLUSIONES
Por todo cuanto antecede, la politica de Repavimentaci6n del Proyecto El Alto - Oruro y
Ramal Caihuasi ha sido oportunamente ejecutada, por que en terminos cuantitativos se ha
podido determinar los beneficios que esta redituando al pais a la fecha y en el tiempo de vida
util que tiene. Por lo tanto la inversi6n realizada ha sido tecnica y econ6micamente
benieficiosa.



d;:istravcr HD- Recsuzen del Proyecto
la We       iz .r  ^:   !L I' G-ORURC -RAMC-   INtAI CAHiHUtAS'
e;-;   a la tO!r 2ida:    ; 1.J;C6
le d a Ca:rete:i: lEVIMENTADO 3L ALTO-ORTURC
^'a ''a-:r3:  t22.3 km
i -^5: X::.052sde D1w' :a:s
CAS6 SI'.N PROYECTO                               CASO CON PROY3CTO                           COMPARACION BCONOMICA
N.M:NO ArTUAL - MAT. RUTINA                           REPAVIMNENTDA CONCRETC  WSFALIT"
COS20     COSTO      COSTO                            CosC      OCSTC      COSIo          Os IO    COStO  3WNEr.
.'.:~    -.9 2?N   :.t: cOOiN8. ECONOM:. ECONCM2.  'NO OPER  'RI ECoNoM:. 5mNOMT. ECONOM.             G              RIO ECONCOM.
A'ENCTA  USUARTO        TOTAL                         AGENC:.'  ITSUARIC     TOTAL    R DUC D O REDUCIDO          KETO
,,:  ::  ~~~ . 2 -. -    '. 26     5 . 2C     ,O.46 a     Gw38 9. t              8 5     50w.2.    57,?.7          . 31      . .OC    * ?,:
0.25     51.i2      51.37      1069         4.6      11.2;    51.12       62.34         .;e        0.00    -10i6
*                 4   * s0! 7   #o.24  51.96     52.22      ilOl  CONS  2.2       0.04      47.61     47.65          0.20       4.37      4.58
0 .23    52.94      53.17      1134         2.2       0.04     49.07      49.1'          0.19      3.87       4.06
8- 1.6a   7       l.22      54.04      54.26      1168         2.3       0.04     50.57      50.60         0.18       3.47       3.65
rJ:    20.  e        0.21     55.28      55.48      1203          2.4      0.04     52.11      52.15  I       0.17       3.17      3.34
j7  !   2390.20    56.64      56.84     1239          2.4      0.04     53.70      53.74          0.16       2.94      3.10
-:9      58.13      58.32      1276         2.5       0.04     55.34      55.38         0.16       2.79       2.94
0..9     5 . {    s  ; -        Wl*8;9.74  59.93  1314  2.6  0.04    37.03  57.07       0.15       2.7].      2.86
.8 6;7   ,e   Qe 1.48  61.66   1354         2.7       0.04     58.79      58.a^          0.15      2.70       2.84
3            '.        .18      63.35      63.53   1394            2.8      0.O4     60.60      60.63          0.14       2.76      2.90
0 .7     ;5.37      65.54    1436           3.0       0.04     62.4a      62.52         0 14       2.08       3.02
.;  :,?9   .,     0i.1t7    67.53      67.70      1479         3.1i      0.0      64.54      64.58         0.14       2.99       3.12
',*                      0 ; .17   69.85      70.02      1524         3.3       0.04     66.8      66.92         0.13       2.97       3.10
^-; .    :                     6 7  b   D.17  72.34                                  02.  sl is70 0.0  69.39  69.43  1  013       2.95       3.08
?0-                 ;  :5, i .'.    C.17  75.03  75.19  1617      3.8      0.04     72.02      72.06'         0.13       3.01      3.13
; ~.   s j           .         0.17   77.93      78.10      1665         4.0      0.04      74.75     74.80          0.13       3.18      3.30
Li X; 2.1  ' l7 81.08  81.24   1715         4.2       0.04      7.58      77.65 I               012  3.50     3.62
:~        0: Q.'7             84.50      84.67      1767         4 .4      0.04     80.5Q0    80.5'          0.12       4.00       4.13
,2i0                                                   8           4 Q0.17  88.25  88.42  1820  4.5  0.05  83.51  83.55 s  12  4.74  4.87
-                                                     3.3
:  a:    13.85  1296.76   1300.62                                    9.2    1237.79   125?.2i         - 61       s8.98      43.37
^::.:  1   :       1 t!   z ..77    4868.75    490.52                   17.82    467.28    465.10        -16.05      21.47       5.42
i-5 ^eS  cvecto a2  :2.0 i de Tasa de Descuento:  5.42
.a-a :nerna de iez:::o dei Proyecto  (Ii:  17.0
SERlICIO NLACTONAL DE C.AMLXOS                                                                  Evaluacton Econ6nika Ex-Post
Departarnento de. Plantflcaclon                                                                     Nlachacamarca-Paifta
En el presente acapite se presentan los indicadores econ6inicos generales instrumentalizados
en la evaluaci6n v en el calculo de la rentabilidad del wratno M [achacamarca-PaMa. La



SERVICIO NSCIONAL DE C.-AMINOS                                          Evaluadclw  Eco6nomca Ex-Post
i9paztamet,to de. Planinlca.loit                                            Machiacamarca-Pazula
evaluacion econ6rmca nos penniti-a deteliminar los beneticios o no de la inaterializa;ion del
prov ecto bajo anilisis.
En funci6n a reportes descritos anteriormente. se calcula los indicadores de rentabilidad del
p)rovecro. que peiW.qlei,t   determinar  cuan conveniente fuW  de realizar cl mejol amiento.
presentando parimetros econ6micos que permiten cuantificar la rentabilidad de la politica
definida. La nomenc.latura que se utiliza para los indices de rentabilidad es la siguiente:
TIR    :       T asa Intema de Reto-no
VAN   :        Valor Actual Neto de los benelicios al final del ano lbase.
B C            Relaci6n Beneficio - Costo
Los paaranetros de rentabilidad obtenidos se prcsentzn en eiel cuadto No. 5.1. et;ctiVa\mntke
costituven oportunidades de invrsi6rt, con una tasa interna de retorno aceptable con un valor
superior a la tasa de oportunidad social de las inversiones.
Despues de exzzminar todos los costos economicos. obtenidos en ia comparacion ile los cosios
y beneticios actualzaC1os. s pucde concluir que el proveto de jnejorawniento y pavimentacion
de la carretera M'lachacamarca-Pazha. ha sido tactible iafroCo efllonmicalnentf   coiTo
tccnicamente. cotioboraclos por su rentabilidatd.
34



%F:RV ICI)0.X XACIN.A1 DEF ( ANIL\0S).5                                      Evl w lk,1611 Eesollolillic;l Ex l'.>f
Depma rf amlento (le. Planinc,ocioit                                            M \ ac licamarc llla - pa2 a
E.n etecto. Ia -rasa Lnicimn de Relorino (CIR) alcanzadla en ce provcCto (27.4  esta encirMa
dc: la tasa d*! 1     o'  z nual. quc es cI costo (e oportunilad  (ocial cdl .apital para Bol-i6ia.
dotenninado por el M\liniserio de Ilacienda v DcsalToio Economnico.
its rilp()riante sefialar. que los indicadore-  c%fonilnicos se reertei-en  .olamince a los bcneflcios
cuantiticables por una lo'ica de analisis tecmico economo  corw-ci  nal. I'uesto que. *mn la
pr6;actica los benetcios intrinsecos (lel provclu. paralla l.cxnomila -c-iolnal v (dCl pailS. 5011
mucho mayores cle lo quu 1)ueden inetirse inediante un mod.lok esindlamenlc teucflco.
tladl o \o 5!
PARAM ETriROS DE RENTA.-\B3IT1I) F:( CONO(1C A.-\
C'ar r etera: M\achacaniarca - Pazfia
PA\IMENTAC ION
(CASO: BASIC O
r'ASA DE    .         x                      I,
D I)ESC'EYNTO         mile" Su.s        B/C       i    PRK              *fIRt
:de 1996   I
01~~ 41   10(.
12        ;      .92O.O~ |             34:             d104
H ~  ~ ~                      i'



AChifl!trEGO a    O -. ~   ResT.oea., de"& e oa C t C
'kaD.re A Pr-n:to: CARRETERA KA ACNAANARCA-9Ai$
N'ombre de la Corrida: OACHACAHARCA-PAKA
:-'ha de ia  Corrida: 25/11196
r   -ooe aa r 18  Cfe te raP OA VI 1EI t A20  I A CHXACAAR A -PDA  a
anoltrud c: la Carretera: 48.3 km
1DweIa: il2;ooes Cce 0oliars
CA30SN PROYEC.TO                                  C'R30 CON ?ROYECTO                                                C 
CAN NEATL - NATI. RUliRA                        PAYTN.ENTADA T3E
~~,To    COSTO  cos,13                ,OS r-1    .nSOC     CCS O                           31NK.
cosro  casio  cos:o        O  PERIRI rocto. e           rnCrCC. ,j  0NE .
YT TOOP1'R  IR! HPIC C. ECNON>   CNO.                    8    PC 10   CNNI   CN EECOCON. AN                                 All10
AGENIA  OSUAR I        T OTAL                        AGENC!A  USUORhO        TOTAL   <c ."P           ~
~~rp, 2       12.2      0.O05     3294       s.1s3      2215            .  12.2  S 22   :.0        5.A
99i            U~~1.2    0.05       3.29       323:       221 CONS  3.2        0305       1.?       2.12            I       j4          .4
12.3                                                                                                               1.356.  4  .  00  3 i  1  4
99:  251        12l.3     0.05       3.59       3.56       235         3.3      0.05       221       2.6                        4       14
100   62        12        0.05       3.&Z1      4 lAS        42        3.4      0. 051     2.19      >234         (             4C         4
2001  249  12.5  0.05     3.76       3.80       2~~9        3.       0.05       2.6        2.50 .'0                          15
20~~  12.e,  0.05      3.39       3.93       251  ~~~~   3.9       0.05      2.3'       2.30         ). (ifC
201.1 :         m11.       cO.O      4.32:      44         10          3.0      0.05       2.62      26                         6 7
2014       "           2.        .5        4.6,2                 272        3.8       0.5        2I025A C                            6         5
2007  29'     13.0      0~.05     .1.60      4.64        297        4.O.5                27        2.1          C'                    1.8
200          6       1 3.      0.05,      4.115     41.30       304          .       0.05       2.06      2.12                                 1
209      3           3;       0.3        42         c     : 316            4.3      0.05       2.96      3.01         't         .  6       1.9
~~   13.2    ~0.05        5.0 P                  2          4.4      0.0        3.7        311*);70
:3.3  0.83  5.24  521  1   33!         ~4.6       0.05,      3.18l     3 .2                    2.35       2.00
~~  ~~~  ~~  ~~      ~~~             3~~~S ~     4.3      0.05       3.31.     3,5;                    L~ 2.3J
355             13.1       0.05      5.631      5.67       35           .1      0.05       3.45       3.09         %. .12               22
2914  3~~~    13.5      0.05       5.2         .7;      36          5 .4        .3.05S   3. t'    31.iE:                               .
014    1     0.                0.94     86.1,37 8.31i54                                        47        60.o         -tm         1s2      265
ina!  ia!  12.:~ i              0.39     2.12        03                               43        1.3       h6           .c          0.5        59
OPN de'l Prozeico a!  12.0   de Tasa -le Oes:ueno:  5.92
Tasa  doenad  Retorric de' Poayec,o ('UT:  27.



Bolivia
Export Corridors Project
Credit 2012-BO
Extracts from Retrospective Evaluation by the
Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles
En 1989 una misi6n de CANAC fue contratada por el Ministro de
Transportes  y  Comunicaciones  de  Bolivia,    para  realizar  una
diagn6sis de la situaci6n de ENFE.
El trabajo fue presentado a las autoridades bolivianas en el mismo
anio y sirvi6 de base a los terminos de referencia de una Licit.5ci6n
Intei-naci--.nal financiada por el Banco Mundial dentro del Programa.
de Correaores de Exportacion.
Para la menciona Licitaci6n CANAC form6 un convenio con la empr-esa
alemana DE-CONSULT.   Este convenio,se adjudico la licitaci6n,  y
el   contrato fue firmado en Noviembre de 1991.    Los primeios
expertos iniciaron su labor en La Paz a principios de Diciembre del
mismo ano.
El objetivo del proyecto era transformar a ENFE en una empresa
ferroviaria moderna orientada hacia el mercado pero conservando su
caracteristica de empresd estatal.
Los estudios efectuados por el Consorcio,  abarcaron prActicamente
toda la gama de las actividades ferroviarias y fueron present.5.dos
a las autoridades ferroviarias en Agosto de 1992.   El gobierno de
Bolivia Los acept6 en 1993.
Un resumen de los estudios entregados en esta primera fase es el
siguiente:
An&lisis del primer semestre y acciones futuras
Vias y obras
Vias y obras,  apendices y anexos - Fase de implementacion
Gesti6n de Operaciones
Plan de Mercadeo para 1993
Estudio de Mercadeo
Plan Estrategico Empresarial para ENFE
An&lisis y Recomendaciones para el Mejoramiento del Sistema de
Telecomunicaciones de ENFE.
An&lisis Macroecon6mico de los Efectos de las Operaciones de
ENFE en la Economia boliviana.
FFCC Arica - La Paz
RaLcionalizaci6n de las maestranzas
Organizaci6n-Administraci6n-Recursos Humanos
Acuerdo Programa
Evaluaci6n Econ6mica de Proyectos de Capital
Competencia Viable y Financieras
Manual de Capacitacion de Maquinistas
1



Todos estos estudios han tenido o aun hoy tienen su aplicaci6n.
Asi en el Area operacional se implement6 el control de vagones lo
que ayudo a solucionar la situaci6n presentada en Arica,   donde
habian hasta 450 vagones bolivianos paralizados o sea el 41% del
parque comercial de ENFE Red Andina.
Los  beneficios  econ6micos  derivados  de  la  soluci6n  de  este
problema,   no han sido evaluados numericamente pero saltan a la
vista y el problema no se ha vuelto a presentar mas.
Tambien se ha aplicado con exito el analisis y los accidentes y sus
causas, esto por si no ha disminuido la cantidad de accidentes,
pero lo vivido para la redacci6n de los manuales de conductores,
maquinistas, reparaciones de via y mantenimiento de locomotoras y
carros.
Se ha capacitado a maquinistas comno instructores de futuros
maquinistas y aspirantes, asi como al personal de mantenimiento de
locomotoras lo que ha traido consigo Ia disminuci6n de fallas en
linea del material tractivo y rodante y consiguientemente el
aumento de  la disponibilidad.    Estos  beneficios  no  han  sido
evaluados econ6micamente,  pero la reducci6n de minutos de atraso
ha sido notoria.
Por otra parte el estudio de Vias y Obras ha establecido un detalle
como deben realizarse las obras y su calidad y ha tomado en cuenta
el  mantenimiento diferido para poner  la  linea en condiciones
aceptables de confiabilidad y seguridad.
Estos par&metros de las maestranzas aconsej6 la clausura de varias
de ellas, dejando solamente 3 en operaci6n, hecho que se ejecut6
en Noviembre de 1993.
El programa de mejoramiento del sistema de telecomunicaciones
presentado por ENFE fue objeto de an&lisis y optimizaci6n.    Los
equipos de control de operaciones por radio fueron adquiridos de la
firma MOTOROLA despues de una licitaci6n financiada por el Banco
Mundial en 1993.
Por otra parte todas las inversiones necesarias y gastos corrientes
de operaci6n y administraci6n, asi como de pago de deuda fueron
consideradas en el Plan Estrategico Empresarial a cinco afios, que
tambi6n consideraban la reducci6n de personal y el aumento de
eficiencia.
En el aspecto de Recursos Humanos se desarroll6 un plan de
separaci6n basado principalmente en la innovaci6n tecnol6gica que
significaba el nuevo sistema de comunicaciones por radio y 1a



clausura de las maestranzas,  a 10 cual se anadi6 consideraciones
referentes a la edad,   capacidad,   antigu.edad en la empresa y
otras.   Tambien se revis6 el escalaf6n y el organigrama de la
empresa asi como la Ley_de Ferrocarriles vigente desde 1910 y el
Reglamento Interno.
La reducci6n de personal se ejecut6 en Octubre de 1993 juntamente
con la disminuci6n de  los niveles en eL escalaf6n;   la nueva
organizaci6n de la empresa comenz6 a implementarse en Agosto de
1993.
En la parte comerciaLl ENFE estfaba muy atrasada y la ingerencia
politica era mnuy notoria.   Las tarifds fijadas por el gobierno
medidnte Decreto impedian cualquier desviaci6n de ellas sin previa
consulta al gobierno.  La nueva filosofia que situaba al cliente en
el centro de toda actividad ferroviaria no se podia dar bajo estas
condiciones.
Otro aspecto conflictivo fue la revalorizaci6n de los Activos FiJos
de ENFE.   Para esto ENFE se comprometi6 a proporcionar a Los
consultores un inventario actualizado.          Lamentablemente,   el
inventario presentado por ENFE no aguant6 el escrutinio al 5%
-levado  a  cabo  por  PEAT  MARWCK-RUIZ  BALLIVIAN,           empresa
subcontratada por los consultores, t6mpoco resisti6 el muestreo
al 10% eLaborado por la mencionada empresa en un segundo intento.
El dictamen de PEAT MARWICK fue que con ese inventario no se podia
revalorizar  los Activos  Fijos de ENFE para asentarlos en  los
Estados Financieros de la empresa.   Se requeriria rehacer todo el
i nventario.
En Marzo de 1993,  una delegaci6n de 14 funcionarios superiores de
ENFE,  visit6 Montreal por tres semanas.  Este curso llevado a cabo
por Vice presidentes de la Canadian  National Railways se enfoco
principalmente  a  mostrar  mediante  conferencias,    debates  e
inspecci6n a instalaciones y oficinas el sistema de atenci6n a los
clientes;  la gesti6n de operaciones;  el sisterna de mantenimiento
de vias y salvatage;   el sistema de costos,  su aplicaci6n;   su
teoria y la posibilidad de aplicaci6n en Bolivia; la instalaci6n
intermodal y su gesti6n y el centro de mantenimiento diesel.
En otro orden de cosas se prepararon los Acuerdo-Programas para los
anios 1992, 1993 y 1994 que fueron firmados con el gobierno.
El estudio macroecon6mico tiene vigencia hoy y d& a conocer el
sitial que ocupa el ferrocarril dentro de la economia nacional con
sus  posibilidades  de  crecimiento  o decrecimiento  segun  sean
atendidas  sus  necesidades  primordiales  por  el  gobierno  y  se
implanten las recomendaciones de la Asistencia Tecnica.
3



Todos los trabajos y estudios realizados y en implementaci6n
posterior fueron presentados en graficos de Ruta Critica.
En Agosto de 1993 so instala un nuevo gobierno en Bolivia con un
programa completamente diferente en lo referente a las empresas del
Estado.
En lo que toca a los ferrocarriles,   ya no se habl6 m&s de una
empresa estatal orientada hacia el mercado, sino m6s bien de la
capitalizaci6n de la Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles.
Es asi que Pl Jefe del Proyecto busca contacto con las nuevas
autoridades para "Jarle un nuevo enfoque a la Asistencla Tecnica de
acuerdo a los programas de capitalizaci6n.
Se Ilega al acuerdo de que es necesario preparar a la Emprese para
su capitalizaci6n.
Se prepararon  varios  borradores  sobre  los nuevos  Alcances de
Trabajo y el Contrato Final entre ENFE y CANAC se firm6 en Montreal
el 31 de Diciembre de 1993.
Esta fecha tambien marcaba el fin del tiempo asignado a DE-CCNSULT
en el contrato original,  por lo que el nuevo contrato s6lo fue
firmado entre ENFE y CANAC.
Con esto se puede considerar finalizada la primera etapa del
proyecto.
La segunda etapa,   es decir,   el nuevo contrato de Asistencia
Tecnica  para  1994  previa  una  reducci6n  del  tiempo  asignado
originalmente que era hasta Diciembre de 1994,   esto se acort6
hasta Agosto de 1994 y la Asistencia T6cnica termine efectivamente
el 12 de Septiembre de 1994.
El nuevo Contrato establecia los trabajos en los siguientes campos:
-    Telecomunicaciones
-    Maestranzas
-    Administraci6n
-    Nuevo Sistema de Costos de Tr&fico
-    Bienes Raices
-    Activos Fijos
-    Evaluaci6n Economica del Sistema de Transporte entre Santa
Cruz y Cochabamba dentro del Corredor Interoceanico
4



1.   Telecomunicaciones.-
El experto de la Asistencia Tecnica trabaj6 muy estrechamente con
los tecnicos de ENFE.   Dict6 cursos de capacitaci6n y desarrollo
un curso y un manual para el personal boliviano.   Optimiz6 la
instalaci6n de los equipos ya adquiridos de tal manera que no solo
se pudieron satisfacer todas las necesidades del corredor ESTE-
OESTE sino que con los equipos sobrantes ahora se atienden las
lineas Viacha-Guaqui y aquellas al Sur de Oruro hasta Rio Mulato-
Potosi-Sucre;  Uyuni-Ollague y actualmente se est&n negociando las
frecuencias con el FFCC Antofagasta-Bolivia en Chile.
No se ha realiiado una evaluaci6n econ6mica de los beneficios que
ha traido la instalaci6n del sistema de radio en los ferrocarriles,
pero se puede asignar que representa el mayor desarrollo
tecnol6gico ferroviario desde la dieselizaci6n.
El despacho de trenes por radio ha permitido acortar los tiempos de
viaje,      pues   reduce   muchas   estaciones   intermedias   y
consiguientemente hace innecesario el personal ocupado en ellas,
lo que se traduce en un aumento de eficiencia. (Ver anexo.)
Con la reducci6n de los tiempos de viaje,   las lineas aumentan
automaticamente en capacidad,  en algunos sectores se ha notado que
este aumento permite correr hasta tres veces m&s trenes que antes.
Se puede decir sin exagerar, que la instalaci6n del nuevo sistema
de telecomunicaciones ha lienado con creces todas las espectativas.
2.   Maestranzas.-
El programa iniciado en 1992 sigui6 adelante, poniendo especial
6nfasis en  lograr un buen mantenimiento de  las  locomotoras y
carros.   Los efectos de este programa han sido notorios ya que la
disponibilidad de las locomotoras aument6 de un 66% al 80%;  el
tiempo de permanencia de las locomnotoras en talleres pudo ser
reducido  asi  como  las  fallas  en  linea  de  todo  el  equipo.
Mantenimiento mejor realizado da equipo mas confiable.
Debido a la capitalizaci6n de ENFE, estos beneficios no han sido
cuantificados,   pero un impacto en la reduccion de los gastos
operacionales ha sido notorio.
3.   Administraci6n.-
La Asistencia Tecnica dej6 a ENFE un plan completo computarizado de
cuentas contables y un programa que introducia la contabilidad por
responsabilidad.  Este programa permitia a ENFE una administracion
5



ma.s acorde a sus necesidades de empresa ferroviaria y al mismo
tiempo atendia los requerimientos estatales en cuanto a las normas
contables,  la Ley SAFCO y la elaboraci6n de presupuestos.
4.   Nuevo Sistema de Costos de TrAfico.-
La  Asistencia  Tecnica  dejo  para  ENFE  un  completo,    moderno,
computarizado y agil sistema de costos de trafico.  Introducia por
primera vez un sistema "pricing" especialmente desarrollado para
ENFE,  oue tsmmabe en con.-ideracion sus caracteristicas peculiares
*~e operacion,    pero  a1  mismao  tiempo  evitaba  abusos,    tenia.
comprobaciones internas .'utorrmaticas y previsi6n para uso indebido.
Con este sistema ENFE estaba eni posibilidad de dar al cliente una
tarifa  rapidamente,   la misma que se enmarcaba  dentro  de  los
precios de la competencia y aun mbs, permitia. hacerle iun precio a1
cliente de acuerdo a las caracteristicas especiales de un
transporte  en  terminos de  tonelaje,   lapso de  tiempo  y otros
factores que permiten  hacor el transporte  por ferrocarri I mas
atrdctivo que por otros r.-edios.
Teniendo  un  sistema  computari=ado  y   asegurado  se  impedia  la
ma.nipulaci6n y se reducia la ingerencia del gobierno en IaL fijaci6n
de precios y fletes, ya que con este sisterna el gobierno no podia
m,a:; establecer tarifas por decreto sin correr el riesgo de ser
s_veramente cr i t iccado.
El sistema de costos se acoplaba al sistema de contabilidad por
responsabilidad y asi se establecia un control y disciplina sobre
los gastos que se ref lejaba en una mejor administracion de toda la
Empre.sa.
Por el proceso de capitalizaci6n tanto el sistema de costos como el
de  contabilidad  no  se  pudieron  aplicar  en  ENFE,    pero  los
funcionarios que trabajaron mano a mano con  los expertos de la
Asistencia Tecnica,  traabajan ahora con las empresas capitaliz-adas
demostra.ndo sus conocimnientos,  lo que significa que el traspaso de
Know How fue positivo.
5.   Bienes Raices.-
ENFE poseia propiedades inmuebles en casi toda  la naci6n.  Sin
embargo,  los terrenos en las 4 ciudades mis importantes,  La Paz,
Santa Cruz,  Cochabamba y Sucre,  representaban en valor m6s que
todo el resto en conjunto.
Por  esto  se  decidi6  que  la  Asitencia  Tecnica  estudiara  las
posibilidades de venta o desarrollo  de estos predios,   tomando
siempre en cuenta las actividades ferroviarias futuras.
6



El estudio en si,  di6 valores a los predios en las cuatro ciudedes
citadas de acuerdo a diferentes grados de desarrollo de las
propiedodos considerando varia opciones,  desde la venta de los
sitios  en el  estado  en  que  se encuentran,    pasando  por  un
desarrollo medio hasta Ilegar a un desarrollo completo urbdnistico.
Se recomendaba la creaci6n de una nueva empresa de bienes raices
ferroviorios para el desarrollo y venta de los terrenos.
Los pianos desarrollados para este estudio sirvieron de base,
posteriormente,  ai consultor contratado para realizar la divizi,5n
de los bienes raices operacionales de los excedentarios.
Por otro lado la consultora que realiz6 la revalorizaci6n de los
activos  fijos de ENFE,   tuvo acceso a este estudio y hallo,
independientemente,  valores similares para los predios.
6.   Activos Fijos.-
En vista que en la primera fase del proyecto no se pudo realizar la
valorizaci6n de los activos  fijos y teniendo presente  que  la
capitalizaci6n presenta.ba una nueva situaci6n,  se estableci6 de
acuerdo con las autoridades del Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n y del
Danco Mundial,  que era necesario conocer el valor aproximado de
ENFE para objetos de la capitalizaci6n.   Es asi que se consider6
suficienite la valoraci6n del 80% de los activos fijos y una. suima
global para los realiables.
La  Asitencia  Tecnica  puso  tres  expertos  a  trabajar  en  los
siguientes campos:
-    Locomotoras
-    Vias y Obras
-    Telecomunicaciones y Seoales
-    Obras y Edificios
-    Derecho de Via
-    Tierras principales
-    Tierras excedentarias
Se  sigui6  una  metodologia  de  muestreo  pero  que  no  llenaba
completamente  los  requerimientos  de  una  valoraci6n  para  ser
incluida en los estados financieros de la Empresa.    Por otra
parte,  ENFE continuaba sin tener un inventario valido para este
proposito.
La empresa VANNESS Co.,  Asesor Estrategico para la capitalizaci6n
encontr6 que los valores dados por la Asistencia T6cnica eran
v6.lidos  y  los consider,5 en  sus diferentes  proyectos  para  la
capitalizacion de ENFE.
7



CUADROS COMPARAT IUOS
CANTID DE PERS(*L:
*                    .        .,I, ,,                    ,'               ,      Nm
rrpo DE conunicAciorI
CA1ITIDA) DE PERSONAL       CANTIDAD DE PERSONAL                   S
ALANPRICA E Jnimnn -                                ISECTOR
E.tl.F.E.                 F.C.A. S.a. A
BRICA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LINEAS FISICAS                     69 PESONAS                  9 PERsotiAs            TODA A RED ANDIJA
SISTEDA INALANDRICO                49 PERSONAS                14 PERSONAS             TODA LA RD ANDINA
RDNINISTRACION                      7 PErONAS                  I PERSOtA              TON  LA RD ANDItA
TOTAL                             197 PERSONAS                15 PERSOtNAS            TODa LA IED ANDINA
POSIBILIDAD DE RErtJCXCON DEL PERSONL:
I TIPO DE coMNIcaciori A-    CAtNTIPAD DE PESOtAL          CAtirlDAD DE PERSONL                    SECOR
LANBRICa E INALANDRICA            E.N.F.E.                       F.C.A. S.A.
L!t:EAS FISICAS                    69 PE]MONAS                 0 PERSONAS             TOM LA RED aWHI
SISTEA M tIALAtIBRIC0              43 PEISO.NAS                6 PERSONAS             TODA LA RED ADItiA
ADINIUSTXATIVO                      7 PFSOAS                   I PERSONA              TOM LA RED ANDINA
TOTAL                             197 PERSSOMAS                7 PERSONAS             TODA LA RED AtIDINA
REL;lCj  KIb~   LONETRQS-4OBRE:
TIPO DE CONItIICACION A-    CANTIDAD XILONET1RS-        CANTIMAD XILOMETWOS-         I           SECTOR
LA!.!rICg E INALAMtAICA     NonDRxE E.N.F.E.            fCNflsRE EtN F.C.A. S.A.
LINERS FISICAS              16,7 X1M / 1 FERSOMA      1893 }M / Q FEMRSC'S            TOn LA RED AD INA
SISTE   l i'IALARN3JICO     25,2 VI / 1 PrSmona       166,71M / 1  ERXSONA            TODA LA RED AtIDINa
Con los datos anteriormente proparcionidcs podeos hacer notar que au;Aenta notableawente la rentabilidad de la EM-
Fresa bajando la carga soc.al , pero estas observaciones son validas no solamente con lo expuesto,sino que da la
fran orcion de reducir las estaciones ga que las locoMotoras pueden cowunicarse con el puesto de mando directamen-
te dependiendo exclusivamente del puesto de  andao en La Ciudad De Oruro.
El sistema v.H.F. (very high frecuency) puede aun wejorarse en el uso de estos transceptores desde el puesto de /
4and&  Para un control de los mismos ya que aun se detectar, en la nagoria de las conversaciones reiteraciones que
saturan la cc-unicacion y por ende las rep2tidoras,creo por coanveniente instruir a los reguladores con per.. ^
perto en tratico;tambien considero que al haber retirado los Jilos fisicos 1;.. ;I:radores de los misitos se encuen-
t;an en una etapa do transicion.



.                         b~~~~~UHJJfU  'UI'IIHJHL 11UU
TIIFO DES cONIIc*CJO                           _
TIPANTIS tDE CAMIIALIUAR           DISXS D CUEITAIZAR
OLAl9RltR I INAUL -            E.N.F.E.Sr.c.A s .                                        SECTOB
,..,     ,                       .. .8                                          ,           -
StlMS FISICS                    leg %                         O X70D  LA ID ANDlNA
..1  83          16x                  ORtURO - COCHA9A1  - 9N1
U.N.F.                      7| X                        in x                OIRO - LA CHA ERA
V.N.7.                      65 x                                             OAI XI 0RO - OAQO1
V.H.F.                                                  le @%  1"o 1    RR- SACOAtA
V.N.F.                                                   g  8 Z              SACABaNN - HacuawRaNX 
U.N.T.                      85 Z.                       leg %                ORURO - VlACHA
U.H.F.                      75 %                          5                  ORURO - CIMRAM              |
V.H.F.     j        ~~~65 X          |           10                   ORURO - POOFO
LMV.H.F.                     79 X                        S5 x                ORURO - RIO NULATO
9.8.7.                      602                         IN %                 U?U?I! - RIO ?WLATO
9.H.F.                      70 x                        lo x                 UYUNI - AU*RO*
POTOSI-RIO tULATO
V.H.F.                     l6e zl| 19 %                                      BIO MULT-AJa DE CASTILLA
9.11F.                     102 X                        121                  ORUWROLA PAZ
; U.H.F.                     83 X                        85 %                LA ?A-OXURO-UyUNI
".F.                       75 X                        85 %                ORURO-COCIsaB
N.Y.                       83 x                        SO X                ORURO-UYUNi
3.F.            9|         S                           95 7Z               OPJJRO-POTOSI
H.F.                      7a X                         93 X                ORUBO-SUCBE
N.Y.                       72 Y                        85 X                ORURO-IU1PIS-ATOCHA
S.F.                        9 X                        7a X                OBRUO-AGUA DE CASTILLA
8.7.                      75 %                         75 X7               ORUF.-04R10
N.Y.                       O %                         75 x                ORURO-CHAGUAJAtI
IORiRO-GUAQUI-COMJNICACd 1O
H.F.                       9O %                       log 1X               con BARCOS raNvS
CDITKALES                                                                      LA PAZt/iACIHIOR0RO/UYiU?I
tT0.DO7.1CS                  1,                                                    .AER,.tA.



CONCLUSIONOES :
1) Con el nuevo sistema Motorola U.H.F. se nejoraron las comunicaciones ferroviarias ,dando
una Magor seguridad en la circulacion de trenes g material rodante.
2) Con este sistewa de rodujeron los costos de mantenitiento en los equipos de comunicacion
considerable,ente tanto en repuestos cono en .ano de obra.
3) Se redujeron los riesgos de muerte en el mantenisiento del pe-rsonal de Telecowanicacia-
nes.
4) Las estaciones tajbien se reducieron dando una coiunicacion  sas directa a las locoioto-
ras.
5) A1 lbaer reducidD estaciones se pudo isplementar el sector sur fuera de los corredores
de exportacion inclugendo el sector Guaqui.
5) Existe una mayor integracion de las conunicaciones centralizadas en el puesto de wando.
7) Con este sisteia de comuDicacion se agiliza el transporte de carga estableciendo con
masor exactitud la ubicacion de locoi'otoras.
8) Se puede taibien o.btener con mayor precision la ubicacion de vagones prestados de otra
Zipresa.
9) Da este sisteia de comunicaciones la posibilidad de avisar a las locoiotoras el estado
de la via.
10) Por ultimo el sisteita nos ha facilitado enorseiente en la coiwnicacion entre fronteras.



Bolivia
Export Corridors Project
Credit 2012-BO
Extracts from Retrospective Evaluation by the Ministry of Capitalization
IV. EVALUACION DEL PROCESO
A.  EVALUACION DE LA EJECUCION DEL CREDITO Y LAS RELACIONES
CON EL BANCO MUINDIAL.
Si bien el proceso de capitalizaci6n de la Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles (ENFE). se
emnarc6 en los lineamientos generales aplicados a la capitalizaci6n de otras empresas
incluidas en el mismo programa (ENDE, ENTEL y LAB), muy pronto result6 evidente
que ciertas caracteristicas particulares, propias del sector ferroviario no solo en Bolivia
sino a nivel internacional, irnponian la obligaci6n de encarar una serie de actividades no
previstas (por su magnitud o detalle) en los planes originales.
Sobre este aspecto del proceso influyo, asirnismo, la experiencia recogida por las
autoridades a cargo del proceso de capitalizacion al tiempo de completar diferentes erapas
en forma paralela en las demas empresas incluidas en el programa de capitalizaci6n.



A modo de ejemplo. puede citarse el requerimiento hecho al equipo t6cnico a cargo de
la capitalizaci6n de ENFE en sentido de contar, en forma previa al inicio de actividades
de promoci6n internacional del proceso, con la asistencia efectiva de un Banco de
Inversi6n y una firma especializada en el sector cumpliendo el rol de Asesor Estrategico.
Como consecuencia de la aparici6n de este tipo de requerimientos y otras exigencias
emergentes del proceso. quedo en claro desde el principio de la ejecuci6n del credito
2012-BO (en el componente correspondiente al Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n) que era
imnprescindible establecer una buena comunicaci6n con el Banco Mundial de forma de
permitir, por una parte, que dicho organismo realice un seguimiento adecuado del
proceso de capitalizaci6n de ENFE y, por otro lado, que el citado proceso no sufra
retrasos a consecuei.cia de una falta de sincronizaci6n en la ejecuci6n de actividades
formales entre el Ministerio y el Banco Mundial.
Actuando en consecuencia, el equipo tecnico a cargo de la capitalizaci6n de ENFE
prepar6 un esquema conteniendo en el mayor detalle posible las aplicaciones propuestas
para la ejecuci6n del componente del credito 2012-BO bajo administraci6n efectiva del
Ministerio de Capitalizaci6n.
En tal sentido, se defini6 una estructura de consultorfas con las que seria necesario contar
hasta el final del proceso, asignando a cada una de ellas un presupuesto estimado. Sobre
la base de este esquema, que inclufa un seguimiento de los procesos de contraracifn, el
presupuesto final asignado (a partir de la conclusi6n de los mencionados procesos de
contrataci6n) y la evoluci6n de los pagos ejecutados. se pudieron conseguir,
simultaneamente dos objetivos:
i)    Mostrar, a traves de la contrataci6n efectiva de servicios de consultoria
especificos, el avance de todo el proceso favoreciendo el control y seguimiento
de las actividades planificadas.
ii)    Contar con flexibilidad suficiente, a partir de la definici6n de un presupuesto,
para deterrninar la capacidad econ6mica del Ministerio para enfrentar nuevas
tareas adicionales, complementarias o supletorias a las planteadas inicialmente.
Sobre esta base, las relaciones con el Banco Mundial se desarrollaron durante todo el
proceso de una forma muy fluida. En forma particular, es necesario remarcar el apoyo
prestado por este organismo en lo que hace a los procesos de contrataci6n de las
consultorias internacionales.
A este respecto, es posible sefialar que el esfuerzo realizado por el Ministerio de
Capitalizaci6n en la preparaci6n de dichos procesos de contrataci6n en forma
estrictamente apegada a los procedimientos del Banco Mundial dentro de plazos de
tiempo muy restringidos, encontr6 un correlato muy importante en la diligencia y rapidez
con que el organismo financiador evaluo cada etapa de las contrataciones realizadas.



En este sentido, procesos como la otorgaci6n de la "no objeci6n" del Banco Mundial a
terminos de referencia, fueron abordados y superados dentro de los plazos requeridos
contribuyendo, sin duda alguna, a la realizaci6n de un proyecto que -como la
capitalizaci6n de ENFE- demostr6 ser especialmente sensible al tiempo en el que cada
tarea era concluida.
Consecuentemente, en la evaluaci6n final de la forina en que el trabajo de ejecucion del
credito 2012-BO fue realizado, debe destacarse la coincidencia de objetivos y el
entendimiento alcanzado entre el Ministerio -quien fue capaz de construir una adecuada
estructura organizativa (t6cnica. legal, de "procurement", etc.) al tiempo de avanzar en
cada uno de los procesos de capitalizaci6n-. y el Banco Mundial -quien comprendi6
caba'-r;nte e' alcance del programa de capitalizacior, y fue capaz de adaptarse con
rapidez a situaciones cambiances y urgentes-.
B. EVALUACI6N DE LOS RESULTADOS DEL PROCESO.
Los procesos de privatizaci6n ferroviaria (o de capitalizaci6n) no poseen una larga
historia aiun a nivel mundial; el proceso de privatizaci6n del sistema ferroviario de cargas
argentino, iniciado en 1989 y concluido parcialmente en 1993, fue un -"leading case" y
practicamente el primero en implementarse a nivel mundial. luego de los procesos
"masivos" de nacionalizaci6n de las empresas ferroviarias latinoamericanas que se inici6
en la decada de 1940.
Luego de Argentina, Chile inici6 el camino de la privatizaci6n de su sistema ferroviario.
Alli se vendi6 el 51 % de la compafm'a Ferrocarriles del Pacifico (FEPASA), con su
correspondiente material rodante. La infraestructura continuaba perteneciendo al Estado
chileno.
En ambos casos, si bien hubieron varios grupos empresarios interesados, nunca se
lograron obtener mas de dos propuestas econ6micas para su evaluaci6n y posterior
adjudicaci6n. Como consecuencia, si se toma como antecedente lo ocurrido en Argentina
y Chile, no es sorprendente que unicamente dos firmas hayan presentado sus ofertas
econ6micas para la capitalizaci6n de ENFE.
Privatizar o capitalizar sistemas ferroviarios no es una tarea facil. Esta es una actividad
que, en la mayor parte del mundo, se encuentra en manos del Estado -Estados Unidos
es practicamente el uinico pais del mundo que posee una larga historia de participacion
privada en los ferrocarriles de carga-. Este hecho, ha perjudicado el surgimiento de
grupos empresarios que vean a la actividad ferroviaria como un negocio, como en otros
sectores de la economia en la que se prestan servicios p(iblicos. Si a todo esto se agregan
las condiciones en las que ENFE se encontraba, es posible comprender mejor los
resultados alcanzados en la licitaci6n internacional que culmin6 con la capitalizaci6n de
ENFE.



A este respecto, debe sefialarse que el programa de capitalizaci6n no visualiz6 la
atracci6n de participaci6n privada en el sector ferroviario como una manera de generar
fondos para el gobierno boliviano sino como una alternativa para dejar de aportar fondos
al ferrocarril de manera que dejen de ser una pesada carga para el Estado y, al mismo
tiempo, lograr una revitalizaci6n del ferrocarril cuya critica situaci6n (tanto
administrativa como operativa) hubiese generado en el corto plazo una fuerte tendencia
a la caida del trafico y a su participaci6n en el mercado de transporte, sumado a la
imposibilidad de aportar nuevos recursos para su necesaria modernizaci6n.
Como consecuencia, si bien la capitalizaci6n por encima del valor en libros en el caso
de la Red Oriental no hizo mas que confirmar en los hechos las expectativas que se
formaron en el ticmp,o -obre la mayor fortaleza y potencialidad de dicha red ferroviaria
en comparaci6n a la Red Andina, los resultados obtenidos para esta uiltima no
coincidieron con las expectativas optimistas que se tenfan (tomando en cuenta el interes
demostrado por operadores ferroviarios de gran importancia a nivel mundial) aunque.
desde un punto de vista mas realista. si fueron consistentes con la real situaci6n de la
que se partia.
En este sentido, la oferta para la capitalizaci6n de la Empresa Ferroviaria Andina (FCA)
S.A.M., -con un valor significativamente inferior al valor de libros de la empresa-, debi6
evaluarse ponderando los costos y beneficios que podria traer aparejada la decisi6n de
no adjudicar las acciones de FCA S.A.M..
Para el efecto, al margen de revisarse el proceso de capitalizaci6n de ENFE desde su
inicio, con el prop6sito de determinar razonablemente las probabilidades de exito que
podria tener el iniciar nuevamente el proceso de licitaci6n en lo que hace a la FCA
S .A.M., se evaluaron diversos indicadores del comportamiento econ6mico-financiero que
ENFE mostr6 durante los ultimos anios, esencialmente en lo que hace a su capacidad de
generaci6n de ingresos y al nivel de endeudamiento en el que estuvo incurriendo.
En este contexto, qued6 claro que desestimar la recomendaci6n de adjudicaci6n para la
capitalizaci6n de la Red Andina de ENFE equivalia, en el corto plazo, a asistir a la
declinaci6n y posterior desaparici6n de la actividad ferroviaria en el sector occidental del
pais.
La decisi6n finalmente tomada por el Gobierno boliviano, en sentido de adjudicar la
capitalizaci6n de FCA S.A.M. de acuerdo al resultado obtenido en la licitaci6n implic6
un significativo paso adelante para la actividad ferroviaria (como lo demuestran las
proyecciones que, para el sector, han hecho puiblicas las dos empresas ferroviarias) y,
en suma, represent6 el cierre de un capitulo del programa de capitalizaci6n en el que sin,
duda alguna, el usuario del servicio (y, a traves del mismo, todo el pais) result6
ganancioso.



C.    SOSTENIBILIDAD DE LOS RESULTADOS
Practicamente desde el inicio del programa de capitalizaci6n de las seis mas importantes
empresas publicas, -marcado por la promulgaci6n de la Ley de Capitalizacion el 21 de
marzo de 1994-, se hizo evidente que la magnitud del cambio que dicho programa trafa
aparejado. hacia imprescindible la conformaci6n de una estructura legal y organizativa
que pernitiera garantizar que los resultados a ser alcanzados en todos los sectores
afectados al proceso de capitalizaci6n, pudieran ser sostenibles en el tiempo.
Por esta raz6n, en fecha 28 de octubre de 1994, mediante Ley de la repuiblica se cre6 el
Sistema de Regulaci6n Sectorial (SIRESE), cuyo objetivo es regular, controlar y
supeu, isa-: aau.lla. activid2des de [os sectores de telecomunicaciones, electricidad.
hidrocarburos, transportes, aguas y las de otros sectores que mediante ley sean
incorporadas al sistema y que se encuentren sometidas a regulaci6n conforme a las
respectivas normas legales sectoriales.
Asimismo, dentro de la Ilamada ley SIRESE se contempI6 el establecimiento de la
Superintendencia General del SIRESE, como 6rgano superior en el denominado sistema
de regulaci6n sectoria asimismo, para la regulaci6n directa de los sectores antes
mencionados, se crearon las Superintendencias Sectoriales, las cuales tienen como
funci6n principal ser los organismos encargados de hacer cumplir las normas sectoriales
y los contratos suscritos entre estas superintendencias y las empresas que operan en el
sector.
En este marco, en el caso especifico del sector ferroviario, en forina paralela a las
actividades propias del proceso de capitalizaci6n de ENFE, se trabaj6 en la formulaci6n
de un marco regulatorio destinado a crear un ordenamiento jurifdico coherente y acorde
con las nuevas  necesidades y proyecciones del Servicio Nblico de Transporte
Ferroviario y que, a la vez, permnitiera hacer efectivo el proceso de capitalizaci6n de
ENFE.
Dentro de dicho marco regulatorio, las actividades del Ministerio se orientaron al disefio
de normas legales que complementaran la Ley General de Ferrocarriles (de 1910), las
cuales se reflejaron en dos instrumentos centrales:
i)    El D.S. 24178 que determina el establecimiento de la Superintendencia de
Transportes, prevista en los articulos lo. y 2o. de la Ley SIRESE; y
ii)    El D. S. 24179 que reglamenta la prestaci6n del servicio publico ferroviario en el
marco legal establecido por la Ley del Sistema de Regulaci6n Sectorial.
Contando con el correspondiente marco regulatorio fijando sus atribuciones y
responsabilidades, el Superintendente de Transportes entr6 en funciones el 13 de marzo
de 1996. A la fecha, dicha Superintendencia ya ha enfrentado, tanto en el sector



ferroviario como en el de transporte aereo. una serie de desafios y problemas que, en
ultima instancia, han puesto a prueba el esquema de regulaci6n diseniado a traves de la
ley SIRESE.
En este sentido, la Superintendencia de Transportes ha intervenido en situaciones en las
que result6 necesario velar por el mantenimiento de la eficiencia y competencia en el
sector, vigilando asimismo por la correcta prestaci6n de los servicios a cargo de las
empresas bajo su jurisdicci6n.
Si bien la capacidad organizativa y operacional de esta Superintendencia se vi6 afectada
por sus limitaciones presupuestarias. poco a poco la misma consigui6 estabilizarse e
iniciPr su despegue. A la fechl, aun. cuando la Superintendencia de Transportes no cuenta
todavia con la suficiente capacidad tecnica contratada para afrontar sus tareas, en base
a un trabajo de apoyo por parte del Ministerio de capitalizaci6n se ha logrado salir
adelante en temas de gran importancia como la fijaci6n de tarifas en el sector ferroviario.
Ahora bien, el marco regulatorio sectorial preve el financiamiento presupuestario a la
Superintendencia de Transportes, por cuanto establece que hasta un 0.5 % de los ingresos
brutos anuales de las empresas ferroviarias debe ser aportado como tasa de regulacion
a la Superintendencia de Transportes. Estos recursos permitiran contar con una planta
tecnica adecuada para el cumplimiento de las actividades de regulaci6n y control que la
misma debe desempe-nar.
Consecuentemente, es posible sefialar que mas alla de las rigideces de tiempo y recursos,
el esquema disehiado para la capitalizaci6n de ENFE y para el posterior seguimiento y
control de las actividades de las empresas ferroviarias demuestra solidez y alentadoras
perspectivas de que los pasos dados hasta el momento sean sostenibles en el tiempo.



Bolivia
Export Corridors Project
Credit 2012-BO
Extracts from Retrospective Evaluation by the
Instituto Nacional de Promoci6n de Exportaciones (INPEX)
1.   INTRODUCCI6N
Dentro del marco de la'promoci6n de exportaciones, el Instituto
Nacional de Promoci6n de Exportaciones, mediante el financiamiento
del Banco Mundial, a traves del credito 2012-BO "Corredores de
Exportaci6n", desarrollo tres proyectos relacionados al movimiento
de carga internacional y al disenio de un sistema de Distribucion
Fisica Internacional.
Los provectos mencionados anteriormente, han sido desarrollados de
acuerdo al siguiente listado:
1. Obstaculos y fomento al uso de contenedores
2. Estudio para la promocion del transporte adroe de la carga
3. Sistema de Distribucidn Fisica Internacional
4. Estudio de Consolidacion de Carga
Los proyectos realizados, que se constituyen en una fuente de
informaci6n importante para el exportador nacional y a la vez,
engloba datos relacionados al rovimiento de carga por medio de los
sistemas multimodales de carga.
2.   OBJETIVOS
2.1 OBJETIVO GENERAL
El objetivo general de proyecto "Corredores de Exportaci6n" es
contribuir al mejoramiento de la competitividad y aumento de
rentabilidad de las exportaciones no tradicionales de Bolivia, en
base a los diagn6sticos del transporte de carga en contenedores, ya
sea a traves de medio multinodal o especifico que puede ser
determinado por el sistema de distribucion fisica, optimizando el
tiempo y costo de cada despacho.
2.2   OBJETIVOS ESPECIFICOS
*    Identificar  los problemas por los cuales  atraviesan  los
despachos de exportaciones no tradicionales de Bolivia.
*    Delimitar el grado de competitvidad de la oferta exportable
nacional en base a los medios de transporte disponibles y de
contenedores existentes en Bolivia.
*    Identificar las cadenas basicas de DFI entre los principales
centros de produccion y los puntos de salida de Bolivia para
productos que por sus caracteristicas sean seleccionados como
modelos para definir la cadena de dfi de productos similares
de exportacion o potencialmente exportables.
*    Determinar  los  productos  que  pueden  ser  sujetos  a  la
consolidacion de carga en contenedores para su posterior
despacho, mediante cualquier modo de transporte
*    Optimizar los costos de manipuleo,  despachos  aduaneros y
otros, relacionados a los productos sujetos a la consolidacion
de carga, en los principales centros de produccion nacional.
*    Dar continuidad a los estudios, en base a la renovacion de la
informacion  y  cambios  actuales  en  los  mecanismos  del
transporte y del comercio internacional.



3.   CUMPLIMIENTO DE LOS OBJETIVOS
De acuerdo a las actividades realizadas, los objetivos generales y
especificos han sido logrados en un noventa porciento (90%), debido
a la falta de presupuesto para poder actualizar los mismos y darlos
a conocer a los empresarios en general.
4.   FACTORES QUE AFECTARON EL PROYECTO
La continuidad y el uso de los proyectos realizados no es una
responsabilidad netamente del INPEX, debido a que intervienen en
estos proyectos los exportadores, transportistas, aduaneros y el
gQ;.errn.  por  c  tarito, el Comrit  Boliviano  de Usuarios  de
Transporte de Carga - COBUTRAC, debi6 haber sido una alternativa
para el mejor aprovechamiento de los estudios, su difusi6n y
actualizaci6n respectiva.
La falta de financiamiento, tanto en el INPEX como en el COBUTRAC,
es una de  las  razones por las cuales,  no  se pudo  llegar a
disposiciones mayores en el aprovechamiento, la actualizaci6n y
continuidad de los mismos. .
5.   SUSTENTABILIDAD DEL PROYECTO
La realizaci6n de los cuatro proyectos tiene una justificacion
teorica y practica, los cuales derivan en el sistema computarizado
de distribuci6n fisica internacional. En este sentido, la difusi6n
de los proyectos sera realizada a los exportadores de acuerdo al
siguiente esquema:
*    Elegir  un  universo  de  empresas  representativas  para  la
promoci6n  gratuita  del  sistema  de  distribuci6n  fisica
internacional
*    Recibir de las empresas elegidas el intercambio de informacion
de las cadenas de dfi utilizadas en sus despachos
*    Promocionar a un bajo costo el sistema de dfi entre el resto
de las empresas exportadoras e industriales de Bolivia (xxX
proyecto SAT)
*    Actualizar los estudios realizados con el fin de renovar la
informacion inmersa en el sistema de dfi
6.   COMPORTAMIENTO DEL BANCO
Dentro del marco de compromisos adquiridos del proyecto "Corredores
Exportaci6n", el banco ha cumplido con los pagos a los consultores
y los compromisos adquiridos con el INPEX.



7.   COMPORTAMIENTO DEL INPEX
Como ente official encargado de la promoci6n de exportaciones en
Boliviaha velado por mejorar los mecanismos relacionados al
transporte de carga multimodal y de crear un sistema computarizado
que facilite la elaboraci6n de costos del despacho de las
exportaciones hacia los paises de destino final.
Sin embargo, queda por realizar la actualizaci6n y el mantenimiento
de estos estudios para lograr un mejor impacto en las exportaciones
no tradicionales y de esta forma elevar la competitividad de estos
productos en los mercados objetivos.
8.   RESULTADOS OBTENIDOS
Las actividades desarrolladas han logrado determinar y especificar
que las exportaciones en Bolivia por el momento son muy
convencionales, debido a la pequefia oferta exportable que tiene
Bolivia en productos de mayor valor agregado.
Sin duda, el comportamiento de las exportaciones no tradicionales
esta mnejorando con las nuevas facilidades de produccion, de las
actividades de los organismos publicos y privados inmersos en el
proceso de exportaciones y la realizaci6n de estudios de estas
caracteristicas, que tienden a actualizar los conocimientos y las
tecnicas del comercio y la competitividad internacional.
9. FUTURAS ACCIONES
Las futuras acciones a ser efectuadas por el INPEX seran
promocionar y difundir los estudios realizados, asi como el sistema
c-omputarizado de distribuci6n fisica internacional. En este
sentido, se encomendara a por lo menos una persona como encargada
de este area para llevar a cabo todas las actividades requeridas
para hacer llegar estos estudios y el sistema a los actuales y
futuros exportadores.
10. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS
Por las caracteristicas de la oferta exportable, los estudios
proporcionan informaci6n amplia sobre las nuevas disposiciones del
comercio internacional, las mismas que determinan la mayor
competitividad y eficiencia en sus servicios. Estas disposiciones
estan dirigidas a poder satisfacer las necesidades de las
instituciones y personas que intervienen en el proceso de
exportaci6n, importacion y comercializaci6n.



Estos estudios revelan conocimientos tecnicos que inmiscuyen a
Bolivia dentro de las nuevas disposiciones del transporte,
consolidaci6n de carga, las ventajas del uso de contenedores, el
aprovechamiento de los corredores bioceanicos de exportaci6n y de
la elaboraci6n de una matriz 6ptima en costos y tiempo para el
desarrollo de actuales y futuras exportaciones de Bolivia.
11. TAREAS EJECUTADAS
De acuerdo a las especificaciones y terminos de referencia de los
estudios, se ha llevado a cabo un relevamiento de informaci6n, para
determinar los costos y fletes de transporte, -ostos de tramites de
exportacion,   disporn_bilidad  de  medios   de   transporte,   de
contenedores.
Esta informacion indispensable para la realizacion del estudio, ha
sido con la cual se ha podido elaborar las cadenas de DFI,
conjuntamente a las encuestas realizadas a los exportadores. Por
otra parte esta informaci6n se refleja en los informes y en las
recomendaciones que cada uno de los consultores ha realizado para
la implementacion y el mejoramiento de los sistemas relacionados al
transporte, los despachos aduaneros y la consolidacion de carga.



Bolivia
Export Corridors Project
Credit 2012-BO
Restrospective Evaluation by the Social Emergency Fund
EVALUACION DEL SUBPROGRAMA CAMINOS
FONDO SOCIAL DE EMERGENCIA
F.S.E
INTRODUCCION
El Fondo Social de Emergencia (FSE) fue creado en Diciembre de 1986
por el Gobierno con caracter temporal con el objetivo de:
a.- Aliviar el costo social de la crisis econ6mica resultado de
polfticas econ6micas inadeacuadas
b.- La posterior aplicaci6n de medidas paleativas bajo el marco del
Ajuste Estructual.
Las funci6n principal del FSE era la creaci6n de fuentes de empleo
en forma masiva y considerando que el aparato estatal no estaba en
la capacidad de responder y enfrentar la rapidez necesaria para
lograr un paleativo adecuado al programa de estabilizacion y ajuste.
Por lo tanto fue diseniado como un mecanismo de desembolso rapido,
con proyectos pequefios  y tecnicamente sencillos, solicitados y
formulados por instituciones publicas, privadas y ONG's. Funcionaba
como intermediario financiero y los proyectos eran ejecutados por
contratistas privados o por ONG's y supervisados por un supervisor
externo, contratado por el FSE.
Dentro de las polfticas a implementarse se   estructurar6n  los
siguientes programas  :  Asistencia Social, lnfraestructura Social,
Infraestructura  Econ6mica,  Proyectos  Productivos  y  Apoyo
Institucional.
Al interior del programa Infraestructura Econ6mica se introduce el
sub programa CAMINOS.
Se eligi6 este sub programa por tratarse de trabajos de alta
intensidad en uso de mano de obra.



Especfficamente para caminos se hizo una inversi6n total de $us
26.9 millones con una ejecuci6n de 282 proyectos en 8
departamentos
LECCIONES APRENDIDAS ( caminos)
Durante los 4 anos de implementacion del sub programa y de acuerdo
a la experieircia , 5e ha podido observar que la inversi6n ha sido
destinada a una necesidad puntual de las zonas rurales, en cuanto a
caminos vecinales, dando a las poblaciones   una mayor posibilidad
de transporte ininterrumpido, con poca inversi6n por proyecto.
Por la necesidad de rapidez en la generaci6n de empleo , la exigencia
t6cnica de los proyectos es minima , no se contaba con estudios
completos, por lo tanto los proyectos se basan fundamentalmente en
soluciones de: Alcantarillas, cunetas, "ripiado" en baja proporci6n y
movimiento de tierras para mejorar algunos trechos conflictivos.
Estos elementos eran decididos a traves del conocimiento de la zona
por los profesionales del Servicio Nacional de Caminos ( SNC ) y el
asesoramiento permanente del personal del FSE.
Aspectos negativos.
1.- Dada la baja calidad tecnica de los proyectos, en algunas
ocasiones se tuvo que improvisar las soluciones t6cnicas, dejando de
lado algunos elementos que posibilitarian   de mejor manera la
accesibilidad de y hacia las poblaciones,durante todo el ano.
2.- No existia una planificaci6n de la demanda, sino que se respondi6
a demandas puntuales del SNC. Esto gener6 dos aspectos, por un lado
los departamentos con mayor capacidad institucional,captar6n
mayores recursos y por otro una inversi6n dispersa.
3.- En forma posterior o mediante cambios en la ejecuci6n, se
introdujeron pequeinos puentes no contemplados en el proyecto y se
generaron proyectos especificos para la construccion de puentes.
Hubiera sido mejor considerar estos elementos desde un inicio.



4.- El FSE  no contaba con  intrumentos necesarios para el
cumplimiento de los convenios con el SNC y comunidades, en cuanto
al mantenimiento de los caminos.
5.- A la fecha no existe un programa nacional especifico de
mejoramiento de caminos vecinales ,que haya dado continuidad a
este sub programa.
Aspectos positivos.
1.- La polftica de inversi6n del FSE hacia caminos , impuls6 al SNC
a priorizar la intervenci6n en caminos vecinales ,ya que hasta
entonces su trabajo estaba fundamentalmente dirigido hacia el
mantenimiento de caminos troncales ,por falta de recursos dirigidos
para este fin.
2.- Siendo uno de los principales problemas de los caminos el
desgaste por Iluvias, los proyectos mejoran los sistemas de drenaje,
permitiendo una reducci6n futura de trabajo   adicional en el
mantenimiento.
3.- La construcci6n de pequenios puentes ,soluciona sectores donde
existian cortes de transito por espacios prolongados.
4.- El sub programa fortalece al equipo t6cnico del SNC a trav6s del
trabajo concreto y efectivo. Ademas de recursos destinados para el
mejoramiento de sus instalaciones en campo.
5.-Se crean pequenas empresas, recuperando profesionales con
experiencia en trabajos mayores de caminos. Esto porque en el
momento el pais no contaba con una alta capacidad empresarial para
responder a este tipo de trabajos.
6.- En vista  que el Ajuste Estructural genera un alto desempleo,
indirectamente se capacita nueva mano de obra en conocimientos en
mejoramiento de caminos. A su vez se crea conciencia y habilidades
dentro de las comunidades para el mantenimiento



7.-Los proyectos permiten una mayor integraci6n de las
comunidades a los mercados nacionales ,evitando la p6rdida de sus
productos por deficiente comunicaci6n.
8.- Dentro del prop6sito fundamental del FSE, se ha generado empleo
rural por la contrataci6n de mano de obra local, ademas de promover
el movimiento econ6mico temporal en las localidades intervenidas.
La inversi6n de $us 26.9 millones ha permitido atender una cantidad
sustancial de tramos vecinales, que hasta entonces no habfan sido
considerados ,convirtiendose en un programa de fuerte impacto
social.
Actualmente el Fondo de Inversi6n Social ( FIS ) ha heredado el
mecanismo de inversi6n del FSE a partir de 1991, concentrando su
accionar en salud, educaci6n y saneamiento basico. Sin embargo a la
fecha las comunidades siguen solicitando al FIS la construcci6n y/o
mejoramiento de caminos vecinales ,dada la eficiente intervenci6n
del FSE y la actual respuesta del FIS.
DESEMBOLSOS
1.- El monto contratado para 282 proyectos ascendfa a $us
27,662,704.85, de los cuales se ejecutaron $us 26,911,638.45
teniendo una reversi6n de -2.71 %.
2.- La distribuci6n por departamento del monto ejecutado es la
siguiente:
* Beni          1.5 %
* Cochabamba   16.31 %
* Chuquisaca    9.01 %
* La Paz       19.18 %
* Oruro         7.8 %
* Potosf       23.42 %
* Santa Cruz    11.03 %
* Tarija       11.75 %



INDICADORES
El indicador utilizado para efectos del FSE, fue el costo de empleos
mes ( CPME ). Para el caso de caminos no se cuenta con la
informaci6n en vista de que el FSE a concluido sus funciones en el
anio 1991.
Sin embargo el CPME del programa Infraestructura Econ6rnica , tiene
un monto de $us 211.
COMPORTAMIENTO DEL FINANCIADOR.
El sub programa se manejo con un alto nivel de flexibilidad,
concentrandose fundamentalmente en la parte procedimental
general,permitiendo al equipo de FSE realizar ajustes oportunos con
el objetivo de mejorar la rapidez y la coherencia de la inversi6n.



FONDO DE WvERSII SOCLAI
GERENCIA DE FORTAtECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL
DEPTO. DE SISTEMAS DE WlNr-RMACION
trIIDAO DE PRODUCCION
PROYECTOS DEL FONDO SOCIAL DE EMERGENCIA
FUENTE EANCO MUNDIAL - CORREDORES DE EXPORTACION
(ORDENADO POR DEPARTAMENTO Y CODIGO PROYECTO)
MONTOS DE PROYECTOS                                        FECHAS DE PROYECTOS
N CODIG                      NOM8RE PROYETO                       DEPTO.   PROVINCIA      MONTO       MONTO C RD.       MONTO        EMPLEOS    FtCHA DE    FECHADE I   FECHA DE    FECH.DEO
N  o0                                                                                   APROBADO       CAMBIO      DESEMBOLSADO       MES      Ap'~nBACION    INICIO    CONCLUSION   REEPCIONr
1 2542 MEJORAMIENTO CAMINO CARAHUASI (KM 227)                   CBB     CARRASCO          167,466.16    14,822.36        162,288.52      580    24-Jun-88    19-Aug-88    20-Nov-89    13-Nov-89
2  2627 MEJORAMIENTO CAMINO PAROTANI-CAPINOTA                   CBB     CAPINOTA          223,997.97    20,559.49        244,557.46      621    1 7-Jun-88    09-Aug-88   28-Aug-89    09-S5p-89
3  2628 MEJORAMIENTOCAMINOCORANT-TABLASMONTE                    CBB     CHAPARE           139,798.55     11,075.64       150,874.19      471    lfi-Sep-88    21-Dec-88    23-Oct-90   17-Nov-89
4   715 CARRETERA SUCRE-PADILLA HACIA CAMIRI                    CHQ     AZURDUY           167,709.21      2,432.57       170,141.78      482     - .>-May-88    08-Aug-88   08-Aug-89  18-Aug-89
5  3963 CARRETERA PADILLA - RIO AZERO KM 187                    CHO     TOMINA            200,056.54         3.23        200,059.77      795    CiDec-89    09-May-90    31-Oct-90     26-Dec-90
6  3964 CARRETERA RIO AZERO - MONTEAGUDO KM 266                 CHO     H SILES           206,240.15        44.43        206,284.58      789    07-Dec-89    05-May-90    31-Oct-90    20-Dec-90
7  3965 CARRETERA MONTEAGUDO-MUYUPAMPA-ARATICAL KM 315          CHQ    VARIAS             216,541.99        44.98        216,586.97      797    03-Dec-89    07-May-90       - -       20-Dec-90
8  2232 MEJORAMIENTO CAMINO CATACORA - HITO 4                   LPZ     PACAJES           129,955.81        -0.12        129,072.52      467    l. Sep-88    15-Mar-89    23-Oct-89    20-Nov-89
9  2233 MEJOR.CAMINO PARQUIPUJIO-CATACORA                       LPZ     PACAJES           106,020.19         0.05        106,020.24      402    16 Sep-88    22-Nov-88    08-Feb-90    07-Dec-89
10  2272 MEJOR. CAMINO SANTIAGO MACHACA- PARQUIPUJIO             LPZ     PACAJES           130,284.85         0.10        130,284.95      496    15-Sep-88    28-Nov-88    22-Jan-90    07-Dec-89
11  5331 MEJORAMIENTO CAMINO STGO. DE MACHACA - ANUFANI          LPZ     PACAJES          146,069.49          0.00        146,069.49      639    20-Oct-89    07-May-90    28-Dec-90    19-Jan-91
12  5332 MEJORAMIENTO CAMINO ANOJANI - BERENGUELA                LPZ     PACAJES           89,936.40       -429.11         89,507.29      390    1 1-Oct-89    23-Apr-90    29-Dec-90   19-Jan-91
13  5342 MANT. CAMINO SAN ANDRES - SANTIAGO DE MACHACA           LPZ     PACAJES           53,854.65     -8,718.04         45,136.61      147    13-Oct-89    18-Apr-90    21-Jan-91    31-Jan-91
14  6078 MEJORAMIENTO CAMINO CENTRO EDUC TOCOPA COPACABANA   LPZ         MCO.KAPAC         133,018.10        88.26        133,106.36      446    .6-Jan-90    07-May-90    19-Dec-90    18-Feb-91
15  6079 MEJORAMIENTO CAMINO TIQUINA TOCOPA                      LPZ     MCO.KAPAC         142,761.03        71.75        142,832.78      315    28-Jan-90    07-May-90    19-Dec-90    18-Feb-91
16  6080 MEJORAMIENTO CAMINO ESCOMA PUERTO ACOSTA                LPZ     CAMACHO           87,646.28         48.22         87,694.50      260   0O-Jan-90    26-Apr-90    19-Dec-90     14-Jan-91
17   835 MEJORAMIENTO CARRETERA POTOSI - SUCRE - COLAVI          PTS     SAAVEDRA          75,016.01      7,105.94         82,121.95      481    04-Mar-88    29-Jun-88    27-Oct-88    27-Nov-88
18  1749 MEJORAMIENTO INTREGRALTRAMO 0702                        PTS     SUDCHICHAS        185,417.01      -827.96        184,589.05      822    .3-Sep-88    07-Dec-88    29-Jan-90    01-Feb-90
19  2596 MEJORAMIENTOCAMINOTUPIZA-VILLAZON                       PTS     SUDCHICHAS       134,758.63      9,813.73        144,572.33      434    10i-Sep-88    22-Nov-88    30-May-90   24-Jun-90
20  2430 MANTVIASDESMONTESECTORSUDSANTACRUZ-YACUIBA              SCZ     CORDILLERA         58,105.11         0.02         58,105.13      471    10-Jun-88    22-Aug-88    07-Jan-88    15-Mar-89
21  2431 MANT VIAS DESMONTE SECTOR ESTE SCZ-QJ                   SCZ     CHIQUITOS         127,417.17         0.00        127,417.17     1,033    10-Jun-88    08-Aug-88    28-Nov-88   21-Dec-88
22  4156 MANT. Dr VIA SANTA CRUZ-QUIJARRO KM 591-641             SCZ     CORDILLERA        132,359.00         0.00        132,359.00     1,311    13-Oct-89    07-Mar-90    27-Sep-90   22-Dec-90
23  5306 MEJORAMIENTODEVIASANTACRUZ-QUIJARRO                     SCZ     CHIQUITOS         152,081.00     15,208.11       167,289.11     1,506    13-Oct-89    14-Mar-90    29-Oct-90   07-Dec-90
24  6126 MEJORAMIENTO CARRETERA ARATICAL - IPATI CAMIRI          SCZ     VARIOS            158,073.42       552.45        158,625.87      497    25-Jan-90    15-May-90    14-Mar-91    14-Mar-91
25  6127 CARRETERA CAMIRI BOYUIBE                                SCZ     VARIOS            207,657.09     2,909.58        210,566.67      612    23-Jan-90    15-May-90    16-Jan-91    03-Feb-91
26   733 MEJORAMIENTO CAMINO ISCAYACHI/YUNCHARA                  TRJ     AVILES            168,816.44     3,955.09        172,771.53      585    25-Mar-88    03-Aug-88    09-Feb-90    17-Apr-90
27  1864 MEJORAMIENTO CAMINO ENTRE RIOS-VILLAMONTES              TRJ     GRAN CHACO        180,682.79         0.00        180,682.79      551    25-Mar-88    16-Jun-88    19-Jul-89    17-Aug-89
28  2495 MEJORAMIENTO CAMINO VILLAMONTES-BOYUIBE                 TRJ     GRAN CHACO        131,826.13   -131,826.13             0.00      380   07-May-90    20-Sep-90                     - -
29  2496 MEJORAMIENTO CAMINO VILLAMONTES YACUIBA                 TRJ     GRAN CHACO        114,567.06      1,840.25       116,407,31      377    26-Jan-90    21-Apr-90    28-Jan-91    04-Mar-91
TOTALES     4.168,134.23    *51.225.11      4,116,025.92    17,157






IMAGING
Report No.:          16606
Type:      ICR



