Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2012 BO
(Export Corridors Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE FERROCARRILES DEL ESTADO
Dated August 4, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2012 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE FERROCARRILES DEL ESTADO (ENFE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various  currencies equivalent to 
twenty-eight million three hundred thousand Special  Drawing Rights (SDR 28,300,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in said Development Credit Agreement, but only 
on condition that ENFE agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ENFE, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the  Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to ENFE on the terms and  conditions set forth 
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ENFE, in consideration of the Association's entering into the  
Page  2
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement  and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings  therein set forth, 
and the term "Fiscal Year" means  the twelve-month period corresponding to any of 
ENFE's fiscal year, which period coincides with the calendar year.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ENFE declares its commitment to the objectives of the  Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and,  to this end, 
shall carry out Parts A.2, B.1, B.2, B.3, C.2 and D.3 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,  services and other resources required for 
the carrying out of said parts of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A.2, B.1, B.2,  B.3, C.2 
and D.3 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. ENFE shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to  insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and  reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this  Agreement and Parts A.2, B.1, B.2, B.3, 
C.2 and D.3 of the Project.
Section 2.04. ENFE shall enter into the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the  
Performance Agreement with the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of  
Sections 3.02 (b) and 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement, respectively,  and 
shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and the Performance Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENFE 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of  amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving either the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement or the 
Performance Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ENFE shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project in  general, and of 
Parts A.2, B.1, B.2, B.3, C.2 and D.3 of the Project in  particular, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the 
Performance Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
ENFE shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which  
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A.2, B.1, B.2,  B.3, 
C.2 and D.3 of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the  Credit, or the 
performance by ENFE of its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the Performance Agreement.
Section 2.06. ENFE hereby undertakes to take all action as shall be required to 
ensure that at all times, for the duration of the Project, the  number of empty 
railway freight cars awaiting traction in each of Arica  (Chile) and Charana (Bolivia) 
shall not exceed one hundred (100).
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ENFE
Section 3.01. ENFE shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, managerial, engineering  and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced  management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
Section 3.02. ENFE shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment, vehicles and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. ENFE shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ENFE shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including separate records and accounts adequate to reflect all resources and 
expenditures in respect of Parts A.2, B.1, B.2, B.3, C.2 and D.3 of the Project.
(b)
ENFE shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four (4) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as 
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENFE shall 
maintain for its operations a ratio of total working expenses to total operating 
revenues not higher than: (i) eighty-seven percent (87%) for its Fiscal Year 1989; ii) 
eighty-seven percent (87%) for its Fiscal Year 1990; and (iii) eight-three percent 
(83%) for its Fiscal Year 1991 and each Fiscal Year thereafter.
(b)
Before November 15 in each of its Fiscal Years, ENFE shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by ENFE and satisfactory to the  Association, ascertain whether 
it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and 
the next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Association the results of 
such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any review shows that ENFE would not meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph (a) for ENFE's Fiscal Years covered by such review, ENFE shall promptly 
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, reduction of costs and 
adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total working expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding depreciation on fixed 
assets; and
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENFE shall 
not incur during the implementation of the Project any debt, in addition to any part 
of the proceeds of the Credit to be made available to ENFE under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of ENFE shows 
that the estimated net operating revenues of ENFE for each Fiscal Year during the term 
Page  4
of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.7 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of ENFE in such year on all debt of ENFE including the debt to be 
incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ENFE maturing by its 
terms more than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred;
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into;
(iii)
The term "net operating revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations; 
and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation;
(iv)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt; 
(v)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by ENFE 
not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the incurrence of the 
debt in question, which both the Association and ENFE accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Association has notified ENFE of 
its  acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of ENFE; and
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such  rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. ENFE hereby undertakes to restructure its tariffs, based upon a 
new traffic costing system and pricing policy satisfactory to the Association, so as 
to ensure that said tariffs shall equal at least the long-term variable cost of ENFE's 
operations on each freight  commodity and passenger train service. For the purposes of 
this Section,  the term "long-term variable cost of ENFE's operations" shall be 
determined in accordance with a methodology and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 4.05. ENFE hereby undertakes to revalue, based on current market value 
for the corresponding Fiscal Year, all of its fixed assets in operation no later than 
December 31, 1990, for its Fiscal Year 1990, and  no later than every fifth Fiscal 
Year thereafter, and to revalue annually for each of its Fiscal Year in between all 
its fixed assets in  operations, based on the whole sale price index ("Indice General 
de   Precios") for the corresponding Fiscal Year as published by the Instituto 
Nacional de Estadisticas, all in accordance with a methodology and
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.06. ENFE hereby agrees, prior to entering into any commitment in 
connection with any such investment, to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the 
Association that  all major railway investments in the Borrower's export corridors 
which ENFE proposes to undertake during the implementation of the Project shall yield 
an economic rate of return of  twelve percent (12%) or more, and a financial internal 
rate of return of ten percent (10%) or more.
ARTICLE V
Page  5
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ENFE thereunder shall terminate on the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its  terms, and the Association shall promptly 
notify ENFE of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, shall continue in full force and effect  notwithstanding any 
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be  delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such  
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For ENFE:
Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles
   del Estado
Estacion Central Casilla No. 428
La Paz, Bolivia
Telex:
2405
(ENFE BV)
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ENFE may be 
taken or executed by the General Manager of ENFE or  such other person or persons as 
the General Manager of ENFE shall  designate in writing, and the General Manager of 
ENFE shall furnish to  the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the   
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of  America, as of the day and year first 
above written.
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE FERROCARRILES DEL ESTADO
Page  6
By /s/ Carlos Delius
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
