CREDIT NUMBER 2012 BO
Project Agreement
(Export Corridors Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FONDO SOCIAL DE EMERGENCIA
Dated                         1     , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2012 B0
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT" dated                       A        1989, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCI ION    he
SOCIAL DE EMER E VCIA (FSE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
eight million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 28,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that FSE agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a. grant agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and FSE, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
FSE on the terms and conditions set forth in said FSE Grant
Agreement; and
WHEREAS FSE, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Implementing Entities" means any of the governmental
entities, including, but without limitation to, SNC and ENFE,
which propose to carry out, or are carrying out, a Subproject; and
"Implementing Entity" means any one of such Implementing Entities;


﻿-2-
(b)  "Subgrant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between FSE and an Implementing Entity for the purposes of
carrying out,a Subproject, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subgrant
Agreement;
(c)  "FSE Procedure Guide" means the guide (..ia AA
Procedimiento) issued by FSE for processing and monitoring
Subprojects, provided by the Borrower to the Association under
cover of a letter dated December 1987; and
(d) "Implementation Program" means the implementation
program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) FSE declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Part C.l of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, managerial,
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the carrying out of said
part of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. FSE shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the FSE Project Agreement
and Part C.1 of the Project.
Section 2.04. FSE shall enter into the FSE Grant Agreement
with the Borrower, in a form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, and said agreement shall provide for J=e_r Alia, the
following: (i) the transfer of part of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿-3-
on a grant basis to FSE for the purposes of carrying out Part C.l
of the Project; and (ii) the obligation of FSE to carry, out Part
C.1 of the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set
forth in this Agreement, including, without limitation, carrying
out said part of the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. FSE shall duly perform all its obligations
under the FSE Grant Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, FSE shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the FSE Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) FSE shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project in general, and of Part C.1 of the
Project in particular, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the FSE Grant Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) FSE shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part C.1 of the Project and the Subprojects, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by FSE of its obligations under this Agreement and under the FSE
Grant Agreement, or the performance of FSE and the Implementing
Entities under the Subgrant Agreements.
(c) FSE hereby undertakes not to amend, abrogate, or waive
the FSE Procedure Guide, or any provision thereof, without the
prior approval of the Association.
Section 2.07. Without limitation to or restriction upon its
other reporting requirements under the General Conditions and this
Agreement, FSE shall provide to the Association no later than
October 1, 1989, and thereafter by the first day of each October,
January, April and July, reports of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress in
the carrying out of Part C.1 of the Projecc and of each
Subproject.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FSE
Section 3.01. FSE shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
and managerial practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. FSE shall at all times operate and maintain its
offices, machinery, equipment, vehicles and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and managerial practices.
Section 3.03. FSE shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01, (a) FSE shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition, including separate records
and accounts adequate to reflect all resources and expenditures in
respect of'Part C.1 of the Project, including each Subproject.
(b) FSE shall:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so


﻿-5-
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of FSE thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms, and the Association shall promptly
notify FSE of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:,


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H StEEt, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For FSE:
Executive Director
Fondo Social de Emergencia
Edificio Banco Central
Piso 12, Casilla 23506
La Paz, Bolivia
Telex:
3528 FSZTEL-BV
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of FSE may be taken or executed by the
Executive Director,of FSE or such other person or persons as the
Executive Director of FS& shall designate in writing, *and the
Executive Director of FSE shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authori;ed representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names-in the District of Colpmbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
FOIRDO SOCIAL DE EERGENCIA
Authori;ed Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
ImlDementation Program
I.   FSE ORerating Procedures
1.   FSE shall contract for and monitor the implementation of
Subprojects in accordance with the FSE Procedure Guide.
2.   FSE shall approve each Subproject on the basis of criteria
acceptable to the Association and shall submit to the Association
each Subproject for its review and approval, prior to entering
into the Subgrant Agreement for each such Subproject.
3.   The information that shall be provided to the Association
with respect to each Subprcject shall be acceptable to the
Association and shall include at least the following information:
type of project; total estimated value of Subproject; total FSE
contribution to Subproject; region; location of project; target
population; description of project; duration of project;
requesting agency; Implementing Entity; summary of costs; number
of man-months of employment generated; total cost per man-month;
economic. rate of return (if relevant); other benefit indicators
(e   , number of beneficiaries, qualitative description, etc.);
and procurement method.
4.   Each Subproject shall be carried out pursuant to a written
agreement (the Subgrant Agreement) between FSE and the
Implementing Entity under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including iiate ali.a, providing for the following
obligations and rights:
(i) the obligation to carry out the Subproject with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards
and to maintain adequate records to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Subproject;
(ii) the requirement that: (A) the goods and services to
be financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall
be procured in accordance with Schedule 3 of the


﻿.9
Development Credit Agreement; and (B) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Subproject;
(iii) the right of FS1 to inspect, by itself, or jointly
with representatives of the Association, if the
Association shall so request, such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Subproject, the operations thereof and any
relevant records and documents;
(iv) the right of FSE to obtain all such information as
FSE or the Association shall reasonably request
regarding the foregoing, the administration,
operations and financial condition of the
Subproject and the benefits to be derived from the
Subproject;
(v) the right of FSE to suspend or terminate the right
of the Implementing Entity to use the progeeds of
the Credit for the Subproject upon failure by any
such - entity to perform any of its respective
obligations under its Subgrant Agreement with FSE;
and
(vi) the obligation of the Implementing Entity to report
on the progress in the carrying out of the
Subproject.
II. Terms and Conditions of SubproIects
1.   Subprojects shall be financed on the following term and
conditions:
(i) financing shall be in the form of a grant;
(ii) financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall
not exceed ninety percent (90%) of the actual
disbursements of FSE for each Subpro)ect; and
(iii) a mobilization advance of twenty percent (20%) of
the estimated value of the Subproject may be paid
upon signing of the Subgrant Agreement. Subsequent
payments thereafter may be made on the basis of a


﻿- 10 -
percentage, acceptable to the Association, of works
completed or goods procured, and shall be evidenced
by written documentation thereof. A retention of
ten percent (10%) of the estimated value of the
Subproject may be paid upon completion of the
Subproject, as evidenced by a certificate of
completion, acceptable to the Association.
2.   $i;bprojects which have an estimated value of the equivalent
of $10U,000 or more, shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit only if an economic rate of return of at
least twelve percent (12%) can be demonstrated, calculated on a
basis and using criteria acceptable to the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


