OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2012 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Export Corridors Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1989


﻿CREDIT W-UMBER 2012 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    , 1989, between REPUBLIC
OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has prepared a program of actions
for improving the Borrower's export corridors;
(B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, which Project constitutes a part of said program
of actions, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equiva-
lent to approximately thirty-eight million dollars ($38,000,000)
to assist in financing the other part of said program of actions,
consisting of the construction of an all-weather gravel surfaced
road between Patacamaya and Tambo Quemado, to complete the
Borrower's portion of the La Paz-Arica highway, on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and IDB;
(D) Parts A.2, B.1,, B.2, B.3, C.2 and D.3 of the Project
will be carried out by Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles del
,Estado (ENFE), a railway public utility wholly-owned by the
Borrower and established by ]Derto Supremo No. 06909 of
November 1, 1964 of the Borrower, with the Borrower's assistance,
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to ENFE part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
(E) Part C.1 of the Project will be carried out by Fondo
Social _d Emegencia (FSE), which has been established by the
President of the Borrower as a public entity with full juridical
personality, by Chapter I of Decreto Supremo No. 21137 of
November 30, 1985, as revised by Decreto Spgremo No. 21456 of
November 28, 1986 of the Borrower, with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to FSE part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inte alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the Gener4l Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined ir, the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set. forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "MITT" means MinisteXio a. Industria, Comercio y
TurisMo, the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism of the
Borrower;
(b) "SNC" means Servicio NacionAl A Caminos (National Road
Authority), a division of the MTC (as defined hereinafter);
(c) "INPEX" means Instituto 1acignal 0& Pggmoi6n 4A las
Exportaciones, the National Institute for Export Promotion of the
Borrower;
(d)  "MTC" means MinistSio A  Transportes   Comunicaciones,
the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Borrower;
(e) "ENFE Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ENFE of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the ENFE Project Agreement;
(f) "FSE Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and FSE of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the FSE Project Agreement;


﻿-3-
(g) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated March 17, 1988 and April 29, 1988
between the Borrower and the Association;
(h) "Road Maintenance Program" means the Borrower's annual
program of works and related equipment and material for the
routine and periodic maintenance, rehabilitation, drainage (to
include structures up to a maximum span of ten (10) meters) and
installation of road signalization and safety fixtures of the road
network under its jurisdiction;
(i) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ENFE pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) of this Agreement and Section 2.04 of the ENFE Project
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(j) "FSE Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and FSE pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of
this Agreement and Section 2.04 of the FSE Project Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the FSE Grant Agreement;
(k) "Subprojects" means civil works for maintenance and
drainage improvements of the Borrower's roads and railways,
selected by the Association from a list of proposed subprojects
furnished by FSE to the Association under cover of a letter dated
December 20, 1988, and "Subproject" means any one of the
Subprojects;.
(1) "Performance Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ENFE pursuant to Section
3.04 (a) of this Agreement and Section 2.04 of the ENFE Project
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all extensions of and schedules to the Performance
Agreement;
(in) "Transport Sector Investment Program" means the program
of public investments administered by the Borrower for improving
the operation of its transportation system; and
(n) "Boliviano" means the unit of currency of the Borrower.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-eight million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 28,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each


﻿-5-
year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate
set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one  per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 1999 and ending March 15, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2009 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, suosequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit.shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and


﻿*6-
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. MTC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Projcct as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A.1, D,l, D.2,
D.5 and D.6 of the Project through the agencies listed in
paragraph (c) below, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with      appropriate     financial, engineering,
administrative, managerial, and environmental practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall provide, timely as required
during the implementation of the Project, funds totAling at least
the equivalent of ten million one hundred thousand dollars
($10,100,000) as follows: $800,000 equivalent for its fiscal year
1989; $3,300,000 equivalent for its fiscal year 1990; $4,100,000
equivalent for its fiscal year 1991; and $1,900,000 equivalent for
its fiscal year 1992.


﻿-7-
(c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the follow-
ing agencies shall participate in the carrying out of the stated
corresponding part or parts of the Project:
MTC                           Parts D.1, D.5 (i) and D.6 of
the Project
MICT (acting through INPEX) Part D.4 of the Project
SNC                           Parts A.1, D.2, and D.5 (ii) of
the Project
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause ENFE to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the ENFE Project Agreement all the obligations of ENFE therein set
forth, shall -cause FSE to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the FSE Project Agreement all the obligations of FSE
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each of ENFE and FSE
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend to ENFE the proceeds of the
Credit required for the carrying out of Parts A.2, B.1, B.2, B.3,
C.2 and D.3 of the Project under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered. into between the Borrower and ENFE under terms and
conditions which shall have been appiloved by the Association, and
which shall include, inter alaA, that:
(i) the Borrower shall make available said part of the
proceeds of the Credit. to ENFE by means of a loan
or loans in an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalentrof eleven million three hundred thousand
dollars ($11,300,000);
(ii) ENFE shall pay interest on the principal amount of
said loan or loans withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time at a rate per annum equal to the
dollar six.(6) month London Interbank Offered Rate
plus one-half of one percentage point; and


﻿(iii) repayment of said loan or loans shall be over a
period not to exceed fifteen (15) years, including
a grace period of three (3) years.
(c) The Borrower shall make available to FSE on a grant
basis part of the proceeds of the Credit, not to exceed an
aggregate amount equivalent to three million seven hundred
thousand dollars ($3,700,000), required for the carrying out of
Part C.1 of the Project under an FSE Grant Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and FSE under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with
its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the FSE
Grant Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the FSE Grant Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation to or restriction upon
its other reporting requirements under the General Conditions and
this Agreement, the Borrower, at such times as. specified below and
until such time the report referred to in Section 9.06 (c) of the
General Conditions has been furnished to the Association, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association, shall:
(a) before March 31 in each of its fiscal years, after the
fiscal year ending December 31, 1989, prepare and submit, or cause
to be prepared and submitted, to the Association a report, of such
scope and detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during
the preceding fiscal year.
(b) before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, after the
fiscal year ending December 31, 1989, prepare and submit, or cause
to be prepared and submitted, to the Association a Road
Maintenance Program for the following fiscal year, which program
shall be consistent with the corresponding four (4) year Road
Maintenance Program referred to in Section 7. 0l of this Agreement
and shall be in a form and substance satisfactory to the
Association;


﻿-9-
(c) before March 31, in each of its fiscal years, after the
fiscal year ending December 31, 1989, prepare and submit, or cause
to be prepared and submitted, to the Association a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the progress achieved in the execution of the Road
Maintenance Program during the immediately preceding fiscal year;
and
(d) before September 30, in each of its fiscal years, after
the fiscal year ending December 31, 1989, submit, or cause to be
submitted, for review and comment by the Association, the
Transport Sector Investment Program proposed for the following
fiscal year.
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon its
obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall enter into a Performance Agreement with ENFE, in a form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, which agreement shall
cover the period 1990 to 1991 and shall stipulate, .inter alia,
that:
(i) the Borrower's policy and strategic objectives for
ENFE in the areas of financial autonomy, management
structure, pricing and personnel; and
(ii) ENFE's obligation to carry out a corporate plan, as
described in the Performance Agreement, setting out
the performance targets necessary to achieve the
objectives mentioned in subparagraph (i) above,
such plan to consist of an operating plan, an
investment plan and a financing plan.
(b) No later than September 30, 1991, the Borrower shall
extend the term of effectiveness and revise the terms and
conditions of the Performance Agreement with ENFE to cover the
period 1992 to 1994, such revised agreement to be in a form and
substance satisfactory to the Association.
(c) No later than March 31, in each of its fiscal years,
after the fiscal year ending December 31, 1990, the Borrower shall
prepare and submit, or cause to be prepared and submitted, for
review and comment by the Association, a report on the compliance
by each party to the Performance Agreement with its obligations
thereunder.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A.2, B.1, B.2, B.3, C.2 and D.3 of the Project
shall be carried out by ENFE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the ENFE
Project Agreement, and in respect of Part C.1 of the Project shall
be carried out by FSE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the FSE Project
Agreement.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall promptly enter into
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Association with a
procurement agent acceptable to the Association, for the purposes
of providing services for the Project on behalf of the Borrower
and ENFE, including the contracting df consultants and procurement
of goods in respect of each contract therefor estimated to cost
more than the equivalent of 100,000 Bolivianos and to be financed
from the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) above in
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, ENFE
and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.08. No later than June 30, 1991, the Borrower shall
have caused SNC to put into operation throughout the Borrower's
territory, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, SNC's
national road maintenance management system and equipment
management system referred to in Part D.2 of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A.1, D.1, D.2, D.4,


﻿- 11 -
D.5 and D.6 of the Project of the agencies listed in paragraph (c)
of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and other departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of such
parts of the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited,, -in accerdance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four (4) months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in each agency
listed in paragraph (c) of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii) retain in each such agency, until at least one (1)
year after the Association has received the audit
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii.) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and


﻿- 12
(iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. With the objective of strengthening the
coordination of investments in respect of the Borrower's export
corridors and avoiding the dispersion of efforts with respect to
same, the Borrower hereby agrees, prior to entering into any
commitment in connection with any such investment, to demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the Association that all major road and
railway investments in the Borrower's export corridors which the
Borrower proposes to undertake during the implementation of the
Project shall yield economic rates of return of twelve percent
(12%) or more and, in the case of railway investments, a financial
internal rate of return of ten percent (10%) or more.
ARTICLE V
Maintenance
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall: (i) cause all railway
tracks and roads of the Borrower to be adequately maintained and
cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance
with sound engineering practices; (ii) cause all railway track and
road maintenance equipment and workshops to be adequately
maintained and cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to
be made, all in accordance with sound engineering practices; and
(iii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds required for all of
the foregoing.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) The IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1990, or such later date as the Association


﻿- 13 -
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement;
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the IDB Loan or of any grant,
loan or credit made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
I(B) The IDB Loan or any such loan or credit shall
have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematurtng is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement;
(c) Either ENFE or FSE shall have failed to perform any of
its respective obligations under the ENFE Project Agreement or the
FSE Project Agreement;
(d) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Borrower or ENFE or FSE
will be able to perform its respective obligations under the ENFE
Project Agreement or the FSE Project Agreement or the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or the Performance Agreement or the FSE Grant
Agreement;


﻿-14,-
(e) Decreto Supremo No. 06909 of November 1, 1964 of the
Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
ENFE to perform any. of its obligations under the ENFE Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f) Decreto Supremo No. 21137 of November 30, 1985, As
revised by Decreto Supremo No. 21456 of November 28, 1986 of the
Borrower -shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
FSE to perform any of its obligations under the FSE Project
Agreement or the FSE Grant Agreement;
(g)  The Borrower, or any other authority having
jurisdiction, shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of ENFE or for the suspension of its operations;
and
(h) The Borrower, or any other authority having
jurisdiction, shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of FSE or for the suspension of its operations,
prior to FSE having performed all of its obligations under the FSE
Project Agreement, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(i) that the event specified in sub-paragraph b (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (b) (ii) of that Section; (ii) that any event
specified in paragraphs (c), (e) or (f) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and continue for a period of sixty (60)
days; and (iii) any event specified in paragraph (g) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the Borrower shall have prepared and submitted to the
Association a four (4) year Road Maintenance Program, consisting


﻿15 -
of a detailed program for its fiscal year 1990, and of a proposed
program for its fiscal years 1991, 1992 and 1993, all in a form
and substance satisfactory to the Association.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association;
(a) that the ENFE Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and is legally binding upon, ENFE in accordance
with its terms and conditions; and
(b) that the FSE Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and is legally binding upon, FSE in accordance
with its terms and conditions.
Section 7.03. The date           7V*14t7 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.047of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III, IV and V of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which
this Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Planning and Coordination of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinaci6n
La Paz
Bolivia


﻿16
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINPLANEACION                  3280
La Paz-Bolivia                 (MINCORD BV)
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNENT ASSOCIATION
B        *
.   Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of tbe Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth thi Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Catlegorz             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Under Part A.1           10,600,000        80%
of the Project
(2) Under Part 3.1            1,750,000        45%
B.2 of the
Project
(3) Under Part                2,680,000        90%
C.1 of the
Project
(4) Under Parts J.1,          2,760,000        100% of foreign
B.3 and C.2 of                            expenditures
the Project
(5) Under Part                  350,000        100% of foreign
A.2 of the                                 expenditures
Project


﻿-18-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expresse  in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6) Consultants' services     4,580,000        100%
under Part D of.the
Project
(7) Refunding of                310,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(8) Unallocated               5,270,000
TOTAL
28300.000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 2,830,000, may be made in respect
of Category 3 of the table in paragraph 1 above on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 15,
1988; provided, however, that all such expenditures shall have
been incurred for Subprojects;


﻿*19
(b)  expenditures under Category (3) of the table in
paragraph 1 above, unless the Association shall have approved the
Subproject in respect of which such expenditures shall have been
incurred.
(c) expenditures under Categories (2), (4) an4 (5) of the
table in paragraph 1 above, unless: (L) the Performance Agreement,
referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement, shall have been
executed by the parties thereto and shall be satisfactory to the
Association; (ii) ENFE shall have engaged the consultants for the
carrying out of Part D.3 of the Project; and (iii) ENFE shall have
restructured its tariffs as provided in Section 4.04 of the ENFE
Project Agreement;
(d) expenditures under Category (5) of the table in
paragraph 1 above, unless ENFE shall have furnished to the
Association evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that ANFE
shall have taken all action required to ensure that during each of
the two (2) calendar months preceding any such withdrawls the
average number of empty railway freight cars awaiting traction in
each of Arica (Chile) and Charana (Bolivia) shall not have
exceeded one hundred (100);
(e) expenditures under Category 2 'of the table in
paragraph 1 above, other than for Part B.1 of the Project, unless
ENFE shall have concluded a management agreement for the operation
of the Santa Cruz freight terminal, in a manner satisfactory to
the Association, with an operating company acceptable to the
Association; and
(f) expenditures under Category (1) of the table in
paragraph 1 above, unless the Borrower shall have provided during
its corresponding fiscal year, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, and in a manner satisfactory
to the Association, the funds required for the carrying out of
Part A.1 of the Project during such year.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The obj-ctives of the Project are to promote the Borrower's
exports and reduce the costs of its foreign trade by: (a) provid-
ing two well-functioning export corridors by 1992-93, one to the
Atlantic and one to the Pacific; (b) strengthening the operations
of its railway network to make it more market-oriented; (c)
improving its road and railway maintenance; (d) strengthening the
MTC in planning and policy,-making; and (e) facilitating the use of
containers and airfreight.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Pr        Pacific Corridor: Maintenance and Improvement
Activities:
(1) Deferred maintenance, including reconstruction and
asphalt concrete overlay, of about 228 kilometers (Kms) on the
Borrower's La-Paz-Oruro highway, including the Caracollo-Caihuasi
branch thereof; and
(2) Improvement of railway tracks and terminal installations
on the Borrower's section of the La Paz-Arica railway line.
Part B:   Atlantic Corridor: Construction Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Activities:
(1) Rehabilitation of existing railway tracks and bridges on
the Borrower's, Santa Cruz-Puerto Quijarro railway line, including
acquisition and utilization of drainage equipment and ballast and
placement equipment;
(2) Construction of an intermodal freight terminal and
related facilities in Santa Cruz; and
(3) Acquisition and utilization of railway materials and
equipment for converting about forty (40) boxcars to multiuse
wagons for use on ENFE's Eastern railway network.


﻿21 -
aix.Q:   System-Wide Road and Rail Improvments
(1) Execution of selected (about 15 to 20) labor intensive
road and rail maintenance and drainage improvement Subprojects;
and
(2) Acquisition and utilization of a telecommunications
system for ENFE.
PArtLD:   Technical assistance
(1) For the institutional strengthening of the Planning
Office of the NTC in transport planning and policy analysis,
including the carrying out of a study of,. transport operations and
investment requirements in respect of the La Paz -Cochabamba-Santa
Cruz corridor;
(2) For the institutional strengthening of S$C in road
maintenance, including the establishment of a national road
maintenance management system to determine periodic and routine
road maintenance needs and to budget and program such feeds, and
an equipment management system to assess the quantity of equipment
and the maintenance and replacement needs therefor required for
the carrying out of the Road Maintenance Program;
(3) For the institutional strengthening of ENFE in
management and marketing, operations and information systems, and
for audit and terminal design and management services;
(4) For the institutional strengthening of INPEX to:
(i) facilitate the use of containers in the Borrower's
international freight transportation; and (ii) promote air freight
for the Borrower's exports;
(5) Carrying out of: (i) a feasibility study in respect of
the Borrower's Patacamaya-Tambo Quemado road; and (ii) the
supervision of maintenance activities related to Part A.1 of the
Project; and
(6) Services in respect of Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project, pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Conaultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods ad Works
Par A: International Competitive Biddipg
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Parg B: Preference for Domestic ffanufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may- be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding: Goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of
$250,000, per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $500,000, and civil works estimated to' cost the
equivalent or less than $2,000,000, per contract up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of.$6,000,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Shopping: Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list
of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Direct Contracting:
(a) Civil works and goods to be procured under Part C.1 of
the Project, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of


﻿- 23 -
$250,000 per contract, shall be procured by direct contracting, on
the basis of the standard prices established by FSE and approved
by the Association, from suppliers eligible under the Guidelines
or, at the option of FSE, on the basis of local competitive
bidding.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
contractor shall be awarded any contract pursuant to this
paragraph 3 if the amount of such contract, when added to the
aggregate amount of all prior contracts financed in part by the
Association and awarded, directly or indirectly to such contractor
pursuant to FSE's standard price procedures, would exceed the
equivalent of $500,000.
'Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (a) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Sntion_11. Employment of C6nsultants
In order to assist the Borrower and ENFE in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower and ENFE shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines


﻿- 24 -
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


