Document of                 FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2627-UV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
October 3, 1979
This document ha a resticd dtbum and ma* y be use by reipiets only In the perfonnance of
their officid duteg. Its cstents msy ndet oierwse be dsimdo  witout World fBnk authrlmo on.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1         =    CFAF 220
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)    -2            0.62 mile (mi)       2
1 square kilometel (km )   =      0.39 square mile (mi
1 square meter (m )         =     10.76 square feet (ft )
1 hectare (ha)              -     2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
CCDR     =    Rural Development Coordinating Committee
CFJA          Rural Youth (Young Farmer) Training Center
CFMR     =    Rural Instructor Training Center
CNPAR    =    National Center for the Training of Rural Artisans
CNDI          C Caisse Nationale des Depots et Investissements
CPR      =    Centre de Promotion Rurale (Rural Training Center)
FED      =    European Development Fund
FJA      =    Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs
[Rural Youth (Young Farmer) Training]
GJA      =    Groupements des Jeunes Agriculteurs
[Rural Youth (Young Farmer) Group]
ORD           Organismes Regionaux de Developpement
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UPPER VOLTA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of Upper Volta
Amount:              US$14.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Project              The project would consolidate achievements of the
Description,:       first education project and assist the Government in
providing an education to rural youth who have not
had access to primary education. It would expand
the rural education system and the teacher training
facilities for instructors in rural education. The
project would also provide training for three cate-
gories of workers presently in short supply in Upper
Volta: project managers, building construction
foremen and road and equipment maintenance personnel.
Project supported improvements are expected to benefit
the education of all those in the rural education
system, approximately 22,000 at the beginning of the
project. The rural education component would provide
capital investments to increase Rural Youth Training
Center (CFJAs) enrollments by about 7,000 and to estab-
lish Rural Youth Groups (GJAs) for some 15,000 rural
youths. There is a risk that the project will not
attract wide grassroot support as Rural Youth Training
has not yet attained the status of the formal system.
This risk should diminish over the life of the project
as instruction in the Rural Youth Training Centers
improves, the Rural Youth Groups demonstrate their
income eatrning potential, and career opportunities in
agricultural extension are created.
This docunwnt k w rastricted distrilbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofiia dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



% of    Tax
Estimated Cost:                                   (US$ million)      Base    incl.
Project Item            Local Foreign Total  Cost  in Total
I. Rural Youth
Training Centers
(CFJAs)             2.4    2.3    4.7        25      1.0
II. Post-CFJA
Training             1.8    1.3    3.1       17      0.6
III. Central Support
Services            2.8    2.1    4.9        26     0.5
IV. Regional Support
Services             1.2    1.4    2.6       14     0.3
V. Staff and Con-
struction
Training            0.9    0.5    1.4         7      0.1
VI. Agric. Proj.
Manager
Training            0.2    0.1    0.3         1       -
VII. Public Works
Training            0.4    1.4    1.8        10     0.2
Base Cost           9.7    9.1   18.8    100         2.7
Physical
Contingencies      0.6    0.6    1.2         6     0.3
Expected Price
Increases         2.8    2.3    5.1       26      0.7
TOTAL               3.4    2.9    6.3        32      1.0
TOTAL COST         13.1   12.0   25.1               3.7



- iii -
Financing Plan Summary
Total Cost     IDA         ADF      Gov't
…----------------US$'000…
Local Cost                      13.1          7.0       2.4        3.7
Foreign Cost                    12.0          7.0       5.0         -
Total          25.1         14.0        7.4       3.7
Z                           100          56         29         15
Estimated                                              $ Millions
Disbursements:                            FY1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual:                2,050    3,250  3,300  3,050  2,350
Cumulative:            2,050    5,300  8,600 11,650 14,000
Appraisal
Report:            2286a-UV, dated September 28, 1979.
Map:                 IBRD 138511.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the followring report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Upper Volta in an amount equivalent
to US$14.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a second education
project. The African Development Fund (ADF) will provide a loan for the
project equivalent to US$7.4 million on terms substantially the same as
those of the IDA credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum; Upper Volta"
(2146-WV) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 14, 1979.
Information from that report is incorporated in the paragraphs which follow.
Annex I contains country data.
Socio-Economnic Background
3.        With a per capita GNP of US$130 in 1977, Upper Volta is one of
the poorest African countries and is classified among the 29 "least developed
countries" by the United Nations. The economy is overwhelmingly rural,
with agriculture and livestock providing a livelihood for over 80 percent of
the population. The constraints to development of the economy include extreme
variability of rainfall, generally poor soils few exploitable minerals, long
distances to the nearest seaports, uneven population distribution with regard
to available land resources, a shortage of skilled manpower, and limited
potential for industrialization. From 1968-74, real GDP increased about 2.5
percent per year, reflecting largely the adverse impact of prolonged drought
on primary production. As overall population has been increasing by about 2.2
percent annually, per capita income virtually stagnated during the period and
has only begun increasing by more than 1 percent per annum in the past three
years.
4.        Almost two-thirds of the population is concentrated on the Mossi
plateau, comprising one-third of the arable land. Agricultural production on
the plateau rarely exceeds subsistence requirements. The resulting pressure
of population on the limited area under cultivation has prompted some 250,000
people, or roughly 20 percent of the male labor force, to migrate annually to
neighboring countries for seasonal employment. Internal spontaneous migration
to less densely inhabited areas has been on the rise in recent years. A 4-6
percent annual increase in urbanization also accounts for much of the pop-
ulation movement within the country, accelerated by the extreme deprivation
arising from drought in the rural areas.



- 2 -
5.        The generally low productivity of the primary sector is indicated by
its relatively small contribution to GDP - 45 percent in 1975 - relative to
the share of agricultural employment. The secondary sector contributed 18
percent to domestic output in the same year and the tertiary sector, 36
percent, of which 14 percent is attributed to Government. The greater part of
the industrial sector's share of national income is still accounted for by
traditional small scale production, although modern manufacturing output is
expanding rapidly with the aid of fiscal incentives and protection. Only
about 38,000 persons, or about 1 percent of the total labor force, is engaged
in salaried employment, however. In 1975 consumption absorbed 113 percent
of GDP, the resource gap being covered by emigrants' remittances and aid
transfers.
Recent Developments
6.        The most serious setback to the economy of Upper Volta in recent
years was the prolonged drought, culiminating in 1973, which severely curtailed
agricultural and livestock production. With the return to more normal rainfall
after 1974 and with steady expansion of the industrial and trade activities,
economic growth has improved over the 1975-77 period, fluctuating between 4
percent and 7.5 percent per annum.
7.        A combination of unfavorable developments has led to a rapid deterio-
ration of the trade balance since 1972. From 13.0 billion CFAF (US$51.5
million) in 1972, the trade deficit more than doubled to 30.5 billion CFAF
(US$142.3 million) in 1975, again reflecting the effect of drought on food
production and on exports the latter consisting almost entirely of agricultural
and livestock products. Additional factors enlarging the deficit included
unusual credit expansion and rising domestic investment, which enhanced demand
for imports, while steep increases were felt in the prices of fuel and other
imports. Until 1975, however, private transfers, including particularly
workers' remittances, and increasing aid flows kept the overall balance of
payments in surplus. Since 1975, balance of payments deficits of 1 or 2
billion CFAF have been recorded annually, as a result of growing consumption
spending, Government's policy of encouraging private investment, and a decline
in the inflow of official grants in real terms.
8.        During the period 1968-74, the Government generated large budget
surpluses through its pursuit of conservative fiscal policies. A sizeable
surplus of 3.1 billion CFAF appeared in the overall budget in 1974, leading
the Government's accumulated cash balances to rise to 9.3 billion CFAF.
However, this trend was reversed in 1975 when the border conflict with Mali
and rising expenditure on personnel led to a deficit of 3.7 billion CFAF.
Despite a considerable rise in government current revenues from about 16
billion CFAF in 1975 to 26 billion CFAF in 1977, the overall budget deficit
has increased each year since 1976. This imbalance has resulted from an
increase in the Government's wage bill, which almost doubled between 1972
and 1977, and from a sharp rise in investment expenditure in 1976 and 1977
reflecting the budgetary contribution to the financing of the Third Develop-
ment Plan.



- 3 -
9.        To accelerate development through public sector investments, in
January 1975, the Government established the Caisse Nationale des Depots et
Investissements (CNDI). CNDI mobilizes savings from public and private bodies
and channels them into public infrastructure projects and other economically
and financially profitable undertakings. It aims at annual commitments of
around CFAF 3.2 billion and by the end March 1977, had committed CFAF 9.79
billion. In line with the budgetary problem described above, the CI3DI is
facing serious difficulties in replenishing its resources so that it rmay
maintain the current level of its lending activities which have been averaging
slightly less than CFAF 4.0 billion per year.
Foreign Aid
10.       In the years after 1972, the trade and services deficit in the
balance of payments was increasingly financed by external assistance. Official
grants rose from 8.4 billion CFAF (US$33.3 million) in 1972 to 20.8 billion
CFAF (US$97.2 million) in 1975, while concessionary loans also rose sharply.
Private transfers (mainly emigrants' remittances and pensions paid by France)
and private capital inflows also rose, but at a slower rate: in 1972 these
inflows were as important as aid flows, but by 1975 were only about half as
large. In 1976 and 1977, a fall in official grants accounted for most of the
balance of payments deterioration in those years. Principal foreign donors
are France, FED, Canada, Germany, USA, the Association and the UNDP, with most
aid in the form of grants. New donors include several of the Arab countries.
Development Policies and Prospects
11.       Since most of the potential for economic development in the medium
and long term lies in the agricultural sector, emphasis should be put on
increasing agricultural productivity in the rural sector and on improving
support senrices. An important component of the country's long-term develop-
ment strategy is to redistribute population from the Mossi plateau, which is
relatively poorly endowed with respect to rainfall and soil quality, to more
fertile and relatively underpopulated zones in the southwestern part of the
country. At: the same time, the improvement of production, land fertility and
general living conditions in the region of greatest population density through
financing agricultural development projects and research will also receive
priority.
12.       The absence of trained manpower at all levels is a principal factor
which has limited the success of development projects.  The training of local
personnel, 1:he development of local training expertise and the provision of
scholarships to enable those in positions of responsibility to upgrade their
skills will be receiving increased attention.
13.       National investment planning in Upper Volta is largely a process
of compiling development projects for donor financing. The Second Five Year
Development Plan (1972-76) proposed an outlay of 63.2 billion CFAF.  While
continuing to give high priority to investments in infrastructure, it placed
greater emphasis than the First Development Plan on agricultural and rural
development. The Plan also accorded somewhat greater importance to the "modern"
sector, consisting mainly of industry, organized commerce and communications.
The Plan depended very largely on external assistance as its source of financing.



-4-
Although Plan expenditures exceeded forecasts, physical implementation was
much slower, the difference being explained by the steep rise in prices and
investment costs from 1973 onwards. Progress towards the realization of the
modest growth objectives was affected by the prevalence of drought during the
first three years of the Plan. The Third Development Plan, which has just
been published, envisages a total investment of CFAF 354 billion over the
1977/81 period. The Plan aims to progressively satisfy the basic needs of the
population and gradually to modernize the economy; this is to be achieved by
developing agriculture and water resources, with infrastructure and the
industrial sector as the next highest priorities.
14.       Foreign capital and technical assistance will continue to play a
vital role in the development of Upper Volta for some time to come. In view
of the country's poverty and limited growth potential, it will be appropriate
for external lending agencies to provide assistance on highly concessionary
terms and to finance a high proportion of project costs, including a substan-
tial amount of local costs. Furthermore, since lack of operating funds,
shortages of suitably trained manpower, and inadequacies of project preparation
have more often than not been identified as principal bottlenecks in effective
implementation of planned projects, intensive efforts should be made by
foreign donors to assist the Government in its efforts to gradually remove
these constraints.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.       To date, the Bank Group's contribution to Upper Volta's development
has consisted of seventeen IDA projects totalling US$94.6 million of which
US$60.4 million has been disbursed as of August 31, 1979. Experience with
ongoing projects has generally been satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as of August 31, 1979 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       The Bank Group's strategy in Upper Volta is dictated by the extreme
poverty of the country, its limited trained manpower and the need to raise
productivity in agriculture and livestock, on which the bulk of the population
depends for a livelihood. Basic infrastructure, necessary to the economy, is
being developed with the assistance of IDA projects for road construction and
upgrading, and in telecommunications. Association lending, in line with Gover-
nment priorities, is primarily directed to projects in agriculture, education
and rural area improvements, with emphasis given to improvements which will
favor the movement of people away from the over-populated and ecologically
disadvantaged central plateau to the southwest, where conditions are much
better. Ongoing projects in this area include a livestock project, an inte-
grated rural development project and a cotton project. The Banfora - Bobo -
Dioulasso - Hounde road constructed under the Third Highway Project (Cr.653-UV)
provides the most important transport link in this region of substantial
agricultural potential.



-5-
17.       The main objectives of future Bank Group lending are:  (a) promoting
agricultural development so as to help the country attain some degree of food
self-sufficiency; (b) rehabiliLtating poor and overexploited soils; (c) facil-
itating the movement of the rural population from the Mossi Plateau to the
Southwest andi helping with their integration into their new environment; (d)
strengthening infrastructure facilities; (e) promoting the training of skilled
technicians at all levels and employment; and (f) mobilizing resources from
other donors through co-financing. These objectives are consistent with the
Government's stated priorities in the Third Development Plan.  In keeping with
these objectives, future projects include a forestry project, a small pilot
irrigation project, a third telecommunications project, a highway maintenance
project, integrated rural development projects for the Koudougou ORD, a follow
up project for the Bougouriba ORD and a Third Rural Development Fund Project.
18.       Upper Volta's external public debt amounted to US$337.3 million at
the end of 1978, (including an undisbursed amount of US$146.6), with about 33
percent held by the Association. The debt service ratio (amortization and
interest to exports of goods and services) was 6.4 percent in 1976; this is
not likely to increase by very much over the next several years as most of
the loans to Upper Volta have been accorded on concessionary terms and a
number of donors have recently converted their outstanding loans into grants.
PART II:I - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Organization and Structure
19.       Upper Volta has two education systems:  a formal system under the
Ministry of National Education and Culture, which is strleturally similar
to that found in most of Francophone West Africa, and a separate system of
rural education under the Ministry of Rural Development. In the formal
system, six years of primary school are followed by a secondary program con-
sisting of a four-year lower cycle and a three-year upper cycle. The formal
system consists of about 700 public and 60 private primary schools, with
about 3,000 teachers and 160,000 pupils. There are 23 public and 24 private
secondary schools, with about 650 teachers and 16,000 pupils. An estimated
4,000 students attend technical education and vocational training courses.
A newly created Ministry of Higher Education and Research has responsibility
for the rapidly growing national university, which has 90 instructors and
over 1,200 students.
20.       In 1961, the Ministry of National Education established a separate
system of rural education ceniters oriented to the needs of rural youth who
have had no access to the traditional primary education. Over the years,
however, these centers developed into inferior imitations of the traditional
primary school. In the early 1970s, the Government sought donor assistance to
reform the system and give it a more production-oriented direction. Respons-
ibility for rural education was transferred to the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment, which in 1975, establislhed a Rural Youth (Young Farmer) Training Direc-
torate (FJA 1/ Directorate) including a small Administrative and Financial
1/   FJA - "Formation des jeunes agriculteurs."



- 6 -
Service, a project unit responsible for implementing the first Bank
Education Project and a Rural Pedagogical Service with strong French
technical assistance support, responsible for the two instructor training
centers (CFMRs), research and evaluation. A three year training program of
basic education combined with agricultural training was introduced in the
"Centres de Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs (CFJAs)." There are now about
750 of these centers, with an instructor staff of 780, catering to an
enrollment of about 22,000. As part of the reform, the Directorate also
provided support for a revival of traditional rural youth groups called
"Groupements des Jeunes Agriculteurs (GJA)." These voluntary organizations
directed youth toward revenue earning activities and now provide work
opportunities and further education for CFJA graduates during the difficult
transitional period between "school" and adult life in the villages.
21.       The FJA system differs from the formal primary school in a number of
ways. Whereas the primary curriculum includes no agriculture related activi-
ties in the FJA system about 50 percent of the time is spent on agriculture
and related production activities, with the remaining time devoted mostly to
functional literacy, simple arithmetic appropriate to rural areas, and basic
environmental studies. In primary school, French is the language of instruc-
tion from the first year; in the CFJAs, most of the initial instruction is in
the local language and French is introduced only gradually. The normal age
of entry to primary school is seven, whereas under the FJA reform program,
the average entry age is 15.
22.       It is generally agreed in Upper Volta that the national education
system does not serve the needs of the majority of the people. On the other
hand, the FJA system responds to the needs of rural areas; it is directly
linked through village councils (similar to parent/teacher groups) to local
needs and village development, preserves cultural identity through the use
of local languages, and offers an opportunity for its graduates to establish
themselves in groups on the land at the end of their training and thus helps
to stem the rural exodus and emigration.
Access and Equity
23.       Neither system has yet reached the majority of the country's youth.
The primary education system caters to only 15 percent and the FJA system
to only 6 percent of their respective age groups. Ten townships, representing
only 7 percent of the total population, have about 60 percent enrollment of
primary school age youth, compared with only 9 percent in the rural areas,
where over 90 percent of the population live. Girls represent 37 percent of
the enrollment of the formal system and 10 percent of the FJA enrollment.
24.       Of particular concern for the future of the FJA system and its
continued support by parents and pupils is the inequality of opportunity
between its graduates and those of the primary education system. While the
opportunity for further education is very limited at the end of primary
school (in 1975 only 9 percent of the pupils entered public secondary school)
primary school graduates do have the possibility of further education leading



- 7 -
to salaried enployment. However, for the most able graduates of the FJA
system there are virtually no such opportunities although the GJAs offer
a means of self employment.
Education Finar.-e
25.       Central Government education expenditures are reasonable by inter-
national standards but high in relation to enrollment ratios at all levels.
In 1977, total Government expenditures for education represented about 3.4
percent of GDP, whereas recurrent education expenditures accounted for 28 per-
cent of the budget. The main reasons for such high expenditures in a system
catering to such a low proportion of young people are high teacher salaries
and, at some levels, low student/teacher ratios. Annual recurrent costs per
student, are US$62 in primary education, US$85 in the FJA system, US$440 in
general secondary education, and US$2,780 in higher education. During recent
years, external assistance has significantly complemented national resources,
amounting to about 50 percent of recurrent Government expenditures in 1976
(mainly technical assistance for secondary and higher education and scholar-
ships) and financing, on average, about 75 percent of total capital outlays
from 1972 to 1977.
26.       In reformed FJAs the costs per student are similar to those in
primary schools, in spite of tthe fact that CFJAs have lower enrollments and
higher supervision costs, because of the distance of most centers from urban
areas.  As the total nunber enrolled in CFJAs increases, costs per student
should be reduced and, moreover, contributions from agricultural production
should reduce the financial burden on the Government. The net cost per CFJA
graduate to the Government represents about 25 percent of the cost of a
primary school graduate because of the shorter training program, lower dropout
rates and the contribution from farm production at CFJAs.
FJA Renovation Program
27.       The main features of the Government's rural education reform, begun
in 1972 include the transfer of responsibility for rural education from the
Ministry of Education to the 'Ministry of Rural Development so as to associate
the production element of young farmer training with the Government ministry
responsible for agricultural production; the creation of specialized entities
for planning design and supervision purposes; recruitment of new and retrain-
ing of existing regional rural education advisors; training of instructors
*        and supervisors; improvement of training centers; and integration of village
councils into the supervision of the FJA and GJA programs.
28.       The Government has not yet determined its long-term policy but it
has indicated its strong interest in the future of the FJA system by (a)
enacting in 1978 legislation to establish clear terms and conditions of ser-
vice of all levels of FJA staff; (b) preparing and presenting to the Bank in
1977 a cogently argued and detailed project request document; and (c) publish-
ing in 1978 four useful evaluation reports on the pilot schemes financed under



-8-
the first Association and FED projects. In view of the greater relevance of
the FJA system in the rural areas, and the impossibility in the short run
of Government being able to provide traditional primary schools for all the
scattered villages in Upper Volta for reasons of cost, the FJA system is
likely to remain Upper Volta's principle system of education in rural areas.
The Bank Group's Role in the Education Sector
29.       The Bank Group has followed two approaches in helping Upper Volta
to meet its trained manpower and educational objectives. It has (a) provided
finance for project-related training components in four agricultural projects
(Credits 496, 557, 640 and 706 UV) and in the Small and Medium Scale Enter-
prise Project (Cr. 759-UV); and (b) through the First Education Project
(Cr. 430-UV), promoted rural (Young Farmer) education as well as secondary
school science programs. The first education project supported Government's
rural education reform, focussing its attention in 3 of the 11 Regional
Development Agencies (ORDs) and in assistance to the central CFJA directorate.
The project addresses all the areas that the Bank has identified as being
important for growth and development of agriculture in Upper Volta. These
include: improved agricultural techniques (land preparation; use of inputs;
dry season gardening; water management; ox drawn cultivation; sedentarized
farming); literacy, basic numeracy, health, nutrition and cooperative manage-
ment. The project seeks to assist young adults, and receives guidance from
the community elders who play an important role in student selection.
30.       The first education project was successful in offering a basic
education to young illiterates and in bringing about the active participation
of the village councils. There were, however, a number of weaknesses in the
project which this proposed follow-up project seeks to remedy. These include:
(a) inequality of opportunity between the FJA and the national education
systems with respect to eventual employment; (b) a shortage of trained and
motivated instructors and supervisory staff in the ORDs; (c) inadequacy of
the instructor training programs; (d) low enrollment of young women; (e)
shortage of staff at the FJA directorate; (f) the absence of a documentation
service which would prepare written materials for new literates and (g) inade-
quate provision of support to the construction component.
31.       It is likely to be some time before the new Government will finalize
its future policy for the formal education sector and it would therefore be
difficult for the Association to finance any major development in this sector
at present. The proposed second education project undertakes a comprehensive
approach to build up institutional support for the rural education system.
It would expand the rural education system and strengthen its management,
support services, staff training and evaluation components so as to give more
rural young people an opportunity to become literate and, through relevant
training, participate fully in rural development projects in their home areas.
The project would also (a) support the continuation of in-service training for



-9-
agricultural project managers started under the First Education Project; (b)
support the expansion of training for road maintenance personnel in prepara-
tion for future investments inL highways; (c) complement extension work in the
ORDs as the CFJA farm plots will serve as demonstration centers in the rural
areas. The construction component of the project will benefit from the
training of artisans provided under the IDA supported Small and Medium-Scale
Enterprise Project (Cr. 759-IJV).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The Government identified project elements of a follow-up project
to the first education project in late 1976 and sent the Bank a detailed
request in mid-1977. A project was identified in October 1977, preappraised
in January 1978 and appraised in March 1978. A post-appraisal mission in
October 1978 confirmed project content and costs with the new Government that
came to power in July 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
January 30 to February 2, 1979; the Upper Voltan delegation was led by H.E.
Pale Issa Welte. A report entitled "Republic of Upper Volta - Staff Appraisal
Report - Second Education Project," No. 2286a-UV dated September 28, 1979 is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary
project data is contained in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Composition
33.       The proposed project would consolidate achievements of the first
education project and assist the Government in providing an education to
rural youth who have not had access to primary education by expanding Upper
Volta's rural education and training system. It would also provide training
for three caLtegories of workers presently in short supply in Upper Volta:
agriculture project managers, building construction foremen and road and
equipment maintenance personnel.
34.       The project, covering the three ORDs supported under the first
project and three new ORDs, would be implemented over five years, 1979-84,
and would finance the following:
(a) reconstruction of and furniture and equipment for about
80 existing rural youth training centers CFJAs; building
materials and equipiment for up to 220 CFJAs of which 60
are already operative and the remainder are to be identi-
f:Led during project implementation; water supply facilities
al: Rural Youth Training Centers and for Rural Youth Groups;
(b)  Furniture, vehicles and equipment and operating expenditures
for the training by the National Center for Rural Artisans
(CNPAR) of artisans and construction foremen;
(c) credit to purchase equipment for up to 600 rural youth groups
(GJAs);



- 10 -
(d) construction, vehicles, operating expenditures, furniture
and equipment for two rural training centers and two
instructor training centers.
(e) a study on equality of opportunity aimed at establishing
linkages between the formal and rural education systems;
(f) construction and furniture for the Directorate of Rural Youth
Training (the FJA Directorate), for the establishment of a
Regional Directorate and for offices for regional supervisory
personnel; vehicles, equipment and operating expenditures for
the Directorate, its Administrative and Financial Service,
its Regional Directorate and the ORD support services.
(g) minor construction works, vehicles, furniture, equipment,
staff training and operating expenditures for the Rural
Pedagogical Service and for the newly established
Documentation Service;
(h) training, a vehicle and operating expenses for the newly
established GJA/CPR Support Service;
(i) vehicles and equipment and operating expenditures for
rural youth training staff and GJA leaders;
(j) agricultural project manager training;
(k) minor construction, furniture, vehicles, and equipment for
the Public Works Skill Upgrading Center;
(1) 41 man-years of technical assistance comprising support for
central and regional project management, including FJA field
supervising auditing services and assistance to the Ministry
of Rural Development (15 man-years); construction (4.5 man-
years); construction training (1 man-year); architectural
consultant services (2 man-years); the study on equality of
opportunity and linkages between the two education systems
and project evaluation (1 man-year); the Documentation Service
(3 man-years); agricultural project management training (1.5
man-years); Public Works training (9 man-years); Public Works
technician training school (2 man-years); and preparation
of a future project (2 man-years).
(m)  51 man-years of fellowships for the rural Pedagogical
Service and the Documentation Service, project evaluation
and the training of senior FJA and Public Works personnel.



- IL -
35.       The incremental operating expenditures (estimated at US$4.6 million
base cost) are for development: activities financed under the project. About
US$2.3 million (or US$.5 millLon/year) of this amount is for new services to
be set up that will continue after project completion. Over the life of the
project, Government will finance an estimated US$2.6 million of additional
incremental costs, mostly teachers' salaries, that arc not reflected in total
project costs as they are normally not financed as part of education projects.
The operating costs were included in total project costs to cushion the impact
of the project on the Government budget.
Project Description
36.       Rural Youth Trainini2 Centers (CFJAs).  The project would consoli-
date the reform of the three regional development areas (ORDs) supported
under the First Education Project and expand the programs to three new ORDs.
The new centers to be built under the project would provide 5,600 student
places; an additional 1,400 places would be provided through increased
enrollments in renovated centers. The participation of young women would
be increased through the expansion of mixed and double classes.
37.       Construction and Construction Training.  Three different approaches
to construction would be used to spread the risks inherent in construction
work in rural areas. For a proportion of the 80 centers to be rebuilt, those
located near the main urban centers, construction would be undertaken by local
contractors, some of whom are receiving technical assistance in management
from the Office de promotion de l'entreprise voltaique" (OPEV) under the IDA
supported Small and Medium-size Enterprise project (Cr. 759-UV). For that
portion of the centers to be rebuilt which are located in the more remote
areas, construction would be carried out by artisans trained by the National
Center for Rural Artisans (CNPAR). A satisfactory agreement has been drawn
up between the FJA Directorate and CNPAR defining their respective responsi-
bilities for training, construction, supervision and evaluation. In some 60
villages where existing centers require repair and improvement and in some 160
villages where there are no CFJAs, building materials would be provided for
self-help construction. The materials required would be determined by the
instructor and approved by the village council and the FJA regional supervisor.
38.       Rural Youth Groups (GJAs).  The project would provide medium-term
credit for agricultural equipment, varying from US$300 to US$900 per group,
for up to 6010 new GJAs serving some 15,000 young people. To be eligible
for credit, GJA's would have to be recognized by village elders and have
ongoing activities for at least one year. Loans would be for four to five
years at the interest rate established for similar credit to the agricultural
sector. At present this is 5.5 percent per annum. Inflation for the period
1976-78 averaged 15 percent per annum due to food shortages resulting from
unfavorable weather. Prospects for the future indicate impro-vement with
inflation decreasing to 8-10 percent a year by the end of the next three year
period. The interest rate and other credit conditions would be modified
during projEtct implementation. in accordance with the credit study financed
under the second Rural Development Fund Project (Cr. 640-UV). Accounting for
credit would be handled by the ORD under the supervision of the FJA Direc-
torate.



- 12 -
39.       Following experience gained in the first project the GJA programs
would be diversified to include well digging, planting of fruit trees,
furniture making and dry season vegetable cultivation. The groups, whose
collection plots will serve as demonstration centers, will play an active role
in promoting the acceptance of new agricultural techniques.
40.       Rural Training Centers (CPRs).  The project would finance construc-
tion, furniture, vehicles and equipment, staff training and operating expendi-
ture for two "Centres de promotion rurale" (CPRs), each with an enrollment of
100 students. These centers would give qualified CFJA graduates, who have
participated in a GJA for at least one year, an opportunity to obtain training
appropriate for posts in the rural extension services. Selection of students
would be done at the village level from among GJA members who have demonstrated
special competence and leadership ability. The Government indicated its
intention to provide better opportunities for CPR graduates by agreeing during
negotiations to: (a) give priority to qualified CPR graduates in ensuring the
basic staffing of ORD's; (b) establish each year a quota for CPR graduates in
the agricultural training centers, and (c) modify the entry qualifications of
these centers so as to give CPR graduates an equal chance to compete effec-
tively with candidates trained under the formal education system (Section 4.04
of the Credit Agreement).
41.       Study on equality of opportunity and linkages between the FJA and
formal education systems. As a further step toward giving CFJA graduates
an opportunity to proceed to higher levels of education, the project would
finance four man-months of technical assistance for a study to be conducted
by the National Education Institute and the Rural Pedagogical Service, the
institutions assigned responsibility for reform of the two education systems.
The Ministry of the Civil Service and Labor, representing a future employer of
the graduates, would participate in this study which would evaluate aptitudes,
attitudes and achievement levels of graduates of the two systems and recommend
possible future linkages and any changes that may be required to achieve
greater equality of educational opportunity. Government has agreed that it
will submit to the Association for discussion, no later than July 1, 1981,
the results of the study, will exchange views on these results and thereafter
will take appropriate action in accordance with a schedule mutually agreeable
to Government and the Association (Section 3.05 of the Credit Agreement).
Central Prolect Management and Support Services
42.       FJA Directorate.  The project would strengthen central support ser-
vices by providing an office building, furniture and equipment for an enlarged
FJA Directorate. Staff salaries for new posts, technical assistance, and
vehicles and equipment for project implementation would also be financed
under the project. The FJA Director, who would also be the Project Director,
would be assisted by (a) a deputy; (b) a management specialist, who is ex-
pected to be an expatriate and the leader of a technical assistance team
(2 man-years); (c) a new regional directorate at Bobo-Dioulasso; (d) a
strengthened administrative and financial service; and (e) new documentation
services. During negotiations Government agreed to submit no later than
June 30, 1980 a physical inventory of existing GFJAs and GJAs; obtain detailed
enrollment figures for all CFJAs and GJAs, and make arrangements for the
maintenance of adequate personnel records (Section 3.06 of the Credit
Agreement).



- 13 -
43.       Rural Pedagogical Service.  The Rural Pedagogical Service respon-
sible under the FJA director f'or applied pedagogical research, preparation
of instructional material, field experimentation, evaluation, and training
policy for all staff levels, would be reorganized under the project into two
sections, a research and instructional material section and a training section.
The project would finance vehicles and equipment for the Rural Pedagogical
Service, staff allowances, eight overseas fellowships for senior personnel
(Project Preparation Facility funds are being used for four of these fellow-
ships) and eLght fellowships for local training of junior personnel. The
Government has obtained continuation of French technical assistance for
specialists for three years, which will give newly trained Voltaic personnel
time to esta'blish themselves in their new positions. During negotiations
the Government confirmed that counterparts have been appointed to work with
these specialists.
44.       Documentation Service.  The project would finance technical assis-
tance, fellowships, minor construction works, vehicles, printing and broad-
casting equipment and materiaLs, staff training and operating costs for the
newly created Documentation Service. The service would:
(a) prepare for printing and distribute instructional material
an,d technical brochures in French and local languages.
(b)  support the National Bureau for Further Education and
Functional Literacy (ONEPAFS) in a proposed project for
establishing a village press, in local languages, which
would be produced by and addressed to CFJA graduates and
new literates.
(c) extpand the FJA Diretctorate's monthly publication, Essor Rural,
wwhich is designed f'or all staff involved in rural development
in Upper Volta.
(d)  gradually establish a quarterly national rural press,
initially on a pilot basis in one local language.
(e) cooperate with the Rural Radio Service in providing regular
radio broadcasts on FJA developments.
Satisfactory arrangements have been worked out between the FJA Directorate
and ONEPAFS, Essor Rural and the Rural Radio Service defining their respective
roles in carrying out the project.
45.       GJA/CPR Support Service.  Training, a vehicle and operating costs
would be financed for the nelwly created Service. Staff of the Service will
work closely with ORD, Rural Pedagogical and Documentation Services staff to
provide general assistance with all facets of their work.



- 14 -
Regional Support Services
46.       Regional FJA Directorate, Bobo-Dioulasso.  To ensure efficient
management of the rural education system in western Upper Volta, the project
would finance the construction of an office, vehicles and equipment, a tech-
nical assistance specialist (2.5 man-years) and operating costs for the
establishment at Bobo-Dioulasso of a new FJA directorate covering the Bobo-
Dioulasso, Bougouriba, Dedougou and Banfora ORDs.
47.       Support to Regional Development Agencies (ORDS).  The project would
also support the ORDs in the supervision of the FJA system by providing minor
construction and furniture for the offices of FJA supervisory staff located at
the ORD level, equipment and vehicles and by financing operating costs. The
project would also finance two technical assistance specialists, for a total
of 4.5 man-years, for the Sahel and Bougouriba ORDs. An additional 5 man-years
of technical assistance would be provided to the Ministry of Rural Development
for two technical experts who will assist with the implementation of a new
program to strengthen the control, supervision and support of the ORD's.
Staff Training
48.       Instructor Training.  To enable the two Instructor Training Centers
("Centres de formation des maitres ruraux - CFMRs) at Kamboinse and Farako-Ba
to undertake expanded staff training programs, the project would finance minor
construction, vehicles, furniture and equipment to renovate the centers and
would also finance staff salaries, instructional material and operating costs.
49.       Training of Supervisors.  In view of the importance of supervision
at all levels of the FJA system and the need to improve staff motivation, the
project would finance the travel, subsistence and operating costs for the
training of 30 "assistants" or junior supervisors and 30 FJA regional super-
visors in a program similar to those already provided under the first project,
based at the Kamboinse center.
50.       Agricultural Project Manager Training.  The project would finance
18 man-months of consultant services, instructional material, and travel and
subsistence allowances for participants to attend seminars on agricultural
project manager training based on a pilot program supported under the First
Education Project. Topics to be studied at these seminars would include orga-
nization and methods, personnel management, planning, budgeting and financial
analysis, cost control and public relations.
Evaluation
51.       The project would continue the evaluation of the FJA system of the
First Education Project. It would finance six man-months of technical assis-
tance, a vehicle and travel allowances, and an 18-month fellowship for a
full-time evaluation coordinator. The evaluation would focus on (a) the
literacy, numeracy and practical learning achievements of the CFJA graduates;
(b) the practical and commercial achievements of GJA members; (c) implementa-
tion and use of the physical facilities to be provided under the project.
During negotiations, Government agreed to implement an evaluation work program



- 15 -
and prepare annual evaluation summaries covering the three areas outlined
above (Section 3.11 of the Credit Agreement).
Public Works Training Center
52.       Tc assist the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Urbanism
in improving the facilities for training equipment maintenance personnel and
operational staff for the central workshop in Ouagadougou, the proje.t would
finance (a) furniture and construction to rehabilitate the existing training
center; (b) construction of an auto-mechanic workshop; (c) training material
and equipment for the center and a mobile workshop for field training; (d)
vehicles for driver training and project implementation; (e) 9 man-years of
technical assistance to help the instructional staff of the center to develop
skill training and upgrading courses; and (f) 8 man-years of fellowship for
training of local staff.
53.       The training center's student capacity would be about 60 trainees
at any one time. Its annual output would depend on the duration of the various
training or upgrading programs and on the specific requirements of the operat-
ing departments, but would be on the order of 40 maintenance mechanics and 20
employees trained in a variety of skills, including drafting, storekeeping and
shop supervision.
54.       During negotiations, Government agreed that (a) adequate provisions
will be made within the maintenance budget of the Department of Public Works
to finance t:he recurrent costs of the training center; (b) Department of
Public Works personnel will be released from regular production work to
undergo training or upgrading according to a schedule acceptable to the
Association~; (c) the trainees will receive adequate financial compensation
while undergoing training; and (d) successful completion of a training program
will be given recognition by job reclassification and adjustment of pay scales
(Section 3.08 of the Credit Agreement).
Project Cosi: and Financing
55.       The cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$21.4 mil-
lion. The total project cost., including taxes of US$3.7 million, is estimated
at US$25.1 million with a foreign exchange component of US$12.0 million.
The proposed IDA credit of US$14.0 million would finance 65 percent of the
project costs net of taxes. The African Development Fund (ADF) will provide
a loan of U:S$7.4 million on terms substantially the same as these of the IDA
credit. The proposed IDA credit and ADF loan would finance 100 percent of
foreign exchange costs and 72 percent of local costs. Government would
contribute 1JS$3.7 million comprising taxes and as a result of the project,
would also be required to finance incremental operating costs during the
project period of US$2.6 mil:Lion representing teachers' salaries for the most
part. The ADF loan will finance the construction of the FJA Directorate,
equipment for GJAs and furniture and equipment for a) rural youth training
centers (CFJAs), b) two instructor training centers (CFMRs), c) central
project management support services, d) regional support services, e) the



- 16 -
Public Works training school and f) staff and construction training. The IDA
credit will finance water supply facilities, construction materials for CFJAs,
technical assistance, vehicles, fellowships, local staff training costs for
agricultural project management training, staff salaries, some operating costs
for the various agencies involved and building rehabilitation. A condition of
effectiveness for the IDA credit is that all conditions necessary for effective-
ness of the ADF loan have been satisfied with the exception of the effectiveness
of the IDA credit (Section 6.01(b) of the Credit Agreement).
Recurrent Costs
56.       By 1984, when all project assisted institutions would be fully
operational and the initial support to certain institutions would have ended,
the Ministry of Rural Development recurrent expenditures would increase by
about US$1.1 million (in 1978 prices). About US$0.6 million would be for
salaries and related benefits for additional FJA instructors, and staff in
central support and training institutions, while US$0.5 million would finance
staff training costs and supplies and overheads for improved supervision and
evaluation of the FJA network. Assuming that over the next few years the
growth of the Government's recurrent education and training expenditures would
reach 4 percent p.a. in real terms, the FJA budget would increase its share
from 7.6 percent (1978) to 8.8 percent (1984) of total recurrent education
expenditures.
Project Implementation
57.       Project administration would fall under the FJA Directorate's Admini-
strative and Financial Service working under the FJA Director who would also
be the Project Director. The Directors of the Rural Pedagogical Service, the
Documentation Service and the regional Directorate would all report to the FJA
Director. A construction Section has been established within the Administra-
tive and Financial Service Section of the FJA Directorate for site evaluation,
contract preparation, construction coordination, preparation of architectrual
briefs and quality control. 6.5 man-years of technical assistance will be
provided. In order to ensure continuity, recruitment of an Upper Voltan
counterpart to the Construction Coordinator would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the Credit Agreement). Using Project Prepa-
ration Facility funds, a team from the FJA Directorate composed of field
support, planning and construction staff carried out a survey from November
1978 to April 1979 to identify the sites of the first CFJAs to be constructed
under the project and the first 140 CFJAs to be renovated or created through
self-help, taking into account sociological, educational, environmental,
logistical and architectural factors. The Government has agreed to provide
by April 1 of each year and prior to the beginning of work a detailed working
paper, construction schedule, cost estimate, and recommendations for an
appropriate maintenance schedule for Rural Youth Training Centers to be
renovated or constructed during the following twelve month period as well as
the site surveys, architectural drawings and specifications and cost estimates
for four representative centers to be constructed (Section 3.09 of the Credit
Agreement). The public works training component would be implemented by the
Department of Public Works.



- 17 -
Procurement
58.       Civil works totaling US$3.4 million would be mainly for small,
widely dispersed buildings and water supplies. Construction would be carried
out under local competitive bidding (US$2.4 million) and force account (US$1.0
million). Construction materials totalling US$0.6 million for self-help
construction of CFJAs would be procured through local bidding procedures.
Disbursements
59.       The proceeds from the IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
78 percent of total civil works expenditures (US$2.0 million); 78 percent
of construction materials for minor rehabilitation works (US$0.4 million);
100 percent of total technical assistance, fellowships abroad and vehicles for
experts ass.Lgned to the Ministry of Rural Development (US$3.5 million); 81
percent of local staff salaries and other operating costs (US$3.9 million);
100 percent of local training and fellowship costs (US$1.3 million); US$0.6
million as an initial deposit in the Special Account; US$245,000 to refund the
PPF advance; 86 percent of agricultural equipment to be financed retroactively
(US$0.1 million); and US$2 million of unallocated funds. Requests for disburse-
ment for local staff salaries would be made against certificates of expenditure,
the documentation for which would not be submitted to the Association but
retained by the Borrower and made available for inspection by Association
supervision missions.
60.       It is expected thal: the first education project (Cr. 430-UV) will be
completed in April 1980, but funds for project administration, instructor
training and equipment were exhausted as of November 30, 1978. In order to
provide continuity between the first and second project, the proposed project
would provide retroactive financing, not exceeding US$0.3 million for expendi-
tures for these items from December 1, 1978.
Special Account
61.       Because the Governmnent may have difficulty in pre-financing expen-
ditures to be reimbursed under the proposed credit, a revolving fund of US$0.6
million, financed under the credit, would be established in a project bank
account to be opened in a coimmercial bank and operated under terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Association. The Association would replenish the
Special Account upon receipt of evidence of disbursements from the revolving
fund for allowable expenditures. Should any disbursements be made from the
revolving fund which are not acceptable to the Association, the Government
would deposit the corresponding amount in the fund account (Section 2.02(f)
of the Credit Agreement). The opening of the project Special Account is be a
condition cf effectiveness of the IDA credit (Section 6.01(a) of the Credit
Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
62.       Separate accounts would be maintained by the FJA Directorate's
administrative and financial service for the funds received from each donor
agency. Btudgets for project expenditures would be submitted to the Treasury
and the Association twice yearly for approval, and the project account would



- 18 -
be replenished through the revolving fund account (Section 3.04(a) of the
Credit Agreement). Specific budgetary allocations would be made to the ORDS
for certain operating costs and for locally procured vehicles and equipment.
63.       All accounts would be audited annually with the IDA credit financing
the audit fees. Government has agreed that all accounts will be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and that the accounts
and audit reports will be submitted to the Association within four months
after the close of the Government's fiscal year (Sections 4.01(a) and (b) of
the Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
64.       The IDA credit would finance a total of 43 man-years of technical
assistance. The qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
service of these specialists will be acceptable to the Association (Section
3.02 of the Credit Agreement).
65.       Fifty-one man-years of fellowships would be financed under the
project to strengthen the Rural Pedagogical Service, to assist in the estab-
lishment of the new Documentation Service, to strengthen the evaluation and
to provide training for senior supervisory inspectors and Public Works per-
sonnel. Government has agreed that fellowships will be awarded to suitably
qualified persons and that a list of candidates and their proposed training
program will be submitted to the Association by July 31, 1981 (Section 3.10 of
the Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
66.       The project's rural education component would offer relevant educa-
tion and training to young people from some of the poorest families in the
rural areas of Upper Volta who have not obtained and have no prospect of being
able to obtain an education under the formal system. The FJA system will be
provided with institutional support to strengthen its administrative, tech-
nical, planning and evaluation capacity. These improvements are expected to
benefit the education provided to all 22,000 rural youths in existing CFJAs,
7,000 additional youth to be added to the program, and 18,000 youth who will
receive post CFJA training. Support to the FJA program would complement other
donor and the Government's own efforts which are expected to provide for much
greater expansion of the system in future years. The infrastructure created
under the Bank project could eventually serve a nationwide reform of the
FJA system which over a 25-30 year period could reach up to 200,000 young
people in rural areas.
67.       The project's seminars and workshops for personnel involved in agri-
cultural development projects would have a beneficial impact on most rural
development activities in Upper Volta. The project-supported Public Works
training component would each year train about 40 maintenance mechanics, 20
survey assistants, draftsmen, and storekeepers. The training of this level
of staff has been identified as a precondition for successful investments in
the highway sector.



- 19 -
68.       The major risks in the project involve the rural education program.
Even though the FJA system was first introduced in the early 1960s, it has not
yet attained the status of the formal education system in the eyes of many
parents and there is a risk that it will not attract widespread "grassroots"
support. This risk, although certainly real in the early years, has dimin-
ished as instruction in the CFJAs has improved and the GJAs have shown their
ability to c:arry out production activities with reasonable success. In addi-
tion, possibilities for further training are being expanded under the project.
There are indications that the objectives and content of education provided
by the formal system will change through a gradual reform and will follow
more closely those of the rural education system than is the case at present.
Another rislk in the rural education component would be the uncertainty inherent
in projecting cost estimates and scheduling for rural construction; however,
this risk wxuld be reduced through the training of rural manpower.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Upper Volta and the AssociatiLon and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. As conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit, the
Government Special Account in a commercial bank would be opened; all condi-
tions necessary for effectiveness of the African Development Fund loan would
be satisfied with the exception of the effectiveness of the IDA Credit;
and the Upper Voltan counterpart to the Construction Coordinator would
be recruited (paras. 61, 55, 57).
71.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Developmeni: Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
A. David-Knox
Attachments
October 3, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-20-                                               Page L of 5
urru4ItLZ  SOCIO   INDICATOU DATA SIUET
E    LRER  O VPS (AJUSTD A
LAND AUA (TRCV8AND 8tllUPUI VOLTA                                            -_ST      NT_ItAIN AgA"
TOTAL            274.2                                                   SANC        SAM      mmT NIGER
AGRICULTURAL     193.7                                NOST UCENT       GEOGtAPHIC    INCO0       INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTINAIE lb      18GION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP I
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  50.0         60.0     130.0           261.4      181.9       430.3
ENCRGC CONSUMPTION PSR CAPITA
(KILOCAANS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       5.0        13.0       18.0            80.6       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MIroNS)       4.2         4.9        5.5
URURAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.0         6.8        7.5            17.1       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      10.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        24.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2170
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KN.                       15.0        18.0      20.0             18.4       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     22.0        26.0      28.0             50.6      252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.4        42.0      44.0             44.1       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                         54.8        54.4      53.0            52.9        53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.8         2.8       3.0              2.8        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         1.6LI     1.6/L            2.7        2.4         2.7
URBAN                               ..         5.3       3.6              5.7        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH NATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0         48.0      48.0             46.3       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     27.0        24.0      22.0             17.2       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.2       3.2              3.1        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOYN)    ..           ..         .               ..       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          87.6       102.0      87.0            94.3        98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPrLY OF
CALORIES (PERCET or
USQUIREMENTS)                   85.0        73.0      78.0            60.5        93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          66.0        66.0      59.2             55.8       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         ..        16.2/f    15.2             17.9       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     41.0        35.0      32.0             22.3       18.5        11.4
RHALTH
LIF! EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0        40.0      42.0             47.0       49.3        54.7
INFANT HORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          263.0          ..        ..              ..       105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCEN OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      10.0             20.3       26.3        34.4
URBAN                               ..          ..      48.0             53.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       5.0             10.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         4.0       4.0            22.5        16.0        40.8
UR                                  ..        49.0      47.0             62.5       65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            13.9         3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        100000.0     92760.0  61798.0           17424.7    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     4090.OLI    4230.0   4893.0           2506.6      5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           I810.0/S    1670.0    1518.0            502.3     1417.1       726.5
URBAN                               ..       300.0        ..            201.4      197.3       272.7
RURAL                               ..      2580.0        ..           1403.6     2445.9      1404.4
AOHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..      31.0             23.4       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVU6  SIZE OF HOUSELD
T7TAL.                             7.5/b        ..        ..              4.9        5.3         5.4
ULaw                                ...                    .               .9        4.9         5.1
aAL                                 ..          ..         ..             5.5        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUJHDIR Or PERSONS PER ROOM
TWTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URA                                 ..          ..        ..               .           ..
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DGELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..               ..       22.5        28.1
11K                                 ..          .                                   17.8        45.1
IIIAL..                                         .          ......



Anne* I
- 21 -                                             Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
UPPER VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UPPER VOLTA                REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyPRAGES
- YDST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  8.0         13.0       16.0             59.0       63.3         82.7
MALE                  12.0         16.0      20.0             64.2        79.1         87.3
FEMALE                 5.0         9.0       12.0             44.2        48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  0.5          1.0        2.0              9.0       16.7         21.4
MALE                   1.0          2.0       3.0             12.0        22.1         33.0
FEMALE                 0.3          1.0       1.0              4.4        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  21.0          15.0       17.0              7.0         5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             47.0        44.0       48.0             42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                          20.0         23.0       20.0             22.9       21.7         23.4
ADULT LIERACY RATE (PERCENT)          1.5/i       5.0/f       ,.             20.8       31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTIO1N
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4          1.0        1.6              4.0        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0         16.0       17.0            44.3        27.2         76.9
TV RECEI'1ERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1/h        1.0         *-              2.9        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         0.4        0.3              5.6        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           0.2         ..             0.4         1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2500.0      3000.0    3300.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   47.3         46.6       46.4             31.9       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              91.5         86.8       84.0             77.6       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.4          8.5       11.0              7.9       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPAI1ON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 57.7        55.7       54.3             40.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                  60.9        59.5       58.4             53.9       52.4         48.8
FEMALE                                54.5        51.9       50.2             25.6        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8         0.8        0.9              1.2         1.2         1.4
INCOME DIiTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..               ..         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..         ..               ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..          ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..               ..         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATID ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCoME
LEVEL (1JS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  .          ..      108.0           187.6        99.2        241.3
RURAL                                  .          ..       53.0            96.8        78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (OS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..            138.4       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..       37.0             71.0       54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       35.0            34.5        44.1         24.8
RURAL                                ..           ..       39.0            48.7        53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
anc 1971; and for Most RecentiEitflate, between 1974 and 1977.
Ic    Africa South of Sahara1   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lower Middle Income
(S;81-550 per capita, 1976);  /f  1972;   /I  1963;  /h  1964;  /i  1962;   LI  Due to emigration,
growth rate is lower than natural increase.
May, 1979



Annex 1
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL. INDPICATORS                                                    Page   3  of   5
&n    The adjusted group averages fon each indicator are FpulaItioo-waightsd geometric means,  aeluding the extreme values of the indicator and the moor
popul.tatd coun try in sach group. Coverag of coun.tries among the indicators depeods on avilehility of data and is not unifu-n Dun to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Emporters and indicator, of access to wat-ernd socrtat diaposal, housing, Income distribution and poverty are
spimpl  population-weighted geometric reams without the amniu-ion of extrem  vlus
LAND AREA (thousa.nd sq. 1cm)                                                            Population per hospita  hadb   - total. urhan. sod cral.  - Population (total.
Ttotl - Total nurface area comprising loand areaand inland waters,                        urban, and.rora) divided hy theIrresetienumber of hospital hedo
AirIcl-lur..  - Moan ranant esnimate of agricultural area used temporarily                 w aiia Inpublin and private genal an d specialised bhaFpia1 and c-
or permsanently fcr crops, pastures, market and kitohen. gardens or to                  hahilitstion centrs,.  Hoepitala ore esthlinhmactn permanetly staffed hy
lie fsllow.                                                                             at leas.t one physician.  Ettbhiishnents prodding principally nuasodial
cor et re noa iclded.  Rura1 hcspilrln.  ho...-r, io!d.d heslth and medi-
G6fF PERCPTA (iSO  - ifF per capita aetleatas at norrent aacket prices,                    nab  etrsOtprnnnl  stuffed by c ph-tnicio  (hut fy u modica1 us-
calclatd by sans covrinmro   sWrdSn    ta   1 -77 baste);                               sitant. nus,midwife, etc.) which offer in-pacie-t acconoodnti.n  and
196i, 1970,an  1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range of medical foculltir..
Adisosrnhospital hed - Totu1 munbor of ndnxtni... to or dinchorg-t
ENMERGE COSSUMPTION PEE CAPITA - Annual consumption of csomeroia1 snergy                   from  hospPitals divided by the cunhor of hed..
(coal and lIgnite, petroleo., natural gasa and hydro-, snclsar and ge-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of .uaI squivalent per oapita.                   HOScttI
Average alas of housebold (perso,na fper hous...hnld) - total, rbu.. u.nd rrl
POPULATION Alit VITAL. STATISTICS                                                          A houeol os1      jter.fag of      of  nditvidualn who shore living  unre.r
Total onularion,aid-year (milions  - As of Jl1; if t no   vihe                        n  their mai meas.  A hoarder orlo.dger maY. or may no htbeo inciudod to
ave ra'ge1of two end-year, estima tes; 1960, 197j0,  ad 1l9717 data                     the hoosehoId for  tatistical prye.  Ecat intiou1 dr,ftotIn   f houno
Urban  poplation iPercent of total) -        lSti  of urban to  totlpopula-               hold vary.
tion;odifferant -definitions of urha       -ara  map affsect comparahility           Awerae subeof ppron   er r2oom- total, urha. an!d roL. .-  - gI-
of dan   mognonris                                                                     her ofI eron  Per cmin all, orhan, and rural occupied c.vventiocul
Foonla tion densit                                                                        dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings enclud. non-permanent ntu        .nrncd
Per  en. km. - Pfid-yaar population par square kilometer (100 hectares)                  ueoccup id parts.
of total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (percent of~dwellings) - total. urh n, und curul -
Per, e. k.. agriculture loand - Computed as ahova for sgricultnral loand                 C-svntion..l dwellings with elcricity in living  uaters as percentage
only.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of nnnsl, urhan, and rural dwellngs re-ps-ti-ely.
Ponulation ag  erunnure iparcsmt) -Children (0-14 years), working-age
(1-4psr)*and retired (65 years sad ever) as psfrsntages of mid-             EDOCATION
peat populatmom.                                                                    AdJustad anrollent ratios
Fyula.on growth rat  (percent) - total, sad urban - C..oapu   annua                    Pedmery abIe,; total, and femae   Total and female  -nrollmet of all agn
growth races of total and urban mid-yam popalations for 1950-60,                       attha prmr  leve  as percentae  of repectivly primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                  popalationa; normeally includes ch'ildren agedc6t-i11 years hot adjosted for
Crude birth rats (par thauaasd) - Annual live births par thouo.and of                     different: lengths of primary education; for con.ntirte  with univrasl ado-
mid-year Ppsplatins; tam-year arithmetic aaaa  ending in 1960 and                       ostion enrollmet may emceed 100 percent since som  pupils arc belowIor
1970Dnd fIva-yacr averageS.ending in 1971 for moat recsnt estimate,                    above the officIal school eg..
Crnde death rats (par thoseandl - Annua  deaths par thousand ofmid-                     Soctodry rhooI - total, and f-1al  - Computed a abshoe; ceoodaY edco-
ysar populetion; tm-yer aritbmetic avrgsending in 1960 and 1970                         itmoqurea  least four Years of appooved primary totu o;Pro-,
and five-yea  aveag Soynding in 1975 for most recent estimate.                         vidas genara1 v-cetiomal, or teacher training iatrructi.n. for pupils
tine  rrdctian fats   A,verge wmber of daughters a woman will hear                        usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correeponde...eocursen are generally
inhenorma  esprnd"i   parted if she ampertances present age-                          macladd.
sPecific fertility rates; usally five-year averages ending in 1960,  -                oaima   moan   mrnam  o  secndr) -Y  voosti.oal instituti..e in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                        clnda technical, industrial, or othe  programss which operate indepeedently
Psaly elam,aima   acoevtore.  flu&l ftkes.eead) - Annua  number of                        or an departments of secondary InstitutIons.
acceptors If birtb-ceacrol devicam  oSen se.icee of national family                 Pucil-taa,ch.r ratio - preasry. and  oarndary - Total atudento enrolled in
plamoingprrm                                                                           primary and eacendary levels divided hy numbers of teachars in the  ore
Faily plamniLSa -.usrs (saccent of marriad vn            Pero"nteam  of                  spending levels.
married wean  f child-bearIng ago (15-44 years) who use birth-oortrol               Adult literaYryofte ipercentl - Literata adults (able to read and urine) as
dsvicato all married -uma  In sam  age group.                                          a peroentage of total adult population usd 15 years and Irev.
FOOD AEUTIIOCOSSSU'rTIom
Imm pffn   redotiom nmrfcanita (I97O-I0O)t- Inden numhr of per                 pasme  or          rthuadcpua.tinol - Passen ger cars cooprts  mtr-              a
napita omnmal prsductim  o  al       aod ceemoditias.                                estnEssta   ight parsons; -ecludes ambulances, hearses andmilItar
Per cpita  usalyof calories (cprcat of reauirinoste) -Computed from               vhils
amrYeqIvlet Io   e  od supplies available in ountry per .a.pita                  gairoivera (ne rthousan.d coultIo)- A11 types of recuivern for nadic.
per day.  Available supplies comprima, dnmastir Producin,irs  es                     boodcast  to gnrlpblic per thouaas-d of PoPulntiom; secluden onien
eprsanchnge  in! s.tock..i1et supplies exclude anisal feed, seeds,           ce..eivern in coutriss and in yeaera  he, registratio   ofrdio sets.asi
qusn.titiea used infod Iprcesing  and I.ases in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent year.smay not he oo tpsrtle sine    t co...trieu
quirments wore estimted by FAO ha...d on physiological needs for nor-                bh1iahed licens.Ing.
mal activity and health cons ideringevtometltemperature, hody                       TV receivers (per thessand poslatin) -tv ree.ivers for broadcast to generoA
weights, age and asa distributions of populations. ad allowing 10 per-                 pbhictopr thousand populatio-;.. enldes unlicense.d TV rece.ivers in co--
o-n  for wast  at household levrl.                                                      triesa and in years when registration of TV sets was in effeot.
Pe cptasnny of protein (gn.- car day) - Pronein content of per               NS...papsrcrouslo(Per thousand psltn)-Shows the  -v-rge    cua
capIta net erply of fond par day.  Ret supply of fond is defined asti   o   daily genrlitereer namoppape", defined aso a periodou    hI-
ahov.-   Requiremst  fo .al        .outriosa established by USIA proide for            oution deodprMarl  to recording genral nw. tincsidere.d toi
a  inia   alloanc  of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20grams.                  ho "da ily" if it uppratlstfuti,aue.
of animal sadple  rtein, of which 10 frame should he anmlpoen                       Cinema anua attendance percpt pe Bnar                 .sd onhl number of tiokets
Th..e standardsare lower than those of 75 grams of tota1 protein and                     .Ild dorinf the your, inceluding admiusioca  to drio-io oioemu  end moble.
23 graea of animal protein aso an s-srag  for the sorld, propose.d hy                  unit..
PAO in tho TId World PoondSuvy
For cnita  rotei suppy fro  asiml endpuls  - Protein supply of food      EMPLOYMqENT
der aivetrm .-       aadpulses  is grmsper day.                                      Total lahor force (thoc...ndu   - Ec.onoically activep prsons. inoluding armd
Child (agesi-i  mraiyat(pr tosn)-Annual  daurhs per thous-                                force  cod unemployed hot encluding bneiv             tude-tn, et,  Defini-
and in age groop 1-4 years, to ohildren to this age grcup.                              tions In v-ri-u  countr iesre sot comparable.
femle(ceoet)- Fom1l  inbor f-coe as peront-ge of tonal labor fotrc.
HEAL.TH                                                                                faricu1turs (ourcent ) -Lahbr force  in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Lif:e epretan,cy at hirth (yoers) -_Averge nuber of yoorn of life                         on perc...tagr of total lahor force.
remining at birth; unua.lly fiv- y .e.r averagesending in 1960, 1970,               Inunty eres)- Labor,force in mining, roc..truotion,  -amfsoturing and
and 1975.                                                                              elootricity, water andgnaa pvr-nag  of total labor force.
Infant mrtaflitly rtet (pen thousand) -Annual deaths of infencu under                 futitciouro  rote (-ero...tl - total, male, :and femal  - Total, mala, and
oeyear ofaS. per thoosn   iehrhs                                                     female 1ahor forcea  yreoe  of their -ep-cti-r pop.1coie..
Atcess no safe wtnr (percentdof populathion) - total, urban, and rural -                  ibs  are TLOt's adjomtd purrioipaion rates roflitictnge-e
Number of penpie (tota.1  rben, and mrura) with reasona bl. e...s to                     icrocrof tepopolation. und long tine trend.
safe eater nupply (includes treated surface waters nr untreated,hot,                too..mic dependenyiratio - Rtutt  of poultonuder 1  and hI and ovr tu
uncontaminated natar such usthat from protected borsholse, apringu$                     the labor frco in age group of 11-44 yoa--
and sntr  well) as percentegee of their respective populatione.
In an urba aosaulofuti   rsado lctdntmr                                            INCOME DISiTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may bs cn..eldsc-d as being within te-                 Percntase of private income (both in oah and hiod) received by rioehast I
sonablo a....e of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                   porcet, riohest 20 Peroent, p--ret 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the h.oaseife or nenhera of the house.hold do not have tO                   of househo1de.
spend .adinproprtimaste part of the day in fetching the family's
wate  nedsPOVEtY TARGET GROUPS
Accass 'to earem   isel cmntfpouaim                       total, urbn  anstmtd abslute, paovrty icm l evel 11) per capi,ta)   uba  and coral1
rural -thro  pe1e (.total, urban  and  rura)' servd byl              rt    bsouepvrylenn   ee   nthat in,ca  lee   no    hc                                        inimal
disposal  as pa,rcentaga  of thei,r r-p-"tiw  populations.  Encrana1                    ounn"ic...olly odsuae- diet pl.s rscoial nnn-fcod reyciro.ntnn  in 
disposal may iolude the  eleto   and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
treatmen.t, of h'.a.  enreta and wests-wta  by water-horns systems                  istimated relstive poverty income level (5   e   sls      ra   n   ua 
or the use of pit privies and simi lar instal                       Rlaton.tnive poverty inoom   loyal is that ioon  l I less than o..-third
Populationca   hysician - Population dividsd by number of practiolog                      per o.pit. personal i.oons of the c...try.
phyni.cians qual,ifie  froamdical school et university leve.                        Estimated occultnin  bslon poverty inc.... loya  (paerc...t) - nrhb  and rural1
Pe_ulationpraaamsnrp  -Pplto   divided by noeber of                                       PercentIo-ouaio    ubnad rural) who are either "ahsclutc poor" or
prciinEasand fmlgrduate nurses, practirul nrs,and                                  "relativr Poor", wichevrr is greater.
Eoonumir and Social Donto Division
Eeo... ie Analysis end Proj eticn- Deyartncnt



-23-                         ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA-GNP PER CAPITA
IN 1977: US$130
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975 *                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(% CONSTANT 1968 PRICES)
US$ Million       %           1960-1973
GNP at Market Price               710.4         100.0           2.2
Gross Domestic Investment         172.6          24.3           2.6
Gross National Savings             33.7           4.7
Current Account Balance           138.9          19.6
Exports of Goods, NFS              89.7          12.6           2.6
Imports of Goods, NFS            301.1           42.4           3.5
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE
Value Added in 1976        Labor Force in 1977
US$ million        %         ('000)         x
Agriculture                       197.1         34.6        2,772        84.0
Industry                          104.1         18.3          363        11.0
Services                         268.6          47.1          165         5.0
Total                        569.8        100.0        3,300       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
CFAF billion                  % of GDP
1975      1976               1975    1976
Current Revenues                   16.1       21.2              13.2    15.2
Current Expenditures               18.6       19.2              15.3    13.8
Current Surplus or Deficit        -2.5         2.0              -2.1      1.4
Capi.tal Expenditures               1.8        3.5               1.5      2.5
External Assistance                 0.6       0.8                0.5      0.6
Overall Balance                    -3.7      -0.7               -3.1    -0.5
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                    14.49   17.53   24.32   31.40   34.84
Bank credit to Public Sector             -6.26   -9.27   -4.90   -6.95   -7.74
Ban:k credit to Private Sector            9.16   15.38   21.59   32.41   45.02
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        14.6    15.7    15.6    22.6    20.73
General Price Index (1'963 = 100)       130.3   141.7   168.3   154.1   205.4
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                8.8    18.8    -8.4    33.0
Bank credit to Public Sector                      48.1    47.2   -41.8   -11.3
Bank credit to Private Sector                     67.9    40.4    50.1    38.9
* Staff Estimates
Not available
Not applicable



-24 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA
(in millions of current US$)
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1974    1975    1976*    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Exports of Goods, NFS             78.6    89.7   100.4
Imports of Goods, NFS            229.8   301.1   251.8
Resource Gap (deficit - -)    -151.2  -211.4  -151.4         (Average of 1973-77)
Workers' Remittances (net)        33.7    46.2    40.8       Livestock       19.3      28.9
Other Factor Payments (net)       -1.0    -2.0    -5.7       Cotton          14.4      21.6
Net Transfers                     32.6    28.3    21.2       Groundnuts       3.6       5.4
Balance on Current Accounts    -85.9  -138.9   -95.1         All other       29.5      46.1
Total           66.8    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment (net) -7.0    12.2        4.5
Official Capital Grants           82.0    97.2    60.9       EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Net MLT Borrowings                13.7    20.3    23.4
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    337.3
Disbursements                    (11.6)  (23.7)   (..)       Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Repayment                        (-2.1)  (-3.4)   (.)        Total outstanding and disbursed  190.7
Other items 1/                    12.4    -0.3      2.0
Change in Reserves (end year)   15.2    -9.5    -4.3         DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 2/
Fuel and related materials                                                                         %
Public Debt ncl. guaranteed
Imports                                          Non-guaranteed private debt
Total outstanding and disbursed    6.4
of which:  Petroleum            9.1    12.6    11.0
Exports                                          IBRD/IDA LENDING AUGUST 1979
of which:  Petroleum                     .        .       Outtanding and Disbursed            60.4
Undisbursr                          34.2
Outstanding incl. undisbursed       94.6
Rate of Exckange
1971   US$.00 = CFAF 277.03
1972   US$1.00 - CFAF 252.21
1973   US$1.00 - CFAF 222.70
1974   US$1.00 - CFAF 240.50
1975   US$1.00 - CFAF 214.32
1976   US$1.00 - CFAF 245.00
1977   US$1.00 - CFAF 245.00
1/   Including errors and cmissions.
2/   Ratio of Debt Service,to Exports of goods and non factor services
* preliminary
not available
not applicable
September 1979



-25 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of August 31, 1979)
(US$ million)
Amount   (less cancellations)
Number   Year      Borrower          Purpose          IDA         Undisbursed
Five Credits fully disbursed                         14.0               -
430-UV   1973   Republic of   Education               2.9              0.2
Upper Volta
431-UV   1973   Republic of   Telecommunications   4.5                 0.0/b
Upper Volta
316-2-UV 1974   Republic of   Roads                   1.3              0.1
Upper Volta
496-UV   1974   Republic of   Bougouriba Agricul-  8.0                 1.7
Upper Volta   tural Development
557-UV   1975   Republic of   Livestock Develop-   6.0                 3.8
Upper Volta   ment Project
579-UV   1975   Republic of   Rural Roads             7.5              4.0
Upper Volta
640-UV   1976   Republic of   Rural Development    9.4                 5.7
Upper Volta   Fund II
653-UV   1976   Republic of   Roads III              20.0              0.5
Upper Volta
706-UV   1977   Republic of   West Volta Agricul-  3.6                 2.1
Upper Volta   tural Development
744-UV   1977   Republic of   Railway                 5.2              4.3
Upper Volta
759-UV   1977   Republic of   Small & Medium          4.0              3.7
Upper Volta   Scale Enterprise
766-UV   1978   Republic of   Urban Development    8.2                 8.1
Upper Volta
TOTAL                                           94.6             34.2
of wlich has been repaid                       -
TOTAL n1ow held by IDA /a                       94.6
TOTAL undisbursed                                                34.2
/a   Prior to exchange adjustment of US$0.2 million.
/b   US$11,198.75 undisbursed.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31, 1979).
Amount in US$ millions
Year    Obligator      Type Business      Loan      Equity           Total
1978    Sovoplas          Plastic          .41       .13              .54
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 316:    Road Project.  US$4.15 Million Credit of June 26, 1972 (As
amended on March 25, 1974); Effective Date: December 31, 1974;
Closing Date: June 31, 1980
The project originally comprised: (a) the reconstruction of the
Solenzo-Koudougou (70 km) and Hounde-Bereba (27 km) roads, and (b) feasibility
studies for about 400 km of primary roads, and engineering of those sections
found to have the highest priority. Due to currency realignment and to cost
overruns on the road construction part of the project, the dollar cost of the
project increased. Consequently, to enable project completion, on March 25,
1974, the Association approved an increase in the amount of the credit from
US$2.8 million to US$4.15 million. Construction of the Solenzo-Koudougou
road began in March 1974 and is now completed. Construction of the Hounde-
Bereba road was deleted from the project as cotton production did not merit
the construction of a ginnery at Hounde and without the ginnery there was
no justification for the road. These funds were reallocated to finance drain-
age works and contracts have been awarded. Construction should be completed
by February 1980. Regarding part (b), out of four proposed roads only those
from Banfora to Bobo-Dioulasso and from Bobo-Dioulasso to Hounde (a total of
190 km) were selected for feasibility and detailed engineering studies as
these were the only roads which showed a preliminary satisfactory rate of
return. Construction of these roads is ongoing under the Third Highway
project (Cr. 653-UV) on the basis of the above mentioned engineering and
feasibility studies.
Credit 430:    Education Project.  US$2.85 Million Credit of September 28,
1973; Effective Date: June 27, 1974; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 30, 1979
The project was designed to improve the quality and enlarge the
scope of rural education in the ORDs of Dedougou, Koudougou, and Kaya. The
project originally provided for: (a) the construction and equipping of 40
centers, and the equipping of 80 existing centers for the training of young
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the pro-
gress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
farmers (CFJAs); (b) the organization, equipping, and servicing of 150 post-
school cooperative groups for young farmers over 18 years of age; (c) the
creation of three rural development training centers; (d) the provision of
science laboratories for 21 secondary schools; and (e) related and support-
ing technical assistance for project implementation. Physical implementation
of the project is almost completed and the credit funds are expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1979, about six months behind schedule.
Implementation of the project was delayed by start-up management difficulties,
shortages of- critical materials, the slow work of the small local building
contractors whose poor performance is holding up completion of the 10 science
laboratories financed under the project and other problems related to its
innovative nature. The Ministry of Public Works is taking action to ensure
completion of these laboratories. The rural education component, the most
important component, is innovative, has good local participation and is making
reasonable progress.
Credit 496:    Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project.  US$8.0 Million
Credit of July 19, 1974; Effective Date: July 18, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project aims to develop the natural and human resources of the
Bougouriba ORD.  While infrastructure impro-ements (roads and wells) have
shown good progress, the impact of the project on the major cash crop, cotton,
has been well below projections due to a slow build-up of services and farmers'
emphasis on food crops. There is some evidence that food crop production may
have increased more than expected. Measures are being taken to speed up the
training of staff, and services are gradually improving.
Credit 557:    Livestock Development Project.  US$9.0 Million Credit of
June 18, 1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting cattle production in the Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs through group ranch development, improvement of veterinary
services, livestock marketing and meat processing facilities and the provision
of technical assistance. The veterinary program continues with success
and the civil works program is making relatively good progress. However the
group ranch component, three pilot ranches instead of nine commercial ranches,
is still experiencing start-up difficulties.
Credit 579:    Rural Roads Project.  US$7.5 Million Credit of August 13,
1975; Effective Date: February 11, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
I'he project will improve and subsequently maintain 1,200 km of rural
roads. Maintenance will also be provided to 2,100 km of additional rural
roads, institutional support will be given to the road organization, highway
equipment wrill be procured, and a study carried out to assess the impact and



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
effectiveness of road components included in agricultural development projects
financed by the Association over the last five years. Despite an eighteen
month delay in project start-up, the rate of project implementation now
matches appraisal estimates: one third of the improvement program has been
completed and annual light maintenance corresponds to appraisal targets.
Bridge and culvert construction will be carried out by force account due to
lack of satisfactory response from local contractors.
Credit 640:    Rural Development Fund II Project.  US$9.4 Million Credit
of June 21, 1976; Effective Date: January 24, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides a line of credit to the Rural Development Fund
for investment in small-scale rural projects, the main purpose of which would
be to increase crop production and improve village water supplies. Program
activities will include: bottomland development (2,700 ha); erosion control
works (9,200 ha); small-scale irrigation and improved bottomland development
(500 ha); construction of 520 wells, 180 tubewells, 400 village warehouses and
20 village centers; provision of medium-term credit for agricultural equipment
(US$0.5 million equivalent); and provision for unidentified projects. The
project is well managed and is making good progress in implementation of all
its components. Design improvements and increased emphasis on agricultural
follow-up will ensure higher quality though quantitative targets estimated at
appraisal may not be reached.
Credit 653:    Third Highway Prolect.  US$20 Million Credit of July 15, 1976;
Effective Date: December 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction of the Banfora-Bobo-
Dioulasso-Hounde road (183 km); (b) procurement of vehicle weight control
and traffic counting equipment; (c) road maintenance study; (d) preinvestment
study of the Ouagadougou-Kaya-Dori road; (e) technical assistance to the
Department of Transport (DOT); and (f) technical assistance to the domestic
contracting industry. Two contracts for the construction of the project road
were awarded in January 1977. The Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde section was completed
in June 1978, and the Bobo-Dioulasso Banfora section in May 1979. Offers for
vehicle weight control and traffic counting equipment have been approved. The
technical assistance to the DOT has been in place since January 1977. The
Association has approved Government's selection of BCEOM for the Road Mainten-
ance Study. Arrangements for providing technical assistance to domestic
contractors have not been finalized. In view of a project cost overrun due to
currency realignments and the need to reconstruct four bridges, initially not
included in the project, supplementary financing of US$3.5 million is being
sought from the EEC Special Action Account.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit 706:    West Volta Agricultural Development Project.  US$3.6 Million
Credit of May 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Thie project will strengthen the ORDs of Bobo-Dioulasso and Dedougou
through provision of technical assistance and equipment; establish a Financial
and Administrative Unit for project monitoring and accounting; finance a
ginnery and training facilitLes for project extension workers; support an
annual extension program; provide agricultural inputs to farmers; develop
low cost irrigation schemes; implement a pilot settlement project and a
pilot women's project. Production and yield increases are slightly ahead of
appraisal estimates. The training and visit system for extension staff is
being introduced. The two main executing agencies have severe liquidity
difficulties which may impair their being able to meet a pressing need for
agricultural credit. The project's Financial and Administrative Unit is
assisting in finding a solution to these problems.
Credit 744:    Regional Railway Project in the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta
US$5.2 Million Credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
December 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project finances priority items of the 1978-1979 portion of
RAN's 1977--1982 investment plan. It includes track alignment and renewal of
track material in the Ivory Coast; track improvement in Upper Volta; procure-
ment of locomotives; freight. cars and track maintenance equipment, provision
of training facilities and consulting services for technical training and
management improvement and to carry out feasibility studies.  Major contracts
for civil works have been awarded and works began end November.  Consultants
for training have been selected and are expected to begin working in early
1979. Ran's management is presently reviewing its investment program in
consultation with the Bank.
Credit 759:    Artisan, Sma1l and Medium Scale Enterprise Project.  US$4.0
Million of January 12, 1978; Effective Date: April 12, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides a line of credit to the National Development
Bank (BND) for small and medium scale enterprises; technical assistance,
project preparation and follow-up and training for the National Center for
the Promotion of Rural Artisans (CNPAR) and the Organization for the Promo-
tion of Upper Voltan Enterprises (OPEV); technical assistance to the BND; a
study on industrial incentives; and a training program at the Department of
External Debt at the Treasury. CNPAR has prepared its first set of subproj-
ects which has been approved by the Bank. It is presently waiting for the
Urban pro:Iect to provide it with a timetable for its intervention in the
neighborhoods to be upgraded under the Urban Project.  OPEV is actively
seeking to recruit a training advisor and the BND is in the process of
recruiting an external auditor.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit 766:    Urban Development Project US$8.2 Million of March 23, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project consists of upgrading of approximately 7,000 plots in
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso; preparation and servicing of 1,100 lots in
Bobo-Dioulasso; water supply facilities for an additional 2,500 families in
Ouagadougou who are not living in areas to be upgraded; housing construction
and improvement loans; community facilities, social services and technical
assistance to the municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and the
Department of town planning. Project start-up activities were financed under
the two Project Preparation Facility advances and the budget of the Ministry
of Public works. Surveys and detailed engineering are proceeding very slowly
due in part to the Ministry of Public Works tendency to shift away from
previously agreed upon design standards. The project will require continued
close supervision.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEM{ENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification mission: October 1977
(b) Project Preparation Agency: Government
(c) Pre-Appraisal Mission: January 1978
(d) Appraisal Mission: March 1978
(e) Post-Appraisal Mission: October 1978
(f)  Negotiations:  January 30 to February 3, 1979
(g)  Effectiveness:  January 31, 1980
Section II:   Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) to provide better opportunities for CPR graduates (i) priority
will be given to CPR graduates in ensuring the basic staffing
of the ORDs, (ii) a quota will be established each year for
CPR graduates entering the agricultural training centers, and
(iii) entry qualifications of the training centers will be
modified to give CPR graduates an equal chance to compete
for entry with candidates trained under the formal education
system (para 40);
(b) the results of the study on equality of opportunity between
the two education systems, together with its proposals for
their linkage will be submitted to the Association not later
than July 1, 1981 for an exchange of views and appropriate
action (para 41);
(c)  an inventory of existing CFJAs will be submitted, detailing
physical facilities and enrollment figures for all CFJAs
and GJAs and arrangements for the maintenance of adequate
personnel records, will be made not later than June 30, 1980
(para 42);
(d) an agreed evaluation work program of the FJA system will be
implemented and annual evaluation summaries will be prepared
(para 51);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) adequate provision will be made within the maintenance budget
of the Department of Public Works for financing operating
costs of the training center; departmental personnel will
be released from regular production work to undergo training,
trainees will receive adequate financial compensation, and
successful completion of a training program will be given
recognition by job reclassification and adjustment of pay
scales (para 54);
(f) by April 1 of each year and prior to the beginning of work the
Government will provide to the Association a detailed working
paper, construction schedule, cost estimate, and recommendations
for an appropriate maintenance schedule for Rural Youth Training
Centers to be renovated or constructed during the following
twelve month period as well as site surveys architectural
drawings and specifications and cost estimates for four
representative centers to be reconstructed (para 57);
(g) budgets for project expenditures will be submitted to the
Treasury and the Association twice yearly for approval
(para 62);
(h) fellowships financed under the project will be awarded to
suitably qualified persons and a list of candidates and their
proposed training programs will be submitted to the Association
by July 31, 1981 (para 65);
(i) as a condition of effectiveness all conditions necessary for
effectiveness of the ADF loan have been satisfied with the
exception of the effectiveness of the IDA credit (para 55);
(j) as a condition of effectiveness the Upper Voltan counterpart
to the Construction Coordinator would be recruited (para 57);
(k) as a condition of effectiveness, the Special Account will be
opened (para 61).



A.
oul, VO
nL
Wt  L                       UPPE9VOITAIHAVe=TA                       ;jY
D W*ION KPJ9PT/bWX1
TWOAW tkAfqtNG5
CfWkES EXISTAK,$,Bb IANES                                                                   R I   5 A H E L          ..... ......
WRAL PROM
nv INSTrrurbN
UNDER TRS                                                 Y,
%v                                                                     o,-
A        14tk      FORM
RUR LE ET:Q
T E N Gh,                                            o.-
UEDiJ
OU;RE                                                                                                                                                   N'  [117 .G         P'
o..                                                   N,
K   A    Y   A
-o
oz-w
E-!                     op-
-od
T' I.
Ax zZ
TEr
M
L
N"o
-AY -
fi                     o'
Eni                                                                  o,,_
Y
j                                                   T 1-                                                                                      F A  D A   N'               m
DE D0
ri                            o'    4
o
4J D
o
0 B            u
1i     o                                   o  ol-   --o
-1. -A                                                                                                                                                                                              N
oy--
o  o/.",
P-
o
N                             V
N
111 T4      -A10.
I B A                                                  tro!                                                                            illfAl
X a -
N F        R A                          Al           2'.                  JT,
7                             T
c,
v Wm
o
WA iWw
L                                                                                                 ?A
YC  0  A  S T



