OF iCmi
CREDIT NUMBER 956 UV
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OP UPPER VOLTA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                    /   .        1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 956 UV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 Irv rv<c-,4 - /') 1979, between
the REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the African
Development Fund a loan in an amount of 6,700,000 Units of Account
to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the African Development Fund;
(C) by letter addressed by the Association to the Minister
of Finance of the Borrower on May 5, 1978, the Association granted
an advance to the Borrower totalling $245,000 for the preparation
of the Project;
(D) pursuant to the terms of said advance the aggregate
amount thereof is to be refunded to the Association out of the
proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrover upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
'A


﻿-2-
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Directorate" means the Directorate for Rural Youth
Training of the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Development;
(b) "ORD" means an Organisme Rdgional de Dfveloppement,
a Regional Development Agency of the Borrower established pur-
suant to Law No. 20/65/AN of July 28, 1965; and
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advance referred to in paragraph (C) of the Preamble
to this Agreement withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and
to pay any unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of
the authorized amount of such advance shall automatically be
cancelled on the same date.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
cause the Directorate to open a Special Account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Disbursements from the Special Account shall be made exclusively


﻿-3-
to finance the costs of goods and services required to carry
out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(d) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the
currency of the Borrower not exceeding $600,000 equivalent and
shall thereafter, at the request of the Borrower, further withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to reimburse the Borrower for
payments made out of the Special Account for expenditures for the
Project eligible for financing under the Development Credit
Agreement, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount already on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of $600,000.
(e) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association in respect
of each payment out of the Special Account such documents and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that the payment was made on account of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(f) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expendi-
ture not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the Credit
Account; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association and prior to any further
deposit in the Special Account by the Association, deposit in the
Special Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(g) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (d) of
this Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be
made when the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals can be made under paragraph (a) of this Section or
when the total amount withdrawn from the Credit Account shall
have reached the equivalent of $13,400,000, whichever shall be
sooner. Withdrawal of the remaining amount of the Credit shall
follow procedures agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out


﻿-4-
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1990, and ending October 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Directorate with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical
and training practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ such technical assistants,
consultants and other experts, whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association, as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation; (i) site surveys, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request; and (ii) proposed semiannual
budgets for the Project prepared.by the Directorate.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to.
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association quarterly progress reports and all such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. The study comprising Part C of the Project
shall be carried out under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association and the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association by July 1, 1981 the results thereof, shall exchange
views with the Association thereon and shall thereafter take such
measures, and in accordance with such schedule of implementation,
as the Borrower and the Association shall agree are appropriate in
the light of such study.
Section 3.06. Not later than June 30, 1980, the Borrower
shall: (a) complete a list of its Rural Youth Training Centers
and Rural Youth Groups describing the physical facilities and
giving . enrollment figures for each; and (b) make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association for the keeping of adequate
personnel records by the Directorate.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall promptly appoint qualified
counterparts to work with the technical assistants employed
in the Rural Pedagogical Service.
Section 3.08. In carrying out the program of training of
personnel of the Department of Public Works, the Borrower shall
ensure: (a) that special budgetary provision be made to finance
the costs of the training center and of a workshop for vehicles
and equipment for public works; (b) that personnel be released
from their regular assignments to undergo training according to a
schedule satisfactory to the Association; (c) that such personnel
receive adequate salary and allowances during such training; and
(d) that successful completion of a training program be recognized
by appropriate job reclassification and adjustment of pay.
Section 3.09. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its approval by
April 1 in each year and prior to the beginning of work, a
detailed preliminary evaluation, a construction schedule, a cost
estimate, and recommendations for an appropriate maintenance
schedule, for the Rural Youth Training Centers to be renovated or
constructed during the following twelve-month period as well as
the site surveys, architectural drawings and specifications and
cost estimates for four representative centers. to be recon-
structed.
Section 3.10. In connection with the training outside of
Upper Volta included in the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association prior to July 31, 1981 a list of appropriately
qualified candidates and their proposed programs of training.


﻿-7-
Section 3.11. The evaluation included in Part D.6 of the
Project will focus on: (a) the literacy, numeracy and practical
learning achievements of the graduates of the Rural Youth Training
Centers; (b) the practical and commercial achievements of Rural
Youth Group members; and (c) implementation, use and maintenance
of the physical facilities to be provided under the Project, and
shall be made pursuant to a work program agreed to between the
Borrower and the Association. The Borrower shall furnish annually
to the Association summaries of such evaluation covering the
foregoing points (a), (b) and (c).
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the Directorate and of any other department or agency of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) all operations
and accounts with respect to the Project be kept separate from
the other operations and accounts of the Directorate; and (ii)
that the Directorate retain, until two years after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures for the Project on account
of which withdrawals are .,quested from the Credit Account on
the basis of certificates of expenditures and enable the Asso-
ciation's accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Directorate
to:
(a) have the accounts of the Directorate referred to in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement audited for each fiscal year in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably


﻿-8-
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors: (i) on the separate accounts
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement; (ii) on the
Special Account; and (iii) in respect of the expenditures and
records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement,
as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have
been used to make payments for goods received, or works or ser-
vices performed, and that such goods, works and services were
eligible for financing under this Agreement and were used in
the carrying out of the Project; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Direc-
torate and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Directorate
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall give priority to qualified
candidates who have been trained at the Rural Training Centers
in ensuring the basic staffing of the ORD's, shall establish
each year by ministerial order a quota for entrance in the Agri-
cultural Training Centers by candidates so trained and shall
modify the eligibility requirements for such entrance in order
to permit such candidates to apply on an equal footing with
candidates trained in the formal educational system.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,


﻿-9-
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of -its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are availtble to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions -consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, the event specified
in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Special Account has been opened;
(b) the Association has been informed by the African Devel-
opment Fund that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of its loan for the Project, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(c) the counterpart to the coordinator of the construction
section of the Directorate has been recruited.
Section 6.02. The date February 15, 1980 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date ten


﻿I
-10-
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministire des Finances
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCE                        MIFICOM
Ouagadougou                        5256
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿rwu-
- 11 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By
Authorized Repr sentative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT -ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Crediti the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 2,000,000         78%
(2) Construction                  400,000         78%
materials
(3) Experts services,           3,500,000         100%
audits, fellow-
ships outside
Upper Volta; vehi-
cles, Part J of
the Project
(4) Local staff sal-            3,900,000        81%
aries; other oper-
ating costs
(5) Local training              1,255,000         100%
(6) Refund of Advance for         245,000         100% of amount
Project preparation                          outstanding at
(Section 2.02 (b))                          Effective Date
(7) Initial deposit in            600,000
Special Account
(Section 2.02 (d))
(8) Agricultural                  100,000         86%
equipment
(9) Unallocated                 2,000,000
TOTAL           14,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for: (a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $300,000 may be made in respect of Categories (4), (5) and (8)
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after December 1, 1978; (b) under Categories (1), (3), (4) or
(5) until arrangements satisfactory to the Association have been
made between the Directorate and the National Bureau for Further
Education and Functional Literacy, the Rural Development Coordi-
nating Committee and the Rural Radio Service defining their
respective roles in the carrying out of the Project.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way


﻿- 14 -
r.stricting or limiting any other right, pover or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrover, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which vould othervise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-15-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to expand and improve the basic
education and training system provided for rural youth in Upper
Volta by strengthening the administrative, technical, planning,
training and evaluation capacity of the Directorate for Rural
Youth Training and of relevant associated agencies and by
increasing the numbers of young people served by the system. The
Project will also support the training of agricultural project
managers, building construction artisans and foremen, and road-
maintenance personnel. The Project comprises the following Parts:
A.   Consolidating and expanding of rural youth training:
1.   Constructing, furnishing and equipping of 80 existing
Rural Youth Training Centers to be selected by the
Directorate;
2.   Procurement of building materials and equipment for 220
Rural Youth Training Centers to be selected by the.
Directorate, 60 of which exist;
3.   Construction of wells and water supply facilities at
Rural Youth Training Centers and for Rural Youth Groups;
4.   Making available credits for the purchase of equipment
by Rural Youth Groups;
B.   Constructing, furnishing, procurement of vehicles and equip-
ment and staff training for Rural Training Centers (Centres
de promotion rurale) at Goundi and Kodougou;
C.   Carrying out a study on equality of opportunity with a
view to establishing linkages between the formal and rural
educational systems;
D.   Strengthening of the Directorate:
1.   Constructing, furnishing and equipping an office
building;
2.   Procurement of vehicles and equipment;


﻿161
- 16 -
3.   Establishment of accounting system and auditing of
accounts;
4.   Training of staff, furnishing, minor construction works
and procurement of vehicles and equipment for a newly
established documentation service which will prepare
brochures and radio programs and establish rural press
services;
5.   Training of personnel and purchase of vehicles and
equipment for a new service to support the Rural Youth
Groups and the kural Training Centers.
6.   Strengthening of the Rural Pedagogical Service; training
of staff, minor construction works and procurement of
equipment and vehicles; support for and training of
staff in project evaluation; promotion of annual compe-
titions between Rural Youth Training Centers and Rural
Youth Groups;
7.   Strengthening of the Administrative and Financial
Services; enlarging staff; procurement of vehicles and
equipment;
E.   Strengthening of regional support services:
1.   Establishment of a regional office of the Directorate at
Bobo-Dioulasso; construction, including four offices for
supervisory personnel; furnishing; procurement of
vehicles and equipment;
2.   Supporting through procurement of vehicles and equip-
ment for, and training of staff of, the ORD's engaged in
the training of rural youth;
F.   Minor construction, furnishing, procurement of vehicles and
equipment, for instructor training centers at Kamboinsg and
Farako-Ba; initial and in-service training of staff and Rural
Youth Group leaders;
G.   Training by the National Center for the Promotion of Rural
Artisans of artisans, foreman and rural youth training
instructors in construction; procurement of vehicles, equip-
ment and furniture for the purpose;


﻿17
H.   Training for agricultural project managers; procurement of
instructional materials for the purpose;
I.   Rehabilitation and equipping of the Public Works Skills
Upgrading Center; procurement of vehicles and equipment;
construction of a mechanical workshop for automobiles and
public works equipment; establishment of a plan for a new
school for training public works personnel;
J.   Strengthening the Ministry of Rural Development in its
function of control, supervision and support of the ORD's;
procurement of two vehicles for the purpose; and
K.   Preparation of a further education project.
*              *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.
a  K..)    . .A


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   1.   Civil works will be carried out under force account or
under contracts awarded following competitive bidding advertised
locally according to the Borrower's usual procedures.
2.   Construction materials will be purchased under contracts
awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally according
to the Borrower's usual procedures or under comparative shopping
procedures as described in paragraph B.3 below.
3.   Vehicles for Part J of the Project will be purchased
on the basis of quotations solicited locally.
B.   1.   With respect to all contracts for civil works or for
construction materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more and to be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make
such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder to
which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall
not, without the Association's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked or prequalification
invited.


﻿-19-
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of construction materials
expected to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 shall be let
by comparative shopping and negotiations under the Borrower's
normal procurement procedures for such negotiations, provided the
aggregate amount of such procurement shall not exceed $100,000
unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


