Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3376 BR
(Hydrocarbon Transport and Processing Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
PETROLEO BRASILEIRO S.A.
October 26, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3376 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 26, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and PETROLEO BRASILEIRO S.A. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
the Borrower has confirmed its intention to put into effect the New 
Costing System by December 31, 1993; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Cnditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General  Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Brazil;
 
(b)
"cruzeiros" means the currency of the Guarantor;
 
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante - 
AFRMM, the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
established by Decree-Law 1.142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, 
or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, 
in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988;
(e)
"Estatutos" means the Articles of Incorporation of the Borrower, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Coordinating Unit" means the unit to be maintained by the 
Borrower, within the Financial Services Division thereof, established pursuant to a 
Resolution of the Borrower's Board of Directors, dated February 22, 1990, and charged 
with the responsibilities of coordinating all action of the Borrower related to the 
execution of the Project and vested with all powers necessary to discharge said 
responsibilities;
(g)
"State" means Estado, a political subdivision of the Guarantor;
 
(h)
"RIMA" means the Environmental Impact Assessment to be approved by 
appropriate Federal and State authorities pursuant to Brazilian legislation;
(i)
"RPBC" means the Borrower's refinery known as Presidente Artur Bernardes 
refinery located in Cubatao, State of Sao Paulo; 
(j)
"REPLAN" means the Borrower's refinery known as Refinaria do Planalto 
located in Paulinia, State of Sao Paulo;
(k)
"REVAP" means the Borrower's refinery known as Refinaria do Vale do 
Paraiba located in Sao Jose dos Campos, State of Sao Paulo;
(l)
"REPAR" means the Borrower's refinery known as Refinaria do Parana 
located in Araucaria, State of Parana;
(m)
"RELAM" means the Borrower's refinery known as Refinaria Landulpho Alves 
located in Mataripe, State of Bahia;
(n)
"SCADA System" means the Scada supervisory control and data requisition 
system;
(o)
"REDUC" means the Borrower's refinery known as Refinaria Duque de Caxias, 
located in Duque de Caxias, State of Rio de Janeiro;
(p)
"ACO System" means the ACO advance control and optimization system;
 
(q)
"New Costing System" means the Borrower's new costing system which 
Page  3
includes, inter alia, the conversion of the current system of cost centers to profit 
centers and the segregation of costs by project, product, activity, organizational 
units and market, described in a letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date 
herewith;
(r)
"TEMADRE" means the Borrower's Madre de Deus terminal located in Madre de 
Deus, State of Bahia;
(s)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower which begins on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year;
(t)
"ACO Diagnostic Studies" means the studies included under Part B.3 (i) of 
the Project; and
(u)
"TOR" means the terms of reference for the environmental impact 
assessment for Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project, agreed between the Bank and the 
Borrower through telexes dated June 18,
1990 and August 9, 1990.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of two hundred and sixty 
million dollars ($260,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester. 
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the interest period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
Page  4
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding 
Borrowings of the Bank drawn d own after June 30, 1982, excluding 
such 
borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to 
fund: (A) the 
Bank's investments; and (B) Loans which may be 
made by the Bank after July 1, 
1989 bearing interest rates determined 
otherwise than as provided in paragraph 
(A) of this Section; and
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(A)
the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each quarter 
equal to the 
cost of 
qualified borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding quarter, plus one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
interest period, calculated at the rates applicable during such interest period."
"(B)
As soon as practicable after the end of each quarter, the Bank 
shall notify 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of the cost of qualified 
borrowings determined 
in respect of such quarter."
 
"(C)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
engineering, oil and gas production and transportation, safety and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) 
carry out the Project
substantially in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement; (ii) maintain the Project Coordinating Unit until the report mentioned 
in paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions has been furnished to the 
Bank, and provide it with the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the purpose; and (iii) maintain the Project Coordinating Unit at all times headed 
by a project manager with suitable qualifications and experience, assisted by 
qualified staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, by January 31, April 30, 
Page  5
July 31 and October 31 of each year, during the execution of the Project, monitoring 
reports on the progress of the Project, its operations and financial condition, of 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. The first of such reports shall be 
furnished to the Bank wihtin three months from the
date of this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall from time to time, and at the request of the 
Guarantor or the Bank, exchange views with them on the implementation of the New 
Costing System and its application.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the studies and assessments 
included in Part B.2 of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) promptly upon the completion of each such study and assessment, furnish to the 
Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations, including any programs or plans of 
action to put them into effect; (c) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to 
comment on such findings, recommendations and programs or plans of action; (d) taking 
into account the Bank's comments thereon, prepare programs or plans of action 
satisfactory to the Bank, based on such recommendations; and (e) make its best efforts 
to carry out such programs or plans of action as agreed with the Bank.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provision of Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement and Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, not later than November 30 of 
each year, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Guarantor and the Bank on the 
status of execution of the Project, and the financial performance and condition of the 
Borrower.
Section 3.07. In carrying out the training programs under the Project, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the content of such programs as well as 
the schedule for their implementation; 
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
not later than October 1 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, exchange views with the Bank on the training programs to be carried out in 
the following calendar year; and
(d)
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each of such training programs and the benefits 
to be derived therefrom.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1992 complete 
the ACO Diagnostic Studies; and (b) if recommended in terms satisfactory to the Bank 
and the Borrower by the studies referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, not 
later than December 31, 1994, complete the execution of the pilot projects included 
under Part B.3 (b) of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall maintain in terms satisfactory to the Bank, the 
risk assessment unit included under Part B.2 (b) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, engineering, oil and gas production and 
transportation, environmental and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, oil and gas production and transportation, financial and environmental 
practices.
Page  6
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including separate records and accounts adequate to reflect all resources 
and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the special account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the bank;
(ii)
furnish to the bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year: (a) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(b) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
loan account or 
payment out of the special account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
the Borrower shows that the estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal 
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.4 times the 
estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in each such year on all debt of 
the Borrower including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
the term "debt" means any indebtedness of the borrower maturing by 
its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
Page  7
(ii)
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (a) under a loan 
contract or agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt 
or for the modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of 
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (b) 
under a 
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
the term "net revenues" means the difference between: (a) 
the sum of revenues 
from all sources related to operations 
and net nonoperating income; and (b) 
the sum of all expenses 
related to operations including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other noncash operating charges and 
interest and 
other charges on debt.
 
(iv)
the term "net nonoperating income" means the difference 
between: (A) revenues 
from all sources other than those 
related to operations; and (B) expenses, 
including 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of 
the revenues referred to in (a) above.
(v)
the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, 
and interest and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vi)
the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by 
the borrower not 
earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, 
which both the bank and the 
borrower accept as reasonable and as to which the 
bank has 
notified the borrower of its acceptability, provided that no event 
has occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected 
in the future to have, a material adverse effect on 
the financial condition or 
future operating results of the 
borrower.
(vii)
whenever it shall be necessary to value in cruzeiros, debt 
payable in another 
currency, such valuation shall be made on the 
basis of the preunlawful rate of 
exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the bank.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity 
shall be greater than 40 to 60.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
the term "debt" means any indebtedness of the borrower 
maturing by its terms 
more than one year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
contract or agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt 
or for the modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date, 
and to the extent, the amount of such debt has become 
outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under 
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee 
has been entered into but only to the extent that the 
guaranteed debt is 
outstanding.
 
(iii)
the term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired 
paid-up capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of the 
borrower not allocated to cover specific 
liabilities.
 
(iv)
whenever shall be necessary to value in cruzeiros, debt 
Page  8
payable in another 
currency, such valuation shall be made 
on the basis of the prevailing lawful 
rate of exchange at which 
such other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, 
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the 
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
bank. 
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 0.8.
(b)
Before November 30 of each year, the Borrower shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such year 
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above for the Borrower's fiscal years covered 
by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its prices or requests 
for such adjustments, if warranted) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
the term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could 
in the ordinary 
course of business be converted into cash 
within twelve months, including 
accounts receivable, 
marketable securities, inventories and prepaid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(ii)
the term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which 
will become due and 
payable or could under circumstances 
then existing be called for payment 
within twelve 
months, including accounts payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(iii)
the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if 
any) of, and interest and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(iv)
whenever it shall be necessary to value in cruzeiros, debt 
payable in another 
currency, such valuation shall be made on the 
basis of the prevailing lawful 
rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, 
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the 
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
bank.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on 1991, funds from 
internal sources equivalent to not less than a percentage of the Borrower's capital 
expenditures incurred for that year as follows: 35% in 1992, 40% in 1993, 40% in 1994 
and 45% in 1995 and thereafter.
(b)
Before November 30 of each year, the Borrower shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of the next 
following fiscal year and shall promptly furnish to the Bank a copy of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower shall not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above for the fiscal year covered by such 
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its prices or requests for such 
adjustments, if warranted) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
Page  9
(i)
the term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations, net 
nonoperating income and any 
reduction in working capital other than 
cash; 
and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, 
including administration, 
adequate 
maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes 
(excluding provision for depreciation and other noncash operating 
charges), debt service requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash 
and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures.
(ii)
the term "net nonoperating income" means the difference 
between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (a) above.
 
(iii)
the term "working capital other than cash" means the 
difference between 
current assets excluding cash and 
current liabilities at the end of each 
fiscal year.
 
(iv)
the term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets 
other than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of 
business be converted into cash within 
twelve months, including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories 
and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the next fiscal year. 
(v)
the term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which 
will become due and 
payable or could under circumstances 
then existing be called for payment 
within twelve 
months, including accounts payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to 
operations.
 
(viii) Whenever it shall be necessary to value in cruzeiros, debt payable 
in another 
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful 
rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at 
the time of such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the 
absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
Bank.
 
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified as additional events of default, provided, 
however, that if the event referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section shall have 
occurred and the continuing, the suspension of the Borrower's right to make 
Page  10
withdrawals may be limited by the Bank to the amounts of the Loan allocated to finance 
expenditures under Part A.1 of the Project:
(a)
the Estatutos shall have been suspended, repealed or amended in a way or 
to an extent which, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, shall adversely affect the 
execution of the Project, 
the financial condition of the Borrower or the compliance by the Borrower of its 
obligations under this Agreement; and
(b)
an event shall have occurred that in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, 
may materially and adversely affect the timely availability of natural gas for the 
pipeline to be constructed under Part A.1 of the Project.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that this Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank; and
 
(b)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Guarantor, its agencies, the applicable states or by any agency thereof, or 
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the 
Project, and to enable the Borrower to perform its obligations pursuant to this 
Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have 
been performed or given.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that this Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank; and
 
(b)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Guarantor, or its agencies, the applicable states or by any agency thereof, or 
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the 
Project and to enable the Borrower to perform its obligations pursuant to this 
Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have 
been performed or given.
Section 7.03. The date of January 26, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  11
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the Borrower:
Petroleo Brasileiro S.A.
Av. Republica do Chile, 65
Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Telex:
(21)23335
With copies to:
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio da Economia,
Fazenda e Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Bloco K, 5x Andar
70063 Brasilia, D.F. Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
DEAIN
0611928 BR
Brasilia, D.F.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Armeane Choksi
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
PETROLEO BRASILEIRO S.A.
By /s/ Arnim Lore
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
Page  12
       Loan Allocated              % of
        (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)   Goods under Part A                 )        100% of foreign
      of the Project:                    )        expenditures and
      )        100% of local
      Materials and            55,700,000)        expenditures
      Equipmemt                          )        net of taxes
      )
(2)   Civil works under        96,200,000)
      Part A of the                      )
      Project                            )
      )
(3)   Goods under Part B.1     87,600,000)
      of the Project                     )
      )
(4)   Industrial works          8,800,000)
      under Part B.1                     )
      of the Project                     )
      )
(5)   Computer equip-           6,100,000)
      ment, software                     )
      and engineering                    )
      under Part B.3                     )
      of the Project                     )
(6)   Training under            5,600,000        100% of foreign
      Parts A, B.1                               expenditures and
      and B.3 of the                             100% of local
      Project and                                expenditures net
      training, consul-                          of taxes
      tants' services
      and goods under
      Part B.2 of the
      Project
      TOTAL                    260,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and
(c)
the term "Industrial Works" means construction services related to 
electric and mechanical equipment installation.
3.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of:
(i)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not 
to exceed the equivalent of 
$25,000,000, may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after 
September 21, 1991;
(ii)
payments made on account of expenditures in respect of Part A.3 
and Part A.4 
of the Project, unless the Bank shall have given notice to 
the Borrower that 
the Bank agrees with the environmental impact 
assessment prepared pursuant to 
the TOR in relation to the facilities 
included under such Parts of the 
Project, and with the programs, 
Page  13
action plans and other activities prepared by 
the Borrower pursuant to 
the TOR and/or as a result of such assessment, in 
order to 
avoid or ameliorate any negative environmental consequences relating 
to the construction or operation of such facilities;
(iii)
payments made on account of expenditures in respect of the 
pipelines and other 
facilities under Part A of the Project, 
unless: (A) all of the applicable 
Guarantor's authorities, 
and the authorities of the State in which the 
pipeline in question 
will be located, particularly the authorities vested with 
powers 
related to environmental protection and pollution control, shall have 
given all the licenses or permits or consents required by the laws of the 
Guarantor and the State in question, as the case may be, prior to the 
commencement of the works in question; and (B) the Borrower has 
furnished to 
the Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of 
counsel acceptable 
to the Bank showing that all applicable licenses, 
permits or consents have 
been given and remain valid and 
effective;
(iv)
payments made on account of expenditures in respect of Part A.1 of 
the 
Project, unless the Borrower shall have furnished to the 
Bank evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, that the timely 
availability of natural gas for the 
Santos to Sao Paulo pipeline from 
the Merluza gas field is ensured;
(v)
payments made on account of expenditures in respect of Part B.3 
(b) of the 
Project, unless the ACO Diagnostic Studies 
demonstrate, in terms satisfactory 
to the Bank, the technical and 
economic viability of the ACO systems included 
therein; and
 
(vi)
payments on account of expenditures eligible for financing under 
Category (2) 
of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless such 
expenditures shall 
have been incurred under contracts valued at the 
equivalent of more than the 
equivalent of $2,500,000.
 
(b)
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, withdrawal applications shall be 
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) enhance natural gas utilization as a 
substitute for other forms of energy with higher economic and environmental costs; (b) 
reduce the distribution costs of petroleum products by substituting pipelines for less 
economical road and water transport; (c) reduce petroleum product losses through 
process and production optimization; and (d) reduce environmental costs and safety 
risks associated with petroleum product transport and refinery processes.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
1.
Engineering design and construction of about 42 km of 12 inch diameter pipeline 
and related facilities to enable the Borrower to deliver about 1.7 million cubic 
meters per day of natural gas
(originating in the Merluza field) to Sao Paulo City and to blend the extracted 
condensates with other products of RPBC.
2.
Engineering design and construction of about 153 km of 18 inch diameter pipeline 
from a products terminal at Guararema (near Sao Paulo) to REPLAN plus related pump 
station additions. The
pipeline will be connected at Tegua to an existing line from REVAP and will allow 
transfer of white products and alcohol between REPLAN and REVAP and their consuming 
Page  14
areas.
3.
Engineering design and construction of about 253 km of a petroleum products 
pipeline with 8 inches and 10 inches diameter from REPAR to Joinville/Itajai and 
Florianopolis, all in the State
of Santa Catarina. Also included are the construction and equipment of related pump 
station additions at REPAR, a new pump station, spheres storage tanks and truck 
loading facilities at Itajai, Joinville and Florianopolis.
4.
Engineering design and construction of about 361 km of a 10 inches and 8 inches 
diameter products pipeline from TEMADRE to Ipiau, where the line will bifurcate with 
branches going to
Jequie and Itabuna, all in the State of Bahia. Also included are the construction and 
equipment of related pump station additions at TEMADRE and storage tanks, spheres and 
truck loading facilities at Jequie and Itabuna.
5.
Environmental impact assessment studies for the facilities included under this 
Part A of the Project.
6.
(a)
Training for pipeline staff (inside and outside of Brazil) in: (i) 
corrosion control; (ii) design and maintenance of instrumentation, automation and 
SCADA systems for the products
pipelines; (iii) operation of the latter including product metering and quality and 
interface control; (iv) operation of instrumentation, automation and SCADA equipment 
for gas pipelines; and (v) optimization of liquids and gas transport by pipelines; and 
(b) provision of assistance services to enhance the Borrower's transport planning and 
project preparation capacity.
Part B:
1.
Hydrotreatment Plant - installation of hydro desulphurization and treatment 
facilities (HDT) of about 5,000 cubic meter/day capacity at RPBC, to treat with 
hydrogen the gas oil streams andconvert them into diesel oil of appropriate 
specification and to remove over 90% of the sulphur present in the feed gas oils in 
the form of elemental sulphur.
2.
Industrial Safety Program - mainly in the Cubatao area, including: (a) a 
comprehensive risk assessment of RPBC's operations and an odor evaluation study; (b) 
appropriate training to enhance
the risk assessment and risk management capacity of the Borrower's staff at both RPBC 
and the headquarters (including the establishment of an appropriately staffed risk 
assessment unit at the Borrower's headquarters), such training to focus mainly on 
hazard analysis and management in petroleum products storage, manufacturing and 
refining processes, hazardous material handling and toxicological risk assessment; and 
(c) acquisition and utilization of mobile air quality monitoring laboratories to be 
used in and near refineries.
3.
Automation Program - to improve the Borrower's process and storage control 
systems in the refineries with the objective of achieving higher refinery capacity 
utilization, reducing product
and quality losses, and improving the safety and reliability of operation. 
Specifically, the program includes: (a) feasibility/diagnostic studies for installing 
advanced control and optimization (ACO) systems in: three atmospheric and vacuum 
distillation units, one each at REPLAN, REVAP and REPAR; two fluid catalytic cracking 
units, one each at REDUC and REVAP and in storage and
loading areas in three of the Borrower's refineries; and (b) subject to the findings 
of the feasibility studies referred to in (a) above, installation of ACO systems at 
two of the above mentioned atmospheric and vacuum distillation units and in one of the 
fluid catalytic cracking units, as pilot projects for progressively introducing ACO 
systems in all of the Borrower's
refineries.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  15
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1997
through   August 1, 2006
13,000,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
         The interest rate (expressed
         as a percentage per annum)
         applicable to the Loan on the
         day of prepayment multiplied
  by:
Not more than three years                       
0.20
 before maturity
More than three years but                       
0.40
 not more than six years
 before maturity
More than six years but                         
0.73
 not more than 11 years
 before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      
0.87
 more than 13 years
Page  16
 before maturity
More than 13 years before                       
1.00
 maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for works under Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project shall be prequalified 
as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $8,000,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(i)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder 
shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank 
that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at 
least 50% of the value 
of the complete goods; and
 
(ii)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and 
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to 
the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each 
other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it 
shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the C.I.F. bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
custom duties and other import taxes which a nonexempt importer would have to pay for 
the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the C.I.F. bid 
price of such goods, and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of custom duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest custom duties and other import taxes, or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be 
Page  17
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, and up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $8,600,000 to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited bidding procedures 
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least three 
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures 
set forth in Section III, paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $25,000 but not exceeding 
the equivalent of $250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $10,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
Review of prequalification:
1.
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost more 
than the equivalent of $250,000 and $2,500,000, respectively, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be  furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
3.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
Other Provisions
 
For the purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "custom duties 
and other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
Page  18
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
Page  19
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
Parts A.1 to 4 Pipelines                         Month/Year
 Engineering:                             started 4/89
 Procurement:                             started 3/90
 Testing and commissioning:               completed 4/94
Part A.5
 Environmental studies:                   started 1/90
Part A.6
 Pipeline Training:                       started 6/91
 Pipeline Training:                       completed 12/93
Part B.1 Hydrotreatment Plant
 Engineering:                             started 7/90
 Procurement:                             started 6/91
 Testing and commissioning:               completed 9/94
Part B.2 Industrial Safety Program
      started 6/91
      completed 12/93
Part B.3 Automation Program
 Implementation Phase:                   completed 12/93
