Page  1
July 2, 1996
Mr. Joel Mendes Renno
President
Petroleo Brasileiro S.A. -  PETROBRAS
Avenida Republica do Chile, 65
Rio de Janeiro, RJ, BRAZIL
     Re: BRAZIL - Loan 3376-BR
     Hydrocarbon Transport and Processing Project
     Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Petr"leo Brasileiro S.A. (the Borrower) 
and the Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) 
and the Bank, both dated October 26, 1992, for the above Project.
The Bank has received requests from the Guarantor and the Borrower to amend the 
Loan Agreement to reflect changes in scope, cost, and implementation of Project 
components and to include in the Project a technical assistance component to support 
reform and regulatory activities in the energy sector under the direction of the 
Ministry of Mines and Energy.  The Bank has also received the agreement signed among 
the Guarantor, through its Minister of Mines and Energy, the Borrower and ELETROBRAS 
containing the scope, schedule and implementation arrangements of such technical 
assistance.
We are pleased to inform you that the Bank has agreed with such requests; 
therefore, we propose to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
In Section 1.02, the following paragraphs are inserted:
 
"(v) 'ELETROBRAS' means Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.--ELETROBRAS, 
a 
mixed-capital corporation controlled by the Guarantor;
 
(w) 'MME' means the Guarantor's Ministry of Mines and Energy;
(x) 'TFA Agreement' means the agreement, dated February 29, 1996, among 
the 
Guarantor, through its Minister of Mines and Energy, the Borrower and 
ELETROBRAS, whereby: 
(i) the Borrower and ELETROBRAS undertake to carry out, as 
provided in the Loan Agreement, 
Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project, respectively, under 
the direction of MME; (ii) the 
Borrower undertakes to relend to ELETROBRAS, 
under the same financial terms and conditions  of the Loan, the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Category 7(b) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement, and ELETROBRAS undertakes, inter alia, 
to provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for Part C.2 
of the Project; and (iii) the Guarantor, through MME, undertakes to reimburse 
the 
Borrower and ELETROBRAS for the expenditures incurred by both of them in the carrying 
out of Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project, respectively."
2.
Section 3.01 (a) is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.01 (a).  The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives  of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this 
end, shall: (i) carry out  Parts A, B and C.1 of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, safety, environmental 
and oil and  natural gas production, 
transportation and regulatory practices, 
and the provisions of the TFA Agreement with 
respect to Part C.1 of the 
Project, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services 
and other resources required for such Parts of the Project; and (ii) 
through the 
TFA Agreement, relend to ELETROBRAS the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time 
Page  2
to time to Category 7(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
in 
order to enable ELETROBRAS to carry out Part C.2 of the Project with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative 
and electric power regulatory 
practices."
 
3.
In Section 3.01 (b) (i) the words "Parts A, B and C.1 of" are inserted between 
"carry out" and "the Project."
4.
A new paragraph (c) is inserted in Section 3.01 to read as follows: 
 
"(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under 
the TFA Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank  and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail 
to enforce the TFA Agreement or any 
provision thereof."
 
5.
Section 3.07 is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall, with respect to the training programs 
under Parts 
A, B and C.1 of the Project, and shall take all steps on its part 
necessary, under the TFA 
Agreement, to enable ELETROBRAS, with respect to the 
training programs under Part C.2 of the 
Project, to: (a) furnish to the Bank, 
for approval, the content of such programs as well as 
the schedule of their 
implementation; (b) select the beneficiaries of such training programs 
in accordance 
with criteria satisfactory to the Bank; (c) not later than October 1 of each 
year 
during the execution of the Project, exchange views with the Bank on the training 
programs to be carried out in the following calendar year; and (d) furnish to 
the Bank a 
report, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the results of 
each of such training programs and the 
benefits to be derived therefrom."
6.
A new Section 3.10 is inserted to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.10.  The Borrower shall, with respect to the studies included 
in Part C.1 
of the Project, and shall take all steps on its part necessary, under the 
TFA Agreement, to 
enable ELETROBRAS, with respect to the studies included in Part 
C.2 of the Project, to: (a) 
carry out such studies under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) promptly after 
completion of each such study, send a 
copy thereof to the Bank, for comments; and (c) make  its best efforts to implement the 
recommendations of such studies, taking into account the 
Bank's comments thereon."
 
7.
A new paragraph (c) is inserted in Section 6.01 to read as follows:
 
"(c) ELETROBRAS or the Guarantor, through MME, shall have failed to 
comply with any 
of their respective obligations under the TFA Agreement."
 
8.
Section 6.02 is amended to read as follows:
 
"Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional 
events are specified:
 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall 
occur; or
 
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor."
 
9.
Schedule 1 is amended as follows:
 
(a)
the table in paragraph 1 is amended to read as indicated in the 
Attachment 1  to this letter; and
 
(b)
a new paragraph 4 is inserted to read as follows:
 
"4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of  statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for goods and works under 
Page  3
contracts costing 
less than the equivalent of $350,000 and $2,500,000, respectively; 
(b) for consulting firms'  services under contracts costing less than the equivalent of 
$100,000; and (c) for 
individual consultants' services under contracts 
costing less than the equivalent of 
$50,000."
 
10.
Schedule 2 is amended as follows:
 
(a)
in Part  A.3 of the Project, the following words are added at the 
end, after 
the word "Florianopolis": "and access to the loading facilities at 
Florianopolis."; and
(b)
a new Part C of the Project is inserted to read as follows:
 
"Part C:
1.
Carrying out of: (a) hydrocarbon costing and pricing studies; (b) 
regulatory, 
organization and planning studies for the Brazilian oil and 
natural gas sectors; and 
(c) training programs on such matters, such studies 
and training programs to require 
the employment of consultants and acquisition 
of related equipment and materials.
2.
Carrying out of: (a) electricity costing and pricing studies; (b) 
regulatory, 
organization and planning studies for the Brazilian electric power 
sector; and (c) 
training programs on such matters, such studies and training 
programs to require the 
employment of consultants and acquisition of related 
equipment and materials."
11.
Schedule 4 is amended as follows:
 
(a)
in Part C, paragraph 1, the amount of "$25,000" is replaced by 
"$100,000";
(b)
in Part C, paragraph 2, the amounts of "$25,000" and "$250,000" 
are replaced  by "$100,000" and "$350,000", respectively;
 
(c)
in Part C, new paragraphs 3 and 4 are inserted to read as follows:
 
"3. Goods under Part C of the Project, estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of 
$100,000 per contract, but not exceeding in the aggregate an 
amount equivalent to 
$500,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from a list 
of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Works under Parts A and B of the Project, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or less per contract, but not exceeding in the 
aggregate an amount 
equivalent to $8,000,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Bank."
 
(d)
n Part D.2 (a), the amount of "$250,000" is replaced by 
"$350,000";
(e)
in Section II, a new paragraph is inserted after the first 
paragraph to read 
as follows:
 
"Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph of this 
Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines referred to above 
requiring prior Bank review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection 
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,  evaluation reports and contracts shall 
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for 
the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; 
(c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; 
(d) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the 
Page  4
contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract 
value to $50,000 equivalent or above."
12.
Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 is amended to read as follows:
 
"(a) The term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set 
forth in  
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement."
 
13.
Schedule 6 is amended to read as set forth in Attachment 2 to this letter.
 
We would like to confirm to you that, whenever an entity carrying out a 
component of a project financed by the Bank does not comply with its obligations with 
respect to such component, and such project has other components carried out by other 
entities, it is the practice of the Bank, under normal circumstances, to suspend 
disbursements of the portion of the loan allocated to finance that component only. 
Therefore, if any of the events referred to in the new paragraph (c)
of Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement (as amended in this letter) shall occur, the 
Bank may limit suspension of disbursements to the portions of the Loan allocated to 
Part C.1 or C.2 of the Project only, as the case may be.
If you agree with the foregoing amendments, please sign and date the three 
counterparts of this letter and also obtain the agreement of the Guarantor to this 
amendment, and return one signed copy to us. The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective on the date the Bank receives one original of this letter duly 
signed by the Borrower and the Guarantor.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Country Department 1
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Attachments 1 and 2
AGREED:
PETROLEO BRASILEIRO S. A.
By /s/ Joel Mendes Renno
Authorized Representative
Date: ______________
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Luiz Carlos Sturzenegger
Authorized Representative
Date: October 4, 1996
Attachment 1
                            Amount of the Loan       Percentage of
                           Allocated (Expressed       Expenditures
"Category                    Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods under Part A
Page  5
     of the Project:
     Materials and equipment    53,300,000
(2)  Civil works under Part A   54,600,000
     of the Project
(3)  Goods under Part B.1 of    69,200,000
     the Project
(4)  Industrial works under     52,500,000          100% of foreign
     Part B.1 of the Project                        expenditures and
                                                    100% of local
(5)  Computer equipment          6,200,000          expenditures, net
     software and engineering                       of taxes
     under Part B.3 of the
     Project
(6)  Training under Parts A,     9,200,000
     B.1 and B.3 of the Project
     and training, consultants'
     services and goods under
     Part B.2 of the Project
(7)  Consultant's  services,
     training, materials and
     equipment under:
     (a)  Part C.1 of the        3,000,000
          Project
     (b)  Part C.2 of the       12,000,000
          Project
                               ___________
          TOTAL:               260,000,000"
                               ===========
Attachment 2
"SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
                                                     Month/Year
Parts A.1 to 4 - Pipelines
Engineering                                        started  4/89
Procurement                                        started  3/90
Testing and Commissioning                        completed  6/96
Part A.5
Environmental Studies                              started  1/90
Part A.6
Pipeline Training                                  started  6/91
Pipeline Training                                completed 12/96
Part B.1 - Hydrotreatment Plant
Engineering                                        started  7/90
Procurement                                        started  6/91
Testing and Commissioning                        completed 12/97
Part B.2 - Industrial Safety Program               started  6/91
                                                 completed 10/96
Part B.3 -Automation Program
Implementation Phase                             completed 12/96
Page  6
Part C - Reform and Regulatory Activities        completed 12/97"
cc: Messrs.    Raimundo Brito, Minister of Mines and Energy
               Roberto Jaguaribe, Secretary of International Affairs
               (SEAIN) Peter Greiner, Secretary of Energy
