CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 357 IN
Project Agreement
(Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 357 IN
Project Agreement
(Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 9, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA (hereinafter called FCI).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-eight million dollars ($58,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that FCI agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and FCI, funds equivalent to the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to FCI on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS FCI, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE H
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. FCI shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,


﻿4
services and other resources required for the purpose. FCI will use its best efforts
to carry out the Project in accordance with (i) the Nangal Project Implementation
Plan and (ii) the Critical Path Schedule and, in that regard, will give special attention
to the critical equipment procurement times.
Section 2.02. In order to assist FCI in process and engineering design,
procurement, supply of proprietary equipment, construction and start-up, FCI shall,
under agreements with Montedison and Uhde, obtain process licenses, plant designs
and consultant services acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCI shall:
(a)   in carrying out the Project, act as managing contractor. In addition,
FCI shall employ competent and experienced contractors as necessary to carry
out the Project;
(b)   employ, for the duration of the Project, a suitably qualified and
experienced Project Manager to be responsible for the execution of the Project,
including inter alia budget and schedule control and general engineering,
procurement, and construction duties, and provide the Project Manager with
adequate staff and facilities to carry out such functions;
(c)   consult with the Association before making any change in the position
of the Project Manager in the Nangal Plant;
(d)   appoint, after consultation with the Association, a suitably qualified
successor if it appears that a vacancy will occur in the position of the General
Manager of the Nangal Plant prior to start of commercial production; and
(e)   promptly enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Association with
Indian Oil Corporation for the supply of fuel oil, Indian Railways for the provision
of appropriate rail facilities, the Punjab State Electricity Board for the supply of
electricity and coal suppliers in India for the supply of coal so as to ensure the
availability of such supplies in sufficient quantity and of appropriate quality for
the full utilization of the facilities to be constructed under the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed under Category I of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth
in Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement shall be procured on the
basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines


﻿5
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)   Goods to be financed under Category II of the said allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured directly from foreign suppliers.
(c)   FCI may reserve certain specified equipment, with the approval of the
Association, from procurement by international competition and procure such
equipment from     Indian  suppliers, provided that such    equipment meets all
specifications established by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, and that such equipment can be provided pursuant to the Critical Path
Schedule. The estimated cost of such reserved equipment is Rs 13 million.
(d)   If at any time the Association or FCI determines, after consultation
with the other and the Borrower, that any equipment or material cannot be
delivered on or prior to its scheduled delivery date and that such delay would
adversely affect the completion of the Project, FCI shall promptly take all necessary
action to procure such equipment or material by such procedures as shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. (a) FCI undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the equipment and materials to be financed under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by FCI to replace or repair
such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, FCI shall cause all
equipment, materials and services financed under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) FCI shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, reports, specifications, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   FCI: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement,
enable the Association's representatives to examine the Project, the equipment


﻿6
financed thereunder and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
to it and the goods and services financed thereunder.
Section 2.07. FCI shall duly perform all its obligations tinder the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCI shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FCI
Section 3.01. (a) FCI shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, in accordance with
appropriate business, financial and engineering practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by adequate and competent
staff.
(b)   FCI shall promptly fill any vacant position in connection with the
Project by experienced and competent personnel.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCJ shall:
(a)   at all times take all steps which are necessary to maintain its existence
and its right to carry on operations and to acquire and retain ownership of all
lands and to maintain and renew all interests in land and other properties and
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its business;
(b)   at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and
other property, and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices;
(c)   not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient operation of its business and
undertaking; and
(d)   not alter its corporate structure or amend its Memorandum           of
Association in any way that will materially and adversely affect its ability to
perform  its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿7
Section 3.03. FCI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. FCI shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. FCI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association: (ii) Cxcept as the
Association shall otherwise agree, furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested, and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of FCI
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree. FCI shall:
(a)   maintain separate accounts for the Nangal Unit and consolidated
accounts for all its operations:
(b)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than 30 days after the end of each quarter and fiscal year:
(i)         quarterly  consolidated  financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and cash flow) for FCI;
(ii)        quarterly   and  annual financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses, cash flow and related
statements) for the Nangal Unit: and
(iii)       quarterly and annual forecast statements of production, income
and cash flow for FCI and for the Nangal Unit; and


﻿8
(c)   consult with the Association for reviewing and, where necessary,
changing its accounting system and management information system and implement
mutually agreed changes as promptly as appropriate financial management practices
permit.
Section 4.04. FCI shall take all necessary steps, including in particular limiting
its indebtedness (excluding debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and
payable on demand or not more than one year after the date of such determination),
to maintain a long-term debt-equity ratio not greater than 50:50.
For the purpose of this Section:
(a)   The term   "long-term  debt" means all debt maturing after one year
from the date of such determination; and
(b)   The term   "equity" means all unimpaired paid-in share capital plus
accumulated earnings or losses from prior fiscal years not set apart for specific
purposes.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, FCI: (i) shall
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities (hereinafter referred to as
current ratio) of at least 1.2:1; (ii) shall not declare dividends or prepay any debt
if, after the payment of such dividend (assuming such payment was made on the
date of such declaration) or debt, FCI's current ratio shall be less than 1.5:1:
and (iii) shall not cause or permit its Nangal Unit to prepay any of its outstanding
debts or to transfer amounts from its accounts to the rest of FCI's accounts, if
such prepayment or transfer would reduce the Nangal Unit's current ratio below
1.1 :1.
For the purpose of this Section:
(a)   The term   "current assets" means stock of spares, cash (excluding
advances to contractors for construction of projects and for additions to fixed
assets), assets readily convertible into cash, and all other assets which could in
the ordinary course of business be converted within one year into cash or assets
readily convertible into cash.
(b)   The term   "current liabilities" means liabilities due and payable and
all other liabilities which would be due and payable, or could be called for payment,
within one year including the portion of long-term indebtedness falling due within
one year.


﻿9
(c)   The term "debt" does not include debt payable on demand or maturing
not more than one year after its date.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and FCI shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and FCI shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of FCI and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and FCI shall promptly inform each other
of any c)ndition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
FC1 of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. FCI shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of FCI and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of FCI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 16 years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿10
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify FCI of this event and, upon the giving of such
notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall forthwith
terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For FCI:
Fertilizer Corporation of India
F-43, South Extension Area Part I
Ring Road
New Delhi - 49
India


﻿11
Cable address:
FERTILIZER
New Delhi
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of FCI may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other person
or persons as FCI shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. FCI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of FCI, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by FCI pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia
FERTILIZER CORPORATION OF INDIA
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)   With respect to any contract for goods and associated services estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(i)         If bidders are required     to  prequalify, FCI shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by FCI to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified
and FCI shall make such additions to or deletions from the said
list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(ii)        Before bids are invited, FCI shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(iii)       After bids have been received and evaluated, FCI shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association
of the name of the bidder to whom       it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review and comments, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons
for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines,
after having consulted with the Borrower and FCI, that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly
inform the Borrower and FCI, state the reasons for such
determination and advise the Borrower and FCI of any possible


﻿13
cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(d) of
Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement.
(iv)        The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
(v)         FCI shall furnish to the Association two conformed copies of
the contract promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such
contract.
(b)   With respect to any contract for goods and associated services estimated
to cost the equivalent of more than $25,000 but less than $200,000, FCI shall
furnish, to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with copies of all tender documents, the analysis of bids, recommendations
for award and sich other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines, after having consulted with the Borrower
and FCI, that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and FCI, state the reasons for such determination and advise the Borrower
and FCl of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(d) of
Schedule I to the Dcvelopment Credit Agreement; and
(c)   With respect to any contract for goods and associated services estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000, FCl shall procure them by obtaining
price quotations for each contract from no less than three suppliers (local and
foreign) FCI shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and FCI, state
the reasons for such determination and advise the Borrower and FCI of any
cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(d) of Schedule I to the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally


﻿14
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
3.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Preferred Domestic Bid" means a bid offering goods manufactured
in India if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India of not less than 20%     of the ex-factory bid price;
(b)   "Non-preferred Domestic Bid" means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in India; and
(c)   "Foreign Bid" means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
4.    For goods included in Category I of the Allocation of Credit Proceeds, a
margin of preference may be granted by the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids.
Such preference shall be granted by adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose
only of comparison with Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called
"Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
5.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                Bids to be Compared             Preference
I               All Preferred Domestic Bids          None
and Non-preferred Domestic
Bids.
II        (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under           Add Domestic
Stage 1, if Preferred                Preference
Domestic Bid, with all               Margin to
Foreign Bids;                        Foreign Bids
or
(b)  Lowest evaluated bid under            None
Stage I, if Non-Preferred
Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.


﻿15
Stage                 Bids to be Compared              Preference
III              If lowest evaluated bid under         None
Stage 11 is not the lowest
evaluated bid under Stage 1, all
Foreign Bids.
6.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


