CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 357 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 357 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Nangal Fei'tilizer Expansion Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 9, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 9, 1973, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Fertilizer Corporation of India
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrowur will
make available to the Fertilizer Corporation of India, inter alia, the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Fertilizer Corporation of India;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(c)   Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President.";


﻿4
(d)   The words ", the Project Agreement" are added after the words
"Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06; and
(e)   The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words
"Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "FCI"  means the Fertilizer Corporation of India, a company
incorporated in 1961 under the Companies Act, 1956, as amended, of India;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and FCI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and FCI pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, if any-
(d)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower;
(e)   "Nangal Unit" means the nitrogen fertilizer factory of FCI which is
located in Nangal, Punjab;
(f    "Uhde" means Friedrich Uhde Gmbh;
(g)   "Montedison" means Montecatini Edison S.P.A.;
(h)   "Critical Path Schedule" means the time schedule prepared by FCI,
in consulation with Uhde and Montedison, set forth in the drawing dated
October 30, 1972 entitled Critical Path Network (Nangal Expansion); and
(i)   "Nangal Expansion    Project Implementation   Plan"  means the
assignment of responsibilities within FCI, including the relationship with FCI's
engineering contractors, set forth in the document dated December 8, 1972, so
entitled.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-eight million dollars ($58,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under this
Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1977, or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August I in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August I commencing
February 1, 1983 and ending August 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on August 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/29) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause FCI to carry out the


﻿6
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds (estimated at Rs769 million), facilities, services and other
resources required for that purpose. The funds required for the completion of the
Project shall be provided by the Borrower to FCI as follows:
(i)         Funds equivalent to the proceeds of the Credit shall be provided
in the form of debt under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section;
(ii)        The amount of Rs347 million shall be provided in the form
of equity; and
(iii)       Any additional funds, as required, shall be provided with at least
50 per cent in the form of equity, and the remainder in the
form of debt on terms and conditions normally applicable to
the Borrower's loans to FCI.
(b)   The Borrower shall lend funds equivalent to the proceeds of the Credit
to FCI under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and FCI under terms and conditions which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(i) the loan will be repaid by FCI to the Borrower in ten equal annual installments
commencing five years from the Effective Date; and (ii) interest, including special
charges, if any, shall be paid on the outstanding balance from time to time at
the rate of 8.5% per annum.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable FCI to perform all of
its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with
such performance.
Section 3.02. In order to assist FCI in process and engineering design,
procurement, supply of proprietary equipment, construction and start-up, the
Borrower shall cause FCI to obtain process licenses, plant designs and consultant
services acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.


﻿7
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause FCI to employ competent and
experienced contractors as necessary to carry out the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to
in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
(b)   When, with respect to any equipment to be procured under Section
2.04(a) of the Project Agreement: (i) the lowest evaluated bid is a Foreign Bid
(as defined in paragraph 3(c) of Schedule I to the Project Agreement), the Borrower
shall promptly   grant permission  to import the necessary    goods without
reconsideration of the eligibility of the items for importation; and (ii) the lowest
evaluated bid is a Preferred or Non-preferred Domestic Bid (as defined in paragraphs
3(a) and (b) of Schedule I to the Project Agreement), the Borrower shall promptly
grant permission to import the materials necessary to the performance of the
contract, and, with respect to materials which are subject to allocation, make, or
cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such quantities
as shall be required for the timely completion of the Project.
(c)   When FCI needs to import materials to operate the Nangal Plant up
to full capacity, the Borrower shall promptly grant permission to import all
necessary materials at reasonable prices.
(d)   With respect to equipment and materials to be imported pursuant to
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i)         promptly upon receipt of the appropriate applications, issue, or
cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required for
such purposes; and
(ii)        make available, or cause to be made available, promptly as
needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required for such
purposes.
(e)   Whenever it is determined, pursuant to Section 2.04(d) of the Project
Agreement, that any equipment or material cannot be delivered on or prior to
its scheduled delivery date and that such delay would adversely affect the
completion of the Project. the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary action
to permit FCI to procure such equipment or material by such procedures as shall
be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. In addition to the funds required by Section 3.01(a) of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall provide FCI with sufficient funds to complete all
ongoing projects and such other projects as may be undertaken by FCl, on terms
which shall be compatible with FCI's sound financial position.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain FCI in a sound financial position
and to that end, for a period of 15 years from the date of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall: (a) cause FCI to maintain a ratio of long-term debt-equity (as
defined in Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement) not greater than 50:50; and
(b) take such action as may be necessary to cause FCI to achieve and maintain
a ratio of current assets to current liabilities (as defined in Section 4.05 of the
Project Agreement) of at least 1.2:1.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to -
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance
by FCI of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of FCI and, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿9
concerning the operations, management and financial condition of FCI and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under this Agreement,
the performance by FCI of its obligations under the Project Agreement, or the
performance by the Borrower or by FCI of their obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Agreement and the Project Agreement shall be free from
any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare


﻿10
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   FCI shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that FCI will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FCI or for the suspension
of its operations.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
the event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and FCI.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of
the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
FCI have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(c)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and FCI, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.


﻿. 11
(c)   FCI has entered into the agreements referred to in Section 2.02 of
the Project Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, FCI and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of FCI in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and FCI,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
FCI in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date May 15, 1973, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02,
7.02 and 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
this Agreement shall terminate or on a date 16 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance or a Director or Deputy Secretary
of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance is designated
as representative of the Borrower for purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India


﻿12
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Atnount of' the
Credit All/oca ted          9% o f
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Fiuanced
I.   Equipment and                                      100% of total
materials procured                                expenditures
by international
competition
(a)   Ammonia plant           23,200,000
(including air
separation)
(b)   Urea plant               7,300,000
(c)   Offsite facili-          8,200,000
ties (including
steam generation,
cooling towers,
and construction
steel)
(d)   Spare parts              3,500,000
II.   Imported equipment             2,500,000          100, of foreian
for standardization                               expenditures
III.  Engineering, design,           7,500,000          100% of foreign
erection and commis-                              expenditures and
sioning                                           10% of local
expenditures
IV.   Unallocated                    5,800,000
TOTAL              58,000,000


﻿14
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency of,
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to January 1, 1973;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount p- 'ie net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no piuceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes;
(c)   expenditures for freight and insurance within the territories of the
Borrower.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amoun;. of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,


﻿15
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures;
(c)   If and to the extent the unallocated amount of the Credit shall exceed
the requirement for contingencies in respect of expenditures under Categories I
or II, as determined by the Association, the Association may, at the request of
the Borrower (i) allocate funds from the unallocated amount of the Credit to
Category III, and (ii) to the extent funds allocated to Category III are not needed
to cover the estimated foreign expenditures thereunder, increase the percentage
of local expenditures to be financed under Category III to a percentage which,
in the opinion of the Association, will allow the full disbursement of the proceeds
of the Credit, subject to the provision of paragraph 3(b) hereof; and
(d)   if the Association shall have reasonably determined, after consultation
with the Borrower and FCI, that the procurement of any item in any Category
is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of
the Project Agreement, the Association shall promptly inform the Borrower and
FCI of such determination and of the reasons therefor, and no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. The Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under this Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages st forth in the third column of the tale
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of local expenditures under Category III
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the expansion of FCI's Nangal Unit by construction
of the following production capacities:
1.   An ammonia unit having a design capacity of 300,000 metric tons
per year*;
2.   A urea unit having a design capacity of 330,000 metric tons per year;
and
3.   Supporting facilities (including storage and utilities) for the new
ammonia and urea units.
Ammonia Unit
Ammonia production will be based on the partial oxidation of High Sulfur,
Heavy Stock (HSHS)/fuel oil. Overall process design will be the responsibility of
Uhde and is expected to include the following process steps:
a.   Air Separation
b.   High Pressure, Non-Catalytic Partial Oxidation
c.   Sulfur Removal and Recovery
d.   Shift Conversion
e.   Carbon Dioxide Removal and Recovery
f.   Synthesis Gas Purification by Nitrogen Wash
g.   Ammonia Synthesis
h.   Ammonia Separation and Storage
*    Year - 330 operating days.


﻿17
The existing ammonia plant, which is based upon electrolytic hydrogen, will
be replaced by the new ammonia unit. The design capacity of the new ammonia
unit is 300,000 metric tons per year, of which approximately 100,000 metric tons
will be used for production of calcium ammonium nitrate (CAN) fertilizer in the
existing granulation plant. The rest of the ammonia produced from the new unit
will be converted to prilled urea.
Urea Unit
Urea production will be based on the proprietary designs of Montedison
pursuant to the existing license agreement between Montedison and FCI. The plant
will be a conventional total recycle, single-train unit which is expected to include
the following process steps:
a.    Ammonia and Carbon Dioxide Compression
b.    Urea Synthesis
c.    Separation and Recycling of Unreacted Materials
d.    Urea Solution Concentration and Prilling
e.   Prill Storage, Bagging, Despatch
The Project will be carried out pursuant to the Nangal Expansion Project
Implementation Plan and the Critical Path Schedule and is expected to be completed
by March 31, 1976.


