Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2240 
Operation Name 
Punjab-Irrigation Sector Development Policy Loan 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Irrigation and drainage (100%) 
Project ID 
P096962 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
PUNJAB IRRIGATION AND POWER DEPARTMENT 
Date PID Prepared 
March 13, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 5, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
May 16, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The National Economy
 
Pakistan seems to be well on the path to a sustained economic growth. After a long history of wavering 
commitment to, and poor implementation of, economic and structural reforms, which led to 
implementation delays or pre-mature termination of a number of IMF funded programs,
1
the present 
Government was able not only to fully implement the reform program supported by the Fund under the 
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), but in many areas surpassed the targets set under the 
program. Successful implementation of structural and economic reform program has helped to transform 
the economy from a highly regulated to a more open, market economy. This, together with more transient 
factors like good weather conditions, contributed to a sharp acceleration in economic growth. The 
economy showed a healthy growth performance in 2003/04 as the GDP growth reached 6.4%.  This, 
however, was surpassed in 2004/05, as growth accelerated to 8.4% 
 
Water and irrigation sector 
 
The level of agricultural production depends directly on the availability and effective use of irrigation 
water. 
Today, water remains a critical factor for Pakistan’s economy. About 80% of the arable land and 
90% of agricultural output are entirely dependent on irrigation making this a critical sector for rural 
development as well the most important component of water management.  
 
Agriculture contributes 26 percent of Punjab’s GDP and provides employment to 45 percent of its work 
force.  Over 90 percent of the agricultural output comes from 10 million hectares of irrigated land served 
by one of the largest contiguous irrigation systems in the world.  However, Punjab faces major irrigation 
and drainage challenges with serious social, economic and environmental implications, including 
deteriorating hydraulic infrastructure with large deficits in maintenance funding, water scarcity; low water 
1
During the last 16 years (1988-2004), IMF supported ten programs in Pakistan. All of these, except the last two, 
suffered from substantial policy slippages. Of the SDR 4.7 billion committed during 1988
–2004, 55 percent was not 
drawn as programs went off-track soon after their start. Programs were either extended to accommodate delays in 
the completion of reviews, or were ended prematurely, to be replaced by new arrangements. In contrast, both the 
2000 Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) and the 2001 three-year arrangement under the Poverty Reduction and Growth 
Facility (PRGF) were successfully completed without any extensions. 
Page  2
use efficiency (35%) and productivity; over exploitation and deteriorating quality of groundwater and 
poor irrigation service delivery.  
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The purpose of the development policy loan is to provide financing to the Government of Punjab 
(GOPunjab), which has embarked on a major reform agenda to improve fiscal management and service 
delivery.  
 
The key elements of the reform program  are: (A) 
public finance reforms 
to increase public spending and 
its efficiency for key priority sectors while ensuring fiscal sustainability; (B) 
reforms that
 
strengthen 
devolution and service delivery, and (C) reforms that improve the fiduciary and governance 
environment.
 
As part of these reforms GOPunjab is focusing on 
irrigation
 as one of the sectors where 
key reforms need to be carried out along the following four main pillars:   
 
Pillar I-
 Institutional and Policy Reforms to improve the management and maintenance of Punjab’s 
irrigation system to ensure its integrity and sustainability. 
Pillar II: Water Resource Management Reforms to make intra-province water allocation and distribution 
more transparent. 
Pillar III: Irrigation Service Delivery Reforms to improve the quality, efficiency and accountability with 
which irrigation services are delivered.   
Pillar IV: Reforms to encourage introduction of new technology to improve water use efficiency and on-
farm productivity . 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Link To Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 
 
The Bank Group’s program priorities in the 2003-2005 CAS were to: (i) strengthen macroeconomic 
stability and government effectiveness; (ii) improve the business environment for growth; and (iii) 
improve equity through support for pro-poor and pro-gender equity policies.   The CAS for 2006-2009
2
builds on the lessons learned during implementation of the FY03-05 CAS; the messages heard during 
consultations with stakeholders; the results of a client survey; as well as recent formal reviews of the 
Bank’s work in Pakistan. These lessons are: i) a programmatic approach provides the flexibility to support 
reforms while managing risk ii) projects need to be focused and scaled to fit the capacity of the 
implementing agency, in terms of both project scope and the pace of implementation iii) greater attention 
to capacity building is needed and iv) the program needs to continue to strengthen its focus on results. 
Expansion in lending primarily in the following areas is envisaged during FY06-09: (i) infrastructure 
(primarily energy, water, and transport), (ii) human development; (iii) programs targeting the poor and 
vulnerable, and (iv) emergency support for earthquake recovery. 
 
The Bank’s 
Country Water Resources Assistance Strategy
 (CWRAS) for Pakistan would guide the 
water sector elements of the CAS.  The Bank will support a combination of institutional reforms and 
investments including: (i) 
major investments in rehabilitation of critical assets
 (including barrages and 
main canals), and help put in place 
Asset Management Plans
;
(ii) 
development of capacity
 at the 
provincial and federal levels for improving water resource management; (iii) efforts to improve the 
quality, efficiency, and accountability with which 
irrigation services 
are delivered; and (iv) 
investments 
2
Currently being finalized 
Page  3
in on-farm services
 (land leveling, watercourse lining, introduction of new technologies) for increasing 
the productivity of water use through private-public partnerships.   
 
4. Financing 
 
The proposed Loan will provide financing for the Province of Punjab, which has embarked on the 
Irrigation Sector Reform Program (ISRP).
 
This operation would be the first
 
in a programmatic series 
of three
 
Development Policy Loans to support the Government of Punjab’s (GOPunjab’s) medium-
term ISRP linked to achieving specific outcomes in the irrigation sector. The Bank’s involvement 
through the DPL would help ensure that key reforms are successfully implemented by focusing on the 
right instruments and incentives.  
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The implementation of the ISRP is spearheaded by the Minister and Secretary of the Irrigation and Power 
Department (IPD) who are assisted by an IPD Reform Unit comprising four teams, each responsible for a 
reform pillar.  An inter-departmental Steering Committee headed by the Chairman P&D oversees 
program implementation, provides policy guidance and secures political support and backing. The team 
would provide policy guidance and monitor overall outcomes of the DPL.  
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Implementation of the ISRP would yield benefits in terms of:  
 
(i) Improved fiscal and asset management would safeguard the integrity and help ensure sustainability of 
Punjab’s vital irrigation infrastructure, which is the back bone of its agriculture based economy; 
(ii) Improved governance of water resources and enhanced transparency of the administration of intra-
province water entitlements and water distribution would lead to greater trust and confidence among 
water users; (iii) Improved reliability of irrigation service delivery at the bulk transmission as well as 
distribution levels with greater involvement of users would in the short term lead to improved equity of 
water distribution to tail ends of canals, and an increase in water use efficiency and productivity in the 
medium to long term and (iv) the promotion of new and more efficient water technology (pressurized 
irrigation systems, laser guided land leveling, etc) through public-private partnerships would lead to 
higher efficiency of water use, diversification towards higher value crops, increased  productivity and 
more jobs as compared to conventional crops.  
 
Potential Risks and Mitigation Strategies 
 
The major risk comes from the history of uneven support to the irrigation reform agenda.  During the last 
two years, however, irrigation reforms have received strong political support, and water users/farmers 
have participated in the implementation of the reforms with great enthusiasm and witnessed the initial 
positive outcomes of participatory irrigation management.  While there is an inherent risk that a change in 
political leadership could affect the reform momentum or shift priorities, the reforms have reached a take-
off point and there would be pressures to move ahead.   Potential risks exist, of over assessing capacity 
building strengths to deal with downstream users, carry out consultations and achieve transparency 
especially given past experience with NDP and Taunsa.  Nonetheless, continued Bank support would be 
critical. 
 
Another risk is whether adequate levels of funding for maintenance and repairs (M&R) and asset 
management would be sustained. The fiscal situation in Punjab has improved. Yardsticks for allocation of 
M&R budgets have been rationalized and now reflect market prices.  
Page  4
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environmental Aspects 
 
The Environmental Management Unit will prepare and implement guidelines for the management of 
environmental and social risks in IPD operations.  An important design consideration to be addressed in 
these guidelines is the need to preserve the integrity of wetland habitats, some of which are critically 
dependent on seepage from canals.  To address this concern, Punjab IPD has adopted the policy of not 
supporting the lining of canals where this would detrimentally affect the flow of water into protected 
areas.  In the construction phase, the guidelines will focus on the management of borrow areas, proper 
disposal of excavated materials, and site restoration.  The guidelines will be approved and made available 
through the internet, and the further development of capacity for environmental and social risk 
management is identified as a prior action for the proposed second and third Punjab Irrigation Sector 
DPLs.                                                                                                   
To assist with these initiatives, the World Bank plans to support the preparation by the Environmental 
Management Unit of a Strategic Environmental Assessment of the sector in order to highlight policy and 
institutional weaknesses from an environmental perspective, and recommend actions to strengthen 
capacity.
 
This assessment will incorporate a comprehensive institutional review of the sector, and will 
also address the need to protect water quality in the irrigation system through tighter control of pollution 
from industrial effluents, municipal sewage, urban solid waste, and agricultural runoff. 
 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Manuel Contijoch Escontria 
Title: Sr. Water Resources Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-3919 
Fax: (202) 522-1770 
Email: mcontijoch@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
