Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB1821 
Project Name 
Punjab - Irrigation Sector Development Policy Loan 
 
Region 
South Asia 
Sector 
Irrigation and Drainage 
Project ID 
P096962 
Borrower(s) 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan 
Implementing Agency 
Government of Punjab 
Date PID Prepared 
September 09 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
02/07/2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
04./11/2006 
Background.
 
The surface and groundwater resources of the Indus Basin constitute the lifeline of 
Punjab’s agro-based economy.  Agriculture is the major contributor to Punjab’s economy, accounting 
for 28 percent of its output and employment to over 40 percent of its work force.  Over 90 percent of 
Punjab’s agricultural output comes from 25 million acres of irrigated land.   However, Punjab faces 
major irrigation and drainage challenges with profound social, economic and environmental 
implications, including deteriorating hydraulic infrastructure, water scarcity, low water use efficiency 
and productivity, secondary soil salinization, over exploitation and deteriorating quality of groundwater, 
poor service delivery, inequities in water distribution, lack of user participation in O&M, and low cost 
recovery. 
 
Much of the infrastructure is in disrepair, including vital structures like barrages and main canals and 
there is no modern asset management plan for any of the major infrastructure.  The irrigation 
bureaucracy has grown over time without putting in place the required conditions of accountability and 
transparency that would guarantee its efficiency. Because trust in the system is low and the service 
rendered to the users is poor, cost recovery by the farmers is proportionally low.  This causes the system 
to be financially unsustainable with chronic under-funding of O&M. As a consequence, irrigation is not 
playing to its full potential the role of major contributor to agriculture growth and employment that it 
should normally have.  
 
Prospects
.
In January 2005, the Irrigation Department articulated a comprehensive vision and strategy 
for the water sector, and following that, has made visible progress on several fronts.  For example the 
Department has: transferred O&M responsibility to water users (farmer organizations--FOs) in LCC 
East canal command that has been selected for piloting the reforms, and authorized FOs to collect and 
retain 
abiana 
water charges; initiated revision of  O&M yardsticks to bring them closer to actual 
requirements; initiated preparation of an inventory of assets as the first steps towards preparing an asset 
management plan; initiated preparations for making public water entitlements and actual deliveries 
through a user friendly website and other means; initiated a functional/ institutional analysis of the 
Department by activity and cost centers; started closer collaboration with the agriculture department to 
formulate strategies for agricultural productivity enhancement; and established a Committee to steer the 
reform process.  
 
Page  2
Proposed objective(s) 
 
The reform agenda would be supported through a programmatic budget support instrument that would 
be better suited to sustain the policy dialogue and the restructuring measures required. This would be 
implemented through a series of annual tranches of financial support under the proposed Irrigation 
Sector Development Policy Loan. 
 
1. Preliminary description 
Main pillars
.
The four pillars on which the DPL would be built are: 
 
1. 
Improvement of fiscal and asset management;  
This would involve (i) preparing and implementing an Asset Management Plan which 
will set priorities for medium/long term rehabilitation and maintenance of existing 
infrastructure; (ii) making the financing plan explicit including the requirements for 
public sector financing, user
s’ contribution and cost recovery; (iii) making adequate 
budgetary allocations for O&M; (iv) divesting to the private sector a number of activities 
currently carried out by the IPD; (v) developing efficient institutional arrangements for 
rehabilitation and maintenance; and (vi) developing institutional capacity for assessing 
and mitigating the social and environmental risk associated with asset management 
activities.
 
2. 
Reform of the water management and allocation system; 
 
This would involve: (i) making the administration of water entitlements, from the barrage 
to the user level, more transparent and accountable; (ii)  publicizing/disclosing water 
shares under the Water Accord for each of the 24 canals commands; and (iii) establishing 
more effective management tools for the optimization of water distribution.  
 
3. 
Reform of irrigation service delivery; 
 
This entails: (i) putting in place a
 
transparent and efficient system of irrigation and 
drainage service delivery in accordance with water entitlements; (ii) facilitating the entry 
of new players in the system to help professionalize and make irrigation services delivery 
more efficient; (iii) devolving O&M and 
abiana
 collection to Farmers Organizations 
(FOs) at the distributary canal level; (iv) using contractual arrangement to clearly specify 
the rights and obligations of bulk water suppliers and users; (v) benchmarking for all 
water services; (vi) introducing greater transparency in water measuring devises; and (vii) 
enhancing monitoring capacity.
 
4. 
Enhanced 
services
 to increase on-farm water productivity
.
This involves the review of present support services and the promotion of private-public 
partnership (PPP) for the introduction of new technology in land productivity and water 
use efficiency. 
 
Tranche amounts 
have tentatively been assessed at $100 million
 
2. Environment Aspects 
 
Page  3
On environmental and social aspects the DPL will help to strengthen institutional capacity for the 
management of the social and environmental activities in IPD. 
 
5.    Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
 Total 
100 
million 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Manuel Contijoch 
Task Manager 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street 
Washington DC NW 
20433 
Tel: 202-473-3919 
Fax: 202-522-2420 and 202-522-1770 
mcontijoch@worldbank.org 
 
Usaman Qamar 
Co Task Manager 
Usman Qamar 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington D.C. 20433 
Telephone: 92-51-9090216 
Fax: 92-51-2279649 
 
For information on other project related documents contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: http:ll www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components could be adjusted over 
time. 
 
wb72129 
C:\Documents and Settings\wb72129\My Documents\Pak DPL\Pak Punjab DPL\Punjab DPL\Pak Punjab DPL\Punjab DPL\Pak Punjab DPL\PID\Final PID 
inc Brizzi com.doc 
09/22/2005 3:11:00 PM
 
