D(  Li 1'141C Ili 0
The World Bat.k
FO R O FFI(C Al. I'SF. 0 Nl.I
Report No. ') i94
PROJE CT COMPLE'I'OIN REIO'R'I'
YEMEN ARAB REPUBIAC
INDUSTR;AI. Dl:'EV.EOPMENT PROJECT
(CRED)IT I 122-YAR)
MtARCH 4, 1991
Indiustrv and Energy Operations Divisioi
(Crintrv Department IIl
Ftirope, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and ma! be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents maN not otherv%ise he disclosed without N orld Bank authori,ation.



'FI(111iT, ANID MFV'A! TF';
Metric S%-.tem
Ct'kR FNC(Y LQL I VALFNTS
( urylt-iic'N'  Vlit t:  ('I'owe i  lii.il    ( ,'K 
Yeinemni Rials -per S ImIl ar
P'erio(d       End of Period    Perijod A, I.t.1e
19/6-1982          4. 62?             4. '502
1983               4.6/65            +4 185)
1984               5.860()            5.3533
19°,5              6."48 )              . 4 14 3
1986               8.9900             7.398()
1987               8.9900             8.9900
1988               9./600             9.771/
Currency equivalent as of May -'1, 199():
US$ 1.00   YR ll.,;
YR  1.00 = US$ 0.085
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Yemen Arab Republic: January 1 - December 31
Industrial Bank of Yemen:  Januarv 1 - Dec&mber 31
LIST OF ABBREV'IATTONS
CBY    -    Central Bank of Yemen
CPO    -    Central Planninlg Organiizationi
DOI    -    Department of Industry, Ministry of Ecriomnv
ERR    -    Economic Rate of Return
IBY    -    Industrial Bank of Yemen
IEDA        Industrial Estates Development Authoritv
MEST   -    Ministry of Economy, Supply and Trade
M&LT   -    Medium- and Long-ter.i
SME    -    Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
UNDP   -    United Nations Development Program
UNIDO  -    United Nations Industrial Development Organization



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington DC 20433
UJ S A
Ol1ce ni Ou.ctro,-.C~a
Opwvat wfeluit.m
March 4, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Yemen Arab Republic
Industrial Development Project (Credit 1122-YAR)
Attached for information is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Development
Project (Credit 1122-YAR)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1122-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .........................................................                                       i
Evaluation  Summary ..............................................                                    ii
PART I  PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE ..............1I ....                                     1
1.   Project  Identity ...........................................                                    1
2.   Background .................................................                                     1
3.   Project  Objectives  and Description .........................                                   3
4.   Project  Design  and Organization ............................                                   4
5.   Project  Implementation .....................................                                    6
6.   Project  Results ............................................8 
7.   Project  Sustainability .....................................                                  11
8.   IDA  Performance ............................................                                   13
9.   Borrower  Performance .......................................                                   13
10.   Project  Relationship .......................................                                   14
11.   Lessons  Learned ............................................                                   14
12.   Project  Documentation  and Data ..... .                ......................                  14
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .............                                     15
1.   Project  Results ............................................                                  15
2.   IDA  Performance ............................................                                   16
3. Performance by the Borrower (and its Beneficiary
Institution  - the  IBY) ...................................                                16
4.   Other Lessons  Learned ......................................                                  17
PART  III   STATISTICAL  INFORMATION ...............................                                  19
Table   1  - Related  IDA  Credits ..................................                                 19
Table   2 - Project  Timetable ....................................                                   20
Table   3 - Mission  Data  (Actual) ................................                                  21
Table   4  - Use  of Crelit Proceeds ...............................                                  22
Table   5  - Summary  of  Subprojects  Financed Under  the  Credit .....                              23
Table   6  - Sectoral  Distribution  of  Subloans ....................                                25
Table   7 - Credit  Disbursements .................................                                   26
Table   8  - Historical  Financial  Statements  of IBY ...............                                27
Table   9  - Schedule  Showing  Trend  of Arrears  from  1984-1988 .....                              30
Table  10  - Compliance  with  Legal Documents ......................                                 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



- i --
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1122-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial
Development Project in the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), for which Credit 1122-
YAR in the amount of SDR9.7 million (US$12 million equivalent) was approved on
March 26, 1981. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1987, two years behind
schedule. The final disbursement was made on January 13, 1988;
SDR 835,981.65 was cancelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division
of Country Department III, Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II)
with the assistance of a consultant.
Preparation of this PCR was started in June 1989 during a mission
for this purpose, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Apprais   Report; the
Development Credit and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence
among the Government, the Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY), and IDA; IBY
records; and internal IDA memoranda.



- ii -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1122-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          Project Objectives.  The primary objective of the Industrial
Development Project was to strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBV) to promote, appraise, and provide term finance
for viable industrial investments consistent with the country's economic plans
and priorities. The project comprised a line of credit to IBY of SDR9.7
million ($12 million equivalent), including $250,000 equivalent to finance
external training of IBY's senior staff and the services of a development
banking advisor.
2.          Implementation ExRerience.  At the time of project appraisal in
1980, the macroeconomic framework in YAR was relatively undistorted. The
major issue during project preparation had been the adequacy of IBY's interest
rate structure when viewed in the context of international market rates.
Agreement was reached on both a structure which was reasonably close to
international rates, and also on an interest rate review process. In the
early 1980s, however, YAR began to experience an economic downturn brought on
by declining workers' remittances and official aid from neighboring oil
producing countries. The volatile economic situation that subsequently
prevailed throughout most of the period of project implementaticn brought to
light various weaknesses in project design, including the high business and
financial risks associated with a banking operation focussed solely on the
provision of term finance.
3.          The technical assistance aspects of the project were implemented
without any major problems. Under the credit component, subproject
commitments proceeded smoothly following an initial delay in declaring the
credit effective. The final date for submission of subprojects under the
credit was postponed by one year to December 31, 1884, and the credit was
fully committed prior to the revised terminal commitment date. In early 1986,
IDA approved an IBY request to re-commit credit proceeds that remained
unutili7ed after subproject completions, but some of the new commitments were
eventually cancelled. The credit closed on December 31, 1987, two years later
than estimated at appraisal, and SDR835,981.65 was cancelled.
4.          IBY experienced a growing level of portfolio arrears in the early
years of project implementation. To address the problem, IBY implemznted an
action program which included measures to review the causes of the arrears on
a case-by-case basis, to raise the penalties for default, to strengthen
collection efforts, and to adjust lending policies. IBY's actions helped to
contain the level of arrears but the growing macroeconomic distortions,
including the Government's imposition of stringent import licensing
restrictions beginning in early 1986. led to some subproject implementation



- iii -
and performance problems and further growth in IBY's arrears. IBY's
profitability and its ability to provision adequately for losses was also
constrained by an insufficient interest rate spread allowed IBY under the
credit.
5.          Results.  The technical assistance component had positive effects
on the quality of IBY's operations, particularly in respect of IBY's appraisal
methodology and portfolio management techniques.  But at credit closure, a
numnber of activities remained relatively weak, particularly project
supervision and follow-up procedures, risk management, and rehabilitation,
6.          Twenty-two subprojects were approved by IBY as against thirty
estimated at appraisal. One subproject did not become operational after
disbursements were made. The two final subprojects approved in 1986 were
eventually cancelled. Of the twenty subprojects financed by IBY, fourteen
were greenfield projects and six were expansion projects; none were
rehabilitation projects. The average total subproject cost was about SDR1.5
million ($1.6 million equivalent). The original subloan amounts (before
adjustments) approved by IDA totalled about SDR10.6 million, or about 36% of
the total estimated costs of the subprojects. Based on estimates in the
subproject appraisal reports, the subprojects led to the creation of about 470
jobs At an average cost per job of about $61,000 equivalent -- a relatively
high cost due to shortages of skilled labor and industrial raw materials il.
YAR. Most of the subprojects were capital intensive, and most had high
estimated economic rates of return, which averaged about 38%. Of the twenty
subprojects financed under the credit, almost all are still operating and are
sustainable. Only seven subloans are still in the process of repayment. Six
of these are experiencing arrears, but only two have serious problems
including the subproiect which never became operational.
7.          Some of the enterprises which benefitted from subloans are
operating at less than 50% of their installed capacities and have cash flow
problems particularly because of raw materials shortages resulting from import
licensing restrictions which became very stringent in 1986. Others have
experienced marketing problems and weaknesses in management. Therefore, the
full benefits anticipated from the project in terms of increase: output,
including net foreign exchange savings, may not have been fuliy realized. IBY
has not undertaken a full assessment of the post-implementation financial and
economic rates of return for the subprojects, but overall the financial and
economic rates of return are probably lower than the subproject appraisal
estimates. Although the project's impact was modest in terms of jobs created,
increased capacity utilization, and gross value added, it yielded significant
benefits to the economy through the nurturing of industrial investment and
growth, the saving of foreign exchange, and institutional development.
8.          Sustainability.  Through IDA assistance under Credit 1122-YAR and
subsequently Credit 1547-YAR, IBY's capabilities have steadily improved, but
further financial and institutional strengthening is still required. In
general. IBY needs to become more aggressive in credit management, to
significantly increase its loss reserves, to adopt a more selective and less
risky growth strategy for its term tinancing operations, and to begin
diversifying into other banking activities to help increase returns and reduce
overall business and financial risks, while providing potentially synergistic
benefits to existing operations. A package of actions to restructure IBY into



- iv -
a more market-orientea competitive bank is being prepared for inclusion in a
proposed IDA-assisted project which would complement Government initiatives at
the macro-level.
9.          Lessons Learned.  The following important lessons were learned
during project implementation:
(a) Development banking projects are particuiarly vulnerable to
events which weaken or distort the macroeconomic and financial policy
environment. For development banking institutions such as IBY,
diversification of their lines of business may help to reduce their overall
business risks and improve their performance and competitiveness.
(b) Close attention needs to paid to adequacy of the interest
rate spreads allowed to a participating banking institution, and to the
adequacy of the accounting standards and loan loss provisioning policies
employed by the banking institution.
(c) In view of the volatile nature of foreign exchange rates
world-wide and the particularly vulnerable position of developing countries
such as YAR, foreign exchange risks should not be passed on to small
subborrowers who are unable to assess such risks or hedge against them.
Instead, arrangements should be made for the Government to bear such risks in
return for appropriate compensation, such as an implicit interest rate spread
incorporated in the interest rate structure.
(d) Careful planning and monitoring of technical assistance is
required to ensure that objectives are met and anticipated benefits achieved.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRfAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1122-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name                            : Industrial Development Project
Credit Number                      1122-YAR
RVP Unit                        : EMENA Region
Country                         . Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Sector                             Industry
Subsector                       : Development Banking
2. Backaround
2.01        In the 1970s, the Government established three specialized
financial institutions to support priority sectors: the Agricultural Credit
Bank in 1975; the Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBi) in 1976; and the Housing
Credit Bank in 1977. Until the establishment of the IBY, most medium-to
large-scale industrial projects in the private sector were financed with the
personal savings of their sponsors or with short-term loans obtained from the
country's ten commercial banks, of which eight are branches of foreign banks.
The commercial banks have tended to concentrate on the traditional commercial
banking activity of extending short-term trade credit. Small-scale industries
have received relatively little outside financing due to their limited access
to institutional sources of funds and other support programs.
2.02        IDA involvement in the industrial sector began in 1974 with the
Tndustrial Estate Project (Credit 465-YAR of US$2.3 million). The main
objectives of the project were to demonstrate the replicability of industrial
estates as a means of accelerating industrial development in YAR and to
develop institutional capability of the Industrial Estates Development
Authority (IEDA) to undertake this task. The project comprised the
institutional development of IEDA, the construction of an industrial estate in
Sana'a, and the provision of credit to enterprises on the estate. A Project
Completion Report (PCR) for Credit 465-YAR was issued on November 12, 1984
(Report No. 5323). No further evaluation of the project by the Operations
Evaluation Department has been carried out. The PCR found that the project's
objectives were not achieved. The physical facilities for Phase 1 of the
Sana'a Industrial Estate were completed and tenants were attracted, but the
payment of rents has been poor. The estate has been plagued by managerial,
financial and operational difficulties caused principally by a lack of
managerial expertise on the part of the tenants and also by changes in the
economic environment in YAR.



2
2.03        In 1981, IDA approved Credit 1122-YAR in the amount of SDR9.7
million (US$12.0 million equivalent) for a line of credit to IBY, which is the
subject of this report, Subsequently, a second line of credit was made
available to IBY under Credit 1547-YAR (SDR8.0 million) approved in 1985.
2.04        Sector and Policy Context.  The Government's industrial objectives
have been to broaden and diversify the country's small industrial base, with
emphasis on natural resource-based industries and on small and medium-scale
industries having potential comparative advantages. At the time of Credit
approval, the industrial sector was buoyed by high levels of external
assistance and workers' remittances, and by the Government's relatively free
market stance, moderate protection, modest official intervention, and generous
fiscal incentives. The macroeconomic framework was relatively undistorted.
The sector was performing well despite several handicaps, including shortages
of skilled manpower, high labor costs, a small and dispersed domestic market,
a weak natural resource base, and inadequate infrastructure. In the early
1980s, however, economic growth began to decline primarily due to droughts and
declining inflows of workers' remittances and official aid. Rising public
expenditures and an overvalued rial led to fiscal and external imbalances and
rising inflation. In response, the Government allowed the Yemeni rial to
depreciate by about 50% in nominal terms (24% in real terms) during the period
from 1984 to 1986. By early 1986, the Government also began imposing
stringent import and investment licensing restrictions as part of its efforts
to address the macroeconomic imbalances. This severely reduced capacity
utilization and industrial investment, and licensing issues remain a subject
of the policy dialogue between the Government and IDA. Under the on-going
Second Industrial Development Project (Credit 1547-YAR), the Government has
taken practical steps to remove licensing bottlenecks in respect of IBY
subprojects.
2.05        At the time of appraisal in 1980, foreign exchange controls were
absent in YAR. The Yemeni rial, which was pegged to the US dollar, was freely
convertible at the commercial bank exchange rate, which was maintained within
a small margin from the official exchange rate. A parallel foreign exchange
market comprising numerous moneychangers was also active. The official
exchange rate had been stable for about seven years prior to appraisal.
Foreign capital inflows were therefore influenced by the competitiveness of
domestic interest rates with international rates. Domestic interest rates
were subject to Government controls which, for commercial banks, took the form
of minimum rates on savings and time deposits and maximum rates on loans. The
interest rate ceilings were instituted primarily as a mechanism to curb
unwanted short-term capital inflows. The Government's policy was to maintain
a flexible system of setting commercial bank interest rates close to the rates
prevailing in the international capital markets, but also of setting the rates
of the specialized banking institutions at 3 to 4 percentage points below the
commercial rates to take account of perceived socio-economic considerations,
particularly the need to encourage investment in the productive sectors
relative to the traditional fields of commerce and real estate. The interest
rate structure was adjusted only infrequently, in part to minimize any
potentially adverse effects on cash flows in the corporate sector.



3
2.06        Domestic inflation was about 5X per annum or less from 1981 to
1983, and both savings .d deposit rates were positive in real terms during
this period. With rising inflation in 1984, the structure became negative in
real terms, favoring investments in non-tradeable assets and promoting
distortions in relative prices. In addition, the Central Bank of Yemen (CB')
began to severely restrict its foreign exchange sales to the commercial atanks,
further reducing the attractiveness of the commercial banking system to
foreign capital in,lows. The parallel foreign exchange market remained
active, but under the import licensing system, only foreign exchange obtained
from the commercial banks could be used to finance imports.
3. ProJect Obiectives and Description
3.01        The primary project objectives we   to:
(a)   strengthen IBY's institutional capability for making independent
and sound investment decisions; and
(b)   promote and implement viable industrial investments consistent
with the country's economic plans and priorities.
3.02        The project comprised:
(a) a line of credit to IBY of SDR9.5 million ($11.75
million equivalenF) for financing the foreign exchange costs of subprojects in
the public, private and mixed ownership sectors. In view of the country's
limited export prospects, it was anticipated that most subloans would be made
to private, small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs) and to enterprises
enjoying natural protection such as those in the construction and building
materials subsectors, and enterprises producing consumption goods substituting
for imports; and
(b) a technical assistance component of SDRO.2 million
($250,000 equivalent) to finance: (i) the services of a development banking
advisor to IBY for a period of two years; and (ii) external training of two
IBY staff who would receive on-the-job training for 4-6 months, each with an
experienced development finance company. The development banking advisor,
building upon the earlier efforts of an expatriate advisor provided under
Credit 465-YAR, was expected to: (i) assist IBY in the preparation of
operational and financial plans, including proposals for resource
mobilization; (ii) help IBY prepare and operate a management information and
reporting system; (iii) provide guidance in project appraisal work as well as
in project supervision, including installing a formal project supervision
system; and (iv) train IBY staff to assist entrepreneurs in preparing and
implementing their investment proposals. Funds for the technical assistance
component were on-lent to IBY free of interest for 15 years, including two
years grace. The foreign exchange risk associated with the technical
assistance component was borne by the Government.
3.03        Features of the Credit Component.  The key issue during project
preparation was the adequacy of IBY's interest rate structure. IDA considered
that IBY's lending rate should be set close to the international market rate,



(4
and tthat the foreign exchange risk shiotuld be bornie by IBY's subborrowers.  The
dialogue between IDA and the Government and IBY during project preparation
appears to have been instrumental in bringing about a substantial increase in
IBY's lending rate from about 7% to 11% (including a 1% service charge).  In
addition, IBY charged a standard comnmitment fee of 1% plus an appraisal fee of
1%, making its average effective rate slightly more than 11%. It was agreed
that the foreigtn exchange risk oni the subloaiis would be passed on to the
subborrowers .  IDA st af f cons idered that thte 11% rat e might still conta in a
small subsidy elemenit relative to internatiornal rates, but that this would be
acceptable, particularly since provisions were includled in the credit
documents for an annual review oft IBY's interest rate and for the maint'^nance
of an adequate spread over the cost of funds.  The interest rate review
process was envisaged as a mechanism to gradually minimize the subsidy element
and adjust IBY's interest rates to reflect market levels. The on-lending rate
between the Government and IBY was set at 8%, in contrast to the prevailing
IBRD rate of 9.6%. The lower rate of 8% was justified as a means to help IBY
adjust from a nascent development bank into an autonomous institution capable
of playing a pivotal role in assisting industrial development in YAR, and also
on the basis of the project's focus on small and medium-scale enterprise
development. The 8% on-lending rate gave IBY a spread of only 3 percentage
points on the IDA funds, which was substantially less than the spread
requirement of 5 percentage points estimated during appraisal. IDA staff
envisaged that concessionary loans to IBY from other sources would lower IBY's
averege cost of funds to about 6%.
3.04        Other features of the line of credit were as follows:  (a) IBY
would maintain a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 3:1; (b) at least 60% of the
credit would be utilized for subloans below $750,000 to help ensure that SMEs
received priority consideration; (c) all subloans exceeding US$300,000
equivalent would be required to have their economic rate of return calculated;
(d) at least 40% of the line of credit would be utilized to finance
investments below $1.0 million equivalent; (e) free-limit subloans would be
those below $300,000 equivalent; (f) the aggregate free-limit would be $4.0
million equivalent; and (g) subloan maturities would be 15 years or less,
including a maximum grace period of three years. About 30 subprojects were
expected to be financed by the credit line, and the first two subproject
proposals were to be submitted to IDA for review irrespective of their size.
IDA's prior review of about 50% of the subloan proposals was anticipated,
totalling an estimated 70% of the credit amount. The terminal date for the
receipt of subloan applications by IDA was set at December 31, 1983, and the
Closing Date at December 31, 1985.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.01         The project was prepared and processed in a short period of time.
The project concept was formulated in 1979 during the implementation of Credit
465-YAR. An identification mission visited YAR in March 1980, followed by an
appraisal mission in May/June 1980. Negotiations were convened in February
1981 and the project was presented to the Board in March 1981. The project
concept, which focussed on support to IBY, and the project's timing, were
appropriate, particularly when viewed from the perspective at appraisal. At
the time, the country was experiencing a high rate of industrial growth and



5
relative prosperity generated by substantial inflows of workers' remittances
and official aid from neighboring countries experiencing an economic boom from
rapidly rising oil prices and output. Although the economic environment was
relatively undistorted, the financial sector was in an early stage of
development, thereby putting priority on the strengthening of IBY as a
specialized financial intermediary capable of providing term finance and of
assisting Yemeni investors to channel their resources into efficient
industrial investments. The economic downturn that began in the early 1980s
during the early stage of project implementation placed further demands on IBY
given the Government's desire to increase employment and investment
opportunities for returning migrant workers,
4.02         In retrospect, the volatile economic situation that prevailed
throughout most of the period of project imilementation brought to light
various weaknesses in project design. The major weakness was perhaps the
limitation of IBY's operations to the provision of term finance which entailed
substantial business and financial risks that became readily apparent through
rising portfolio arrears. Diversification of IBY's operations into other
banking-related activities with improved short-term cash flows would probably
have been beneficial, and may also have provided some synergistic benefits in
the management of IBY's term finance portfolio (para. 7.07).
4.03        A second weakness may have been the design of IBY's interest rate
structure, which required the subborrowers to bear the foreign exchange risk.
Neither IBY nor its subborrowers, most of whom are small and unsophisticated
financially, are able to properly assess or hedge against foreign exchange
risks in the narrow Yemeni financial market. Near the end of the commitment
period of the project, the Yemeni rial began to depreciate rapidly, and
recovery of the substantial increases in subloan debt service proved difficult
in some cases. The substantial depreciation of the Yemeni rial significantly
increased the costs of some subprojects and reduced their zapacity to repay
the IBY subloans. Debt recovery was exacerbated by IBY's subloan contracts,
which denominated the subloans in rials. The pro-forma contract, which had
been reviewed and accepted by IDA, contained a specific clause regarding the
passing of foreign exchange risk. But when recovery problems arose, it became
apparent that the Yemeni courts would not likely uphold this clause. To
prevent this from affecting its financial situation, IBY reached an agreement
with the Government in early 1986 that the Government would bear the foreign
'qxchange losses if IBY was unable to make the necessary recoveries from its
subborrowers. In addition, it was agreed that IBY's repayment obligations to
CBY would be denominated in the same currencies and amounts as originally
disbursed by CBY to IBY which, under Credit 1547-YAR, were in Yemeni rials.
IDA did not object to this arrangement given the importance of protecting
IBY's financial health, although the arrangement contravened a covenant
requiring IBY to pass the foreign exchange risks to its subborrowers, which
was never amended. In retrospect, however, both the Government's on-lending
rate to IBY and IBY's lending rate were significantly positive in real terms
until near the end of the subloan commitment period.
4.04        A third weakness may have been the assumption that the 5
percentage point spread requirement for IBY estimated at appraisal would be
subsidized by IBY borrowings from other sources on concessionary terms. IBY's



6
3 percentage spread on the IDA funds was inadequate and severely strained
IBY's profitability and its ability to provision for arrears. IBY's average
spread did now reach the estimated 5 point requirement until about end 1985.
Inherently, the subsidy arrangement also had potential for promoting
distortionary behavior on the part of IBY in the allocation of its loanable
resources.
4.05        A fourth weakness may have resulted from insufficient attention to
IBY's accounting policies, which were weak in terms of loan classification,
provisioning and income recognition. IBY's current asset classification
system is not in line with international accounting standards. It includes
four classes of loans (minor or no problems, serious problems, rescheduled
loans, and loans in court). The categorization of each loan in the portfolio,
and the related provisioning, is based primarily on subjective rather than
objective criteria, and has led in the past to inadequate provisioning. IBY
also recognizes loan interest as income until such time as legal action is
taken and the loan is placed in the "in court" category. This policy gives an
inaccurate presentation of IBY's profitability, and may also have led to
inaccurate perceptions of IBY's performance by IBY's management, Board, and
shareholders. This policy also allowed IBY's growing arrears problems to be
masked until they became a serious burden on its finances, and it perhaps also
led to delays in implementing corrective actions.
4.06        During project preparation, consideration was also given to
including assistance in the Project for strengthening the policy-making and
planning capabilities of the Department of Industry (DOI) in the Ministry of
Economy. The appraisal mission foresaw the need for a shift in the main role
of DOI away from day-to-day regualatory functions towards development
planning, policy-making, establishing guidelines, and performing economic
analysis necessary to help ensure coherent and sustained industrial
development. This proposal was ultimately deleted given UNIDO's intention to
strengthen its support to DOI. In retrospect, complementary IDA assistance
may also have been beneficial given the need that still remains today for
further support to the Ministry of Economy in the above subject areas.
5. Proiect Implementation
5.01        Subproject commitments proceeded smoothly due to IBY's good
project pipeline following an initial delay in declaring the credit effective.
The credit was signed on May 15, 1981 and became effective on November 13,
1981. The final date for the submission of subprojects under the credit was
postponed by one year from Deceiiber 31, 1983 to December 31, 1984. The credit
was fully committed before the revised terminal commitment date but, in early
1986, IBY requested IDA approval to re-commit about SDR940,000 in IDA
resources that remained unutilized after subproject completions. IDA agreed
but some of the new commitments were hampered by import licensing restrictions
which then prevailed and were eventually cancelled. Implementation of the
technical assistance component proceeded smoothly. The original Closing Date
of December 31, 1985 was postponed on two occasions by one year, and the
credit closed on December 31, 1987. The final disbursement was made on
January 13, 1988. SDR835,981.65 of the original credit of SDR9.7 million was
cancelled as of that date.



7
5.02        Project impleme1tation was affected adversely by tthe Government's
imposition of stringent import licensing restrictions beginning in early 1986,
and this constituted the main reason for the delays in disbursements on some
subprojects and for the concomittant delay in closing the project. Following
representations by IDA and IBY, some of the subprojects affected by the import
licencing restrictions were ultimately able to obtain licenses.
5.03        IBY's employment conditions, which were more in line with those of
the public service than the private sector, hindered IBY's management in
recruiting experienced staff and firing unwanted personnel. Nevertheless, IBY
did not experience any significant staff losses.
5.04        Disbursements on each subproject, as well as annual cumulative
disbursements, are given in Part III of this report. Actual disbursement was
much slower than estimated at ap;raisal.  Withdrawal of funds by the
Government of YAR, as shown by   A disbursement records, commenced two years
after IBY started to disburse    ds to subprojects financed under the credit.
IBY made initial disbursemen-.  om its dollar holdings before making
subsequent withdrawal requests -o CBY. CBY, in turn, delayed making
withdrawal requests to IDA. For most subprojects, however, actual
disbursements by IBY proceeded at a relatively fast pace in the earlier part
of the project implementation period due to the absence of stringent import
licensing restrictions. Disbursement slackened from early 1986 onwards when
import licensing became much more restrictive. The IDA credit was not fully
disbursed due to subproject cancellations incurred after the terminal date for
new commitments had passed. In 1988, IBY fully repaid the outstanding loan
balance owed to the Government in advance of maturity.
5.05        During project implementation, no changes were made to IBY's
interest rate structure, and the record indicates that official reviews of
IBY's interest rate structure were not carried out until the advent of the
following operation (Credit 1547-YAR). Shortly after project approval in
March 1981, international lending rates increased, but subsequently
experienced a decline from 1982 onwards and continuing throughout the
commitment period of the project to levels below those prevailing at the time
of project approval. Domestic inflation also subsided until 1984 to about 5%
per annum or less, making IBY's on-lending rate significantly positive in real
terms. By 1982, however, it had become apparent that IBY's spread of 3
percentage points was insufficient and represented a severe constraint on
IBY's profitability (para. 4.04). In addition to the slower than forecast
mobilization and use of concessionary financing from other sources, IBY's
spread was pressured by increases in personnel costs and reduced income on its
liquid resources. A covenant required IBY to maintain an interest rate spread
adequate to cover specified levels of administrative expenses, provisions,
dividends on preference shares, and to build up adequate reserves. In May
1983, IBY proposed to IDA that the on-lending rate from the Government should
be reduced by about 1 or 2 percentage points at least on a temporary basis.
On the basis of the record, IDA appears not to have been responsive to IBY's
proposal, and no amendments were ever made.



6.  PrD,ct RTe- ti
6.01         Credit Component . Twenty- two subprojects were approved by IBY
under Credit 1122-YAR, as against about thirty estimated at appraisal.  A
summary of the subprojects is given in Part III of this report. Onie
subproject (Al-Azany Workshop) did not become operational after disbursements
were made. The two final subprojects approved in 1986 were eventually
cancelled,  Of the twenty subprojects financed by IBY, fourteen were
greenfield projects while the remaining six were expansion projects; no
subproject fell under the rehabilitation category. Agro-allied/food
processing, building/construction materials and mining/quarrying accounted for
three, four and three subprojects, respectively. Services and chemicals
accounted for 2 and 3 subprojects. Only one subproject was export-oriented.
The total costs of the 20 subprojects financed by the line of credit was
estimated at about SDR29.1 million ($31.4 million equivalent), giving an
average total subproject cost of about SDRl.5 million ($1.6 million
equivalent). The original subloan amounts (before adjustments) approved by
IDA totalled about SDR10.6 million, or about 36.4% of the total estimated
costs of the subprojects.  A legal covenant requ.ring at least 60% of the
credit line to allocated to subloans not exceeding $750,000 (later amended to
$1.0 million) was satisfied. IDA reviewed about 75% of the subloans prior to
their approval, as against 50% estimated at appraisal. These subloans
accounted for about 92% of the total credit allocation to subloans.
6.02        On the basis of estimates given in IBY's subproject appraisal
reports, the total number of jobs provided by the financed subprojects was
estimated to total about 513, of which one subproject (Al-Azany Workshop)
accounting for about 33 jobs was not implemented. The average cost per job
was therefore about US$61,000 equivalent. The median cost per job was about
US$53,000. The high estimated cost per job, compared to an average cost per
job of about US$15,000-US$25,000 in developing countries, is partly due to the
shortages and relatively high costs of skilled labor. (Wage rates in YAR have
been influenced by the the large scale migration of Yemeni workers to Saudi
Arabia and other Gulf states, and also reflect the strong need for further
development of training facilities in YAR). Industrial raw materials are also
relatively high cost in YAR. As a result, most of the subprojects were
capital-intensive. The financial and economic rates of return estimated in
the subproject appraisal reports were high, averaging about 37% and 38%,
respectively, for the 15 subprojects which were subject to prior review by
IDA.
6.03        Of the twenty subprojects financed under the credit, almost all
are still operating. Only seven subloans are still in the process of
repayment. Six of these are experiencing arrears, but only two (both are
turneries) have serious problems. One subproject (Al-Azany Workshop) never
became operational. A few subprojects started well but subsequently
experienced difficulties due to weak marketing assessments by the sponsors and
also by IBY during subproject appraisal. Another subproject (Oxygen and
Nitrous Manufacturing Plant), for example, performed well during the
construction of oil pipelines in the Hodeida area but subsequently experienced
declining sales following the completion of the pipeline. Sales of nitrous
oxide gas by the same subproject have also been adversely affected by the
establishment of a similar plant by the Yemeni Air Force Medical Corps. The



9
company has been taking steps to diversify its operations by investing further
resources in a new plant to produce acetylene gas. Another subproject (Sana'a
Beverage) also experienced difficulties apparently because of insufficient
market analysis and testing of its soft drink products at the time of
subproject preparation and appraisal. The company's soft drinks have not
fared well in the marketplace, in contrast to those introduced by a
competitor.
6.04         IBY experienced a growing level of portfolio arrears in the early
years of project implementation. At appraisal. in May/June 1980, arrears of
principal represented only about 0.7% of IBY's loan portfolio. By December
1981, total arrears of principal had reached about 13.4% of the loan
portfolio. Over 70 of the 85 projects in IBY's portfolio were in arrears. A
review of IBY'F portfolio carried out by IDA staff in March 1985 cited a
number of reasons for the arrears, including: (i) the newness of industrial
lending and contractual concepts in YAR; (ii) the perception of IBY by some
borrowers as a government institution that need not be repaid; (iii) the
incentives inherent in IBY's interest rate structure for borrowers to delay
payments on their IBY loans since IBY's interest rate was lower than the rates
on their commercial bank financing; (iv) cash squeezes experienced by
borrowers undertaking further capital expenditures without IBY's knowledge;
(v) insufficient aggressiveness by IBY in its collection efforts; and (vi)
IBY's conservative lending policies (e.g., relatively tight grace and maturity
periods, high security requirements, and reluctance to provide working capital
loans). In regard to lending policies, IBY may have given too much emphasis
to collateral relative to current and projected cash flows.
6.05        To address the arrears problem, IBY initiated an action program in
1982/1983 which included the establishment of a senior management committee to
review and recommend specific actions on a case-by-case basis, an increase in
the interest rate penalty for default from 1% to 5%, a lengthening of
repayment and grace periods for new loan approvals, a rescheduling of existing
loans where justified, and stronger project follow-up and collection efforts.
The IDA review of IBY's portfolio in 1985 effectively endorsed the above
actions including the rescheduling of projects which could be rehabilitated,
and recommended that IBY should also arrange or provide working capital to
projects afflicted with shortages of working capital. IBY's actions helped to
contain the level of arrears of principal to about 14.5% to 16.5% of the loan
portfolio (the level over three months in arrears ranged between 11% and 13%)
through to December 1987, by which time the severe import licensing
restrictions began to take their toll on enterprise performance and IBY's
arrears position began to worsen (para. 7.02). Information on the trend in
IBY's arrears is given in Part III of this report.
6.06        As of December 31, 1988 (i.e., one year after the credit was
closed), the total principal and interest in arrears on subloans financed
under the credit totalled about SDR546,000 equivalent, or about 6% of the
original disbursed amount of SDR8.67 million. The contribution of the IDA-
assisted subprojects to the overall arrears position of IBY after the closure
of the credit has therefore been small, because most of the subprojects were
implemented during a period of relatively unrestricted import licencing as
well as of favorable domestic market conditions for their products. IBY,



10
however, is experiencirng arrears problems on some of its subsequent subloans
to the same borrowers. In general, the major problems that affected
subproject implementation performance and subsequent loan repayment ability
were: (a) lack of import licenses for the importation of equipment, raw
materials or spare parts in the later part of credit implementation; (b)
weaknesses in sub-borrower management; (c) weaknesses in market analysis; (c)
shortages of working capital; and (d) shortages of skilled personnel.
6.07        Techlnical Assistance Component.  The technical assistance
component hlad beneficial effects on the quality of IBY's overall operations.
An IDA staff member was seconded to IBY for a period of two years, beginning
in early 1982, as a development banking advisor. Previously IBY had received
the services of a development banking advisor under Credit 465-YAR.  At the
time of appraisal, IBY was also receiving the services of a financial advisor
and ati engineering advisor financed with ODA assistance, and a legal advisor
financed under a Kuwait Fund grant. These services were extended during the
course of project implementation with financing under Credit 1122-YAR. Since
IDA procedures prevented the use of the IDA credit for financing a seconded
IDA staff member, IBY met most of the costs of the development banking advisor
from its own resources. The presence of the development banking advisor: in
IBY helped to facilitate the early resolution of banking issues that arose in
the course of project implementation and supervision. He advised IBY
management on policy issues and coordinated the work of the other advisors.
He and the other advisors helped IBY to strengthen the project pipeline,
improve project appraisal methodology, improve financial policies and records,
improve portfolio management and develop a program of arrears control, and
strengthen business promotion activities. But at credit closure, a number of
activities remained relatively weak, particularly project supervision and
follow-up procedures, risk management, and subproject rehabilitation. The
establishment of the formal project supervision system that had been envisaged
at appraisal, including procedures manuals, was not completed when the project
was closed. In this regard, the terms of reference of the development banking
advisor may have been too broad. But closer monitoring of the technical
assistance aspects of the project by both IDA and IBY appears to have been
necessary.
6.08        About five senior IBY staff, including the General Manager,
underwent training and attachment programs abroad. In addition, the Chairman
and General Manager undertook study tours to development banking institutions
in India, Korea, Thailand, Turkey, Tunisia, and Egypt. About two other IBY
staff members also received external training, including graduate study
programs, which were financed by other donors. This training was useful in
strengthening management capabilities. The expatriate advisors provided some
on-the-job training of IBY staff, but formal in-house training of middle to
lower-level staff was not provided on a systematic basis.
6.09        Attainment of Project Objectives.  The specific goals of the
project were attained, although with mixed results. Institutional
capabilities improved significantly during the period of project
implementation but the goals and targets of the technical assistance component
were not sufficiently clear to enable a definitive evaluation of its
achievements or shortcomings. At project completion, IBY still required



11
l i t lI t I  .t   t I    lt-  II-1  i I  l   .  t  i ( III,  I1 Il  i  i,  III  if I't  o.      s;f pro  i    j t    ',' p  .tt t' r",    i   II     I1I t(I
I      i I I If Il  rj ee t5.   p f) j t't  i(it i    i  i ;' ,t i Oil  ii o i
1 lI t > II ( g I I  , I    it1  t.   . :11,Iti i:    tI (lII  Ipi .tltI -vi !.i()II  IIII I.s  1, I I. .
I) If   (   )   A\    (1,-b.  I i hXtd   Jw ,A    ........ . ... e'', I!I,>. ,  t It     11( F;1)[) I-    j I, c't  ',   ', I Ippo r t I* d   (  1 ) I  ';l) I ()il'
li Ifid (: r  lj t   1'iI    1     .',A ' it If' lo i r;lt i ig ,t: st aisial)lnbl, al thou   a .;f i fw  are
'.('l ietllill', ditici  i    I I t 'j    Siiinu*  ('f  I 1w    wthicprh  cnwiili           - Let' i itte'd  i rotil
'.III) hIl).;  i    t('p rIt i III,  t         t e.s.    ilt I;    o f  t lhe i r   list alIl I (-d  capac i t i es  ai(ld luive
*       .    I  ]t1'  .'                         .  t      '1'  'lIti('II.      I       .  . .t  (){ t W  111;s t t  t   i, .1 1 toSl     I t a1,  Se  t I    '.111 t  iIli
i 1111 il   t  I i  c    lI t  . iij,  I   ' ; I it iii,.   (i; litiS I aluve  expIlr iietlc'd  Iltiar.ke t inIg
iob I t ill,; .n(it wt',i k s,( as  in  malriafit.kllnt I,:  The rt f olre",  t ie  f il I    erW fits
ant It  i pat  i dI  r)ot   tl I ii   Ioij(uI  ini  t urm.l  .f  i ncreastd  out put , i ticll(ti(ip,g net
fort ignl  exchaIntge  !savinjgs;,  mayi inot h            been  fullv  realized.    IBY  hlis  not
uii(1u   akn .1  {i i i l  .assts,uiItt  of  tie  p -  - impl  ement at ion  I illancial  andcl ecolomiic
t .,t   (of  ft  nn  Iol  tlhe   lll-ro j t-. I ¾          to  the  nion-maini    te (tinaice  of  financial
rtInl d'; L)v  ,(Ibh 1ri(,W]-.. (l  ai- i d            *   ii *-'.''ade  thllte  payllent  of  c oporit t  t.ax)
For  tIlie   holi'Vi    , rtas)ola liiiw        the  .   ial  f inancial  and  economic  rat CS  of
let Ofi,-1 (if  the  sUIhpro)jkcts  alre  P-prohaih           lower  thiati the  subproject appt-aisal
et  ji ll"It (.    Neve r  ie II(-e'; ,   lt hliot .il  t II  p)-oj ect' S  intpact was mode st  inl terms  of
jo); cie;tet(d,  iticrreasd  (cap,icit y ot i '.;at ion, and  gross  value- added,  it
yielded    igllificutnt  l)nt'filt S  to  t-he  i onoiny  through  the  nur-turinig  of
i    s I t I irI  ila11vSt ifltn   alnd  growth, thn   ;ayVitlg  of  foreign  exchange   anid
ilist itt io.lla  arid  pol ic('  (ltvelopitlivlt         11(idirectly,  the  project  may  also  have
corit ribhut,ed  modestAv  to  poverty  reduk  :on  and  income  distribution  through  the
creation  of acldditioi;il  joh<s  lbv  w.a  (of i;uhdistril)utors  and  small  scale
retailers  of  products  finranced  under   lie  proj  cCt.
P. Iroject  Sustainabi lit y
7 .0             lBY  is  CIurrEt lV  tHie  sourc(e  of more  than  85%  of  the
inst i-t it i on.il ly  provided  termin fi nanric   for  i ndustrial  i nvestminte   in  Yemetn .
Throouis,)  IDA  .s si-;taincr  inidert  C rdi it  i  ? ?-YAR  and  subseqiue nt ly  Creci t  1 547-
YAR, IRY',';  ,apab i it i es  have  st(ad;l1v   m;wiroved, but  furtheor  finauriciaa   and
i nsttittioinIla]  st rengtheni ng  is  still           eqc.ired.   As of end  1988,  IBY  had  a
C(i %St%v l     e (tei)td,/eiiilqtty  structulre  of  about  I :1  and  higi  liquidity. . In  recent
Vcl-S. ,lihowe(-vtr, IBY' s partfoli,o arre,u :-, have  increased  to  a  level whicih  have
the  pottoutial, to  undermine  the  inst it . ion's  ftiture  viability  and(  performinziice.
' 02              As of  Deccember  31   1Q88   t-i   proportion,  in  monet ary  term-, of
B'Y's  totail  loon  port folio  (inc luii,ii.  irtreal-s  of prilcipal)  whichi was
cla ;-.if  (I ci , pe rforiling  (arr.              11 . h  .    h,ill 90  davls  past  duel)   *Was onlv  abouit
33% .   Also  on  that  d..te   total  prir. i   ,I pavments  in  arrears  (over  90  days)
wee a-t luot  2a7'  of  tie, tot al  lo,in  pwr, fo] io   and  cotinl iu  d  arrears  of  princippal
,tid  Ili I r-.t  (excl oili        sn-accrued   .it  t-st  onl loanls  nl(et-  l i t iga:t ionl)  wert
alhout  297  of   Iihe  tot a    I oan  port folii  plus accrued  interest  in  arrears
Almost  V'.%  of  tinII loatin   in  IRY' s  por2           io werte  experiencing  principal
payment s  in  ar rears  (over 90  dlays)               *ans wlicic  IBY  had  taken  to  court
accountI d  for  aibiut  1,9'Z  of  tht- po; fu i it  aind  5(0   of  the  total  arrte-ars
7 03             T .    i'i ur- r      r   l *,   "           it c III -   t I-il   I I  eW  inili- ut k'ei",    Oni,
SiX  hIOffii}-WClS-K  a'- (001115; i'd{ fOr' ;'()X  o)f    ' .   w u)t ui1  arrears l f'.l.    in   t i'i terms   of  subsect or's,
)oIrIt)wtrs : jp; ii iI)i  (Jnti-U  t ion1 ; at It  i .,IS  (sttone,   ar"ble  and(  hrick)  accounte d



12
rO- t I i,. raj ori t v of t IIe arreitr sI'S   I n, citddi t ioII, a)out 43% of te a iirralrsf wl e'
accouilited fol- by loalls to brickakillm ng  literprises whicth I Y' rl(1(de ill the (heIrly
1930s at the insistnlce of the Governument . This practice oni the part of the
Covernment, however, has teased.  IBY consid(ers the prospects for recovery of
a r rears on t he loans under l it i gat i on to be re asonabl Iy goo(l, but debt recovery
processes in YAR are often protracted over several years.
1.(14        IBY has taken a number of steps to help address the arrears
prohlewi, including raising the penalty rate of interest from I tO oA',
lengthening maturities, and improv ing follow-uup and collect ion processes
(parai. 6.05)). Some reschredulintgs, however, have beell il()lerneont ed in the
absence of a complete reappraisal or review of the affected subprojects.  IBY
also wrote off eight small loans in 1988, and is planninig to write off furtlhe
loar...  But IIIucth more needs to be done.  Collection performance declined
significantly in 1988, with IBY collecting only about 62% of current payments
due (excluding non-accrued interest).
7.05        The weakening collection performance and past deficiencies in
IBY's appraisal processes, such as the greater emphasis placed by IBY on
collateral instead of current and projected cash flow, are important causes of
IBY's continuing arrears problems, but other major causes are exogenous to
IBY. Macro-level distortions have affected the competitiveness of Yemeni
enterprises and tile efficiency of their resource use, import licensing
restrictions have severely weakened many of iBY's borrowers through capacity
underutilization, and the substantial depreciation of the Yemeni rial has
greatly increased the debt service burdens of its borrowers who have borne the
foreign exchange risk. In addition, the country's lengthy legal processes for
debt recovery and its weak financial disclosure requirements have also been
important factors.
7.06         IBY's profitability is also low, and has been overstated in the
past due to poor accounting policies. Real income has been overstated by
accruing as income uncollected interest on loans which were long past due
(i.e., more than 180 days) and which should have been considered as
non-performing assets. Hence, actual financial results were substantially
different from those reflected in the accounts. Provisions for loan loss
reserves have also been too low. Contributing to IBY's low profitability was
the inadequate spread of 3 percentage points allowed IBY during the
implementation of Credit 1122-YAR. For the immediate future, IBY should now
be allowed a much higher spread of about 8 percentage points to enable it to
build up its provisions for loss reserves. This spread would be comparable to
the spreads earned by the commercial banks in Yemen on trade finance. In
time, IBY's spread could be reduced to about 6 percentage points. IBY's
Income Statements and Balance Sheets for 1984 to 1988 are given in Part III of
this report.
7.07         In general, IBY needs to become more aggressive in credit
management, to significantly increase its loss reserves, and to adopt a more
selective and less risky growth strategy for its term financing operations.
Of particular importance are operational policy improvements in the areas of
loan classification, provisioning and income accrual, and the adoption of
mandatory policies and guidelines for appraisal, follow-up and collection



13
P) rO  Se S ss   I BY al so nee ds t o becomne a fot-ce for imp roved f iinaricizal  di clo sure
in *'AR, by rtquiring and assist i ig its b)orrowers t.o meet reporting and
diSCIosure reqIui rementts ade(lqIate( to 0  o0iitor their pe-rformnance   III addit io,
IBY' a] o leieds to begin diversifyilng illto other banking act ivities5 to htelp
ircrea';e returnsit and( reduce overal I business and financ ial risks, while
providing potentially synergistic benefits to existing operations.  An
appropriate diversification program might focus on activities such as leasing,
working capital financing and letters of credit, funds management and
Investl ment consult iTlg, and technical consultilng.  In this regard, IBY' s Board
of Dlirectors needs to take responsibility for a leading role. A package of
actions to restructure IBY into a more narket.-orieented competitive banik is
being prepared for iniclusioIn in a proposed IDA-assisted project which would
CooImpl lmlelit Gevernment init.iatives at the macro-level.
8. IlDA Performance
8.01        IDA performed satisfactorily in project identification, appraisal
and supervision, but various weaknesses in project design have become apparent
(paras. 4.02 - 4.05). During preparation and appraisal, IDA stressed the need
for adjustments to IBY's interest rate structure, and substantial improvements
were achieved. In addition, during appraisal, IDA recommended improvements to
IBY's Act and Policy Statement which were adopted by IBY, and later IDA also
suggested various revisions, which were also adopted, to take account of
experience during the course of project implementation. During supervison,
IDA focussed on institutional and policy measures to address IBY's portfolio
arrears problems, on strengthening IBY's business development efforts, and on
arraniginig external training for IBY staff. Some further improvements,
however, could have been made. Following the growth in IBY's artears, more
attention should have been paid to IBY's loss reserve policies and to its
income accrual policies, and to the potential need for diversification to
reduce IBY's overall business risk structure. A closer observance of
covenants during project supervision would also have been helpful. For
example, insufficient attention appears to have been paid by IDA to reqired
reviews of IBY's interest rate structure, particularly with respect to the
adequacy of IBY's spread (paras. 4.04 and 5.05) and to the passing of foreign
exchange risk to subbborrowers (para. 4.03).
9. Borrower Performance
9.01          IBY made reasonable progress in building up its managerial and
institutional capabilities, including measures to help further its business
development. IBY also performed satisfactorily in the selection and appraisal
of subprojects financed under the line of credit, as evidenced from the number
of subprojects fully implemented after disbursement and the relatively low
level of problems associated with them when viewed in the context of the
macroeconomic environment. The quality of subproject appraisal reports
prepared by IBY staff was satisfactory particularly given the stage of
development of the institution. IBY management took an issues-oriented and
reasoned approach to management decision-making and to addressing issues
raised by IDA supervision missions.



1 /4
(I  (2           IV'.    II()  '(1 k ..1,i ,'.,    til,     p,loi t     t    W"t..i! '    ''    Y .';! Itc'(-     b".N <   1ll,  -  l
f I  . l  (1    t  ii   I  i,''i  l ii()i:Irptllt    'i1i   Ii   I lit.    f.t r  i t;t'-lit  I ijitr t  I il  & It'.j I S ' - Gui  i ,
ill[ ImIt1ic e.  ill PWO.f        Cw"t(:>x-1-lsi 1  .11    dt1 .ire to)  ;tilJt-| pw¢¢i t ix ItAl .t11<
hle li pIt jct - , sIr'; t ai ItrIe  was; t( i dt'm' t dl 1n  t Iit' i  w.;t;ri('t'  wi t 1I ';o:;t1- (tI ly ., (o
Irillitrt  1i t-'ist'; for () hrtt  of  lIIi' 5ti)l)l rojt'. t
1)0.    roject   e at I ori t in,l
10.01       ill).I DA allot I W'S  reI at i olsiri 1) w it II tfir  othier agene i s; of  t he Goxvt'riri'eIt t
AWItIl a'; I liii Mi ii ;tr  ol Ec'on0my S1pi IE)iy all(Il liride  (MEST'), tire C'trita il P lItini lig,
(0trg.irt I;rat i oil (CIP)) andl t ie Minli s t y of  Fi liarii' were  a] so s;at is f act ov .  I;tits!;
raii s;('dl bn' t lie part Wts We re aiddres'sed  il tt af rauk ;nird conist ruc t i \e at ilospliere .
11I   !.!e;';orts Lra  .ed
1(1 .T()1       'loi'  I o)11 01 o                 - go irs     .inIe  ] ' ; were ( lrll (dt (t(iltrirll, p)l Oj]t('t
irip I emetnt a t ion:
za) Deve I opl  nt hank ing p) oj ec t s arkF pa rticula' I y vu tilit'r 1tl) I' t o
eve nit s wir i ch weaken o r dli st o-t t he mac roeconom i c and f i lallcni I  po1)0i Cy
tiv i rotiinient .For deve I oprnerit bank i ng  inst i tut i otis such as  I BY
diversification  of their  l ines of busitess s; tnay help  to redtuce their- overall
b)usiness risks  aiid improve  their performance  and competitiveness.
(b) In appraising and supervising development banking projects,
close  attention needs  to paid by IDA to the  interest  rate spread requirement
of the banking institutions  to ensure  th;it  it  is adequate  to serve  the needs
of the institution and  is competitive with  the spreads earned by other
financial  institutions.   Close attention also needs  to be paid to the
accounting  standards  and financial  policies employed by the banking
institutioIl, to ensure  that  thev enable an accurate  reflection of true
financial  conidition and provide  for asset  classification and loan loss
provisioning  in line with  international banking practices.
(c) In view of the volatile  natuLre of foreign exchanige  rates
world-wide and  tire particularly vulner.tbl e position of developing countries
such as YAR, foreign  exchange  risks  slhould not be passed on to small
subborrowers who are  inable to assess  such risks or hedge  against them.
Instead<   ;rrangterirents sliou l(1 be made foi thtn  Covernmnent to beir suich  iisks  in
ret.urin  for- appFrop )ri are Comupe nsat iIlo, such       aln imrplicit  int(rest  ritt.e sptetad
incorporated in the interest rate structure.
(d) Carteful plariritig  arid  ruonitoring of technical assistance  is
reqji rd to ('I)';Uite tha, objectives arte- ie'  an)( anticipate d bernefits aciieve d
12.   Project  Documentation and Data
12.01       The  legal agreements were  found to be adequate  for achieving project
objectives  in both  technical  assistance and financial  areas.   The Staff
Apprrisal Report prowldud a irse ful fraimework for reviewing  the progress  of
project  imp]ecinitat ion.



15
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1122-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Results
1.01        Subproject Status. Economic ImRact and Sectoral Performance.  The
implementation of the project resulted in the establishment of nineteen (19)
subprojects; one project could not be implemented despite having received
partial disbursement from IBY. The project led to the creation of an
estimated 470 jobs, as opposed to the projected 513 jobs in the subproject
appraisal reports. (The remaining 33 jobs would have been created by the un-
implemented project, the Al-Azany Workshop.) Total subproject cost, now
estimated at US$31.4 million, gives an estimated cost per job of US$61,000 at
the time of appraisal. The total final cost of the subprojects has been
difficult to estimate due to the reluctance of some sponsors to supply
information and data. The rather high estimated cost per job was considered
acceptable by the Government given the lack of skilled labor and basic
industrial raw materials in the country. Although the direct economic impact
of the projects on the economy, as well as overall sectoral performance, has
not fully been evaluated, the Government feels that both the IBY and the
subprojects financed under the credit have contributed towards the overall
development of the sector: jobs have been created; disposable incomes have
increased; and the management capabilities of entrepreneurs have improved.
1.02        IBY Financial Operations.  IBY continued to show profits and to
declare and pay dividends on preference shares during the life of Credit 1122-
YAR. Due to the difficult economic climate of the last four years, which
necessitated the continuation of the import-licensing policy and resulted in
poor marketing and management, many subprojects financed under the Credit by
IBY have continued to operate below their optimum capacity. The loan and
interest arrears of IBY have, therefore, continued to increase.
1.03        Institutional Aspects:  IBY's institutional capabilities, in most
areas of its operations, were greatly improved. The Government, however, was
aware that IBY needed to further upgrade its skills in some areas, e.g.,
project supervision and follow-up; technical evaluation; project
identification, screening and selection; and market evaluation.
Part II comprises comments provided by the Government and IBY,
which have been edited for purposes of the report.
. 



16
1.04         The Ministry of Economy, Supply and Trade (MEST) is the
supervisory ministry for IBY. Due to ongoing improvements in the quality of
its staff, especially within the DOI, MEST has focussed more of its attention
within the last two years on the needs of the IBY and its sub-borrowers.
Neverthieless, this support needs to be increased in both intensity and
quality. MEST's support is particularly needed in the allocation of import
licenses to sub-borrowers and in the assessment of government and board
policies on IBY operations.
2. IDA Perf'ormance
2.01         Project Concentualization. Implementation and Supervision:  The
conceptual foundation for the project by IDA was thought to be good and in
line with the Covermuent's broad sectoral objectives and the needs of the
economy. The subproject financing component was appropriate in terms of
objectives and criteria for lending. The technical assistance component,
though judged to be clear in its identification of the areas of IBY that
needed strengthening, needed further input. The timing of the project was
judged to be particularly fortuitous as implementation coincided with the drop
in remittances by migrant Yemeni workers; the rise in unemployment as a result
of the returning workers; and the rising economic expectations of the
populace. The proceeds of the Credit to IBY also came at a time when the IBY
had many projects in the pipeline and needed additional foreign exchange
resources with which to finance them. The supervision of the project by IDA
was considered excellent as valuable advice was given by IDA staff in key
areas of IBY operations throughout the life of the project.
2.02        Lessons Learned.  In view of the poor management of some of the
enterprises, and the need to further strengthen and/or build upon the initial
efforts of the senior advisor, the following lessons have also been learned:
(i)    Given the low management capabilities of Yemeni entrepreneurs, they
require training in such basic management skills as maintenance of
financial records, assessment of market and marketing strategies,
crisis manaRement, project idea generation, and project screening
and selection.
(ii)    Care needs to be taken in formulating terms of reference for
advisory services. The terms of reference for the development
banking advisor under the technical assistance component were,
perhaps, too broad and beyond the effective execution of one person.
(iii)    The supervision and evaluation of technical advisory services should
be carefully monitored, especially concerning the attainment of
objectives and goals.
3. Performance by the Borrower (and its Beneficiary Institution - the IBY)
3.01        Government's Performance.  The Government's performance during the
life of the project was considered to be good and showed an understanding of
the aims and objectives of the line of credit. The identification of areas of
the economy that had clear economic advantages, and which could be developed



1 7
to the overall advantage of the Yemenis, was well thought out.  However, the
Government's practical support to the subprojects, especially the timely
issuance of import licenses, should possibly have been improved.  The
relationship between the Government and IDA was generally good, and there was
a channel through which IDA could offer advice on policies that affected the
IBY and its sub-borrowers.
3.02         IBY's Performance.  IBY performed well during the implementation
of the project. It continued to report profits and to pay dividends.
However, IBY's arrears position continued to worsen. This decline was due to
the weak economic environment; poor management on the part of some
entrepreneurs; and lastly, the rather difficult legal environment within which
IBY operates. IBY was able to service the subsidiary loan from the Government
and fully repaid the whole loan to the Government at the time of this report.
However, it had not paid the accrued interest on the subsidiary loan.
4. Other Lessons Learned
(i) Certain standard covenants should be made more flexible to
take into account the developmental stage of the recipient country and the
objectives of the project. This was found to be particularly necessary in the
case of the Project Agreement (Section 2.02(e)(ii)), which made expenditures
on subloans incurred more than 90 days prior to the receipt of subproject
information by IDA ineligible for re-financing by the Credit.
(ii) Project supervision should not only focus on the global
operations of the beneficiary institution but should also monitor technical
assistance more carefully.



19
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1122-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related IDA Credits
Credit No.        Year           Purpose
and Project        of              of
Title         Approval         Project         Status            Comments
Cr. 465-YAR       1974      To develop an       Completed   Industrial estate was
(Industrial                 industrial         12/82.       completed but main
Estate                      estate in                       objectives were not
Project)                    Sana'a and                      achieved.  Refer:
provide credit                  PCR No. 5323 of
to enterprises                 November 12, 1984.
on the estate.
Cr. 1547-         1985      To strengthen       On-going.   Implementation
YAR (Second                  IBY and provide                proceeding
Industrial                  a line of                       satisfactorily.
Development                 credit for
Project)                    industrial
investment.



TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
ITEM                   DATE            DATE          DATE
PLANNED        REVISED       ACTUAL
IDENTIFICATION                                      03/80
APPRAISAL MISSION                                    05/80
NEGOTIATION                                          2.11 - 2.13/81
BOARD APPROVAL                                       3.26/81
CREDIT SIGNATURE                                     5.15/81
CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS    8.14.81                      11.13/81
CREDIT CLOSING            12.31.85    12.31.87       12.31/87
CREDIT COMPLETION         6.30.86      12.31.87      12.31/87



?]
TABLE 3: MISSION DATA
(ACTUAL)
Nature of Mission   No. of staff    Date of Mission         No. of days
Identification              3       March 1-13, 1980            13
Appraisal                    2      May 21 - June 5, 1980       16
Supervision                  1      May 12 - 27, 1982           16
Supervision                  1      May 11 - 14, 1983           4
Supervision                 2       Nov. 9 - 20, 1983           12
Supervision                  1      March 3- 17, 1984           15
Mission (Undisclosed
Purpose)                     1      Oct. 3 - Nov 20, 1984       49
Portfolio Review            2       March 4- 21, 1985           18
Supervision                  2      April 4- 21, 1985           11
Supervision                  2      Jan.10 - 25, 1987           16
Supervision                  4      Oct. 2 - 9,  1987            8
*Project Completion
Report (PCR)           1       June 10 - July 7, 1989           28
NOTE:    Many of the missions were combined with other project
missions so it was not always possible to estimate how much
time was actually spent on Credit 1122-YAR alone.
*        Project Completion Mission (PCR) was undertaken by a
consultant.



'22
Table 4: Use of Credit Proceeds 1/
(SDR million)
Category                Appraisal Estimate              Actual
Subproject Financing                  9.5                      8.7 2.
Technical Assistance                 02                       0 2
Total                          9.7                       8.9
1/ Detailed cost estimates were not provided in the staff appraisal report.
.Z/ SDR 0.8 million was cancelled on January 13, 1988 due to subproject
cancellations and cost savings.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(1122-YAR)
fable  5:    SUMMARY OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER THE CREDIT
A.  COMMITMENTS/WITHDRAWALS
DATE       AMOUNT          AMOUNTS           NET         WITHDRAWALS
NAME OF PROJECT               SECTOR    APPROVED    APPROVED         ADJUSTED        APPROVALS        BY IBY          UNDRAWN
(SDR)        (SAVINGS)         (SDR)           (SOR)           (SOR)
(1)                       (2)        (3)          (4)             (5)         (6)=(4)+(5)         (7)             (8)
Al.  Water Bottling                     Food        06/14/82      399,164.00       (6,309.91)    392,854.09       392,854.09            0.00
A2.  Oxygen and Nitrous Oxide Project Chemicals  07/20/82         543,095.00      (18,914.72)    524,180.28       524,180.28            0.00
A3.  Sana'a Beverage                    Food        10/14/82    1,700,000.00    (549,496.97)  1,150,503.03   1,150,503.03               0.00
A4.  Maeen Sand Crushing Co.            Quarrying  10/29/82       610,500.00      (62,721.62)    547,778.38       547,778.38            0.00
A5.  Mughahed Stone Crushing Quarry   Ouarrying  10/29/82         451,000.00       (4,042.44)    446,957.56       446,957.56            0.00
A6.  Saladdin Household Utensils        Mfg.        01/19/83      885,320.00    (456,675.15)    428,644.85        428,644.85            0.00
A7.  Bilquis Biscuits                   good       01/19/83       798,430.00    (153,598.98)    644,831.02        644,831.02            0.00
A8.  Yassin Taha Tiles and Blocks       Bldg. Mat. 06/29/83       333,652.00      (37,838.23)    295,813.77       295,813.77            0.00
A9.  Hizam Tiles Mfg.                   BLdg. Mat. 01/06/84       837,000.00      (18,157.45)    818,842.55       818,842.55            0.00
AIO. Hayder Sand Crushing               Quarrying  01/06/84       680,000.00      (54,427.33)    625,572.67       625,572.67            0.00
All. Nasser Turnery                     Serv.       02/24/84      336,000.00             0.00     336,000.00      381,275.46      (45,275.46)
A12. Al-Rafia Plastics                  Chemicals  05/17/84       700,000.00      (45,360.17)    654,639.83       654,639.83            0.00
A13. Hais Ice Plant                     Mfg.       08/27/84       258,000.00      (22,184.76)    235,815.24       235,815.24            0.00
A14. Azani Workshop                     Serv.      08/27/84       331,000.00    (137,595.72)    193,404.28        193,404.28            0.00
A15. Shamrackh Taming and Leather    Mfg.           11/12/84      881,000.00    (190,763.58)    690,236.42        590,236.42      100,000.00
Total                                                      9,744,161.00  (1,758,087.03)  7,986,073.97   7,931,349.43         54,724.54
Bi.  Al-Kasar Nails Factory             Bldg. Mat. 06/14/82        80,558.00       (2,903.79)      83,461.79       77,654.21            0.00
B2. Dageen Plastics                     Chem.      06/14/82       261,814.00      (17,154.74)    278,968.74       244,659.26            0.00
B3.  Amran BLocks                       Bldg. Mat. 03/25/83       265,000.00      (60,392.35)    325,392.35       204,607.65            0.00
B4.  Atweil Photos                      Chem.      06/27/84        54,000.00       (7,390.15)      61,390.15       46,609.85            0.00
B5.  Leather Shoes                      Mfg.        12/08/86      211,820.00            0.00      211,820.00      165,640.99       46,179.01
B6.  Hashim Furniture                   Furn.       12/08/86      206,095.00            0.00      206,095.00       Cancelled       Cancelled
87.  Wadding Material                   Mfg.       08/12/86       137,397.00            0.00      137,397.00       Cancelled       Cancelled
Total                                                      1,216,684.00      (87,841.03)  1,304,525.03      739,171.96       46,179.01
A + B                                              SDR         10,960,845.00  (1,845,928.06)  9,290,599.00   8,670,521.39         100,903.55
SUIMARY
Projects Approved In:                               1982        4,046,131.00            0.00   4,046,131.00
1983        2,282,402.00            0.00   2,282,402.00
1984        4,077,000.00   1,845,928.06   2,231,071.94
1985                 0.00           0.00            0.00
1986          555,312.00            0.00      555,312.00
1987                 0.00           0.00            0.00
1988                 0.00           0.00            0.00
10,405,533.00   1,845,928.06   9,114,916.94



B. SU8PROJECT APPRAISAL REPORT ESTIMATES OF RATES OF RETURN AND JOB CREATION
ESTIMATED
NO. OF
ESTIMATED            US$/SDR AT   JOBS        COST   ESTIMATED ESTIMATED  PROJECT
NAME OF PROJECT                SECTOR       TOTAL SUBPROJECT COST    APPROVAL   CREATED  PER JOB          IRR        ERR       TYPE
USS           SDR                                US$        (¾)        (%)
(1)                        (2)          (9)          (10)        11=9/10      (12)       (13)       (14)       (15)     (16)
Al.  Water Bottling                      Food             908,791        832,768         1.09        17    53,458          37         50    NEW
A2.  Oxygen and Nitrous Oxide Project Chemicals         1,199,121      1,097,453         1.09        11   109,011          35         33    NEW
A3.  Sana'a Beverage                     Food          10,000,000    9,259,259           1.08        77   129,870          25         34    NEW
A4.  Maeen Sand Crushing Co.             Quarrying      1,338,000    1,238,888           1.08         9   148,667          50         50    NEW
A5.  Mughahed Stone Crushing Quarry   Quarrying         1,160,000    1,074,074           1.08        19    61,053          50         50    NEW
A6.  Saladdin Household Utensils         Mfg.           1,746,000    1,593,613           1.10        33    52,927          50         48    NEW
A7.  Bilquis Biscuits                    Food           1,458,460    1,330,712           1.10        52    28,047          39         10 EXPANSION
A8.  Yassin Taha Tiles and Blocks        Bldg. Mat.       918,670       855,611          1.07        16    57,417          34        50    NEW
A9.  Hizam Tiles Mfg.                    Bldg. Mat.    1,454,000    1,384,762            1.05        28    52,000          29        33    NEW
A10. Hayder Sand Crushing                Quarrying      1,786,000    1,700,952           1.05        22    81,180          50        50    NEW
All. Nasser Turnery                      Serv.            842,000        802,669         1.05         9    93,555          30        39 EXPANSION
A12. Al-Rafia Plastics                   Chemicals      1,420,000    1,392,157           1.02        16    88,750          32         14 EXPANSION
A13. Hais Ice Plant                      Mfg.             513,760        494,000         1.04        11    46,705          35        36    NEW
A14. Azani Workshop                      Serv.            756,500        741,667         1.02        33    22,900          38        41    NEW
A15. Shammackh Tanning and Leather    Mfg.              3,135,000    2,850,000           1.10        51    61,471          32        26    NEW                           -
Subtotal                                          28,636,302   26,648,585                     404
81.  At-Kasar Nails Factory              Bldg. Mat.       470,769       431,388          1.09        16    29,423          45        NA    NEW
62.  Dageen Plastics                     Chem.            628,791       576,344          1.09        26    24,184          36        NA EXPANSION
83.  Amran Blocks                        Bldg. Mat.       764,615        707,224         1.08        19    40,243         36         NA    NEW
84.  AIweil Photos                       Chem.            119,666        115,063         1.04         6    19.944          NA        NA EXPANSION
B5.  Leather Shoes                       Mfg.             810,373       670,839          1.21        42    1,,295         32         52 EXPANSION
B6.  Hashim Furniture                    Furn.          Cancetled
B7.  Wadding Material                    Mfg.           Cancelled
Subtotal                                           2,794,214    2,500,858                     109
Total (A+B)                                      31,430,516   29,149,443                      513
YARPCR.WK1
5-29-90 AA1



25
TABLE 6:   SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF SUBLOANS
Sectoral Distribution   No. of  % of   Total   % of    Total    % of
of Subloans              Project Total  IBY       IBY     IDA       Total
No.   Subloan Subloan Subloan  Bank
US$'OOO          US$'OOO  Loan
Agro-Allied/Food           3        15%    -        -       2,419   26%
Services                   2        10%    -        -         594    6%
Bldg. Materials/
Construction               4        20%    -        -       1,471   16%
Chemicals                  3        15%    -        -       1,311   14%
Mining/Quarrying           3        15%    -        -       1,760   20%
Metal Fabrication          -         -     -        -        -       -
Manufacturing              5        25%    -        -       1,645   18%
Others                     - -          -       -            -       -
20       100%   -        -       9,200  100%
Actual Total Project Cost Distribution
Up to US$ 100,000                  NIL
US$ 101,000 - USS 350,000           1
USS 351,000 - USS 500,000           2
US$ 501,000 - USS 750.000           2
Above USS 750,000                  15
Proiect Cost Per Job
Less than USS 10.000               NIL              0%
USS 11,000 - USS 20,000            NIL              0%
USS 21,000 - US$ 30,000             6              30%
USS 31,000 - USS 40,000            NIL              0%
Over USS 40,000                    14              70%



26
TABLE 7:   CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements by IDA
(US$ million)
Actual Cumulative
Appraisal Estimate             Disbursement by IDA
US$                Amount (m)      % of Estimate
1982              4.0                                  NIL
1983              3.4                -                 NIL
1984             12.0                6.08               50.7
1985              -                  7.96               66.3
1986                                 9.09               75.8
1987              -                  9.09               75.8
1988                                 9.40               78.3
Date of Final Disbursement: January 13, 1988
B. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements by IBY
(YR '000)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Subproject
Appraisal
Estimates  20,500  34,700  44,900  51,900  52,250  53,850
Actual      19,762  33,757  42,875  51,574  51,873  53,723
Actual as
% of
Estimate       96%     97%      95%     99%      99%    100%



2 7
TABILE 8:   HISTORICAL FWNANCIAL STATEMENTS OF IBY
INCOME STATEMENTS
Period ending December 31:  1984    1985    1986         1987     1988
YR'0000  YR'000  YR'000   YR'000   YR'000
Income
Loan Interest                 12,286   13,945  17,887  22,913   20,710
Consultancy Fees                ,517      ,739    ,582    ,348      ,567
Commitment charges              ,115      ,112    ,295    ,075      ,103
Guarantee Charges               ,157      ,182    ,246    ,182      ,117
Dividend Received                -        ,015    -        ,017     ,035
Other Investments/
Bad Debts recovered              -        ,644    -        -        ,012
13,075   15,637  19,010  23,535   21,544
Bank Interest                  2,036    2,626   4,190   2,664    5,100
Net Foreign Currency gains    ,973    2,326   3,948    ,040         ,031
Other Income                    ,201      ,094     028    .072      .278
Total Income                  16,285   20,683  27,176  26,311   26,953
Expenses
Loan Interest                  2,552    4,663   7,399   6,558    5,874
Interest Differential
Account - Kuwait Fund          ,025      ,334   1,221   1,673    1,847
Commitment fee payable           -       -        -       -         ,212
Directors Bonuses               ,066      ,066    ,066    ,066      ,066
Professional Fees               ,062      ,112    ,080    ,070      ,085
Compensation officers
and employees                 4,632    4,995   5,775   6,423    6,928
General & Admin. expenses    1,137    1,107   1,243   1,470    2,079
Bad Debts                       -         ,232   1,090    ,106    2,095
Provision for possible
losses                        3,620    5,963   5,192   4.614    4,913
Depreciation                     468      429      444      613     ,523
(Profit) Loss on Sale
of Fixed Assets                ,036    (035)   (094)   (002)       ,003
Provision Against Currency
Fluctuations                   -        -       1,966      -         -
Other Expenses                  .138      ,150     140    ,124      .213
Total expenses                12,736   18,016  24,522  21,715   24,838
Operating Profit               3,549    2,667   2.654   4,596    2,115
Unusual and Prior Year
items (Adjustments)             ,129     -        -      1,365      ,572
NET PROFIT                  3,678    2,667   2,654   5,961    2,687
Appropriations
Legal Reserve                  1,470     ,667    ,663   2,384       ,672
General Reserve                 ,382      ,162    ,144    ,441      ,018
Building Reserve                -        -        -      1,250      -
Dividend Proposed on
Preference Shares             1,826    1,838   1,847   1,886    1,997
3.678    2,667   2,654   5,961    2,687



ANNUAL BALANCE SHEETS OF THE INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN
(1984 - 1988)
As on December 31:          1984    1985    1986        1987       1988
YR'000  YR'000  YR'000    YR'O00       YR'000
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash                      13,312  26,563   23,896   36,335        48,241
Time Deposits             20,701  20,587   38,674   19,663         6,034
Accrued Bank. Interest       ,281    ,227      ,307      ,448        ,341
Current Maturities
of Loan portfolio        36,297  45,037   68,409   70,572        86,613
Charges due on Loan
portfolio (Less
Provision)                7,083   7,776   10,434    6,374        11,439
Accrued Interest on Loan
Portfolio                   ,451   2,318    3,535    3,074        3,603
Other Receivables
& Prepayments             2,313   6,129   11,949   12,513         5,050
Total current assets    80,438 108,637  157,204  148,979    161,321
=== = =====   -===--    ==,.       = = =
PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS
Medium/Long Term Loans  106,038 151,766  172,047  191,350    194,321
Foreign Exchange
Fluctuations
Recoverable from
Customers                  -       5.946   18,756    8,103        6,979
Equity Investments         7,623   3,123    4.375    4,375         4,375
Other Investments           1,340     -         -       -        _
115,001 160,835  195,178  203,828    205,675
Less
current maturities of
Loan Portfolio           36,227  45,037   68,409   70,572        86,613
Provision for Possible
Losses                    7,399  11,571   14,040   16,531        20,425
Net Portfolio Investment 71,375 104,227  112,729  116,725         98,637
Fixed Assets Less
Depreciation             13,278  13,688  14,072       4,043       2,938
TOTAL ASSETS            165,091 226,552  284,005  269,747    262,896



Cont'd
1984     1985      1986     1987      1988
YR'000  YR'000   YR'000   YR'000   YR'000
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Payables                      4,261   5,775   3,949       5,983    9,103
Accrued Expenses                ,647    ,786    ,641       ,723    1,032
Dividends Payable             3,054   3,198   3,795       3,576    4,033
Interest on Borrowings        2,207   6,308  13,803    15,213   16,361
Current Maturities
of Borrowings                17,028  26,901 40,384       11,614    3,550
Total Current Liabilities  27,197   42,968   62,572  37,109   34,079
Other Provisions              1,072      ,457    2,422    ,457       ,441
BORROWINGS
Loan from Government            -        -        -       1,700    1,700
Loan from Central Bank        5,667    5,667    5,667       -         -
IDA Credit 465                 ,854      ,646      ,646    ,646      ,647
IDA Credit 1122              31,822   54,318   65,007  18,200         -
IDA Credit 1547                 -        -        -      12,950   15,640
Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development         5,471   38,500   76,069  93,044   95.410
43,814   99,131  147,389 126,540  113,397
Less: Current maturities
of borrowings               17,028   26,901   40,384  11,614    3,550
26,786   72,230  107,005 114,926  109,847
UNCDF Management Grant          ,905     ,905      ,905    ,905      ,905
SHAREHOLDERS EOUITY
Share Capital:
Capital authorised         100,000  100,000  100,000  100,000 100,000
700,000 ordinary share of
YR 100 each, and 300,000
preference shares of
YR 100 each
Issued and fully paid up      92,929  93,030   93,334   94,512  95,094
Reserves                      16,202  16,962   17,767   21,838  22,530
Total Shareholders' Equity 109,061 109,992  Ii.1,099  116,352 117,624
TOTAL LIABILITlES AND
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY        165,091 226,552  284,005  269,747 262,896
SELECTED RATIOS
L.Debt/Equity                 1:2.5   1:1.1   1-3:1    1.1:1    0.96:1
2.Risk Assets (Loan
Portfolio)/Equity            97%    137%    154%       164%      165%
3.Interest cost of funds      5.8%    4.7%    5.0%       5.2%      5.2%
4.Cumulative Loan Loss
Provision/Total Portfolio  7.0%    7.3%    6.6%        8.3%     10.1%
5.Cumulative Loan Loss
Provision/Total Principal
in Arrears                  48%       51%    38%       41%       38%



Table 9: SCHEDULE SHOWING TREND OF IBY'S ARREARS FROM 1984-1988
Principal                         As at Dec. 1984       As at Dec. 1985       As at Dec. 1986       As at Dec. 1987       As at Dec. 1988
1.  Total Principal in Arrears                      YR 15,350,000          YR 22,655,000         YR 36,527,000         YR 40,533,000        YR 53,776,000
2.  Principal in Arrears over 90 days                YR 11,793,000         YR 15,882.000         YR 28,555,000         YR 32,960.000         YR 47,610,000
3.  Total Loan Portfolio (including principal        YR 106,038,000        YR 157,712,000        YR 189,000,000        YR 199,450,000        YR 201,300,000
in arrears)
4.  Principal in Arrears (over 90 days)/                   11.0%                 10.0X                 15.0%                 16.5%                 23.7%
Total Loan Portfolio
5.  Number of Loans in Arrears (over 90                    N.A.                  N.A.                  N.A.                  45.1X                 53.9%
days)/Total Number of Loans in Portfolio
6.  Outstanding Loan Amount of Subprojects                 38.0%                 39.32                 40.7%                 40.41                 47.1%
affected by Arrears (over 90 days)/Total
Outstanding Loan Amount
0
Interest (Excluding interest accrued an loans
in court)
7.  Total Interest in Arrears                       YR 9,947.000           YR 14,362.000         YR 16,640,000         YR 14,173,000         YR 20.186,000
8.  Interest in Arrears (over 90 days)               YR 7,865,000          YR 11,234,000         YR 12.760,000         YR 12,366,000         YR 15,632.000
9.  Total Outstanding Portfolio (Principal           YR 115,985,000        YR 172,074,000        YR 205,640,000        YR 213,623,000        YR 221,486,000
plus Interest)
10. Interest in Arrears (over 90 days)/Total               6.81                  6.5%                  6.2X                  5.81                  7.1%
Outstanding Portfolio
11. Annual Provisions for Loan Losses               YR 3,620,000           YR 5,963,000          YR 5,192,000          YR 4,61',000          YR 4,913,000
12. Total Provisions                                YR 6.715,385           YR 15,549,130         YR 20,741,418         YR 25,355,005         YR 30,268.474
13. Total Provisions/Total Outstanding                     5.8%                  9.0%                  10.1%                 11.9%                 13.7%
Portfolio



31
T'j)b1  10: COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL COVENANTS
Section                              Covenant                                  Status of Comvliance
DC 3.04               the Bo'rower and IDY shall effect changes in         In compliance.
IBY's statutes and acdninistrative reguLations
regarding, inter atia, treatment of
government loans as debt, and securities for
subtoais.
DC 3.05               The Borrower shall strengthen the Department         Generally in corpliance, but the
of Industry with additional professional             strengthening process needs to be
staff.                                               continued.
PA 2.02(b)            A free-Limit subLoan shall not exceed                In comfpliance.
$300,000 and the aggregate free limit shall
not exceed S4,000,000.
PA 2.02(c)            Not less than 60% of the credit line shall be        in comfpliance.
allocated to subloans not exceeding $750,000
(amended to $1,000,000).
PA 2.05(b)            ISY shall review with IDA at Least annuaLLy,         Reviews were carried out on an ad hoc
the interest rate policy of IBY in light of          basis, but no adjustments were made
prevailing market conditions and the average         to IBY's interest rate structure
cost of IBY funds.                                   during project implementation.
PA 2.05(c)            IBY shaLl maintain an interest rate spread           IBY largely complied with covenant,
adequate to cover specified levels of                but the Levels specified in regard to
administrative expenses, provisions,                 provisions have been inadequate in
dividends on preference shares, and to build         comparison with ISY's growing levels
up adequate reserves.                                of arrears.
PA 2.06(c)            ISY shall pass foreign exchange risks to its         Not in compliance.  Foreign exchange
subborrowers.                                        risks on most subloans were borne by
the Government.
PA 2.09(a)            IBY shall furnish IDA with information               In compliance.
concerning the progress of the project.
PA 2.12               IBY shall carry out economic evaluations of          In compliance.
proposed subprojects and calculate ERRs for
subprojects receiving subloans exceeding
$300,000.
PA 2.14               IBY shall employ a development banking               In compliance.
adviser.
PA 2.15               IBY shall employ additional staff in                 In compliance.
accordance with a staffing plan satisfactory
to IDA, and review its staffing needs
annua'ly with IDA.



