Document of
The World Bank.                        FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2978-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 2, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Rink authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979                     December 1980
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni rial (YRl)             YR1
$1  =  YRls 4.50 1/                4.50
YRI 1 =  $0.22                       0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 (prior to 1980)
July 1 to December 31 (1980)
January l to December 31 (from 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB      Agricultural Credit Bank
CBY      Central Bank of Yemen
CPO      Central Planning Organization
DFC      Development Finance Company
DOI      Department of Industry
HCB      Housing Credit Bank
IBY      Industrial Bank of Yemen
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SSI      Small Scale Industry
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
YAR      Yemen Arab Republic
YBRD     Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Beneficiary:            Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY)
Amount:                 Special Drawing Rights:  9.7 million
($12 million equivalent as of date of negotiations)
Terms:                  Standard
Relending Terms:        The proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent by
the Government to IBY at an interest rate of
8 percent per annum except for the technical
assistance component of about $250,000 which would
be free of interest. The amortization schedule
would conform to the aggregate of the amortization
schedules of IBY's subloans and the technical
assistance component would be repaid by IBY to the
Government in 15 years including two years of
grace. IBY would relend the proceeds of the credit
to its sub-borrowers at an interest rate of
10 percent and a service charge of one percent; this
rate will be reviewed with IDA at least once a year
beginning October 1, 1981. The foreign exchange
risk would be assumed by sub-borrowers except for
the technical assistance component, for which the
risk would be assumed by the Government.
Project Description;   The project would assist in the development of IBY
as an effective development finance company (DFC)
with the institutional capability for making sound
investment decisions to promote and implement viable
industrial ventures consistent with YAR's economic
development plans and priorities. The project would
enable IBY to play the pivotal role envisioned for
it by the Government in the development of YAR's
nascent industrial sector. It would provide IBY
with (i) funds to meet about half'of its resource
requirements from 1981-1983, and (ii) technical
assistance for institution building. In addition,
,he project would also provide for the strengthening
of the capability of the Government's Department of
Industry to prepare the Government's plans, policies
and priorities for the industrial sector. The
project faces no special risks, and measures to be
taken during project implementation will ensure that
the risks involved are minimized to the fullest
extent possible.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perormance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autlhorization.



- ii -
Final Date for
Subproject
Submissions:          December 31, 1983.
Free Limit:             $300,000 for individual subloans with an aggregate
free limit of $4 million. The first two subprojects
would require IDA approval irrespective of their
size.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                   IDA Fiscal Year
82            83             84
--------(US$ millions)-------
Annual             4.0           5.4            2.6
Cumulative         4.0           9.4           12.0
Appraisal
Report:               Report No. 3211-YAR, dated February 17, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
AN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 9.7 million ($12.0 million equivalent as of the date of
negotiations), on standard IDA terms, to help finance an Industrial
Development Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978, was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 3, 1979. An updating
economic mission visited YAR in November 1979 and its report (No.2856-YAR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 23, 1980. Country data
are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state.
4.       Political integration and the growing influence of central
authorities have provided the basis for rapid development of the public and
private sectors. A Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-751'76) was
followed by the country's First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81). In their
wake, the foundations for the country's physical and social inlrastructure
were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at lifting agriculture,
the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval setting; industrialization
was also started, albeit on a small-scale.
5.       Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances by Yemeni workers in Saudi Arabia and the
Gulf States. These are estimated to have increased, on a net basis, from
around $40 million in 1969/70 to a peak of over $1 billion in ]L977/78, but
have subsequently dropped to about $900 million in 1978/79. Largely, as a
result of these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased
significantly over this period reaching an estimated $420 in 1978/79.
1/ Identical to Part I of the President's Report for the Regional
Electrification Credit which was approved by the Executive Directors on
February 10, 1981.



-2-
Major Development Issues
6.       Recent achievements in development, remarkable as they are, should
not detract from the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least
developed countries. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially
in agriculture. Almost nine out of ten adults are illiterate and only 35
percent of children in the age group 6-11 are enrolled in primary school.
Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a large part in
remote villages without access to modern transportation, schools, electricity
or health services. Agricultural land and water are scarce and few mineral
deposits have been discovered so far.
7.       The shortage of skilled mahpower is an overriding constraint to
YAR's development. This shortage is due to the fact that the labor force is
drawn from a population pool which is characterized by very low levels of
education or training. Although the most critical shortages are in the
skilled occupations, even the unskilled work force was under strain during
the height of the labor migration to neighboring countries. However, it
appears that previous shortages of unskilled workers have recently eased
somewhat as the pace of migration has levelled off. The shortage of man-
power limits the capacity of the public administration to manage and
implement a growing and increasingly complex development program.
8.       Another issue concerns the proper maintenance of existing and new
capital stock. So far this question has not received sufficient attention by
the authorities, perhaps understandably so because of the newness of most
capital structures. However, as the stock of fixed capital increases, the
need for adequate maintenance of these facilities will become more and more
pressing.
9.       A special effort is required to mobilize domestic resources for the
financing of fast growing government expenditures. Although government
revenue rose rapidly during the 1970s the tax base is still very small. Most
budget revenue is derived from import duties while other sources of taxation
are still largely undeveloped. So far, budget deficits have been covered
through generous foreign aid. But this assistance is bound to diminish in
relative terms over the longer run, a development which calls for measures to
broaden the tax base, to strengthen the tax administration, and to devise new
schemes to tap the savings of the private sector.
Government Objectives
10.      The country's development objectives are enunciated in the First
Five-Year Plan which is currently in its closing year. It has endeavored to
strengthen the physical and social infrastructure, to raise the productivity
of the commodity-producing sectors, and to improve the standard-of-living of
the people giving priority to their basic needs. Preliminary progress
reports on the first three years of the Plan indicate that, in aggregate
terms, objectives have by and large been met and sometimes exceeded.



11.      The preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-1986) is
currently underway. In this context, the Government has asked the Bank for
assistance in reviewing major development issues, and in evaluating
priorities in sectors in which IDA is involved so as to channel resources
into the most desirable areas. Much of this work has been completed.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
12.      Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in YAR
has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to have
grown at an average rate of 8 percent a year between 1972/73 and 1978/79.1/
Economic growth was strongest in the modern sectors, reflecting the rapid
expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of government services, of
transportation and finance. There was also a rapid increase of modern cash
crops as farmers took a growing interest in raising vegetables, fruits and
poultry. Subsistence agriculture, still the most important economic sector
in YAR, grew at a much slower pace.
13.      The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new
markets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private
investment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This
coincided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures.
Initially through various ad hoc projects, but later in a more coordinated
form through its Three-Year Program and the First Five-Year Plan, the
Government increased its capital expenditures from YRls 58 million ($13
million) in 1972/73 to YRls 2670 million ($593 million) in 1978/79.
Domestic and External Finance
14.      The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years has led to a substantial increase in overall savings. IrL 1978/79,
gross national savings are estimated to have exceeded $500 million which
would be equivalent to about 14 percent of GNP. Most of YAR's national
savings are generated by the private sector. It can be assumed that a
large part of these savings originated from remittances of workers, most of
whom are from rural areas. Savings are thus benefitting most regions of
the country and different population groups.
15.      Public sector savings, on the other hand, were negative until
1975/76, reflecting the very narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that
year). However, in the following three years tax revenue more than
trebled--due largely to a surge in imports and accordingly increases in
import duties. As a result, the current budget yielded surpluses which in
1/  The Government is rurrently revising the country's entire national
accounts series.



1977/78 reached YRls 735 million ($163 million). Provisional estimates for
1978/79 have this surplus shrinking to around YRls 350 million ($78
million) as a result of continued large expansion of expenditures.
16.      YAR's external financial position has changed dramatically in
recent years. While at the beginning of the past decade foreign exchange
was in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced the Government to
request the rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding commitments, the
country has subsequently experienced a phase of comfortable balance of
payments surpluses and growing exchange reserves. The principal reason for
this change must be seen in the large and growing amounts of workers'
remittances and in the substantial aid flows, especially from Saudi Arabia
and other Arab oil-exporting nations.
17.      YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy. Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million
in 1973/74 to $1405 million in 1978/79. This upsurge in import demand
reflects the rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the
Yemeni rial, and the absence of import restrictions.
Capital Flows and External Debt
18.      Since independence, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Although a complete overview of
all assistance received by YAR is not possible because of information gaps,
it can be estimated that cumulative aid disbursements came to about $1.3
billion by the end of FY1978/79. The principal donors were Saudi Arabia,
the Gulf States, IDA, the USSR, China, Germany and the USA.
19.      About two thirds of the total assistance given so far was provided
as grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently,
budget support. Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program
and a number of bilateral donors. A significant part of official grants
has been made available in the form of technical assistance. Given the
extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high
priority and will be needed by the country for many years to come. Besides
the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans and credits.
Drawings on these loans have increased in recent years, reaching $133
million in 1978/79. Most of the official loans and credits have been
committed for the financing of specific projects with the main emphasis on
roads; agriculture, including irrigation; and utilities. The remaining
funds were given for commodity assistance or as cash loans.
20.      The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of
China are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries
have generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest
rates charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan
maturities range from 5-50 years with a median of 20-30 years.



21.      YAR's external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1979 was
estimated at $1075 million, of which $543 million was disbursed. The major
creditors were IDA, the Arab Fund, USSR, China, Germany and the Kuwait
Fund. IDA credits accounted for $174 million or about 16 percent of the
total debt reported. Because of their very favorable terms of borrowing,
the debt service payments amounted to $28 million for 1978/79, equivalent
to 1.7 percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances). Although service payments are expected to rise in the next
few years, the burden of such payments would continue to remain small in
relation to YAR's exchange earnings.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
22.      The proposed credit would be the twenty-sixth to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $242.3 million. 2/ Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and Bank grants, as well as notes on the execution
of ongoing projects, as of January 31, 1981. The World Bank strategy in
YAR has been threefold: to concentrate on developing the basic
institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites
for development, to develop production and income in the dominant
productive sector, agriculture, and to support the Government in its desire
to meet basic needs in rural and urban areas. To develop infrasstructure,
IDA has extended three credits for highways totalling $28.2 million, a $6
million credit for a port development project, four credits for water
supply and sewerage totalling $36.4 million, and $22 million for power
distribution. To assist in the development of education, IDA hLas extended
three credits for a total of $29 million, in support of primary, and
secondary teacher training, and secondary and vocational education. To
develop rural infrastructure and to support production and distribution in
agriculture, fisheries and agro-industry, IDA has made nine credits for a
total of $106.4 million. To develop industry, IDA extended a $2.3 million
credit in 1974 for an industrial estate project, designed to stimulate
investment for small-scale industry as well as to provide a model for
future industrial development; in FY1978 an investment of $2.4 million by
the International Finance Corporation was approved to help finaLnce a dairy
and juice project.
23.      The main constraint to YAR's social and economic deve]opment has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled, and the newness and weakness of its institutions.
World Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to strengthen
Yemeni institutions and manpower capabilities, through increasetd training
of local staff and continued technical assistance, as well as through
1/  Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Regional Electrification Credit which was approved by the Executive
Directors on February 10, 1981.
2/ Including the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First
Tihama project, No. 376-1 YAR, and excluding the $7.0 million credit
for Textile Rehabilitation project, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which was
cancelled at the Government's request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



-6-
direct financing for education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain
substantial components for technical assistance towards institution
building. Two particularly important examples of the World Bank's support
for institution building have been in the Central Planning Organization
(CPO) and the Ministry of Agriculture. In CPO, the World Bank (through
three grants totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait Fund have financed a team
of planning and economic advisers so as to create a planning machinery. in
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Bank supplies the services of seven
advisors initially financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, and
now financed jointly by IDA (under the Second Tihama project), EEC Special
Action Fund and UNDP. The Agricultural Research Service at Taiz, which
carries out agricultural research for the country as a whole, is also
financed as part of this institutional support.
24.      Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural develop-
ment, and education, and will seek to spread the benefits of development
more widely throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's
ability to implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff
and technical assistance needed for successful implementation. A technical
assistance project for CPO and an education project have been appraised, a
building materials project, an urban project and a health project are in
the preparation stage. Future projects are expected to include agriculture
and rural development activities, as well as assistance in the energy
sector.
25.      YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency
financing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its
development expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the
least-developed countries and requires special assistance through financing
of a large part of project costs, including local expenditures when
necessary. As in the past, the costs of future projects are expected to be
substantially higher than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall
continue to cooperate closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's
catalytic role in stimulating co-financing. IDA-supported projects have
led to about $285 million equivalent of co-financing from other aid donors.
PART III: THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
26.      Background: Structure and Constraints.  Industry in YAR is still
in its infancy and, until the early part of the last decade, was virtually
non-existent except for traditional manufacturing and handicrafts. Major
constraints, namely the lack of natural resources, the shortage of skilled
manpower, low labor productivity, the small size of the domestic market,
limited export prospects and inadequate physical infrastructure, hamper the
rapid development of the sector. Furthermore, necessary medium- and
long-term finance is still limited and information and data in the sector
remain scanty. The shortage of management skills affects the economy as a
whole including this sector.



27.      In recent years a more rapid growth of the industrial sector has
taken place, due mainly to the relative political stability of YAR and the
availability of large savings and a healthy balance of payments; resulting
from workers' remittances. This growth has been-led by YAR's dynamic
private sector, whose investments in manufacturing are estimated to exceed
the targets of the First Five-Year Plan. Industrial activity is
concentrated in the three main cities of Sanaa, Hodeida and Ta'z, and the
pattern of industrialization of YAR is oriented towards import substitution
based largely on imported raw materials with the exception of the building
materials, cigarettes and textile industries. Most new industry (except
small-scale) is relatively capital intensive due to the shortage and high
cost of labor.
28.      Prospects.  Despite the constraints to industrial development in
YAR (para. 26) there are encouraging factors which support the country's
industrialization, albeit at a modest level. Among these are the presence
of an active business community, a healthy savings situation that allows
the country to contemplate capital intensive investments to overcome
manpower shortages, the initiation and active promotion of vocational and
management training programs, the ongoing development of the physical
infrastructure (in many cases, with IDA assistance) and the increase in
disposable income due to remittances which has in turn expanded the market
for industrial products. At the same time, IBY is now being developed to
become an effective source of industrial finance.
29.      There are four main categories of industries where YAR seems to
have a comparative advantage: (i) industries where YAR has sizeable
transportation cost savings because of the products' bulkiness, such as
building materials, plastic or metal containers, and furniture; (ii)
industries based on local raw materials, such as tanning of hides and
skins, vegetable oils, soap and certain glass and ceramic prodlucts; (iii)
industries geared to specific needs and tastes of Yemeni consumers, such as
special agricultural implements, printing and particular textiLe products;
and (iv) service industries, such as engine reconditioning, tire
retreading, and repair activities. Small-scale and handicraft industries
have benefited less from recent trends and need to improve their techniques
and productivity.
30.      The scope and potential therefore exist in YAR for the development
of several import-substituting, small- and medium-scale industries, some
using domestic raw materials. There is, however, a need to identify and
develop priority projects and provide financial assistance to them after
careful evaluation of their viability. In liaison with the Department of
Industry (DOI) in the Ministry of Economy and Industry, IBY should provide
assistance but it requires further institution-building and additional
financial resources to perform these functions effectively.



- 8-
Government Plans and Policies
31.      The Government has assigned an important role to industry in YAR's
economic development, mainly because of its potential benefits in terms of
transfer of technology, possible reduction in labor emigration, reduced
dependence on imports, and economic utilization of available raw materials.
Industrial investment provided for in the first Five-Year Plan amounts to
YRls 2.5 billion ($555.5 million), or 15 percent of the overall national
investment. The growth target for the industrial sector output during the
Plan period is 13 percent per annum as compared to 8 percent for total GDP.
The second Plan, to commence in January 1982, is expected to continue the
emphasis on industrial development and increased reliance on the private
sector in the implementation of Plan targets.
32.      The Government's industrial policies are on the whole realistic.
Industrial projects have been provided with various financial incentives
including tax holidays and exemptions from import duties, and Government
controls on private sector operations have been kept to a minimum. Also,
the Government is developing specialized institutions to provide finance
and to develop industrial estates to support industrial growth.
33.      DOI is basically responsible for carrying out planning, policy-
making and regulatory functions concerning the industrial sector, but it
has insufficient staff resources to give adequate attention to the planning
and policy work. Although a team of expatriate advisors assists DOI under
a UNDP technical assistance program, the employment of additional profes-
sional staff is essential to achieve DOI's objectives. The Government is
cognizant of this problem and has agreed to employ in DOI, not later than
December 31, 1982, eight additional qualified professionals with economics,
finance and engineering backgrounds, four of whom would be employed by
December 31, 1981 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05).
Previous IDA Assistance
34.      The technical assistance component of the Industrial Estate Credit
(465-YAR) provides to IBY the services of a development banking advisor who
commenced his 18-month term in June 1979. Under that credit, IBY is also
administering a $450,000 financial facility to the industrial estate
tenants. IDA has had a dialogue with IBY since January 1978 with respect
to its overall policies and operations and project appraisal work in the
context of the above-mentioned institutional assistance. IDA has also
helped IBY in the formalization of its lending policies and the formulation
of its operational plans.
The Financial Sector
35.      All the domestic financial institutions in YAR were developed
during the last decade. These include the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY), the
Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD) - a Government-
controlled commercial bank - two commercial banks with minority Yemeni



- 9 -
interest, and three specialized institutions; the Industrial Bank of Yemen
(IBY), the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) and the Housing Credit Bank (HCB).
A Cooperative Bank was also recently set up but is not yet fully
operational. In addition, several foreign banks have branches in YAR.
YBRD is by far the largest commercial bank, with about 64 percent of all
outstanding commercial loans at the end of 1978. The bulk of commercial
bank lending has been to finance the trade of imported goods. The commer-
cial banks have contributed to substantial resource mobilization and during
the 1971-1979 period, their demand, time and savings deposits have grown at
an average compound rate of 45 percent, 95 percent and 60 percent respec-
tively. The three specialized institutions are relatively new and operate
at a low level as compared to commercial banks; in 1978, their share in
total loans to the private sector was only 6 percent. The portfolio of
equity investments and medium-term loans of the commercial banlks in YAR for
industry, though not known, is believed to be small.
36.      The informal financial sector, however, still plays an important
role in YAR since money and capital markets do not exist. A sizeable share
of workers' remittances is transmitted home, mainly to the rural areas,
through the services of Yemeni money dealers. The bulk of the savings
arising from these remittances is not channelled to the formal banking
system mainly because of the lack of banking habits and an inadequate
branch network of commercial banks. Foreign-owned commercial banks, in
particular, rely in cases of deficiencies or surpluses of financial
resources, almost exclusively on their parent institutions and on foreign
money markets rather than on domestic interbank transactions. Given the
free convertibility of the Yemeni rial, the stability of the exchange rate,
and the accessibility of foreign money and capital markets, this pattern of
behavior is unlikely to change in the near future.
Objectives and Role of IBY
37.      IBY was established by Act No. 55 of 1976 as an autonomous
development finance institution with corporate status and starled its
operations in October 1977. Its main functions are to promote and assist
the establishment of industrial projects in the private, public and mixed
sectors through financial assistance, technical advice and consulting
services, as well as economic and technical research. IBY also provides
financial and technical assistance to small business and handicraft
industries. Its operations have so far been confined mainly to financial
assistance to small- and medium-size projects almost exclusiveLy in the
private sector. After further institutional strengthening, IB'Y is expected
to play a key role in industrial development by undertaking promotional
work and providing increased technical and financial assistance. The
promotional work is particularly important in YAR, where potential entre-
preneurs lack necessary skills and staff support for project identification
and development, and specialized agencies for promotional work are
non-existent.
38.      The IBY Act and By-Laws are generally satisfactory but the follow-
ing amendments would introduce improvements: (a) treatment of (Government
loans as debt instead of equity, (b) acceptance of a first pari passu



- 10 -
charge on the assets of its borrowers as a security for its loans (partic-
ularly for the benefit of its co-financing operations), and (c) in the
absence of IBY's Chairman, provision for the appointment of an Acting
Chairman for the Board meetings. The Government has agreed to make these
amendments by December 31, 1981 (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.04).
Ownership and Resources
39.      The authorized share capital of IBY is YRls 100 million ($22.2
million) of which 70 percent is in the form of ordinary shares fully
subscribed and paid-in by the Government. The remaining 30 percent are
preferred shares open for subscription to non-Government entities, com-
mercial banks and individuals. These are entitled to a minimum 6 percent
guaranteed annual dividend and have a first priority up to 10 percent
annual dividend. The Government does not anticipate any returns on its own
equity investment in IBY, which it views as support to the industrialization
of the country. As of June 30, 1980, the total paid-in preferred share
capital amounted to YRls 18.3 million ($4.1 million) and the balance of
YRls 11.7 million ($2.6 million) is expected to be fully subscribed and
paid-in during 1981. IBY is presently discussing with the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) the possibility of its participation in equity.
Through participation in the IBY Board and intended joint promotion and
financing of projects in YAR with IBY, IFC could contribute to the
strengthening of IBY and could complement IDA's institution building role
under the proposed credit. The Government has given full autonomy to IBY
in its operations, within the framework of its Act, By-Laws and Policy
Statement.
40.      As of March 31, 1980, IBY's financial resources consisted of its
paid-in capital of YRls 88 million ($19.6 million), a small financing
facility of $450,000 under the IDA-assisted Industrial Estate Project
(Credit 465-YAR), and reserves of YRls 3.8 million ($0.8 million) which,
together with the expected increase in paid-in capital and loan recoveries,
would be sufficient to meet IBY's resource requirements through mid-1981.
Interest Rates in YAR
41.      The absence of foreign exchange controls in YAR, the full
convertibility of the Yemeni rial, and its constant parity with the US
dollar make it difficult to isolate interest rates in YAR from those
prevailing in the international capital markets. This became increasingly
evident in 1979/1980 when the wide fluctuations of international rates
resulted in speculative flows of capital. The Government, which officially
regulates interest rates through CBY, therefore decided in February 1980 to
make adjustments in interest rates, in line with prevailing Euro-dollar
rates. As a result, the lending rates of commercial banks on short-term
loans were increased from 11 percent to 13.5 percent in February, 15.5
percent in April, lowered to 12 percent in July, and again increased to 15
percent in November 1980. (There were also corresponding changes in the
deposit rates; these are at present 10 percent for savings, and vary
between 10 percent and 13 percent for time deposits.)



- 11 -
42.      The lending rates of specialized banks, at present 10 percent per
annum for medium- and long-term loans and 11 percent for short-term loans,
have been set at 3-5 percentage points below those of commercial banks.
The Government believes that lending rates of specialized institutions
should respond mainly to important socio-economic considerations,
particularly the need to encourage investment in YAR's productive sectors.
In the industrial sector the policy is intended to encourage potential
entrepreneurs to invest in areas other than in the traditional fields of
commerce and real estate. In addition, given the peculiarity of the Yemeni
financial markets where the informal financial sector still handles a
sizeable portion of money transactions and interest rates still have a more
limited impact than is usual in other countries on mobilization of savings,
such a policy is justified in the near-term.
43.      Cost of Proposed IDA Funds.  As a result of recent discussions
with the Government, current policy is that the interest rates of the
specialized institutions should be sufficient to maintain their viability
and that, for industrial investors, rates would normally be higher than
those for agriculture or housing finance. In the case of IBY, the rate of
10 percent for medium- and long-term loans was thus regarded as being low
resulting in an unjustified subsidy to industrial borrowers and IBY was
allowed to apply a service charge of one percent, thereby increasing the
cost of its funds to 11 percent. This is acceptable at this stage for the
following reasons;
(a)  While there remains a subsidy element in the 11 percent rate,
the SDR denomination of the proposed IDA credit and the related
foreign exchange risk borne by sub-borrowers for any changes in
parity between the SDR and the Yemeni rial should be taken into
account to assess the real and perceived cost of IDA f'unds to
sub-borrowers and to measure the subsidy element involved.
(b)  IBY's lending rate from its inception up to February 1980 was 7
percent in spite of increases in international rates. The
proposed rate represents a significant step in the right
direction. Furthermore, the Government has agreed that the
interest rates be periodically reviewed in light of prevailing
market conditions in consultation with IDA to aim at applying
the most appropriate interest rate to IBY's lending operations
as well as to maintain IBY's average interest spread at a
satisfactory level. This review will take place at least once
a year beginning October 1, 1981 (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.03(b) and Project Agreement, Section 2.05 (b)).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.      The project was appraised in May/June 1980.  Negotiations were
held in Washington from February 11 to February 13, 1981. The YAR
delegation was headed by His Excellency Mohamad Al-Shohati, Minister of
Economy and Industry and included representatives of IBY and CPO. A staff
appraisal report entitled "Industrial Development Project" (No. 3211-YAR)
dated February 17, 1981, is being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 12 -
Project Description and Objectives
45.      The objective of the proposed project is to assist in the
institution-building of IBY and to augment its foreign currency resources
to support industrial development in YAR, particularly small- and medium-
scale industry. The credit, in an amount of $12 million, therefore includes
a credit line of $11.75 million for sub-project financing, and a technical
assistance component of $250,000 to cover the services of a development
banking advisor for two years and the training of two staff members of IBY
in promotional work with experienced DFCs. At the Government's request,
IDA will assist IBY in identifying suitable DFC's and arranging for the
necessary training programs. All industrial projects in the private,
public or mixed sectors will be eligible for financing. It is anticipated
that most of the sub-projects to be financed under the credit would be in
the private sector and belong to the small- and medium-scale category. A
substantial portion of the credit is expected to finance medium-scale
projects producing construction materials and import-substituting goods.
Management, Organization and Staff
46.      IBY is managed by a Board of seven directors, including the
Chairman who is also the Managing Director and is appointed by presidential
decree upon recommendation of the Minister of Economy and Industry. The
Board formulates IBY policies, determines its internal regulations and
modus operandi, and approves loans and investments exceeding YRls 200,000
($44,400). The organizational structure of IBY is satisfactory. The
Chairman is competent and knowledgeable and has good management capabil-
ity. The IBY Act specifies that the Chairman would be assisted by a
General Manager. At present, the General Manager's position is vacant;
a suitable candidate is being sought, and is expected to be appointed
shortly. As the appointment of a General Manager is important for
continuity in management and assistance to the Chairman, this is a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01 (b)).
47.      IBY had 16 professional staff members as of March 31, 1980, and
would require another 17 during the next four years to effectively handle
its projected operations. The existing staff has satisfactory academic
background but lacks necessary experience. Consequently, IBY has to rely
on expatriate advisors, at present four, who provide development banking,
financial, technical, and legal expertise. The advisors are performing
their functions satisfactorily and provide on-the-job training in IBY. IBY
has prepared a staff recruitment plan which was discussed and agreed upon
during negotiations. The progress on the recruitment of additional staff
and IBY's staffing needs will be reviewed annually by IDA in its
supervision (Project Agreement, Section 2.15).
Policies and Procedures
48.      IBY's operational policies, including the project selection and
financing criteria and various banking limits, are spelled out in its newly
adopted policy statement, which is satisfactory. IBY has also decided to
make an annual provision for bad and doubtful loans and investment risks,
equal to one percent of the total portfolio. The provision will be built up



- 13 -
up to 3 percent of the portfolio by 1985 (Project Agreement,
Section 2.05(c). This policy would be kept under review in consultation
with IDA and adjustments will be made therein if justified by the future
quality of IBY's portfolio. IBY's accounts are audited by a reputable firm
known and acceptable to IDA.
49.      Appraisal.  The project appraisal capability of IBY staff is
improving gradually with the support of advisors. Technical and financial
aspects of projects are adequately covered in IBY's appraisals, although
market studies need further improvement, and economic evaluation has yet to
be introduced. No difficulty is anticipated in developing the economic
appraisal capability as some among IBY's staff are already familiar with
the methodology. IBY has agreed to perform project economic evaluation,
including the calculation of ERR for all projects above the free limit
(Project Agreement, Section 2.12).
50.      Supervision.  IBY's loan and investment portfolio is still small.
IBY staff pays occasional visits to assisted projects. Also, reports and
data are requested from borrowers on their operational performance. As the
number of projects in IBY's portfolio is increasing, further improvement
and formalization of the supervision work, including standard periodical
reporting by borrowers and visits by IBY staff to assisted projects at
regular intervals, will be needed. This matter will be closely followed by
IDA during project supervision.
51.      Procurement and Disbursements.  IBY's procurement and disbursement
procedures are satisfactory. The procurement of machinery and equipment
under IBY loans is usually done through international shopping except for
small items purchased off-the-shelf. In case of international shopping,
tBY normally requires at least three quotations from different machinery
suppliers. Disbursements are made against satisfactory evidence of
expenditures, mostly through letters of credit for imported machinery and
equipment.
Past Performance
52.      Since the commencement of its operations in October 1977 through
March 31, 1980, IBY approved 40 projects for a total amount of YRls 70.1
million ($15.6 million), consisting of YRls 61.7 million ($13.7 million) in
long-term loans and YRls 8.4 million ($1.9 million) in equity investments.
Disbursements under these projects amounted to YRls 37.2 million ($8.1
million) in long-term loans and YRls 2.7 million ($600,000) in equity
investments. IBY's outstanding guarantees were very small, amounting to
YRls 1.5 million ($338,000). A significant portion of IBY's assistance has
gone to projects in the construction sector (47 percent of total loan
amounts) - a priority sector in YAR - and the assistance is well spread
geographically. IBY's financing has averaged nearly 25 percent of the
total investment of YRls 280 million ($62.2 million) in the concerned
projects. The private sector received 90 percent of the total financial
assistance of IBY. The employment generated by IBY-assisted projects is
estimated at around 1,400, at an average cost of YRls 200,000 ($44,000) per
job which is reasonable in the context of YAR.



- 14 -
53.      IBY is managing, since March 1979, a United Nations Capital
Development Fund (UNCDF) guarantee scheme for small scale industries (SSI)
with a total amount of $1 million. As of March 31, 1980, IBY had approved
31 loans mainly for small workshops, woodworking, and cement block making
with a total amount of YRls 3.1 million under the scheme, while commitments
and disbursements were YRls 2.7 million and YRls 2.1 million respectively.
These projects are estimated to create 250 new jobs at an average cost of
YRIs 42,000 ($9,300) per job.
54.      IBY's net income as a percentage of average net worth was 4.3 and
administrative expenses amounted to 3.9 percent of average total assets in
FY1980. The administrative expenses are considered reasonable in view of
the high salary levels in YAR and the relatively small volume of IBY's
operations. Preferred shareholders were paid a 7 percent dividend, and
legal reserves of 25 percent of net income were set aside in compliance
with IBY's Act. IBY's income is exempt from all taxes.
55.      As of June 30, 1980, IBY's total assets amounted to YRls 96.6
million ($21.5 million), including loan and equity portfolio and IBY's
deposits with local banks. Loan arrears of IBY, YRls 444,000 ($98,700) on
March 31, 1980, were small (1.1 percent) when compared to the loan port-
folio of YRls 36.6 million ($8.1 million). The quality of IBY's portfolio
is satisfactory. The financial position of IBY is sound, with no long-term
borrowings as yet, though IBY's policy statement allows a debt/equity limit
of 3:1.
Projected Operations and Fund Requirements
56.      As of March 31, 1980, IBY's project pipeline consisted of 26
projects (and eight SSI projects under the UNCDF scheme). For ten projects
in the pipeline on which sufficient information is available, aggregate
total investment is estimated at YRls 197 million ($43.8 million), of which
IBY has been requested to provide YRls 53 million ($11.8 million) or
27 percent. Of the total amount of loan applications pending with IBY,
about 30 percent are for the construction industry (aluminum frames,
paints, fibre glass, marble works, metal and wood furniture); 20 percent
for the food industry (confectionery, soft drinks an juice concentrates);
25 percent for light engineering industry (water pumps, dry batteries,
re-rolling mills); 10 percent for hotels, 5 percent for garments and
10 percent for all others. However, some of these projects may not meet
IBY's financing criteria. IBY has estimated its FY81 loan approvals at
YRls 55 million ($12.2 million) increasing by YRls 15 million ($3.3
million) in FY82 and FY83, and by 20 percent annually thereafter in current
prices. Annual approvals of equity investments are estimated at YRls
3 million through FY85. These projections are reasonable.
57.      IBY's present resources are expected to be committed by mid-1981.
Additional resources required through mid-1983 (likely period of commitment
of the proposed credit) are estimated at about YRls 100 million
($22.2 million). The proposed credit of $12 million (YRls 54 million) will



- 15 -
meet about half of the resource gap during that two-year period. The
Kuwait Fund has shown interest in providing part of the additional funds
required in the future. In any case, the Government has agreed to provide
directly, or arrange from other sources, additional long-term funds for
IBY, as needed (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
Projected Financial Performance
58.      According to IBY's financial projections, its income will be
sufficient to cover administrative expenses and to make adequate provisions
for bad and doubtful loans and investment risks. The net income of IBY
would increase from an estimated YRls 5.07 million ($1.13 million) in FY81
to YRls 12.1 million ($2.7 million) in FY85, which as a percentage of
average net worth would be 5 and 9 respectively.
59.      The total assets of IBY are estimated to increase from YRIs 113.9
million ($25.3 million) at the end of FY81 to YRls 324.08 million ($72.02
million) at the end of FY85. IBY's long-term financial position as well as
liquidity position would remain satisfactory as indicated by a debt/equity
ratio of 1.3:1 and a current ratio of 1.5:1 at the end of FY85.
Terms and Conditions of the Credit
60.      The following main terms and conditions will apply to the proposed
credit:
(a) Eligibility: All sub-projects within IBY's scope of operations
will be eligible for financing under the credit.
(b) On-Lending and Relending Rates and Other Charges. The credit to
the Government will carry the standard IDA terms. The on-lending terms of
the proposed credit by the Government to IBY take into account the crucial
factor of IBY's financial viability, and signing of the subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and IBY is a condition of effectiveness
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.02 (b)). IBY requires a gross
interest spread of about 5 percent over the average cost of its aggregate
borrowings, for an acceptable level of profitability allowing for
administrative expenses at about 3 percent of total assets, remuneration on
preferred shares at the guaranteed dividend rate of at least 6 percent,
adequate build-up of provisions for bad and doubtful loans and investments
(one percent of portfolio per year to be built up to 3 percent by 1985) and
setting up of reserves (including legal reserves at 25 percent of net
income). An IBY lending rate of 10 percent, with a service charge of
one percent, implies a muaximum overall cost of borrowings to IBY of about
6 percent. As the proposed IDA credit would cover--over its commitment
period--about 50 percert of IBY's resource needs, and as IBY is confident
about mobilizing funds from other sources at concessionary rates of
3-4 percent, the IDA -'unds, with the exception of the technical assistance
component amounting to about $250,000 which would be onlent by the
Government to IBY free of interest, would be made available to IBY at a
rate of 8 percent in order to provide a reasonable overall spread. This



- 16 -
would effectively assist a nascent development finance institution develop
into an autonomous organization capable of playing a pivotal role in
developing industry in YAR and, particularly in providing financial and
technical assistance to small- and medium-sized industries. The Government
and IBY have agreed that IBY would maintain an interest spread which would
be sufficient to cover the aforementioned costs, provisions and reserves,
and that the adequacy of IBY's resources and interest spread would be
reviewed at least annually with IDA along with the review of IBY's lending
rate (Project Agreement, Section 2.05, and Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.03(b). IBY's standard commitment charge (one percent per annum)
and appraisal fee (one percent flat) would also apply when the proposed IDA
funds are utilized. The foreign exchange risk would be assumed by
sub-borrowers except for the technical assistance component of $250,000, on
which the risk would be assumed by the Government.
(c) Credit and Subloan Maturities. The IDA credit to the Government
would have the standard maturity term of fifty years including ten years of
grace. IBY subloans would have maturities of up to 15 years including a
maximum grace period of three years. IBY will repay the credit to the
Government according to a flexible amortization schedule reflecting the
aggregate repayments of individual subloans. The $250,000 for technical
assistance will be repaid to the Government over 15 years including two
years of grace.
(d) Maximum Subloan Amount. In order to ensure that the proposed
credit is used by IBY to finance at least 20 small- and medium-sized
projects with a balanced subloan amount, at least 60 percent of the credit
amount will be used for subloans not exceeding $750,000 each (Project
Agreement, Section 2.02 (c)).
(e) Free Limit and Aggregate Free Limit. The free limit would be set
at $300,000, with an aggregate limit at $4 million (Project Agreement,
Section 2.02 (b)). The first two subloans, however, will be submitted to
IDA for approval irrespective of their sizes (Project Agreement, Section
2.03 (a)). These limits would ensure IDA's review of about 70 percent of
the credit amount and 50 percent of sub-projects.
(f) Economic Evaluation of Subprojects. IBY will prepare an economic
evaluation for all subprojects under the IDA credit, including the
calculation of an ERR for those where the subloan amount exceeds $300,000
(Project Agreement, Section 2.12).
(g) Procurement and Disbursement. Procurement for goods to be
financed under the credit would be done in accordance with the normal
procedures of IBY as described in paragraph 51. Disbursements of funds by
IDA will be made against evidence of expenditures with supporting
documentation.



- 17 -
Project Benefits and Risks
61.      The project would assist in the institution-building of IBY by
improving its capability in identification, development, appraisal and
supervision of viable industrial projects. The proposed credit: would also
fill a part of IBY's resource needs and thus assist in the financing of
priority projects. These projects would help to broaden YAR's narrow
industrial base, transfer technology to the country, alleviate the
emigration problem, and reduce the dependence on imports.
62.      There is some risk that IBY may have difficulty in meeting its
investment targets.  It is, however, felt that the Government's active
support to the industrial sector, the dynamism and enterprise of the
private sector in YAR, and the intensified promotional role of IBY would
help to prevent a significant slow down in investments. Furthermore, the
proposed credit is expected to meet only about half of the resource gap of
IBY during the mid-1981 to mid-1983 period and a modest slow down in
investment would only narrow down the gap and should not affect the
successful completion of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, the Project Agreement between the! Association
and Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY) and the recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Association's Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.      Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in the Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of
effectiveness are: (i) the appointment of a General Manager (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.01 (b)); and (ii) the signing of the subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and IBY (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01 (a)).
65.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 2, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-18-                                                               Annex I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YE(EN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND  SQ.                                                                  MO.)  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            195.0                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      15.2                                MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     ..          ..    420.0                 818.5                   1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       6.3        16.0      48.0                 545.0                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      4.0          4.8       5.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 3.4           6.0       9.3                 45.7                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         19.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2170
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       21.0        25.0       29.0                 40.7                    28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    263.0       216.0      368.0                598.6                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.3        44.1      45.8                  44.0                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                         54.0        53.2      51.0                  52.5                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.7         2.7       3.2                   3.5                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9          1.8       1.9                  2.6                     2.7
URBAN                              8.1         7.5        7.7                  4.5                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0         54.0       48.0                 41.6                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    29.0         29.0       25.0                 13.7                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.5        3.5                  2.9                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..        ..                  16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOPD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         119.0        85.0      86.0                  93.5                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   88.0        78.0      91.0                 103.6                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          69.0        57.0      68.0                  69.8                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0        15.0      19.0                  17.5                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     55.0        38.0       31.0                 17.5                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   36.0         40.0      39.0                  54.4                    63.1
INFANT HORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..          ..        ..                    ..                    66 5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         4.0       4.0                  62.5                    65.9
URBAN                               ..        45.0      30.0                  82.9                    80.4
RURAL                               ..         2.0       2.0                  45.1                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..                   ..                     62.3
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    79.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                    ..                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              ..    34040.0   13830.0                 4688.7                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..          ..   4931.0                 1751.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          .2901.0      1552.0    1956.0                 635.5                   480.3
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..       5.0
URBAN                               ..          ..       4.2/c
RURAL                               ..          ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..       2.8
URBAN                                     ..              1.8/c
RURAL                                .     .              3.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..       56.5/c
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                    ..



ANNEX I
- 19 -                                                           Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
KIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NDRTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         NORTH EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMET RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 8.0        10.0      25.0                 76.4                    99.7
MALE                 14.0        18.0      43.0                 92.2                   101.0
FEMALE               0.4          2.0       6.0                 59.9                   99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 0.1         1.0       3.0                 33.3                    34.4
MALE                   ..         1.0       5.0                 41.9                    33.5
FEKALE                ..          0.1       1.0                24.2                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   ..          2.0       2.0                 9.8                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          45.0         51.0     38.0                 39.2                    30.5
SECONDARY                         17.0       24.0      21.0                 25.1                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        3.0         ..       13.0                39.7                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         ..        ..                 15.3                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..       14.0      13.0                139.6                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         ..        ..                 29.0                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..       10.0        ..                 22.2                    63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         ..        ..                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    1225.7      1361.7   1430.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  3.8         4.2       6.0                  9.6                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            83.2        79.3      76.3                 47.0                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                6.9         9.0      11.0                 23.8                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              30.0        29.1      28.3                 26.1                    31.5
MALE                                57.0        55.1      53.6                47.0                    48.9
FEMALE                              2.3          2.4      2.5                  4.7                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1.6      1.9                  1.9                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..          ..
LDWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                262.5
RURAL                              ..          ..    100.0                 140.4                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                202.1                   474.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      83.0                122.2                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                 22.1
RURAL                              ..          ..      BO.O                 33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  In the major cities of Sanaa, Taiz and Hodaidah.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                                                      Page 3 of 5
DUUITII OF SOCIL  1001010.
Not4j  AIohoooh t00 "C.0  -0  d-.  foot  -aa.  p-a00tj117         to464  _., _t 0borlO.11_ .0d   t1k,o  10  kld .1.0 bo  t.000. t         0*7 t.0 My0_  bo boor
o.olo"lly ... P..   l. 000..0o    1o ok of .0004dO..d WWIIOt..  -d  -0004  .0.  by d00ff.00t o.o.tO.  i- tl.011.01.  t. *....  Tb. 4.0.-                      .
Ibo...,  f.001 to d-lb.rOk  rdr,of d.00 t*. 10410*0  troo.W.    d.-m. orStr... "Lr.o Si.  410 0 00.0  boM            .  00000
Tho o.f  -..  t0P   0  (1) thO  no a.OryO  Oro0P Of th. oobioot o-tPoo  .0* (2) A oot0oo  goop .1t00 .a..t bim.o   _.Pog  toOn  th.. Oh. oo               Sp    w
of tb.  oobioo  ao.o   (o.".o  for "0.0101 Sorylo. 011 lO r.....  Stoop 40000 '1011*1  I.-0  Worth Arlo. 004 01441. O..0  to oh.. boo. of .,oo.,W
ffloootro    0100I1.).  10 I   .0 - roorn. oop dal.ta 0. --"-oo   -r POP.tol.O   0010kt0  orOtOaotO  -.0  f.0  -00  Ldi-00  .04 .o  001y           ot
1-ot  .10 of tko oa.Olo   to o.toP boo dot, fa,t 010  OOOloOO-   01.0 000 000.-W.4of ta.i..  -oo  tho 1040*00. 4000400  Obt. oioo1)iOiy of
0000 00100   l L     r.  0000100 -tot .01 ko 000ri10d 1o 0.00..ovroo  of  -  indicator to  -ob..  Tb...000g00  000 0017 000l 01 00 000   tb. 0010
of 0.   o0aa WI t-   L   00. ti    -     Oh. soto  .4 r-f-ra   stoop..
LAW A         ooA dI oq.k..)                                                            00.0.000  00  0010000_                 dl001000  *00     by  -Mt 00 p.--f00   pty~
70001 - T00.1 .000..  -r.ono.o    .Wo 00.  004 1..0  0000.                              010100  0.01.1(4 00.0  .1.-1 0001 Ot .000107t  1.,.1.
ASY    '_.lte   - 6.0i-0  of .ol,oloool000               ..4oorr1   orI p..    0.tly  0.0.1.00Ir10P.00  - Po.1.otia  di,1d.  by -or of p0.-ti101
f-  -p..p-I-..    MI .d ktb-  pt-   IL. fll-~ 197 "...           W1.01 2."oor 3.W100   30  -too. P.0ti.   _ os   -d 00.01t- 0t .1
UCAITA CU04$ - GRP P.. lopiLt.. 1-0to0 0  SoorsO .000  POl...01  ..                    . ad"W k   "Uro) 11 10  by Obo  =iOOlo   M0        fbopolb4
,.00   byO    00.001-0  -Mld    W. Word 1.0k 00t1.  (1977-79 boot) ; 1960,          -i011.4010. pobUi  -d p.1-t. g...o0  00  ".102.4hOp-           . 
1970, .0d 19794.t..                                                                     Mb011ll 00.0t 000.   ooplOt.1  -   00t*1b         O p0         ,  0.0.
UP   C0.TI   PU CAPITA, - 40.00    -Wt.010   of  -roO0            -Srg  (0001          ooo  o _.o0 ilood.  m.0.1 booitol. M.0. I-."2 000100 -   .41-I0
004 10.1. pt00..-. 000000  p0.0  hydro-. nobo  ..d 500000.1M 01.0                   -  0.000~   p.oi t.ly 000000* by A pboo.  boo by 0.001  00.
Ioloity) L. klloOe    of tool  qool-bo-  P00 -Ltp.; 19044  1970, 004 1976              -000  014.100. 000.) obOhoff0.0 1.-0t100   -00.00                  p0.000a
4000                                                              010.004~~~~~~tdd  -S 0 Oof .0410.  00011t00...  00 O 01010  P_POO0  00'00  bm9-
70001 FPooloOl-. 614-1.0  1811110) -4of loly 1; 1960. 1970. 004 1976                     -p- ~ .1.w.1o.a -     4 b-p ta.  -d0  ofi-   -A.ooo 0t-. 0   100
4.00.    ~ ~ ~    ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ itemr  i                                          oh.I .or of  b.*..                  I--
Or.._ ft.o.OI.o (orf  of      M01       aILO 00 orb. to Io001 poPobooLs;
dilff *-t 4.1100t.. of orb. 0000.7.1f0000                bIIt o.0k17   f 4t.0
mooo..ttOO   190.1907. .04 1970 4t.0.                                        00000 9. of Mo-o.bod (00.00.? bo.o. d) - 00tl. -bk.. -  0
L=1I0.1.9079                                                                  A boo-..brl  00.1000    600 of A     0041.14.010_l 000. oh.-  11I"0  9.000
y -- 1C.-.0  popo,Ioloo rooioaloO _.00 b00  00 1910               00* tool? ..  -I:.1.A b-oP4.00 104000 007 0?00  0t bo 0-1044 10
toO01 popooltlo by 000 004 00  .04 tkilo -.tlty.10  00* 00001111  I---0            tbo Woo..bod 00? 00t0.010  0
Pr.).tOIo  p*0o000  fao oort011y  ta.. Oino1. of ItO.. 1-."..00.-                  0?0   .*- 000t000000      .0.ob0                        .o1-Aeg
1.00. a,  d f(m. 110. .op..t-yo t1buIIw"  t0 77.5 y-.ot. 0. ': p.oO- 0011.0.o..p.  tol.6010  r    *  0-OO0o -tI000..0 
-1.0  0f, fortLIlty to.. .1.0 bo- tb00  1-.1.               d-t0   01000 10                id p-
0.001110   -.d0o40  0 10. Lo. lo-o  .0  p.00 0fIl  9.01  p.f=OiO.                4.0000.llo t1010  0.000f   :11..  -001 .k.                           -Al0  -
bob f00.00   L. t00. 0010.0d  -0  Of tkoo  0100 0-"I0t100  00 0001t 000000   .11.0t                          0   1.01171  10.   .0000    oo
00  00110  .0-.04. fo00000   0700                                                  of 0000. aobOo  004 0.1 4.11.I     0P.0007
6001.0 t000."0  - 10O. .0.00a0"0  P.P.t0l00     Obor. LA0 Sn'Ok 01.0
ob,  .1thrto 1. 04-1  to O. 40tk 0000. .04 .1.0 Oh. 060000000C00IO0
0.100000-1   T01. L. oo104017 a.. o  fooiltlly _r004.010 10 t                              0.1.0  01
oh. I.p1..O  1.01 Off =010 000 d07         ti00 .0 00. .000 0*0  goo.o.t1.         0000  ooo           -0. 0.~0                   -      "O..001  .01. -d 0mb
of       00I.1...  10.01  .0117  b.Z  0001000  900.0.100 01.0n                         o lota.10* .ohp107 1-01 00 P000000  of 000.010
0000-0.  02.bo. 0,01. of tk. P0.7.00 ,"      0001.1 o  Oh. poroltla.                 1t.-.07  -Wol-Og  pp..1oLo0  .0.17Io.*.0d  hblldA  o.  6-11
1. O. 70   20ff. .0  O. tt. of ".rli-of 00 t.l1110  0000 00 ..PI-00                 por. boO 041.004. f- 000f0-  I.Obo of pob..0704-OtOo; f-0
t00  1.01.                                                                          ooOlo.0    1..10.01.   oloo.1 ..   0   ..0
7000001t.00  .0.0t.01   10 t-fOd - Th.0y 700040000001000  pp0ti-0                      01.0. O   pt0P10 000_ d01.  0.0.. Oh-0(.0              o  1006.    -
ft, 0.. MA. - kid-70-  popolotla  p.r 0qo00  k11o00t.  (100 h-u-00) of                  pr,4.   .o-1.rooll   Yt bObo  "0.1"00   ;1..o.ol.  000 tA
P., 00.IA  .        W.olto0  1.4-d  Coopo04 d     oh..  or 000t001 l.0*                000011  o0 12 t0 17 P000* of 060; -..00p00*d00  000000 At.S-ly
Po0o.oLo  A*. 30,tOoo (90001  -10110.  (0-14 700o)* .0000-06  (15-                        1000t   I.bbo.14.00.  00of0th.?I, -Ooo V .0010k  ip.too 0t9.
P---0r). *   d o..ti.d (65 yoo0o..   ooorI) 0o P.--0.00  of  id-4-7.  9pop*           4.007o  04pr0.0  .o4o    0000..
II110; 1960. 1970. .0d 1971 4.00.                                                     d0o-t..ly . 0..010- Ot. 00  ... 0000cr L-tf 70.L- .000001
P00OPo.110fo19-6.    10-70. -041970-78.                                               0.po49101.
i"0010 0.0  6.0Iooo)-ub.o-  f"'1  poowtk ..t.  of  0bw pp.P-                        1*Mo100t    0 0..i000.1--  O. d0041t. (.01.0 0.04 a   -it.0)
P12t0. !fot ~190040. 1907. .0  1970-76 A__                                                     P.._____ f___________
p000L. S.1.h I9L. 1970t.o4  OPS 4h..                          .9001Tof
1.4."000 D-bOo 10. 00.__d) - A0.0-1 d.00k  P.o tb 0...  of 01d-y-o                    P....0 .I . (00  tbo.Ma -00.t.0100  - P--0000 .0 -           os?- 0   00
pOPobOlti; 1960. 1970. .04 1970 A0..                                                   .0001000Oo .60   ...;.00.0-1ooo   .r.  0
.Oo R .. 4goaol  0.0. - 0..0 .boO of 4.oohm.                  i.l11   b-.o 10             l 0110. 0h.00..
boo 0001 rordootlo- p-old if oh.M.00.              P.-00 -.0   60-09001010 f0-     6.0 0'     1,0   .0   ko00 IL0-1.000) - Al1 t7yp*0 0of 00 f0 00  00*
0110  oIt.; .00011  fio.y-o   -0000. 00410  10 19640  1970. 00  1977.                b.4.O 006.01pbkll  p.r tkh,o0  of POP.0l4010; .00d4.  -Li-~
001,P= I.0.o - 40.t00  A.n.s. (th.O-*0do  - 4A000   .h.t of 0000Pt00                000.04 000.0  10 nn. d L. Y-o0  oh- s 0                t-t10   of -d4. -00
of' b kLrIo-oOo  400. .0o     _oI.o of 0tlO.oI foolly 91000000.".01000              .  f.000.00t. kOo000   00.7.0b   a0.l   10.0
O011 0*19-10.(0.0of .0.1. .0..) -  otoo of -0010                                    Oto.ri0.ol.0  110.00000.1b..*.b.   -
o.nofa014id     o0   oo03-4700)L . g00 klotb-oatol 40010.  0                      TTO 6".0.1    (PP. 0000.000 .00.1.100  - TV00000  0f0 boo-dlot 00
011 0.00104 00000 1. .00 000 50009.                               _I.000  pOl.000  p.O 'w.o..  p09p1001..;=000. .1000  TV  -..1-.0
FCCV AM )RrMTIQN                                                   L. .-tti..~~~~~~100f00  0041. 70-0  00. 0001.0000  of 70.000 00  1. 0(0.00.
PPU 400 00070171d.. .0  d                                                         .0 -..o.oi COro,4.Io  (n    b.a   oo.0o      0..  Oit 00.00 000
0040.0 d00    P--ob4oo0C1it..00  .10016-1-00-I04. Sof (900 0.910000                  100'.1   mol1100    .t.."   .1.400p000*   o
poo-t=o of  allhi -od      dOibl.  004000   mid . .&0              ff td 10b10 4di,o0If0i p0 p0011   0  1.0t0410  t000-  00.  II10ooAo
100  01.4 d  A000 .to      t. Omodloti- 00f0 -h000 --oo. (0.. 00000                   0 00 "._1' Att1-d poor 00 10f.0  000  00- ...    - 0. h.        -o
.01t a  oo.40. prodo.o polo. 0.10ht.; 1601-45, 1970. o0d 1978 4...d0  .bilo 0010..
P.00100.1   f0001. (000-t Of I0001m000   - Co0td (f0k
-87os  .40l1-t.0  of 000 food .opli.. .001bl. L. 00.10  P.. 009104             LLOI FRM
P0 ".Y. A-,l11.01  Poppll.0 e I1.0 do-t0.0.p-dt0010. i.7.0. 1-0                  7001 Ioo  9."0 (tko.-o..0     - teo--.l-ly 00000  P00000. 001.1.010
-oP-.O. .0d ob.0g.  L. 0000. Wot ..PP1.o o.o0. 00101 000.  -d0.,                   .0.04A -rot  .d4 .o.mloy0  boo .0o10400  b0.0..100   .0        0 . 0.
qo*olcl.  0.0  00 oodpoocO.Io. .0  10... L. di.1.1btoO.   0..1.."I       0.01011 L...    0.000      -i.OO. -0.0 -t .obl.;- 190. 1970 ad
-OOoo. o.0-td0 by PAD b0.d0 -. phylbloglO.1  -d.0  f00  000  .-01-                 1970 4d50.
_d4 i0.  dllr iobo  of P000.01"00, .04  "1bol   109000000 000  5000               P8o.00000.o                                -inorfr.  00.. , f-t0.0.7,0.t01.. .0
000000l1  1.01; 1961-65. 1970. .41977 4.0.                                        .l)1o.)o                    toft110  l*O. Ioreo; 19700. 1970 .0  1976 4000.
I. sr. 01               Z f0001  00   I o 4e) - 000001 00.0.0   f  .r 0.00.        lodootI, (0000t) - Lab. or 000  10 00100  00.00t0ti, -.of-.oooo
00- Opl _   0 food p.r 4.. 0.0 to.Ply of food 1. 4001.04- o.b..   00                0   10000,000  .   0   0p000g   f  00   0,0fr                         90
qojioot. for .11 looOolI.. 00.tb11.00d 007 U004 P.-id. for..00                     10 .04.1970  .0..                               ftt1Ib.t..    90
011.0000  f 10  e-  of 0.0.  p00t.i0 p-O 4y ad 00 or_.  of ..1-1 -d              0000to1oo1_ 6.0. (f0I0 -001 .1..4  .00-  olep.Itbo  o
P.010  0000.., of -hi00  10 00000 .0l0  0. 0000. P0000.".  T... .100-               001t 7  0.*0   o,o.   0  0..  00  .oO    mIt P=00  -.00.
.0.0010.. 000.010. of 75 S       Oe of 00.1 pIOotL. ad 23 10000 0
.000100.0        000o4  foe  0.01.P000  by 04010 AO                     . 70-0- P            f000000d of001.   l..(I   pPOIOlb of 00  -11*0000000101
00014 P004 000,070 196145, 1071 .04A197."dTll.                       190. 1970, .-4 1975 0010.  Th=.000  110'. pOlOpOb          t000  t.f101t0o
.Pi.o001  'rOt.iO 00001, ft.. .010. .0  .1.0 - P000010 oupPi, of food 40    M- 060        -0000000o  Oh.- Pot-.I.tlt   d100.  od    00.
0104 0- 000.0.010        .l.o. Ie  r0.-  p.o doy; 1961-65. 1970 00  1774.. '              000t400  .11  - 6Ut.0100    orllOo d- 15 004 61 -04  -0
080 Soop 1-4 7-.0, tr 00011400  1.100. 000 S.-,; for..0 _ .7100,  00s
t00.. 4.0. 4001,0  0000 11(0 t0bl.; 1960, 1970 a   1977 4.0t..                    I0OM Dox,muono
Mf   ..00,o0300  or   -4000o=.ro   .00   10   0...                                          90.1   000 It    0 L 00000  700.   0  000. .d04          - 400.    p.090000
- L -  , -      -       -        -f lif.               ~~~~~~~~~~~of bo-o.h.I4o.
00b tok  1960:. 170.041976 4..  9
of .0  0010   00 .000000  P.0.1  0k-000bi00  04.  00700    ,t&y.o~g   =T~7
A.c... 10 0.0 0.t00 (lr      tn of 0otu1010    1.t1. orb.. 004  -.00  - IS,            A00.01. P-o.ry 100..1.01 1=          O.?1.00 2 1.001X 00.1  nok .010011
9.000t of root. (1001  I000.000   -N.1  ;dhrooo*l   t000   "0 00                      ootrIltoodlly .4.4.0. 41.0 Plo 0.0.01t.1 on-food 00-t001   00
0000 I001  (1.o1 t40      d 0 -I104 At0.0..00000000000000  boO .0oooObooOd        offorblo.
000.0.0  .000(00Pt       00. bf....0000.a   000.7nb    0                          .0t0401010P,.ttd0.  0,1(06o00010 -.k    d  0"
tMi0060  O  001  -.0p001- PPo.100-of . 20  000.0000  poblla001010,  oO0700.  ..   0.-010   000009009
0 000i1  -r  I.AopoOt 1-t.ld .00  -0  000. 2ff -t0.0  0000.-.000000007           ..  900.01 laei  ofthk.  -t00..  Orbs 1001 io 4.01,4 000  100 0001
0000400d   0 kOS. 010h01   -Ol.b0.   -1.100     of tht0 h-o..  10 0..1 000            101wt04.000for biOlo 0000 of 11.1.. 100000  000
do o.oool.  d00   .1  0.717 tht th. 000100   .00  olff th. kOo.-o                    01.04Prooltdoe4bOoo P00.00  IO-  0_.01 00000)- 0000
foo.  000 00.p.d *41.poOoOOo.0.  .00of  h. dy 1  f 000,.0  h.            d n.01    000000of  oyo101oL(hb..  d 00h1.sko*00'-0.01th               podj
00001 - P,.b.o of po.pl.(ool. , orb.., ad roool) 000,f04 0..0, n.r.IC.t. P
410P0.01 00 P- O.0t0S0  of 00.10  -0.-t01. Posoloolto-   9--t.o  dl.-  .                                            0001   1.0       .1oo  D."0 D10101
90.01  ,0 10004  O.  00100000    d410000, .10th 0- ,th.oot    - tnl0                                          0000000       -1 d                 D")OO.o   bl-
of h,*  00000  ad.W       0vtrby 000-boo    y.ta or th. no Of0100010
Pit p000000 0.4 1011.  000001100100..



- 21 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1978/79 1/               (Constant Price)
(Current Prices)           FY1973-79      FY1979
GNP at Market Prices                  3810                    11           -4
GDP at Market Prices                  2800                     8            9
Gross Domestic Investments             900                    19           10
Gross National Savings                 524                    13          -40
Exports of GNFS                         56                    -3          -23
Imports of GNFS                       1441                    21           24
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1978/79) 1/
.Value Added-  Resident Labor Force 2/  V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln       %    Thousand         %       US$         %
Agriculture             1000      38        1450        76          690       50
Industry                 350      14         150         8         2330      170
Services                1250      48         300        16         4170      300
TOTAL/AVERAGE      2600      100        1900       100         1.370     100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mln)
% of GNP
1975/76  1976/77  1977/78   1978/79   1978/79
Current Receipts                 605      1293      1985      2188         13
Current Expenditure              617       841      1250      1839         11
Current Deficit/Surplus          -12       452       735       349          2
Capital Expenditure              361       603      1167      2670         16
External Assistance, Net         635       606       697      1904         11
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
----YRls Million Outstanding End Period---
Money Supply                    2028      3642      5248      6311
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector   -407        -939      -990     -609
Bank Credit to Non-Govt.
Sector                         566      1474      1555     2199
------Percentages or Index Numbers------
Money Supply at % of GNP          27        31        34        36
Annual Percentage Increase in:
Money Supply                 110        80        44       20
Consumer Price Index          17        24        19       22
1/  Tentative World Bank estimates. The entire national accoun,ts
series is currently being revised by the Government.
2/ Includes part-time female labor primarily in the traditional sector.



-22 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Mln)
1973/74  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78   1978/79
Exports of Goods, fob              14       12        19         7          3
Imports of Goods, cif           -194      -382      -730      -906    -1,405
Trade Balance                   -180      -370      -711      -899    -1,402
Non Factor Services, net           14       21       -10       -21         19
Factor Income, net               117       479       896      1160       1007
Workers' Remittances, net   (112)    (457)    (842)   (1090)           (898)
Invesment Income, net           (5)      (22)      (54)      (70)      (109)
Balance on Current Account       -49       130       175       240       -376
M & LT Capital, net                62      153       146       165        435
Official Grants                 33       114       104       103        312
Official Loan, net              29        39        42        62        123
Disbursements                (32)      (42)      (46)      (68)     (133)
Repayments                   (-3)      (-3)      (-4)      (-6)      (-10)
Other Capital (including
errors and ommissions), net   10         -1.1      133       -32        144
Increase in Reserves (-)         -23      -272      -454      -373       -203
Gross Reserves (end FY) 1/       150       520       974      1347       1550
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, JUNE 30, 1979                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976/77-1977/78)
Total Outstanding            1,075          Cotton and Cotton Products        31
of which disbursed             543          Coffee                            13
Hides and Skins                   14
DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1978/79 2/               Biscuits and Confectionary         9
All Other Commodities            33
%                                               100
Total Outstanding and
Disbursed                   1.7
1/ Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
2/ Includes workers' remittances.
EM1DB
January 1981



- 23 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A. Statement of IDA Credits 1/
(As of January 31, 1981 - $ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                              (less cancelations)
Number    Year            Borrower            Purpose                IDA   Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways I                   7.7          -
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agriculture I   21.2 2/            -
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Education                   11.0          -
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply                 6.3          -
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Industrial Estate            2.3         0.7
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Rural Development           10.0         2.7
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways II                  9.0          -
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply and
Sewerage                8.1         1.1
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic   Education                    8.0         1.1
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic   Grain Storage and
Processing              5.2         2.1
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic   Livestock Credit
and Processing          5.0         1.6
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply and
Sewerage               10.0         4.5
714     1977   Yemen Arab Republic   Port Development             6.0         2.8
794     1978   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways III                11.5         6.8
805     1978   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agriculture II  10.5              7.6
837     1978   Yemen Arab Republic   Power Distribution          1().0        8.1
880     1979   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agriculture III 15.0             14.9
915     1979   Yemen Arab Republic   Education                   1(.0         9.6
950     1979   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply and
Sewerage               12.0        12.0
978     1980   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agriculture
IV 3/                   5.5         5.5
1025     1980   Yemen Arab Republic   Fisheries Develop-
ment 3/                17.0        17.0
1067     1980   Yemen Arab Republic   Rural Development 3/   17.0             17.0
Total                                                  218.3 1/4/ 115.1
of which has been repaid                                  -
Total now held by IDA 4/                               218.3
Total undisbursed                                                   115.1
1/  Excluding $7 million credit for textile rehabilitation project which was
cancelled on October 31, 1979.
2/  Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
3/ Credit not yet effective.
4/ In addition a $12 million credit for a Regional Electrification project
was approved by the Executive Directors on February 10, 1981.



- 24 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 6
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of January 31, 1981)
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products         2.4       -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                            2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                 -                                 -
Total commitments now held by IFC                  2.4              2.4
Fully disbursed
C. Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were
approved in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later of a management/administrative
expert. The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and
$425,000.
D. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Key staff for the Industrial Estate Development Authority have
been appointed and advisory services for operations and civil engineering
are being secured. Feasibility studies for the planned industrial estates
in Taiz and Hodeidah are underway and the Government is seeking further
assistance in this area from the World Bank.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaulation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 6
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 17, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start, progress on project implementation has been
encouraging. Project implementation has been delayed by managerial,
staffing, and financial problems, some of which still remain.
Nevertheless, these problems are somewhat mitigated by the momentum and
scope of the agricultural extension and credit programs, and the progress
in well drilling, and completing the village water supply components.
Problems of cost escalation have been met by an increase in the
contributions of the Government and beneficiaries, a reduction in the
number of loans that can be made to farmers, and to the extent of the
feeder roads component.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeidah Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the water supply and sewerage works is underway.
Transfer of the existing water system assets from the Port Authority has
been effected. The Government is currently shortlisting consultants for
the completion of the tariff study.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of
February 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
All construction and delivery of most of the equipment and
furniture has been completed. All twelve institutions are operational.
Technical assistance and staffing needs have been met by the appointment of
expatriates from Arab countries and good progress is now being made under
the Basic Training Scheme.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
YGGC was established in October 1976 and is implementing the
project satisfactorily. Six local staff are currently undergoing training
in the US and UK in fields of cereal sciences and bakery management. The
silo and bakeries are operational, and work on the warehouses is complete.
The final report on the National Nutrition Status Survey, carried out in
cooperation with the US Government's Center for Disease Control and USAID,
has been presented to the Government. Cost overruns on construction are
being met by the Saudi Fund for Development and the Government. The grain
storage survey has been completed and is being reviewed. A nutrition
expert has been appointed for about six months to initiate follow-up
activities to the nutrition survey.



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 6
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million
Credit of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Following escalation in the costs of this project, and a number of
other implementation problems, the project scope was reduced without
changing the project concept. One dairy farm and the livestock fattening
farm are nearing completion; the farms have started operations on a small
scale. The other physical works, although progressing reasonably well at
present, are about one year behind schedule. The slaughterhouse and animal
health components, in particular, are achieving their aims, and the
livestock fattening, dairy production, and village development components
will provide valuable research information, and development experience for
the livestock sector in YAR. The administrative and technical problems
encountered last year are on the way to being resolved, and project
implementation is making progress.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All contracts for supply of materials and construction of the
water and sewerage systems have been or are in the process of being
awarded. The draft report of the tariff study has been reviewed by the
Authority and is being revised by the consultant.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Contracts for civil works have now been awarded and construction
is expected to be completed in October 1981, about nine months behind
appraisal schedule. The chief engineer and the electrical engineer have
been appointed. Other technical staff provided for under the credit are
still to be appointed. The Government is continuing its efforts to recruit
qualified staff in order to strengthen the technical services department.
Cr. NO. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project aims at continuing technical and financial assistance
to the Highway Authority in the operation of effective road maintenance
practices. Other objectives of the project include the implementation of
vehicle loading controls, planning future highway development and the
inception of an overlay program to strengthen existing paved roads.
Project implementation is underway and substantial progress is being made
on all project components.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima); $10.5
million Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project provides for the agricultural development of Wadi Rima
by providing technical assistance in agricultural extension and research,
agricultural credit facilities, access roads village water supply schemes,
and includes the construction of the Tihama Development Authority
Headquarters at Hodeidah. The project also provides for gabion test
structures, and funds for UNDP's institutional support to MOA and the
central Agricultural Research Service. Project implementation is slow.
Although senior staff, except for the extension expert, have been
appointed, the award of contracts for the construction of the access roads
and headquarters camp at Hodeidah have been delayed due to the necessity to
clear contract awards with the Government's central tender and procurement
committee. The agricultural extension service is proceeding successfully.
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1979; Closing Date:
January 1, 1983
Implementation is underway, and major contracts for the supply of
equipment and materials have been awarded, The rural electrification
interim study has been completed. Problems facing YGEC are managerial and
financial. A general manager has now been appointed. YGEC has secured
sufficient funds, from external sources, to meet the foreign exchange
requirements of its current development program.
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0
million Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April. 20, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The project includes the construction of irrigation works in Wadi
Mawr; equipping and operating Surdud Agricultural Research and Production
Farm; establishing extension, plant protection and animal health services,
and agricultural credit facilities; and provision of technical aLssistance in
managerial, engineering and aricultural fields. After a delay in declaring
the credit effective, implementation is now underway.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 21, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1986
The project aims at constructing and equipping an agricultural
secondary school, a livrestock secondary school and two regional banches of
the National Institute for Public Administration (NIPA). In addition, pre-
investment studies will be undertaken of regional basic health care services



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 6 of 6
and related training, and of post secondary educational development. Insti-
tutional support to the Ministry of Education and the school building unit
as well as related technical assistance have also been included under the
project. Construction of the agricultural secondary school is about 60
percent completed. Contracts for the livestock secondary school and the
two NIPA branches have been awarded, construction is underway. Fellowship
programs have been drawn up and candidates are being recruited for training
abroad. The pre-investment studies relating to post secondary education
are underway.
Cr. No. 150-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $12.0
million Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: January 13, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project would assist in the construction of water supply and
wasterwater systems for the cities of Ibb and Dhamar. It would also
provide technical assistance and training to NWSA staff. Co-financing
arrangements have been finalized. Final designs have been prepared by the
consultants, and hydrogeological studies for Ibb are completed.
Cr. No. 978-YAR - Fourth Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5
million Credit of April 21, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1025-YAR - Fisheries Development Project; $17.0 million Credit of
June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1067-YAR - Second Southern Uplands Rural Development Project;
$17.0 Million Credit of November 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country            February 1979-May 1980
to prepare project:                (15 months)
(b) Agency which prepared the
project:                           Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY)
(c) Date of first presentation
to IDA, and of the first
IDA mission to consider
this project:                      October 1978, February 1979
(d) Date of Departure of
Appraisal Mission:                 May 21, 1980
(e) Date of completion of
negotiations:                     February 13, 1981
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:       August 1981
Section II:  Special Project Implementation Actions by IDA
Assistance to IBY in arranging training programs in promotional
work for two of its staff members with experienced DFCs under tlhe technical
assistance component (para. 45).
Section III: Special Conditions
1.  Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) Appointment of a General Manager (para. 46).
(b) Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and IBY (para. 60 (b)).
B. Measures to be taken by the Government and IBY include:
(a) Review of interest rates of IBY in consultations with IDA at
least once a year beginning October 1, 1981 (para. 43 (b)),



- 30 -
(b)  IBY to maintain an interest spread sufficient to cover
administrative expenses (at least 3 percent of total assets),
provisions for bad and doubtful loans and investment (at least
one percent of portfolio to be built up to 3 percent by 1985),
remuneration on preference shares (at a dividend rate of at
least 6 percent), and build up of adequate reserves (including
25 percent of net income to be transferred to legal reserves)
(para. 60 (b)).



tSL'AEL -i  nAOS '             AFGArNTt                                          Ar                                                                                     At^.
cos NJRA.           I RA N     L
F, qeJIvAv<X9<0-t       (_J                                                                                                    YEMEN   ARAB  REPUBLIC
gEp5A,4   eaH9A                                                                                                     IDA-ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
MiD' ARAB A                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECTS,
| ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -                  1                                                                                                                     : Gri   trg
A G                                                                                                                                                     g Etisheries
ETtQiFi          f  -=                j                                                                                                           ti      Fis ML4\f.E =7iks ae     :Sc arketos
E THIOPIA                                                                                                           F4  M.,k.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Edc ton
- ~H ghooy Mainrnanc
effl    0    =    : s   : 0   ;  $ +                     2   i  ^          ^         i=IL  '4         R      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Prooc SariounsLre           6
Worr Suppi.
P. Fot Develpmet
EXIST NG FEATIJRES
, V5          aDD7LRI17
NainlCaptors
Pt-man Roads
Sn-anoon Roads
EVATION Meters)
,y   _ .                                                      FORTDLVELUPMDgT7505
Sisd'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ iaAavaen                                                                               o
RED Si"A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oCTOOS -                                                                                              it
|           .                                                                                                     T;H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~AL BIDAARCIUt7D
|                                                                                                                  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oATnnnaAeRoaos nAsA O5R5S5RcEin
|                                             C- 1& F  OF   A.DL N                                                7U hM~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~       ~    ~~~~~~~~A.-TRSLLURt m   1y7
I  k ,           --                                                         -AADEann                            U        - Y         1-nn
I                                           i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 4-   Torpsbereena  AO                                                         naenvaaanenspec aeoann  UUT'NULgG anIILeosLPtR    inset  
Z                              b>>     >>,.,TP,         r>cQchectsL>e A;9"/WloJna>!evre As                                                                        Tv} r77~~~~~~~~~Asnors o  io
u''L F  Of   ilDf/\/                                                irs a RAoSnan StAins tAMFLY snDOF   inn1  s U
_,                                                                   n                so              teas



