Document of                       FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3211-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ON INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
February 17, 1981
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed, without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:    Yemeni Rial (YR1)
US$1.00        =  YRls 4.50
YR1 1.00       =  US$0.22
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACB         Agricultural Credit Bank
CBY         Central Bank of Yemen
CPO    :    Central Planning Organization
DEG    ;    Deutsche Entwicklungs Gesellschaft
DOI         Department of Industry
ERR    :    Economic Rate of Return
HCB         Housing Credit Bank
IBY    :    Industrial Bank of Yemen
KFW * :   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
SSI    :    Small Scale Industry
UNCDF  :    United Nations Capital Development Fund
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
YBRD        Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Yemen Arab Republic - July 1 - June 30 (prior to 1980)
- January 1 - December 31 (from 1981)
Industrial Bank of Yemen - July 1 -June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ...............................                  1
A.   Background and Structure .......................                  1
B.    Government Policies and the Plan ....           ...........      I
C.   Constraints and Prospects ........ .      .............           4
II.    FINANCIAL SECTOR ...... .................                              5
A.    Financial Institutions .........................                 5
B.    Financing of Industrial Investment ....           .........      6
C.    Interest Rates in YAR ..........................                 7
III.    THE INSTITUTION ....................................                   8
A.    Institutional Aspects ..........................                 8
B.   Operations .....................................                 13
C.   Prospects ......................................                 15
IV.    THE PROJECT ......................          ...................       17
A.    Objectives .....................................                17
B.   Use of Credit Proceeds .........................                 18
C.    Project's Main Features ..........           ..............     19
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                .      .         22
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Summary of Income Statements
Annex 2:  Summary of Balance Sheets
Annex 3:  Projected Loan and Equity Oterations
Annex 4:  Projected Income Statements
Annex 5:  Projected Sources and Application of Funds
Annex 6:  Projected Balance Sheets
Annex 7:  Projected Disbursement Schedule of Proposed Credit
Annex 8:  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
This report was prepared by Messrs. Zafar 'S. Khan and Samir El Daher
(IDF/EMP).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN (IBY)
SANA'A
Basic Data
(Amount; YRls '000)
Date of establishment:    1976 (Operations started in
October 1977)
Ownership (as of
June 30, 1980):             Total paid-in share capital                     88,293
of which:
(i) Equity capital wholly
owned by the Government
of YAR                                    70,000
(ii)  Preference capital                        18,293
(a)  DEG                      2,250
(b)  YBRD                     5,000
(c)  Others                  11,043
Operational data (as of June 30)                1978        1979         1980
Approvals
Loans                                        16,636      24,804      38,758
Equity investments                              -         8,400           -
Guarantees                                      -         1,473           -
Total approvals                            16,636      34,677      38,758
Commitments
Loans                                        14,136      15,295      20,993
Equity investments                              -         5,900           -
Guarantees                                      -         1,473           -
Total commitments                          14,136      22,668      20,993
Disbursements
Loans                                        11,276      13,484      20,732
Equity investments                              -         2,350          950
Total disbursements                        11,276      15,834      21,682
Operating results (as of June 30)
Net income after provisions                   1,417       2,447       3,780
Net income after provisions
as % of average net worth                        2.77        3.39         4.35
Net income after provisions
as % of average total assets                     2.74        3.34         4.22
Administrative expenses
as % of average total assets                     2.79        3.01         3.9
.... continued



- 11 -
Operational data (as of June 30)               1978        1979        1980
Financial position (as of June 30)
Total assets                                66,101      82,267      96,622
Total portfolio                             11,276      26,756      45,125
Net worth                                   65,408      80,511      93,194
Ratios
Debt/equity                                  0.1:1       0.2:1       0.3:1
Long term debt/equity                          -           -            -
Current ratio                                 76:1        31:1        24;1
Lending terms
Interest rate on medium & long
term loans (as of November 15, 1980)                                   10%
Commitment charge                                                       1%
Appraisal fee                                                       1% flat of
total loan
Service charge                                                           1%
Guarantee fee                                                            2%
Resource position (as of March 31, 1980)
Share capital                                                       87,963
Reserves and retained earnings                                       3,778
IDA Credit 465                                                       2,025
Total resources                                                     93,766
Outstanding portfolio                                                39,289
Undisbursed commitments                                               6,924
Net fixed assets                                                      1,487
Total commitments                                                    47,700
Resources available for commitments                                  46,066



I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Background and Structure
1.01     Until 1970, the YAR economy revolved mainily around subsistence
farming and merchant activities. Industry (defined as manufacturing and
mining) was almost non-existent except for small traditional manufacturing
and handicrafts. The relative political stability following the end of
the civil war in 1970, and an availability of large savings and a healthy
balance of payments mainly due to workers' remittances, have helped to
stimulate industrial activity in the country. Indlustry is still at an
infant stage and the relevant information is scanty. Industry's share in
GDP was estimated at 7% in 1978-79. Value added in manufacturing rose by
an estimated 17% in 1976-77 and 18% in 1977-78 in real terms, but slowed
down to 10% in 1978-79. This compares with an estimated real GDP growth of
around 10% in each of these years. The rapid growth in the industrial
output in 1976-77 and 1977-78 was the result of a smell initial base, ana
some slowing in the subsequent period was inevitable. The growth has been
largely in the private sector.
1.02     The industrialization pattern of the YAR is oriented towards
import-substitution, and largely based on imported raw materials, except
for building materials, cigarettes and cotton textiles. Recent industrial
growth has concentrated in sectors enjoying natural protection, such as
building materials and components (which are bulky to transport and often
have to be made to measure), soft drinks and mineral water, plastic and
aluminum containers and furniture. Most of the new industry is relatively
capital intensive due to shortage and high cost of labor although small
scale industry I/ is still labor intensive.
1.03     The industrial activity is concentrated in the three main cities
in the YAR.  In 1978, 40% of paid-in capital in major enterprises (with
individual capital of YRls 1 million and above) was represented by opera-
tions in Sana'a, 28% in Taiz, 21% in Hodeida and only 11% in the rest of
the country. Small scale industry is spread more evenly throughout the
country.
B. Government Policies and the Plan
1.04     The Government's industrial policies are on the whole realistic.
The level of protection to local industry is not excessive and the Gov-
ernment has not sought to interfere with the free play of the price
1/ There are no definitions of handicraft, cottage, small, medium and
large size industries in the YAR. These terms have been used in SAR
only for indicative purposes reflecting the relative nature of difter-
ent industries. In 1979, ILO had conducted a study of handicraft
industry in the YAR. The study covered craft industries which are
traditional and work without machines or modern technology.



- 2 -
mechanism. Effective rates of protection for industry are generally
between 10 and 25Z, but there are some extreme cases with rates varying
from negative to over 100%; conscious tariff policies for industrial
development are lacking, and import duties are seen mainly as a source of
Government revenues. Industrial investment incentives include a five-year
exemption from import duties (on capital goods, spare parts and 25Z of raw
materials imports) and a five-year tax holiday. Tight controls on private
sector operations have been avoided and bureaucratic procedures have been
kept to a minimum. The Government has a positive attitude toward foreign
investment, and has an open door policy toward foreign firms (as in the
construction sector), foreign technicians and labor where local capabili-
ties appear inadequate. The policy of favoring what are, by YAR standards,
capital-intensive, rather than labor-intensive operations, is appropriate
in the circumstances which have so far prevailed. This, no doubt, neces-
sitates the import of foreign expertise but it would also contribute to the
training and development of local skills over time.
1.05     While these broad policies are being pursued effectively, there
are certain inconsistencies in details which still need to be resolved.
The problems which arise stem in many cases from the lack of qualified
manpower within Government departments. This is particularly evident in
the Ministry of Economy and Industry, thereby crippling its ability: to
properlv screen projects, whether in the private or public sector which
will meet the Government's priority criteria; to ensure rapid and effective
implementation of public sector investments; to control the operations of
public enterprises; to review and revise as necessary legislation and
administrative arrangements affecting industry; and to prepare plans,
policies and strategies for industrial development. A UNDP technical
assistance program, under which a team of experts is seconded to the
Department of Industry (DOI) in the Ministry of Economy and Industry, has
not been very successful in improving the activities of the DOI. It has
recently been strengthened, however, under Phase II of the program. A
review of DOI's responsibilities and discussions with UNDP team indicate
that an increase in qualified counterpart staff -- by 8-10 -- in the DOI is
essential for the successful implementation of the UNDP program 1/ and its
long term impact on the DOI's functions. The additional staff is also
necessary to support the Bank's eftorts to assist the YAR in the prepara-
tion of the next Five-Year Plan (para. 1.08). IBY would also benefit in
the long run from an adequately staffed DOI which would be able to provide
1/  The basic objective of the program is to promote the industrial sector
through (a) development of the institutional capacity in the DOI for,
inter alia advising the Government on policy issues concerning the
industrial sector; preparing medium- and short-term development plans;
identifying, formulating and appraising projects; monitoring plan and
project implementation; and regulating private sector investments; and
(b) establishment of an advisory service within the DOI which will
ultimately build up to a techno-economic extension service for
small- and medium-scale industries.



-3-
clear and prompt guidelines on industrial issues affecting IBY and to
quickly screen projects which may be eligible for IBY's financing. The
Government is cognizant of the need for additional staff and has agreed to
employ in the DOI, not later than December 31, 1982, eight additional
qualified professionals with economics, finance arnd engineering backgrounds
of which four would be employed by December 31, 1981.
1.06     The overall industrial activity in YAR is presently guided by the
first Five-Year Plan 1976/77-1980/81. The main objectives of the Plan in
the industrial sector are to develop efficient import-substituting indus-
tries and build on the available local resources. During the Plan period,
industrial investment is projected at YR1s 2.5 billion ($555.5 million) in
1975/76 prices, or 15% of the overall national investment. The growth rate
of the total industrial output (including construction) is estimated at 13%
as compared to 8% for total GDP. Out of the identified industrial projects
listed in the Plan, and which account for about 50% of planned industrial
investments, the building materials subsector has the highest share with
27% of the identified industrial investments, followed by textiles and
footwear (21%), food processing (11%), metal and lietal products (10%) and
chemicals and plastics (6%). Public and private sector industrial invest-
ments account for 33% and 26% respectively, with the balance to be covered
by mixed (public and private) enterprises.
1.07     The Plan target for private sector manufacturing investment was
YRls 585 million ($130 million) in 1975-76 prices. At the end of 1979,
about 50% of this target had been met. In addition, the Government had
approved further private sector investment of YRls 286 million ($63.6
million).  Therefore, the actual private sector industrial investment is
expected to exceed, though not by a large margin, the Plan target. The
progress in the implementation of public sector projects has been somewhat
slow. At the end of 1979, about 37% of the planned investment was under
implementation and another 40% was under active planning. Little progress
has been made in the implementation of mixed sector investment mainly due
to the lack of interest by local entrepreneurs in collaborating with the
public sector.
1.08     The preparatory work for the second Plan, to start in January
1982, is in a very preliminary stage. The collection of basic data has
only now been initiated. The acute lack of professional staff in the
Ministry of Economy and Industry (para. 1.05) is the main reason for the
delay. However, there is a general consensus in this Ministry and the
Central Planning Organization that the new Plan should recognize the
realities of past performance in implementing the first Plan and that the
prime role in industrialization should be given to the private sector which
has shown considerable dynamism. The Bank has agreed, at the request of
the Ministry of Economy and Industry, to assist the YAR in formulating an
industrial sector strategy for the next Five-Year Plan.



-4-
C. Constraints and Prospects
1.09     The development potential of the domestic industry is limited by
major constraints relating to the lack of natural resources, small size of
the domestic market and limited export prospects, inadequate management
capability, shortage of skilled manpower, and inadequate physical infra-
structure. The shortage of skilled manpower, partly caused by emigration,
is a dominant constraint to industrialization and the high labor costs have
deprived the industry from the comparative advantage of low wages normally
enjoyed by developing countries. Labor productivity is poor due to low
skill levels. Lack of efficient management skills is pervasive throughout
the economy, including industry. Finance for industry also appears to be
limited.
1.10     Despite these constraints, there are possibilities to develop
several import substituting industries. The large trading community in the
YAR with business acumen and financial resources constitutes a major source
of entrepreneurship. The sizeable savings and foreign exchange surplus
arising from remittances of Yemeni workers allow the country to plan
capital intensive investments to overcome the manpower shortage, although
the availability of skills would have to be borne in mind in planning
projects. Vocational and management training programs have been initiated,
some under IDA financed education projects. The rapid increase in wages
and salaries in Yemen in the last few years should help in curbing
gradually labor emigration. Meanwhile, the YAR is hiring foreign skilled
workers from lower income countries. The ongoing development of the
physical infrastructure, including industrial estates, should also facil-
itate industrial development. Also, workers' remittances have greatly
increased disposable income and, thereby, the demand/market for industrial,
particularly consumer goods. Finally, the Government is supporting IBY to
develop into an effective source of institutional finance.
1.11     There are four main categories of industries where the YAR seems
to have comparative advantage and which can, therefore, be economically
effective. These are (i) industries where the YAR has a sizeable transpor-
tation cost advantage because of the bulkiness of the finished products,
such as building materials, plastic or metal containers, and furniture;
(ii) industries based on local raw materials, such as tanning of hides and
skins, vegetable oils, soap, and certain glass and ceramic products; (iii)
industries geared to specific needs and tastes of Yemeni consumers, such as
special agricultural implements, printing and particular textile products;
and (iv) service industries, such as engine reconditioning, tyre retread-
ing, and repair activities. Some of these industries belong to the small-
scale sector which has benefitted less from recent trends. There is
considerable scope and need to improve techniques and productivity in the
existing small-scale industries, considering the recent sharp increase in
labor costs relative to the costs of other inputs. Furthermore, there are
considerable opportunities for developing new small-scale enterprises. IBY
is providing financial assistance to small-scale and handicraft industries
but extensive promotional work is needed for full exploitation of their



development potential. The proposed project aims to provide additional
financial resources to IBY for onlending as well as to develop its institu-
tional capability including the training of staff in promotional work
(para. 4.01).
II. FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Financial Institutions
2.01     The banking system in the YAR has been developed largely in the
last decade and it is still at a nascent stage. The Central Bank of Yemen
(CBY), which is at the apex of the financial system was established in
1971. The official financial institutions consist currently of ten
commercial banks, three specialized credit institutions and a cooperative
bank. Of the commercial banks, the Government-controlled Yemen Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (YBRD) is by far the largest commercial
bank, with about 64% of all outstanding commercial loans at the end of
1978. With the exception of two of the other nine commercial banks in
which Yemenis hold a minority interest, all other commercial banks are
branches of foreign owned banks. Commercial banks can operate over the
entire range of normal commercial and investment banking activities but
they have concentrated on the traditional commercial banking activity of
extending short-term loans. Some of the credit granted on a short-term
basis is negotiated, however, with the understanding ot a latter rollover,
making it de facto medium- or long-term credit. Ey far the largest share
of short-term lending has been extended for financing imports and trade in
imported goods.
2.02     The commercial banks have contributed to substantial resource
mobilization and, at the end of 1979, they had aggregate demand deposits of
YRls 747.3 million ($166.1 million), time deposits of YRls 653.5 million
($145.2 million) and savings deposits of YRls 151.2 million ($33.6
million). During the 1971-1979 period, the above three types of deposits
have shown an average compound growth rate of 45%, 95% and 60% respectively.
2.03     In order to provide financial assistance and support priority
sectors, the Government has established three specialized financial insti-
tutions: the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB), established in 1975, the
Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY), established in 1976, and the Housing Credit
Bank (HCB), established in 1977. In addition, a Cooperative Bank was
established in 1980 under the auspices of the Confederation of Yemeni Local
Development Associations. These banks are still relatively young and
operating on a rather low scale in comparison to the commercial banks for
varying reasons, including institutional and financial constraints, and
nature of operations. In 1978, the share of their loans to the private
sector was as low as 6% of total loans. IBY and HCB have their head-
quarters in Sana'a and have no branch offices, while ACB, in order to
expand its services throughout the country includling small villages, has



-6-
opened a number of permanent offices in-each province, and has a mobile
banking unit which serves some 1,000 farmers in the countryside.
2.04     While the period 1971-79 has witnessed a remarkable expansion of
the formal financial sector in the YAR, a considerable part of financial
transactions in the country continues to be handled by money dealers and
their agents. This fact reflects both the insufficient penetration of
the rural areas by the official financial institutions due to small and
scattered population and the high share of direct remittance flows into
the same rural areas. As a result, foreign exchange and transfers of
money dominate dealings in the informal financial sector, though some
depositing with, and short term lending by money dealers also takes place.
Reportedly, a certain share of deposits as well as temporary excess
balances of money dealers flow into the official financial sector and
become available for its regular lending activities.
2.05     No money or capital markets exist in YAR.  Some interbank lending
takes place, though on a very moderate scale and without significantly
affecting the flow of financial resources. Foreign-owned commercial banks,
in particular, rely in cases of deficiencies or surpluses of financial
resources almost exclusively on their parent institutions and on foreign
money markets rather than on domestic interbank transactions. Given the
free convertibility of the Yemeni Rial, the stability of the exchange rate,
and the accessibility of foreign money and capital markets, this pattern of
behavior is unlikely to change in the near future.
B. Financing of Industrial Investment
2.06     As mentioned earlier (para. 2.03), IBY's financial assistance to
the industrial sector has been relatively small mainly due to its recent
creation. In the past, public sector projects have been financed through
budgetary allocations, bilateral assistance and commercial borrowing. The
medium and large size projects in the private sector have been financed
generally through the personal resources of their sponsors, borrowings from
commercial banks in and outside the country and suppliers' credits. The
small scale industries have received little financing from outside sources
largely due to their inaccessibility to the institutional sources of funds,
but this situation is changing after the establishment of IBY. YBRD
extends financing to industrial enterprises mainly in the public and mixed
sectors, primarily working capital loans and some equity financing.  A few
foreign bank branches have also provided some medium term financing to a
small number of private industrial ventures. The industrial portfolio of
equity investments and medium term loans of the commercial banks operating
in YAR, though not known, is believed to be small. The total advances of
commercial banks to industrial enterprises increased from YRls 61.9 million
($13.7 million) at the end of 1977/78 to YRls 97.1 million ($21.6 million)
at the end of 1978/79. These advances formed 4.5% and 5.2% of total
advances and loans of commercial banks, except those to the Government.



- 7 -
C. Interest Rates in YAR
2.07     The inflation rate in the YAR was 28% in 1977, 21% in 1978 and 22%
in 1979. This rate is projected to decrease to 20% in 1980 and 1981 and
17% in 1982. Yet, the absence of foreign exchange controls in the YAR, the
full convertibility of the Yemeni Rial, and its constant parity with the US
dollar make it difficult to isolate interest rates in the YAR from those
prevailing in the international capital markets. This has become increas-
ingly evident in 1979/1980 when the wide fluctuations of international
rates resulted in speculative flows of capital. The Government, who offi-
cially regulates interest rates through CBY, therefore, decided in February
1980 to make adjustments in interest rates in line with prevailing Euro-
dollar rates (whereas the official interest rates in the YAR had remained
unchanged since mid-1978). As a result, the lending rates of commercial
banks on short-term loans were increased from 11% to 13.5% in February,
15.5% in April, lowered to 12% in July, and again increased to 15% in
November 1980. (There were also corresponding changes in the deposit
rates, and these are presently 10% for savings, and vary between 7% and 13%
for time deposits.)
2.08     The lending rates of specialized banks, have been set at 3-5
percentage points lower than those of commercial banks, and have been
increased from 8% to 10% per annum for medium- and long-term loans, and 9%
to 11% for short-term loans in November 1980.  The policy concerning lend-
ing rates of specialized institutions is based on the Government's view
that they should respond mainly to important socio-economic considerations,
particularly the need to encourage investment in the YAR's productive
economic sectors. In the industrial sector the policy is intended to
encourage potential entrepreneurs to invest in areas other than the tradi-
tional fields of commerce and real estate, and to allow for the fact that
the YAR's industrial sector being in its earliest stages of development
deserves less than commercial rates to make it financially attractive for
investors and to obtain a sustained growth. In addition, given the
peculiarity of the Yemeni financial markets, where the informal financial
sector still handles a sizeable portion of money transactions and interest
rates still have a more limited impact than in other countries on mobiliza-
tion of savings, such a policy is justified in the near term.
2.09     Cost of proposed IDA funds.  As a result of the proposed IBY proj-
ect and related discussion with the Government, IDA views were accepted
that the interest rates of the specialized institutions should be suffi-
cient to maintain their viability and that, for industrial investors, rates
would normally be higher than those for agriculture or housing finance.
The Government has thus agreed that in the case of IBY the rate of 10% is
low and would result in unjustified subsidy to industrial borrowers. IBY
was thus allowed to apply a service charge of 1%, thereby increasing the
cost of its funds to 11%, which is acceptable at this stage for the follow-
ing reasons;



-~~8-
(a)  While there remains a subsidy element in the 11 percent rate,
the SDR denomination of the proposed IDA credit and the related
foreign exchange risk borne by sub-borrowers for any changes in
parity between the SDR and the Yemeni Rial should be taken into
account to assess the real cost of IDA funds to sub-borrowers and
to measure the subsidy element involved.
(b) IBY's lending rate from its inception up to February 1980 was 7
percent in spite of increases in international rates. The pro-
posed rate represents a significant step in the right direction.
Furthermore, agreement has been reached with the Government and
IBY during negotiations for the interest rates to be periodically
reviewed in light of prevailing market conditions in consultation
with IDA and to aim at gradually minimizing the subsidy element in
IBY's lending rate and to maintain IBY's average interest spread
at a satisfactory level (para. 3.30). This review will take place
at least once a year beginning October 1, 1981.
III. THE INSTITUTION
A. Institutional Aspects
Establishment and Ownership
3.01     The Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY) was established by Act No. 55
of 1976 as an autonomous development finance institution with corporate
status. Its main functions are to promote and assist the establishment of
industrial projects in private, public and mixed sectors through financial
assistance, technical advice and other consulting services, as well as
economic and technical research. IBY also provides financial and technical
assistance to small business and handicraft industry.
3.02     Seventy percent of IBY's authorized share capital of YRls 100 million
($22.2 million) is in the form of ordinary shares subscribed to and paid-in by
the Government. The remaining 30%, or YRls 30 million, of IBY's capital con-
sists of preference shares open for subscription to nongovernment entities,
commercial banks and individuals. These shares are entitled to a minimum 6%
annual dividend guaranteed by the Government and have a first priority up to
10% annual dividend.  The Government does not anticipate any returns on its
own equity investment in IBY which is seen as a support to the industrializa-
tion of the country. As of June 30, 1980, the total subscribed and paid in
preference share capital amounted to YRls 18.3 million; YBRD subscribing to
YRls 5.00 million, DEG to YRls 2.25 million, and other private enterprises and
individuals to YRls 11.04 million. The balance of YRls 11.7 million ($2.6
million) in preference shares has yet to be subscribed and contacts have been
established with various local and foreign institutions for this purpose. The
IBY management is confident that the entire authorized capital will be fully
subscribed and paid in during 1981. IBY is presently discussing with the
International Finance Corporation (IFC) the possibility of its participation
of about YRLs 4.5 million ($1 million) in equity. Through participation in



- 9 -
the Board and intended joint promotion and financing of projects in the YAR
with IBY, IFC would contribute to the strengthening of IBY. IFC could thus
complement IDA's institution building role under the proposed credit.
Act and By-Laws
3.03     The IBY Act and By-Laws are generally satisfactory but the follow-
ing changes therein would introduce further improvements;
(a)  The long-term Government loans are included with equity and grants
in the basis for calculating IBY's financial exposure limits. As
a matter of prudent financial policy, the Government loans should
not be included in these calculations unless they are subordinated
to all other debts and preference shares of IBY. IBY's Act and
By-Laws should therefore be amended to treat Government loans as
any other debt.
(b) IBY is not permitted to allow a first pari passu charge on the
assets of its borrowers in favor of co-lenders as security. This
prevents co-financing operations of IBY with other lenders whose
charter or policies also require a first charge on the assets of
the borrower. IBY's Act should therefore be amended to enable the
creation of first pari passu charge in appropriate cases.
(c) The IBY Act and By-Laws do not describe the procedure for select-
ing an acting Chairman for the Board meetings, and this leaves the
possibility of complications in the conduct of Board meetings when
the Chairman is absent for a long duration. IBY's By-Laws should
therefore be amended to provide for the selection of an acting
chairman.
3.04     The Government and IBY have agreed during negotiations to make
necessary amendments in IBY Act and By-Laws as provided in (a), (b) and (c)
above by December 31, 1981. (Copies of IBY's Act and By-Laws are available
in the project file.)
Board of Directors and Management
3.05     IBY is managed by a Board of seven directors.  The Chairman of the
Board is also IBY's chief executive (Managing Director) and is appointed by
a presidential decree upon recommendation of the Minister of Economy. Four
Board members are ex-officio representatives of the concerned Government
agencies (CBY, DOI, CPO and Ministry of Finance); one member represents the
commercial banks holding preference shares. The present Chairman/Managing
Director is competent and knowledgeable and has good management capability.
3.06     The Board is mainly responsible for formulating IBY's policies,
and determining its internal regulations and modus operandi. It also
approves loans and investments exceeding YRls 200,000 ($44,400). Approvals
below YRls 200,000 are delegated to the "Financial Committee" (comprising
the Chairman and two Board members) while approvals below YRls 125,000 are
delegated to the Managing Director. The Act specifies that the Chairman
wou2d be assisted by a General Manager appointed by the Board upon the



- 10 -
Chairman's recommendation. Presently the General Manager's position is
vacant; a suitable candidate is being sought, and is expected to be
appointed shortly. As the appointment of General Manager is important for
continuity in management and assistance to the Chairman, the filling of
this vacancy is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
Organization
3.07     IBY is located in Sana'a and has as yet no branch offices.  It is
organized along functional lines with five departments, each headed by a
manager. The Projects Department, and the Research and Planning Department
perform the main development banking functions. The Project Department is
responsible for screening loan applications and overall appraisal and
supervision of projects. The Research and Planning Department, which has
been set up recently, is concerned with planning of IBY's operations and
finances as well as investment promotion and market and special studies.
The general support services are provided by the Administration Department,
the Financial Department (basically responsible for accounting functions)
and the Legal Department.
3.08     The organizational structure is satisfactory at the present level
of IBY's activities. IBY plans to establish a separate department for
disbursements and project follow-up, and to strengthen the Research and
Planning Department with the expected rapid expansion in its operations
(see para. 3.10).
Staff and Advisors
3.09     IBY's total staff strength is 43--16 professionals and 27 support-
ing. In the YAR context where the shortage of professional skills is
pervasive throughout all economic sectors, IBY has been successful in
maintaining a reasonable permanent cadre of Yemeni professionals. The
staff turnover has been negligible in IBY, unlike other institutions.
IBY's salary levels are among the highest in the public and semi-public
sectors in YAR and may partly explain IBY's success in staff buildup.
However, most of the professional staff of IBY, though well educated, are
relatively young and inexperienced, which compels a heavy reliance on
expatriate advisors. IBY has presently four such advisors on fixed term
assignments; a legal advisor financed under a Kuwait Fund grant, an
engineering advisor and a financial advisor both financed under a British
ODA grant, and a development banking advisor financed under the Industrial
Estate IDA credit 465-YAR. They are performing their functions satis-
factorily, working closely with IBY's management and staff, and thus,
providing on-the-job training. Four staff members of IBY have also been
trained abroad in development banking and project appraisal. IBY is
seeking to identify additional training opportunities and the proposed
credit provides for the training of two staff members in project promotion
with other DFCs (para. 4.04).



- 11 -
3.10     IBY has estimated that it will need 17 more professional staff in
the next four years mainly in engineering, research and promotion, and
project supervision work. IBY has prepared a staff recruitment plan which
was discussed and agreed upon during negotiations. The progress on the
recruitment of additional staff and their training will be reviewed
annually by IDA in its supervision.
Activities
3.11     IBY is allowed by its Act to undertake a wide range of activities
relating to industrial development (para. 3.01) but its activities have
been confined mainly to medium- and long-term lending operations. It has
also made a few equity investments and issued some guarantees. IbY plans
to keep its equity investments at a low level due to the absence of a
capital market in YAR -- which prevents easy transfer of shares -- and high
risks involved in such operations. The financial assistance has been given
almost exclusively to the private sector, mainly because the public sector
projects are generally of a large size and have access to alternate sources
of financing.
3.12     There is a considerable need and scope for promotional activities
by IBY, particularly to identify and develop new viable projects and to
assist entrepreneurs in finalizing and implementing their investment
plans. IBY is willing to undertake promotional work but it does not have
adequate staff expertise for this purpose. It has, therefore, been agreed
that two staff members of IBY should be trained in promotional work with
DFCs experienced in this area. The training would be financed under the
proposed IDA credit (para. 4.04). The advisor to be engaged under the
proposed credit would also help train IBY staff in promotional work (para.
4.04).
Policies
3.13     IBY's Board has recently adopted a formal policy statement,
drafted in consultation with IDA. The statement defines the main role of
IBY in the industrial development, prescribes the project selection and
financing criteria, and spells out various banking limits which are con-
sidered satisfactory. IBY financial policy provides thatz (i) IBY would
maintain its debt to equity ratio below 3, and would not assume risk
attached to foreign currency fluctuations; (ii) IBY would take no con-
trolling interest in projects, where it would limit its equity contribution
to 10% of the project cost, and 25% of the enterprise equity; (iii) IBY
would not devote for equity investments in projects more than the equiva-
lent of 25% of its own equity; and (iv) IBY would limit its financial
exposure in any project to 10% of IBY's equity; in absolute amount this
limit is at present equivalent to YRls 9.3 million ($2.1 million) and is
adequate to finance small and medium size projects. The large size proj-
ects would be only a few in the YAR and can be financed from other sources
such as commercial banks, and suppliers' credits, though co-financing by
IBY would also be possible.



- 12 -
Procedures
Appraisal
3.14      IBY's appraisal staff usually collects relevant data and informa-
tion for small projects as the original loan applications are generally
very sketchy. Loan applications for larger projects are normally submitted
to IBY together with feasibility studies prepared by consultants. The
technical section of the Projects Department -- which now includes two
engineers and an experienced expatriate engineering advisor -- reviews the
project's feasibility and, if necessary, recommends to sponsors desirable
modifications in projects design. Once agreement is reached on basic proj-
ect features including production method, capacity, and machinery specifi-
cations, the project's financial evaluation is done by the Financial and
Economic Section of the Projects Department on the basis of the results of
market studies prepared by the Research and Planning Department and the
project's technical specifications and details.
3.15     The review of some of IBY's appraisal reports shows that on
occasions they tend to be overly descriptive, but the main aspects of
financial and technical evaluations are adequately covered. The market
evaluation of projects is sometimes rather general in nature due to lack of
secondary data. This aspect of project appraisal can be improved by more
indepth studies and by reaching the primary sources in appropriate cases.
So far, the economic analysis of projects has not been done. IDA missions
have discussed with IBY's project officers economic analysis methodology
and no serious difficulty is anticipated in developing the economic
appraisal capability within IBY. During negotiations, agreement has been
reached with IBY to perform project economic evaluation, including the
calculation of ERR for all subprojects above the free limit.
Supervision
3.16     Formal procedures for project supervision have not yet been
developed and a more systematic approach to project follow up needs to be
adopted. Yet, IBY's loan agreements with its borrowers include specific
provisions for close project supervision by IBY, to ensure timely imple-
mentation of projects and efficient use of resources. To this effect,
visits are paid to project sites during the implementation stage and
reports on work program are submitted to IBY management. The information
is also requested from projects in the operation stage to monitor results
in compliance with loan conditions. As the number of projects on IBY
portfolio is increasing, further improvement and formalization of the
supervision work is needed and this would be one of the important elements
included in the terms of reference of the advisor to be engaged under the
proposed credit (para. 4.04). A separate "Projects Follow-up" department
is planned by IBY and this matter will be closely followed and reviewed by
IDA during future project supervision.



- 13 -
Procurement and Disbursements
3.17     As IBY finances small and medium size projects, individual
contracts for the procurement of machinery and equipment under its loans
are not large enough to justify international competitive bidding. The
procurement is done through international shopping except for very small
items which are purchased off-the-shelf. In case of international
shopping, IBY normally requires at least three quotations from different
machinery suppliers. The Projects Department of IBY often assists
borrowers in the selection and purchase of the required machinery. IBY is
thus in a position to ensure that the procurement of goods is done effi-
ciently, and at economical prices. IBY's procurement procedures are,
therefore, considered satisfactory.
3.18     Disbursements are done against satisfactory evidence of expendi-
tures mostly through letters of credit for the imlported machinery and
equipment. Disbursement procedures are well monitored and satisfactory.
B. Operations
3.19     Since it commenced operations in October 1977, through March 31,
1980 IBY has approved an amount of YRls 70.1 million ($15.6 million) --
YRls 61.7 million ($13.7 million) for long-term loans and YRls 8.4 million
($1.9 million) for equity investments -- to finance 40 projects. Commit-
ments under these projects amounted to YRls 47.7 million -- YRls 41.8
million in loans and YRls 5.9 million in equity --- while disbursements were
YRls 39.9 million - YRls 37.2 million in loans and YRls 2.7 million in
equity. IBY also had outstanding guarantees for YRls 1.5 million.
3.20     The analysis of loans approved by IBY up to March 31, 1980 shows
that, in terms of amounts, 47% of IBY financing was allocated for projects
in the construction sector (mainly building materials), 23% for foods and
soft drinks, 13% for chemical products (soap, plastics, etc.), 9% for metal
products and 8% for others. About 18% of the financing went for projects
in Sana'a, 11% in Hodeida, 7% in Taiz, and the riemaining 64% in other parts
of the country, which indicates a balanced geographical distribution of IBY
financing.  IBY's financing has averaged to nearly 25% of the total invest-
ment of YRls 280 million ($62.2 million) in the concerned projects.  Pri-
vate sector received 90% of the total financial assistance of IBY while
public sector received only two equity investments of YRls 7.0 million.
The employment generated by IBY assisted projects is estimated at around
1,400; an average of YRls 200,000 ($44,400) per job which seems reasonable
in the context of Yemen.
3.21     IBY is managing, since March 1979, a United Nations Capital Devel-
opment Fund (UNCDF) guarantee scheme for small scale industries (SSI) with
a total amount of $1 million -- $800,000 for credit guarantees and $200,000
for equity support. Although the scheme does not define SSI, it includes



- 14 -
normally the enterprises with a total investment not exceeding YRls
500,000. The scheme covers 75% of the risk in loans made thereunder. As
of March 31, 1980, IBY had approved 31 loans (below $250,000 each) mainly
for workshops, wood-working and cement block-making with a total amount of
YRls 3.1 million ($690,000) under the scheme. The commitments and dis-
bursements were YRls 2.7 million and YRls 2.1 million respectively. These
projects are estimated to create 250 new jobs at an average cost of about
YRls 42,000 ($9,333) per job. In addition IBY is administering a $450,000
credit facility under the IDA credit 465-YAR to the Industrial Estate
Development Authority. Commitments under this facility amounted to YRIs
1.2 million ($268,000) for two factories located in the Sana'a Industrial
Estate.
Resource Position
3.22     IBY's resource position as of March 31, 1980 is summarized below:
(YRls '000)
Resources        Share capital                               87,963
Retained earnings                            1,814
IDA Credit 465                               2,025
Legal reserves                               1,964
Total resources                             93,766
Applications    Loans outstanding                            36,589
Equity investment                            2,700
Net fixed assets                             1,487
Total applications                          40,776
Undisbursed resources                                        52,990
Commitments                                                  47,700
Undisbursed commitments                                       6,924
Uncommitted resources                                        46,066
3.23     IBY's uncommitted resources, together with expected increase in
paid-in capital and loan recoveries would meet IBY's funds requirement up
to June 1981.
Portfolio and Audit
3.24     On March 31, 1980, IBY's portfolio consisted of YRls 36.6 million
in long-term loans (including YRls 2 million for small scale industries)
and YRls 2.7 million in equity investments. Fourteen out of the 32 loans
(excluding SSIs) for which disbursements have started, were still in their
grace periods. The total arrears were YRls 444,000 -- YRls 243,000 in
principal and YRls 201,000 in interest -- and related to five loans. The
quality of portfolio is satisfactory because of small arrears (1.1% of loan
portfolio), adequate collateral and relatively low exposure of IBY in its
assisted projects. IBY had not made provisions for doubtful debts up to



- 15 -
FY79 but a provision of YRLs 0.98 million was made in FY80. For the
future, as agreed during negotiations and reflected in IBY's financial
projections, the annual level of provisions is set at 1% of total portfolio
and will be built up to 3% by 1985 to cover any unforeseen losses. It has
been further agreed that this provision policy would be kept under review
in consultation with IDA and amended as required, in view of the future
quality of loan and equity portfolio.
3.25     IBY's accounts are audited by a reputable accounting firm known
and acceptable to IDA.
Financial Performance and Position
3.26     A summary of income statements and balance sheets of IBY for
FY78-80 is given in Annexes 1 and 2 respectively. IBY's net income
increased from YRls 1.42 million in FY78 to YRls 3.78 million in FY80.  Net
income as a percentage of average net worth incresased from 2.7 in FY78 to
4.3 in FY80. As percent of average total assets, net income was 2.8 in
FY78 and 3.9 in FY80 and administrative expenses were 2.8 and 3.9, respec-
tively. The administrative expenses are considered reasonable in view of
high salary levels in YAR, and the relatively small volume of IBY's opera-
tions. Preference shareholders were paid 6% (guaranteed) dividend in FY78
and FY79 and 7% dividend in FY80, and legal reserves of 25% of net income
were set aside annually in compliance with the IBY's Act. IBY's income is
exempt from all taxes.
3.27     In FY78, IBY's income was generated mainly from the placement of
its internal funds not used for loans and investments. In FY80, however,
the interest income on loan portfolio and commitment and consultancy fees
provided about 36% of IBY's total income.  IBY's equity investments are new
and of a promotional nature and have not yet yielded dividends. As of
June 30, 1980, IBY's total assets amounted to YRls 96.6 million. These
consisted mainly of a portfolio of YRls 41.8 million in long-term loans and
YRls 3.3 million in equity investments and time deposits of YRls 40.5
million with local banks. Contingent assets and liabilities amounted to
YRls 0.7 million. IBY has no long-term borrowings as yet, though its
policy allows for a debt/equity limit of 3:1.
C. Prospects
Operational and Financial Projections
3.28     The second Five-Year Plan, to commence in January 1982, will
determine various development and investment targets for the industrial
sector and this would serve as the main basis for IBY's projections. Mean-
time, IBY has prepared tentative operational and financial projections for
the next five years taking into account the general emphasis by the Govern-
ment on the industrial activity in the country, its own financing policies,



-      - 16 -
present and potential project development, processing and supervision
capacity and the existing project pipeline. (Detailed operational and
financial projections for FY81-85 along with underlying assumptions are
available in the project file.)
Projected Operations
3.29     As of March 31, 1980, IBY's project pipeline consisted of 26 proj-
ects (and eight SSI projects under the UNCDF scheme). The projects belong
to several industrial sub-sectors and have individual investment require-
ments varying from YRls 3 million to YRls 52 million. For the ten projects
on which sufficient information is available, the aggregate total invest-
ment is estimated at YRls 197 million ($43.8 million) and IBY has been
requested to provide YRls 53 million ($11.8 million), or 27% of total
investment. As regards total loan applications, about 30% by amounts are
for the construction industry (e.g. aluminium frames, paints, fibre glass,
marble works and metal and wood furniture); 20% for food industry (e.g.
confectionary, soft drinks, and juice concentrates); 25% for light
engineering industry (e.g. water pumps, dry batteries and re-rolling
mills); 10% for hotel industry; 5% for ready-made garments; and 10% for
others. Some of these applications would have to be declined as they may
not meet IBY's criteria of financing.  IBY has estimated that its loan
approvals will be YRls 55 million ($12.2 million) in FY81, and would
increase by YRls 15 million ($3.3 million) in FY82 and FY83, and by 20%
annually thereafter in current prices. Annual approvals of equity
investments are estimated at YRls 3 million through FY85. A summary of
operational projections of IBY for FY81-85 is given in Annex 3. These
projections are reasonable.
Financial Requirements and Resource Mobilization
3.30     IBY's resources (share capital of YRls 100 million -- of which
YRls 12 million has yet to be paid in -- and the $450,000 IDA Credit
Facility to the Industrial Estate) are expected to be committed by June
1981. Additional resources required through June 1983 (likely period of
commitment of the proposed credit) are estimated at about YRls 100 million
($22.2 million). The proposed IDA credit of $12 million will, thus, meet
about half of the resource gap during the two-year period. CBY, Kuwait
Fund, Islamic Development Bank, DEG, and KfW are likely sources of long-
term funds which are being explored by IBY.  The Kuwait Fund has shown an
active interest in IBY and there is a strong likelihood that it may provide
part of additional required resources.  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government will provide direct -- or arrange from
other sources -- additional long-term funds for IBY, as needed.
Projected Financial Performance
3.31     IBY's financial projections for FY81-85 are based on the assump-
tion that its average interest income on long-term loans over this period
will be about 10%, besides a service charge of 1%, and average interest



- 17 -
expense about 6% per annum. This will provide a reasonable interest spread
to cover administrative expenses and to make adequate provisions for bad
and doubtful loans and investments. IBY's net income would be small but
would allow (i) payment of at least 6% (guaranteed) dividend to preference
shareholders and (ii) transfer of small amounts to reserves including the
legal reserve required under IBY Act. This would 'be in line with the
policy of the Government, which as the major shareholder of IBY, looks at
IBY as an efficient allocator of resources and not a maximizer of profits.
In absolute amounts, the net income of IBY would increase from an estimated
YRls 5.07 million in FY81 to YRls 12.1 million in FY85, which as a percent-
age of average net worth would be 5 and 9 respectively. Administrative
expenses would be around 3% of average total assets between FY82-85.
3.32     Total assets of IBY are estimated to increase from YRls 113.9
million at the end of FY81 to YRls 324.1 million at the end of FY85, with
loan portfolio increasing from YRls 83.6 million to YRls 304.1 million and
equity portfolio from YRls 7.8 million to YRls 19.8 million. Provisions
would build up to YRls 9.8 million at the end of 1985 which would be 3% of
the loan and equity portfolio as of that date. The debt/equity ratio would
reach 1.3 at the end.of FY85 which is within the limit under IBY's policy
statement. The projected financial position would, thus, remain satisfac-
tory.  The comparative projected income statements, cash flow statements,
and balance sheets for FY81-85 are given in Annexes 4, 5 and 6 respectively.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives
4.01     The industrial sector has been assigned an important role in the
economic development of the YAR.  Its overall performance has been satis-
factory during the last decade despite various limiting factors such as the
small size of the domestic market, scarcity of industrial raw materials,
shortage and high cost of skilled labor. Investments in industry are rela-
tively small but showed the highest growth rates of all sectors, mainly due
to the buoyancy shown by the private sector. The second Five-Year Plan to
commence in January 1982 is expected to give a ccntinued emphasis on the
industrial development with increased reliance on the role of the private
sector. An important element in the implementation of the Government's
industrialization plans would be the technical and financial support by IBY
to the industrial sector. IBY is a young DFC ancl needs to build up its
institutional capability for independent and sound investment decisions,
aiming to promote and implement viable industrial ventures consistent with
the economic development plans and responding to the country's priority
needs. IBY also needs additional resources to finance such ventures. To
meet these objectives, the proposed project would provide IBY with (i)
technical assistance for institution building and (ii) foreign currency
funds to meet part of its resource requirements. In addition, the project



- 18 -
has enabled a dialogue with the Government which would result in the
appointment of much needed additional staff in DOI which is responsible
for, inter alia, the preparation of Government's plans and policies and the
setting up of priorities for the industrial sector (para. 1.09).
4.02     IDA is already helping in the institutional building efforts of
IBY. It has financed--under the technical assistance component of the
Industrial Estate Credit (465-YAR)--the services of a development banking
advisor to IBY who commenced his 18-month term in June 1979. The Govern-
ment and IBY are taking steps to extend his term by six months. Under
Credit 465-YAR, IBY is also administering a $450,000 financial facility to
the industrial estate tenants. Upon IBY's request, IDA has been reviewing
and commenting upon IBY's appraisal reports of projects financed under the
facility, though disbursements of related funds are not legally subject to
IDA's prior approval. The IDA missions have also initiated, since their
first visit to IBY in January 1978, a constructive dialogue with IBY's
management and staff and helped in the formalization of IBY's lending
policies and the formulation of its operational plans. The normal credit
supervision will further the technical assistance process and provide con-
tinued support to IBY in the fulfillment of its objectives.
B. Use of Credit Proceeds
4.03     Under the proposed $12 million credit, provision has been made
for a technical assistance component of $250,000, the balance of the credit
to be used for subproject financing. These subprojects would belong to
sectors that are within the scope of IBY's operations and would include
manufacturing, mining and extracting, construction and service industries.
The credit would be used to finance the foreign exchange component of the
fixed capital investment and permanent working capital of subprojects. All
viable subprojects in the private and public sectors or with mixed owner-
ship will be eligible for financing. It is, however, anticipated that most
of the subprojects to be financed under the credit would be in the private
sector and belong to the small and medium scale category. A substantial
portion of the credit is expected to finance medium-scale subprojects
producing construction and building materials and consumption goods
substituting for imports. The proposed credit would cover on a commitment
basis, about half of IBY's estimated resource needs between mid-1981 and
mid-1983 (para. 3.30). The proposed final date for submission of sub-
projects under the credit is December 31, 1983 and the closing date is
December 31, 1985.
4.04     The proposed technical assistance component of $250,000 would
cover the services of (i) a development banking advisor for a period of two
years and (ii) outside training of two IBY staff members. The term of the
present development banking advisor would expire on June 30, 1981 (para.
4.02). However, IBY would need advisory support for institution building
beyond 1981. The advisor's terms of reference (TOR) (available in the



- 19 -
project file) would include, inter alia, (i) the preparation of IBY's
operational and financial plans, including proposals for resource mobil-
ization; (ii) the preparation and operation of a management information and
reporting system; (iii) guidance in project appraisal and supervision work
including the installation of a formal project supervision system; (iv) the
training of IBY staff in providing assistance to present and potential
clients in the preparation and implementation of their investment pro-
posals; and (v) setting up training programs for operational staff. The
detailed TOR of the advisor were agreed upon during negotiations. The
advisor should take up his duties with IBY as early as possible but not
later than December 31, 1981. As for the training of IBY staff, and in
order to undertake extensive promotional work, particularly for project
identification and development purposes, two staff: members would receive
on-the-job training for 4-6 months each with experienced DFCs and IDA would
assist in the arrangement of the training program.
C. Project's Main Features
Interest Rates, Other Charges and Foreign Exchange Risk
4.05     In line with IDA policy, the proposed credit would be made to the
Government and on-lent to IBY on the basis of a subsidiary loan agreement
acceptable to IDA. The credit to the Government will carry the standard
IDA terms. The on-lending terms of the proposed credit by the Government
to IBY should consider the crucial factor of IBY's financial viability.
IBY requires a reasonable interest spread on its borrowed resources to
cover (i) administrative expenses estimated at 3% of average total assets,
(ii) provisions for bad and doubtful loans and investments estimated at
1% of portfolio per year and to be built to 3% by 1985, (iii) annual
allocation of 25% of net income to legal reserves, (iv) payment of a 6%
(guaranteed) dividend to preference shareholders, and (v) gradual increase
of retained earnings. In order to cover the above costs, provisions and
reserves, a reasonable interest spread would be a'bout 5%. The relending
rate of IBY at 11% -- 10% interest rate and 1% service charge -- and an
interest spread of about 5% would imply that the average cost of IBY's
borrowed funds should be about 6%. As the proposed IDA credit would cover
-- over its commitment period -- about 50% of IBY's resource needs, and as
IBY is confident about mobilizing funds from other sources, particularly
the Kuwait Fund, at a concessionary rate of 3-4%, this requires that the
IDA funds be made available to IBY at the rate of 8% in order to provide a
reasonable overall spread of 5%. The technical assistance component of
$250,000 would be on-lent by the Government to IBY free of interest.  While
the proposed 8% on-lending rate is lower than the Bank's current rate of
9.6%, it is a justifiable step to effectively assist a nascent development
finance institution develop into an autonomous organization, capable of
playing a pivotal role in developing industry in the YAR, and particularly
providing financial and technical assistance to small and medium sized
industries. During negotiations, assurances were: obtained from the Govern-
ment and IBY that IBY would maintain an interest spread which would be



- 20 -
sufficient to cover the aforementioned costs, provisions and reserves; and
the adequacy of IBY's resources and interest spread would be reviewed
periodically with IDA along with the review of IBY's interest rate (para.
2.09(b)).
4.06     IBY would apply its standard commitment charge (1% p.a.) and
appraisal fee (1% flat) on the proposed IDA credit. The foreign exchange
risk would be assumed by sub-borrowers except for the technical assistance
component of $250,000 on which the risk would be assumed by the Government.
Credit and Subloan Maturities
4.07     The IDA credit to the Government would have the standard maturity
term of fifty years including ten years of grace. IBY subloans would have
maturities of up to 15 years including a maximum grace period of three
years. IBY will repay the credit to the Government according to a flexible
amortization schedule reflecting the aggregate repayments of individual
subloans. The $250,000 technical assistance component will be repayable to
the Government over 15 years including two years of grace. Taking into
account the two year.commitment period of the credit, the final maturity of
the Government loan to IBY would thus fall due within an estimated period
of 17 years from the credit signature.
Maximum Subloan Amount
4.08     The analysis of IBY's past operations and its project pipeline as
of March 31, 1980 indicates that about 30 projects would be financed under
the proposed IDA credit. IBY would be able to make subloans of up to
$2.5 million in the 1981-1983 period as per limits in its policy statement
(para. 3.13). In order to ensure that the proposed credit is used by IBY
for financing at least 20 small and medium sized projects with a balanced
subloan amount, agreement was reached during negotiations that at least 60%
of the credit amount will be used for subloans not exceeding $750,000 each.
Free Limit and Aggregate Free Limit
4.09     IBY's perceived need to strengthen its project appraisal capab-
ilities could be met, to some extent, through IDA's subproject review
process. Thus, to ensure IDA's effective contribution in this regard,
the free limit would be set at $300,000, with an aggregate limit of $4
million. However, the first two subloans will be submitted to IDA for
approval irrespective of their sizes. It is expected that the above
arrangement would ensure IDA's review of about 70% of the credit amount
and 50% of subprojects.
Economic Evaluation of Subprojects
4.10     IBY will prepare an economic evaluation for all subprojects under
the IDA credit, including the calculation of an ERR for those where the
sub-loan amount exceeds $300,000.



- 21 -
Procurement and Disbursement
4.11     Procurement for goods to be financed under the credit would be
done in accordance with the normal procedures of IBY described in para.
3.17 and considered acceptable.
4.12     Disbursements of funds by IDA will be made against evidence of
expenditures with supporting documentation. The estimated disbursement
schedule of the credit is given in Annex 7.
Debt/Equity Limit
4.13     The maximum debt/equity limit of IBY would be 3:1 as provided in
its policy statement. The equity will consist of unimpaired paid-in
capital, surplus and free reserves of IBY and will not include normal Gov-
ernment loans (para. 3.03(a)).
Reporting Requirements
4.14     IBY will submit to IDA quarterly, semi-annual and annual reports
which will include, inter alia, a summary of operations, progress on util-
ization of credit, staff position, annual reports and audits in accordance
with the Illustrative Form for DFCs. The Government and IBY will also
submit a report to IDA when the project is completed.
Project Benefits and Risks
4.15     Institution building is of primary importance in the context of
the YAR. The project aims to strengthen IBY which, as a development
finance institution, is expected to play a key role in supporting indus-
trial growth in the YAR. In particular, the project would assist IBY in
improving its capability in identification, development, appraisal and
supervision of viable industrial projects. The proposed credit would also
allow IBY to pursue its operations by replenishing part of its resources
and, thus, assist in financing of priority projects.  These projects would
contribute to broadening the narrow industrial base of the YAR, transfer of
technology to the country, alleviation of the emigration problem, expansion
of the domestic supply market of manufactured and semi-manufactured goods,
and reduced dependence on imports.
4.16     The small size of Yemeni economy, expectation of higher financial
yields in non-industry related activities, particularly real estate,
shortage of skilled workers and management capabilities and political
uncertainties may delay the materialization of industrial investments.
Consequently, there is a risk that IBY may have difficulty in meeting its
investment targets. It is, however, felt that Gcvernment's active support
to the industrial sector, the dynamism and enterprise of the private sector
in the YAR, and the intensified promotional role of IBY would help to
prevent a significant slow down in investment situation. Furthermore, the
proposed credit is expected to meet only about half of the resource gap of



- 22 -
IBY during the mid-1981 to mid-1983 period and a modest slow down in
investment would only narrow down the gap and not affect the successful
completion of the project.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government
and IBY on the following principal issues:
(a) Appointment of additional staff to strengthen the policy and
planning functions of the Department of Industry in the Ministry
of Economy and Industry (para. 1.05);
(b) Amendments to IBY Act to (a) treat Government loans as any other
debt and not as part of equity; (b) enable the creation of first
pari-passu charge in favor of IBY's co-financiers; and (c) provide
for the appointment of an acting Chairman (paras. 3.03 and 3.04);
(c) Government assistance to IBY in filling its resource gap and
mobilizing additional long term funds as needed (para. 3.30);
(d) On-lending terms to IBY of the proposed credit; these terms would
be also entered into the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and IBY (paras. 4.05-4.07);
(e) Review of interest rates of IBY in consultation with IDA at least
once a year beginning October 1, 1981 (para. 2.09(b));
(f) IBY to maintain an interest spread sufficient to cover admin-
istrative expenses (at least 3% of total assets), provisions for
bad and doubtful loans and investments (at least 1% of portfolio
to be built up to 3% by FY85), renumeration on preference shares
(at a dividend rate of at least 6%), and build up of adequate
reserves (including 25% of net income to be transferred to legal
reserves) (para. 4.05);
(g) Appointment of additional staff by IBY according to the recruit-
ment plan agreed during negotiations (para. 3.10);
(h) A proper economic evaluation, including the calculation of ERR,
for all projects above the free limit (para. 3.15);
(i) Adequate provision for bad and doubtful loans and investments
risks (para. 3.24);
(j) Project features including subloan terms, maximum subloan size,
free limit, procurements, and debt/equity limit (paras. 4.05 to
4.12); and



- 23 -
(k) IBY reporting requirements (para. 4.13).
5.02     The following are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
credit:
(a) Appointment of a General Manager of IBY (para. 3.06); and
(b) Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
IBY satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.05).
5.03     The project is suitable for an IDA credit of $12 million, to be
channelled to IBY through the Government of the YAR, on the terms and
conditions outlined in Chapter IV.



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN
Summary of Income Statements
(Amount in YRls '000)
Year Ending June 30                   1978         1979        1980
Income
Interest                            121       1,385        2,924
Commitment Charges                    8          50           43
Guarantee Fees                        -          27           14
Income from bank deposits        2,702        3,227        4,901
Miscellaneous Income                 88         128          380
Gross Income                  2,919        4,817        8,262
Operating Expenses
Administrative and General
Expenses                      1,373        2,121        3,335
Depreciation and Amortization        66         107          164
Retirement Benefit Provisions        63         112           1/
Provision for Possible Losses         -           -          983
Interest and Commitment Fees          -           -            -
Total Expenses                             2,340        4,482
Net Income                        1,417       2,477        3,780
Transfer to Legal Reserves          345         619          909
Dividend                           424          867        1,267
769       1,486        2,176
Income After Reserves and
Dividend                       648          991        1,604
Administrative Expenses
as % of Average Total
Assets                     2.79         3.01          3.9
Net Income as % of Average
Net Worth                      2.77         3.39         4.35
1/ Included in administrative and general expenses.
EMENA/IDF
December 1980



- 25 -
ANNEX 2
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN
Summary of Balance Sheets
(Amount in YRls '000)
Year Ending June 30                      1978         1979        1980
Assets
Cash and Bank Deposits              6,101        4,551        7,025
Short-term Deposits                45,840       47,959       40,462
Other Current Assets                 1,210       1,249       15,7231_
Total Current Assets            53,151       53,759       63,208
Loans Outstanding                   11,276      24,406       28,431 2/
Equity Investment                     -          2,350        3,300
Loans and Equity Portfolio:    11,276        26,756       31,731
Fixed Assets and Formation
Expenses                         1,674        1,752        1,683
Total Assets                       66,101       82,267       96,622
Average Total Assets               (51,635)    (74,184)    (89,444)
Liabilities
Borrowings                                        -            -
Account Payable                        424       1,253        1,767
Accrued Charges                        207         332          468
Retirement Benefit Provisions           62         171          388
UNCDF Equity Fund                     -           -             905
Total Liabilities                  693        1,756        3,528
Equity
Ordinary Share Capital             50,000       60,000       70,000
Preference Share Capital            14,452      17,944       18,293
Retained Earnings                      611       1,602        2,928
Legal Reserves                         345         965        1,973
Net Worth                       65,408       80,511       93,194
Average Net Worth                  (51,218)    (72,960)    (86,852)
Total Liabilities and Equity           66,101      82,267       96,622
Guarantees Outstanding                   -          1,473          688
1/ Includes current maturities of YRls 13.63 million.
2/  Net of provisions of YRLS 983,000.
EI4ENA/IDF
December 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX 3
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN
Projected Loan and Equity Operations
1980/81 through 1984/85
(YRls million)
Year Ending June 30             1981       1982      1983       1984       1985
Approvals:
Loans                          55.00     70.00      85.00    100.00    120.00
Equity                          3.00      3.00       3.00       3.00       3.00
Total                      58.00      73.00      88.00    103.00    123.00
Commitments:
Loans                          55.50     67.00      82.00      96.00    105.00
Equity                          3.00      3.00       3.00       3.00       3.00
Total                       58.50     70.00      85.00      99.00    108.00
Disbursements:
Loans                          50.25     64.00      79.00      92.00    100.00
Equity                          4.50      3.00       3.00       3.00       3.00
Total                      54.75      67.00      82.00      95.00    103.00
EMENA/IDF
December 1980



- 27 -
ANNEX 4
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN
Projected Income Statements
1980/81 through 1984/85
Year Ending June 30              1981       1982       1983      1984       1985
Income
Interest on Loans             6.11       11.00     16.31      22.29      28.15
Commitment Charges &
Appraisal Fees              0.67        0.86      1.04       1.23       1.47
Service Charge                0.34        0.90      1.48       2.12       2.74
Interest on Bank Deposits    2.69         0.80      0.20       0.20       0.15
Total Income               9.81       13.56     19.03      25.84     32.51
Expenditure
Financial Expenses            0.13        1.22      3.36       6.51       9.53
Provision for Doubtful
Loans & Investments         0.93        1.41      1.97       2.57       2.00
Operational Expenses          3.68        4.06      5.45       7.08       8.88
Total Expenditure          4.74        6.69     10.78      16.16     20.41
Net Income                    5.07        6.87       8.25      9.68      12.10
Legal Reserves (25%)       1.27        1.72      2.06       2.42       3.02
Dividends (7% on Pref.
Shares)      2.10        2.10      2.10       2.10       2.10
Retained Earnings          1.70        3.05      4.09       5.16      6.98
EMENA/IDF
December 1980



- 28 -
ANNEX 5
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN
Projected Sources and Application of Funds
1980/81 through 1984/85
Year Ending June 30             1981       1982      1983       1984       1985
Sources of Funds
Net Income                   5.07      6.87       8.25       9.68      12.10
Less Dividends               2.10      2.10       2.10       2.10        2.10
2.97      4.77       6.15       7.58       10.00
Add Back:  Depreciation    0.07        0.08       0.09       0.10        0.11
Provisions       0.93       1.41      1.97       2.57        2.00
Total Generated from
Operations               3.97       6.26       8.21     10.25       12.11
Funds from Other Sources
Shares Issued           11.71        -           -         -          -
Long-term Borrowings    2.02       27.98      52.00     54.00       52.00
Repayment of Loans       9.70      15.60      23.40      31.80      43.70
Total Sources              27.40      49.84      83.61      96.05     107.81
Application of Funds
Repayment of Borrowings      -          -          -         1.00       5.00
Long-term Loans            50.25      64.00      79.00      92.00     100.00
Equity Investment            4.50      3.00       3.00       3.00       3.00
Purchase of Fixed
Assets                   0.32       0.33       0.34      0.35        0.36
Total Application       55.07      67.33      82.34     96.35      108.36
Net Sources/(Application)(27.67)   (17.49)        1.27      (0.30)      (0.55)
Increase/decrease in Working
Capital
Increase in Current
Assets                   (0.41)    (0.50)    (0.75)    (0.75)        (1.00)
Increase in Current
Liabilities               0.14       0.25       0.35      0.40        0.50
Increase in Dividends
Payable                   0.33        -          -         -           -
Increase/(Decrease) in Cash
& Bank Deposits        (27.61)   (17.74)      0.87      (0.65)      (1.05)
Net Increase (Decrease)  (27.67)   (17.49)        1.27      (0.30)     (0.55)
EMENA/IDF
December 1980



- 29 -
ANNEX 6
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN
Projected Balance Sheets
1980/81 through 1984/85
As of June 30                       1981       1982      1983       1984       1985
Assets
1/
Cash and Bank Deposits           19.87     2.13       3.20       2.55      1.50
Other Current Assets              2.50     3.00       3.75       4.50      5.50
Loan Portfolio                   83.63   132.03    187.63    247.83    304.13
Equity Investment                 7.80    10.80      13.80      16.80     19.80
Provision for Doubtful Debts &
Investments                   (1.90)   (3.31)    (5.28)    (7.85)    (9.85)
Net Fixed Assets                  2.00     2.25       2.50       2.75       3.00
Total Assets                113.90   146.90    205.60    266.58    324.08
Liabilities & Equity
Dividends Payable                 2.10     2.10       2.10       2.10      2.10
Other Current Liabilities         1.00     1.25       1.60       2.00      2.50
UNCDF Equity Fund                 0.91     0.91       0.91       0.91      0.91
Long-term Debts                   2.02    30.00      82.00    135.00    182.00
Equity
Ordinary Shares               70.00    70.00      70.00      70.00     70.00
Preference Shares             30.00    30.00      30.00      30.00     30.00
Legal Reserves                 3.24     4.96       7.07       9.50     12.52
Retained Earnings             4.63      7.68      11.92     17.07      24.05
Total Equity             107.87   112.64    118.99    126.57    136.57
Total Liabilities
& Equity           113.90   146.90    205.60    266.58    324.08
1/ Includes short-term deposits
EMENA/IDF
December 1980



- 30 -
ANNEX 7
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN
Projected Disbursement Schedule of Proposed Credit
(' millions)
Quarterly Disbursements   Cumulative
FY82
1st quarter                                            0.3                0.3
2nd quarter                                            0.7                1.0
3rd quarter                                            1.5                2.5
4th quarter                                            1.5                4.0
FY83
1st quarter                                            1.2                5.2
2nd quarter                                            1.4                6.6
3rd quarter                                            1.4                8.0
4th quarter                                            1.4                9.4
FY84
1st quarter                                            1.2               10.6
2nd quarter                                            1.0               11.6
3rd quarter                                            0.4               12.0



- 31 -
ANNEX 8
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN-
Selected Documents and Data
Available in the Project File
Al "Interest Rate Policies and Related Aspects of the Financial
Sector", a World Bank document dated April 16, 1980.
B1 IBY's Act and Bye-Laws.
B2 IBY's Policy Statement.
B3 Appraisal data prepared by IBY including operational and financial
projections.
Cl Terms of Reference of the advisor to be engaged under the
technical assistance.
C2 Project implementation schedule






<   'tYPIA j    /        /                                         44-                                                                          YE'
E,iurE f      tE AO       UFMAlSA
bjiE> {     '< KJ~ <,>RYEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
IDA-ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
e t SAiU  AEEE3I,XP/\   e      = 3                                                                                              PROJECTS
OLDANX    E     C-                                                                                                                        ua  eeomn
/                                                                                                                            R-1 ~~~~~ ~Demntaionparm
'        5   4EtOO?                                              "POE EiO                Wne                                           A
c FTE P A  '.J                                                                     S'! E5'E                                             Fish Markers
:e":'  0    )X ??0,,~~~~z'~ ~                                                                                     flijjsrr 0
000 0 W/ : _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ed ..   , A EI-
High-ay,
<~~~~ t   J)            g 0 }    K        -    } i               *w Zk55~ 
_                                      %                                                       H g,woy Maintenance
Power Statioto
,~       A E  A E   Ew  ,, + + ffi +,    _    RAGR A WAteR SuppI
_%ImO  VK`                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Port De-elpment
EXSTING "EATURES
'~~~~~~S                   tiD eb- E h'IETfKCll  sGova4rnorGto  oiRtol
10                                   G-.-.t~~~~~~~~~~~Nstiio  Copials
- ~ -   _ -    nJdl PrvELo ImarwT I                    fEy Roads
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ rposrtAAnffLEr   t
TIAM WaamrlJE .M"
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ap.,fs. 
41                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Intenaiona Bo-rdate
j  -1                              ~~~~~~~~~~ELEVATION (,Metan)
ha  7ah
RLcD SFA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-J                                                           SE                                 a   s   s
N                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AL BP[DA
-rj~~~~~~~~~~4
44o
-  .  Qotohart~~~~~~~~~~~-. 
II.---io  I  E -             IE
'St                                                     CoCOA corEt AEtna 0   -       JEEP~~~~~~~~~~1



