CREDIT NUMBER 1122 YAR
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Industrial Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN
Dated      Ly                      , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1122 YAR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN (hereinafter called
IBY).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Yemen Arab Republic (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 9,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
IBY agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and IBY, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to IBY on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS IBY, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
IBY out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise
for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan" means a
sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(b) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
IBY proposes to make or has made a sub-loan.


﻿-2-
(c) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan.
(d) "Yemeni Rial" mean the currency of the Borrower.
(e) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
(f) "Statutes" means IBY's Act No. 55 of April 17, 1976,
as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(g) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy approved by the Directors of IBY on
June 10, 1980, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(h) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by IBY or by any one or more
subsidiaries of IBY and one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Project; the Subsidiary Loan;
Management and Operations of IBY
Section 2.01. IBY shall carry out the Project described in
Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its
operations with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate economic, financial and administrative
practices, with qualified and experienced management and in
accordance with IBY's Statutes and Policy Statement.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d) of this Section, IBY, on behalf of the Borrower
pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, may
withdraw from the Credit Account an amount equivalent to $250,000
(or such other amount as may be agreed between the Association and
IBY) to meet the foreign exchange cost of the program referred to
in Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement, and
the equivalent of amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so
agree, amounts to be paid) by IBY on account of withdrawals made
by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan or Investment to
meet:


﻿- 3 -
(i) the reasonable foreign-currency cost of imported
goods (except goods described in paragraph (d) of
this Section) and services required for the Invest-
ment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested;
(ii) seventy per cent (70%) of the invoiced price paid
for goods purchased as set forth in paragraph (d)
(i) of this Section; and
(iii) sixty per cent (60%) of the costs of construction
works included in such Investment Projects and
carried out by national contractors.
provided, however, that no amount shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in respect of an Investment Project unless (A)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved
by the Association or (B) the Sub-loan shall be a free-limit
Sub-loan for which the Association shall have authorized with-
drawals from the Credit Account.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement which, together with any other amount or amounts
previously financed for the same Investment Project under the
Development Credit Agreement shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $300,000 and which, when added to all other free-
limit Sub-loans financed under the Development Credit Agreement,
shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $4,000,000,
the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the Association.
(c) Except as the Association may otherwise agree and
without limitation on the provisions of the preceeding paragraph
(b), IBY shall ensure that not less than 60% of the proceeds of
the Subsidiary Loan shall be allocated for the provision of
Sub-Loans each to be provided in an amount not exceeding $750,000
equivalent.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, with-
drawals from the Credit Account may be made on account of expendi-
tures in the currency of the Borrower only for: (i) goods
previously imported into its territory through normal trade
channels and from countries which are members of the Association
(or from Switzerland); and (ii) construction works as described in
subparagraph (iii) of paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures made by
an Investment Enterprise prior to the date of this Agreement or
(ii) expenditures made in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the
Association's approval more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Association shall have received the application and
information required under Section 2.03 (a) hereof or (iii)
expenditures made in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall have
received the request and information required by Section 2.03 (b)
hereof.
Section 2.03. (a)   For approval by the Associativ,_- of the
first two Sub-loans and thereafter of any Sub-loan (other than
a free-limit Sub-loan), IBY shall furnish to the Association an
application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together
with (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an
appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-
loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-Loan
and (iii) such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) Each request by IBY for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Association and IBY shall otherwise agree,
applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to the
Association on or before December 31, 1983.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and IBY of such
later date.
Section 2.05. (a) Unless otherwise agreed between the
Association and IBY, IBY shall charge interest at a rate of not


﻿-5-
less than 10% per annum and an annual service charge at the rate
of 1% on the principal amount of any Sub-Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
(b) IBY shall review with the Association at least annually,
beginning October 1, 1981, the interest rate policy of IBY in
light of prevailing market conditions and the average cost of IBY
funds with a view to determining the most appropriate interest
rate to be applied by IBY to its lending operations.
(c) Without prejudices to the provisions of the preceding
paragraph, IBY shall maintain at all times an interest spread
sufficient: (a) to cover IBY's administrative expenses, calculated
annually on the basis of not less than 3% of IBY's average total
assets; (b) to make provision for bad and doubtful debt, such
provision to equal not less than 1% of IBY's portfolio and to be
increased gradually so as to equal not less than 3% of such
portfolio by the end of the 1985 fiscal year; (c) to provide
dividends of not less than 6% on preference shares, and (d) to
build up adequate reserves, in addition to the statutory reserves.
Section 2.06. (a) IBY shall repay the principal amount of
the Subsidiary Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Borrower, pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.01 (d) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, to the extent required to: (i) conform in relevant part
substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules
applicable to Sub-Loans which have been approved or authorized for
withdrawals from the Credit Account under Section 2.03 of this
Agreement; and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to
Article VI of the General Conditions and any repayments made by
IBY under Section 2.07 of this Agreement.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-Loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless
the Association, the Borrower and IBY shall otherwise agree
(i) shall not extend beyond three years from the date of approval
by the Association of such Sub-Loan, or in the case of a free-
limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Association to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect thereof, and (ii)
shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approxi-
mately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.


﻿-6-
(c) IBY shall pass the exchange risk assumed by it pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement to the Investment
Enterprises in regard to their respective Sub-loans.
(d) IBY shall transmit to the Association, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by IBY in
respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-Loan.
Section 2.07. Unless the Association, the Borrower and IBY
shall otherwise agree:
If a Sub-Loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to IBY
in advance of maturity or if a Sub-Loan or any part thereof shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value
by IBY, IBY shall promptly notify the Borrower and shall repay to
the Borrower on the next following interest payment date, the
amount withdrawn from the Credit Account in respect of such
Sub-Loan or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the
Borrower.
Section 2.08. (a) IBY undertakes that, unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any Sub-Loan will be made on terms whereby
IBY shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enter-
prise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Association, the Borrower and IBY,
including, the right of IBY to: (i) require the Investment Enter-
prises to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facili-
ties and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them;
and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Association, if the
Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv)
require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound


﻿-7-
business practice; and (2) without limitation upon the foregoing,
such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Subsidiary Loan to the place of use or installation, and
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goodq; (v) obtain all such information as the Association or
IBY shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial codition of the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the
Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Subsidiary
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with IBY.
(b) IBY shall exercise its r-ghts in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Association and IBY; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidairy Loan Agree-
ment; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) IBY shall furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Subsidiary Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the
Investment Projects, the Sub-loans and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account, IBY shall prepare and furnish to the Borrower and
the Association a report of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits
derived and to be derived from them, the performance by IBY and
the Association of their respective obligations under this Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Subsidiary
Loan.
Section 2.10. IBY shall duly perform all its obligations
in agreements (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under
which funds have been lent or otherwise put at its disposal by
the Borrower or its agencies or others for relending, investment
or management. IBY shall promptly inform the Association of any


﻿- 8 -
action which would have the effect of assigning, amending,
abrogating or waiving any materi,l provision of any such agree-
ment, and which may adversely affect the carrying out by IBY of
its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.11. If IBY establishes or acquires any subsidiary
shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations
of IBY hereunder to the extent to which such obligations were
binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.12. IBY undertakes to prepare an economic eval-
uation for all projects proposed for its financing, and to calcu-
late, as part of such evaluation, the economic rate of return
for any such project for the carrying out of which a Sub-loan from
the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan (or a loan from IBY's other
resources) is proposed to be provided in an amount exceeding
$300,000 equivalent.
Section 2.13. IBY shall not effect any changes in the Policy
Statement without the prior consent of the Association.
Section 2.14. For the implementation of the program referred
to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement, IBY
shall employ by December 31, 1981, a development banking adviser
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and IBY in
order to assist IBY, inter alia, in (a) the preparation of IBY's
financial and operational plans, including the preparation of pro-
posals for resource mobilization, (b) the preparation and opera-
tion of a management information and reporting system, (c) the
preparation of guidelines and operation of a system for project
appraisal and supervision; (d) the training of IBY's staff in
providing assistance to IBY's clients in the preparation and
implementation of investment proposals; and (e) the preparation
and implementation of training programs for the operation staff
of IBY.
Section 2.15. IBY shall (a) employ, over the period from
the year 1981 until the year 1984, additional staff in accordance
with a staffing plan satisfactory to the Association; and (b)
review its staffing needs annually with the Association.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. IBY shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project of


﻿- 9 -
each Investment Project (including its costs and the benefits
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition of IBY.
Section 3.02. IBY shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Asso-
ciation such other information concerning the accounts and finan-
cial statements of IBY and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, IBY shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 3.05 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
IBY's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.
Section 3.04. IBY shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of IBY which would
materially affect IBY's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Association and IBY (and shall be acceptable to the Borrower), IBY
shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if,
after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of IBY and
all its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be
greater than three times the consolidated capital and surplus of
IBY and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by IBY or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred;


﻿- 10 -
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) on
the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement; and
(ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding and not covered by
a counter-guarantee;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Yemeni Rial debt payable in other
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable by IBY for the purposes of servicing
such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of IBY and all its subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of InY and its subsidiaries,
excluding any debt owed by IBY to any subsidiary or by any subsi-
diary to IBY or to any other subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of IBY and its subsi-
diaries means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital,
surplus and free reserves of IBY and its subsidiaries after
excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of IBY in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in IBY or
any other subsidiary.
Section 3.06. IBY shall take such steps satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association as shall be necessary to protect
itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates
of exchange between the currencies used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Section 3.07. The Association and IBY shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
finavcial condition of IBY and its subsidiaries, and IBY shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations
and financial condition of IBY and its subsidiaries.
Section 3.08. IBY shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement and any documents relevant thereto.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of IBY thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
IBY of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 12 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For IBY:
Industrial Bank of Yemen
P.O. Box 323
Sanaa
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                      Telex:
BANK SINAIE                        2580 INDBANK-YE
Yemen Arab Republic
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of IBY may be taken or executed by the
Chairman of IBY or such other person or persons as the Chairman
shall designate in writing, and IBY shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of


﻿- 13 -
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By//
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
INDUSTRIAL BANK OF YEMEN
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the          - day of  Aa     ,
198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


