Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7545-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO)
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.9 MILLION
(US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
July 10, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I -December 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of July 2, 2002)
Currency Unit = Yugoslav dinar
YUD I    =US$0.01618
US$1 = 61.8 YUD
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CBM      Central Bank of Montenegro                  KAP       Podgorica Aluminium Plant
DBU      Direct Budget Users                         LBS       Law on the Budget System
CEED     Center for Entrepreneurship and Economnic   MOF       Ministry of Finance
Development                                 MVP       Mass Voucher Privatization
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment  NBY     National Bank of Yugoslavia
DM       German Mark                                 NMP      Net Material Product
DPS      Democratic Party of Socialists              PEIR     Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
DSU      Direct Spending Unit                        PFSAC    Private and Financial Sector Adjustment
ECA      Europe and Central Asia                               Credit
IFF      Extended Fund Facility                      PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
EPCG     Electric Power Industry of Montenegro       SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit
EC       European Commission                         SBA       Stand-by Arrangement
EU       European Union                              SDR      Special Drawing Right
BUR      Euro                                        SFRY     Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment                   SIDA     Swedish International Development Agency
FRY      Federal Republic of Yugoslavia              SME      Small and Medium Enterprise
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                      TFFRY    Trust Fund for FRY
GFS      Government Finance Statistics               TSS      Transitional Support Strategy
HV       High Voltage                                UCTE     Western European Power Pool
IBRD     Interational Bank for Reconstruction and    UB       Unemployment Benefits
Development                                 UNDP     United Nations Development Programnme
ICR      Implementation Completion Report            VAT      Value Added Tax
IDA      International Development Association       WTO      World Trade Organization
IFI      International Financial Institution         ZOP      Bureau of Accounts and Payments
IMF      Intemational Monetary Fund
Vice President:  Lohannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:  Christiaan Poortrman, ECCO4
Sector Director:  Cheryl Gray, ECSPE
Sector Manager:  Kyle Peters, ECSPE
Team Leader:   Ardo Hansson, ECSPE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO)
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:                    SDR 11.9 million (US$15 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Modified IDA terms with a 20-year maturity, including a 10-year
grace period, with no acceleration clause.
Objectives and Description:  The proposed Credit is a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) to
support the govemment of the Republic of Montenegro, the
smaller constituent republic of the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (FRY), in the implementation of a structural reform
agenda with the main objectives of enhancing medium-term
fiscal sustainability and improving the prospects for growth as a
basis for sustained poverty reduction.  The government's
progran to be supported by the proposed operation works to
achieve these objectives through specific reforms in the five
areas of: (i) public expenditure management; (ii) pensions; (iii)
the energy sector; (iv) labor markets; and (v) the business
environment.
Benefits:                  The SAC will work to enhance recent stabilization gains by
supporting up front actions to tackle major fiscal imbalances and
sectoral reforms to enhance medium-term fiscal sustainability,
and by providing financing to close Montenegro's budgetary gap
and bolster external reserves.  It will also support priority
reforms to remove key bottlenecks to restoring economic growth.
The elaboration of a sound policy framework and the Bank's
assessment of structural reforms in Montenegro will send an
important signal to donors wishing to provide budgetary support,
as well as to potential private investors and creditors. Given the
importance of developments in FRY to the prospects for
Southeast Europe, this credit for stabilization and recovery in
FRY will also have positive effects on the region as a whole.
Risks:                     The need to redefine the constitutional structure of the Federation
and relations between the constituent republics is a central
political issue. A recent agreement on the proceeding points for
a new union between Serbia and Montenegro has been ratified,
but the development of precise implementation arrangements
will require agreement on critical details, including on the
financing the new union structure and on harmonizing external
trade policies, which could prove more difficult than originally
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



envisaged. The challenge of mitigating the short-term social
impacts of reforms in the face of public expectations of rising
living standards could create pressures to raise government
expenditures above budgeted levels. Limited institutional
capacity within the Government of Montenegro may limit the
pace of reform. Economic recovery could also be affected by
delays in the disbursement of pledged donor assistance, and in
concluding a concessional debt restructuring arrangement with
the London Club.
Schedule of Disbursements:  SDR  5.95  million  immediately  after Credit Agreement
effectiveness (expected in September 2002) and SDR 5.95
million after satisfactory review of Second Tranche conditions.
Poverty Category:          Not applicable.
Project ID Number:         YU-PE-P074746
Map                        IBRD No. 31506
This operation was prepared by a Team including Ardo Hansson (Team Leader), Juan Carlos
Ginarte, Alessandro Magnoli, Sergei Shatalov, Marina Wes (ECSPE); William Dorotinsky
(PRMPS); Dejan Ostojic, Gary Stuggins (ECSIE); Arvo Kuddo, Mamta Murthi (ECSHD) ; Irina
Astrakhan (ECSPF). Legal, disbursement and financial management support were provided by
Gennady Pilch (LEGEC), Galina Mikhlin-Oliver (LEGPI), Joseph Formoso (LOAGI), John
Hegarty (ECSCS), and Roberto Tarallo (ECSCS). The peer reviewers were Brian Ngo (AFRCE)
and Ron Hood (EASPR). Processing assistance from Mismake Galatis and Armanda Carcani
(ECSPE) is gratefully acknowledged.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION ..........................................................2
II. INITIAL CONDITIONS, REFORM PROGRESS AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENTS ..........................................................4
A. The Legacy of the Past ..........................................................4
B. Stabilization Measures and Recent Economic Developments ...............................................6
C. Recent Progress in Structural Reforms .................   .........................................9
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ...................... 10
A. Improving the Transparency and Management of Public Expenditures .............. ................ 12
B. Pension Reform .........................................................               14
C. The Energy Sector .........................................................            16
D. Reform of Labor Markets ......................................................... 19
E. Improving the Business Environment .................     ........................................ 20
F. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements ....................................................... 22
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT .........................................................           25
A. Project Implementation .........................................................       26
B. Coordination with the IMF and Donors .........................................................  27
C. Poverty Implications ......................................................... 27
D. Benefits and Risks .........................................................           28
V. RECOMMENDATION .........................................................                 29
ANNEXES
Annex 1        FRY at a Glance
Annex 2        Key Economic Indicators
Annex 3        Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 4        Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 5        Letter of Development Policy
Annex 6        Key Structural Policies and Reforms
Annex 7        Policy Action Matrix
MAP            IBRD No. 31506






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO) TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.     I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) in the amount
of SDR 11.9 million (US$15 million equivalent).' The Credit would be on IDA terms with a
final maturity of 20 years, a grace period of 10 years, and no acceleration clause.2 It would be
disbursed in two tranches: SDR 5.95 million immediately after Credit Agreement effectiveness
(expected about September 2002) and SDR 5.95 million upon satisfaction of second tranche
release conditions.
I. INTRODUCTION
2.     The governments of FRY, Montenegro and Serbia, have made substantial recent progress
on their economic reform agendas. In the late 1990s, even as the Milosevic regime reduced
republican prerogatives, FRY retained a very high degree of constitutional republican
autonomy.3 As Montenegro's relations with Belgrade deteriorated, its government worked to
achieve further control over economic policy, with support from the intemational community.
Since 1998, it gradually established nearly full macroeconomic autonomy by gaining de facto
authority over the monetary sphere (in November 2000, the German mark became sole legal
tender), trade policy and customs, and by severing almost all fiscal links with the rest of FRY.
While significant donor financing helped to address immediate problems, it also supported
relatively loose and unsustainable fiscal policies.
3.     Federal elections in October 2000, and Serbian parliamentary elections in December
2000, brought reform-oriented govemments to office with a mandate to bring greater democracy,
modernization and integration with the international economy. Montenegro, which had already
elected a more reformist government, was moving to implement market reforms and isolate itself
from the economic deterioration in the rest of FRY (see Section II.B.). A recent agreement on a
union between Serbia and is likely to reduce near-term uncertainty regarding the broad
constitutional structure.4
' FRY was formed in 1992 out of the Republics of Serbia and Montenegro as the former Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia (SFRY) was breaking up in civil conflict. Montenegro is by far the smaller of the two republics,
with less than 10 percent of FRY's population and a sirnilar share of FRY's GDP.
2 Exceptionally modified IDA terms for FRY were agreed by the Executive Board in the context of the discussion
of FRY's membership and the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (see para. 5).
3 The Federal Constitution of 1992 reserved as the main federal functions monetary policy, foreign affairs, trade and
defense, while most other functions are the responsibility of the republics. The republics have primary
responsibility for economic policy and play the central role in public expenditures and revenue mobilization. Less
than one-fifth of consolidated government spending is at the federal level.
4 On March 14, 2002 an agreement entitled Proceeding Points for the Restructuring of Relations between Serbia
and Montenegro was signed by representatives of the federal government and the republics of Serbia and
2



4.    In October 2000, FRY asked the Bank to open a dialogue on membership and resolution
of its substantial (US$1.7 billion) arrears to the IBRD.5 As membership in the Bank and arrears
resolution was likely to take some time, the Bank's Board of Executive Directors Board
approved a transfer of US$30 million from IBRD net income to a Trust Fund for FRY (TFFRY)
to finance priority projects prior to membership. These sums are now fully committed.
5.     On May 8, 2000, the Board endorsed FRY's succession to membership in the Bank and a
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS)6 outlining a program for FY02. The Board also approved
exceptional and temporary IDA eligibility for FRY, with up to US$540 million in 1DA resources
available over the FY02-FY04 period. Given the key short term objective of macroeconomic
stabilization and the need for rapid restructuring of the economy to stimulate private-sector led
growth, the TSS outlined adjustment lending as central to the Bank's strategy. Around 80
percent of IDA resources would be employed as structural lending over the three year period,
conditioned upon strong policy performance. Overall support to both republics would be
provided on an equitable basis.
6.     The TSS proposed that US$160 million be used in FY02 to support the adjustment and
reform programs in both Serbia and Montenegro. In Serbia, two single tranche adjustment credits
have been prepared. The operation under consideration for Montenegro completes the FY02
adjustment program outlined by the TSS. The Bank has also supported a program of targeted
investment operations and economic and sector work in FRY aimed to support the economic
reform programs and to complement international assistance efforts. In Montenegro, a TFFRY
grant is funding a Coastal Environmental Infrastructure project, and an IDA financed Energy
Distribution project was negotiated in July 2002. Preparation of two additional IDA funded
projects, Export Finance Facilitation and Trade and Transport Facilitation (the latter approved in
June 2002) which have components in both republics, was also completed in FY02. In support
of the federal and republican governments, the Bank is also completing a Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review (PEIR), a Country Procurement Assessment Report, and a Country
Financial Accountability Assessment. The Government of FRY has also recently initiated the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) process, and the Government of Montenegro is
working on a PRSP as an integral part of this effort. A Transitional Support Strategy Update,
which provides full details on program implementation and policy performance under the TSS at
the federal levels and in the republics of Serbia and Montenegro during FY02, has been
circulated with this operation.7
Montenegro. This agreement sets out a general framework for establishing a union of Serbia and Montenegro
which would replace the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. A Constitutional Commission is currently preparing a
Charter which would define operational principles of the union. Under the provisions of the Agreement, Serbia
and Montenegro would retain some common institutions, including a Presidency, Parliament, and a Council of
Ministers, but would operate as two separate econornies (including separate currencies and banking and customs
systems), but with free trade between the republics and a phased harmonization of external trade policy.
5 The former SFRY ceased to be a member of the World Bank Group in February 1993.
6 Yugoslavia: Transitional Support Strategy (Final), May 8, 2001 (R2001-49, 49/1).
7 Report No. 24476-YU, July 2002. The 2001 TSS outlined a number of performance benchmarks to enable FRY to
establish a track record on policy reform. Good progress with respect to the benchmarks in the areas of
macroeconomic stability and private sector development would be essential for moving forward with continued
exceptional IDA. As reported in the TSS Update, such good progress has been achieved, both in FRY more
generally and in Montenegro more specifically.
3



7.    This two-tranche operation builds on the Montenegrin government's recent track record
on reforms (Section II.C). The package of measures which it supports aims to achieve two broad
objectives - enhancing fiscal sustainability (primarily through reforms in public expenditure
management, pensions, the energy sector and labor markets) and removing key bottlenecks to
growth (with a focus on the energy sector, labor markets and the business environment). The
program, which builds on the agenda outlined in the Bank-EC report Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia - Breaking with the Past (Report No. 22267-YU, June 2001) and the recent ESW
noted above, is described in the attached Letter of Development Policy (Annex 5) and Policy
Action Matrix (Annex 7). As a first step, the Montenegrin government has implemented the core
measures indicated in the first column of Annex 6.
8.    In addressing the economic reform agenda, the Federal and Montenegrin governments
face a number of challenges (see section IV.D.). Expectations of the population are high, and
limited institutional capacity within the Government of Montenegro may affect the pace of some
reforms. Working out the critical details of the new union between Serbia and Montenegro,
including the financing of union structures and the harmonization of external trade policies,
could prove more difficult than originally expected. Economic recovery may also be affected by
global economic fragility. Despite these challenges, the proposed SAC will serve to solidify the
important gains made thus far in FRY and Montenegro. The SAC will also send an important
signal donors and private investors and creditors, and thereby help stimulate needed capital
inflows. Given the importance of FRY to the overall prospects for Southeast Europe, the
benefits of the credit to stabilization and recovery in FRY will also have important flow on
effects to the region as a whole.
11. INITIAL CONDITIONs, REFORM PROGRESS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
9.    In both Montenegro and Serbia, the transition to a market economy is taking place under
extremely difficult economic and social conditions. Over the past year, their governments have
made good progress in addressing the daunting legacy of the past. These policies have already
brought visible improvements in key economic indicators, and laid some of the foundations for a
more sustained recovery of output and living standards.
A. The Legacy of the Past
10.   The difficult conditions faced by Montenegro and Serbia are the combined legacy of
three developments over the past decade:
(i)   Very poor macroeconomic outcomes, including deep declines in GDP and foreign
trade and high inflation. In Montenegro as in the rest of FRY, recorded real GDP
declined by nearly one-half over the past decade. FRY's chronic high inflation
(including severe hyperinflation in 1993) was primarily driven by large fiscal
imbalances. However, unlike in Serbia, where recent cash budget deficits have been
small (while quasi-fiscal pressures have been severe), Montenegro has recently run
4



large open fiscal deficits financed by donors. In 2000, Montenegro, which represents
less than 10 percent of the FRY economy, accounted for three-quarters of FRY's
consolidated cash-based deficit. By the end of 2000, FRY's extemal debt had
reached a very high 141 percent of GDP.
(ii)   Severe deterioration of the enterprise, financial and infrastructure sectors. The
past decade saw a lack of deep restructuring and an economy-wide running down of
enterprise capital and physical infrastructure, particularly in the energy sector.
Foreign direct investment has so far been negligible. As a result, Montenegro's
economy remained dominated by large state- and socially-owned enterprises which
were inefficiently organized, substantially loss-making and excessively indebted.
The private sector composed mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises, while
more dynamic, has been severely constrained by energy shortages, repressive
regulation (including of labor markets), and an uneven playing field tilted towards the
socially-owned companies and enterprises operating in the informal sector.
(iii)  Worsened social conditions of the population. The most recent figures provided in
Montenegro's I-PRSP forcefully attest to the increase of poverty during the early
1990s culminating with the 1993 hyperinflation episode. Since then poverty has
remained widespread.8 The rise in poverty, which was driven by poor economic
performance and a resulting decrease in real earnings, was accelerated by a
deterioration in social protection as available financing fell below levels of existing
entitlements. Chronic arrears on some benefit payments were aggravated by arrears
in contributions from parts of the consolidated budget.9 The impending restructuring
and privatization of enterprises is likely to increase Montenegro's rates of
unemployment and poverty, placing further stress on social services and benefits
programs.
11.    These negative trends reflected both external and domestic factors. The former included:
the impact on established trade links of the breakup of the SFRY and of subsequent conflicts
with FRY's neighbors; international isolation and economic sanctions; the Kosovo conflict,
which also led to the destruction of productive assets; and the severe drought of 2000, which cut
agricultural and hydroelectric output.'0 Even before these events, the SFRY had accumulated a
large external debt and its growth rate had begun to decline. In FRY, the last decade brought
long delays in economic transition, with sporadic progress giving way to periods of reversal.
Decapitalization was the result of deferred maintenance and underinvestment in the face of
8 Various surveys conducted in Montenegro during the period 1990-2001 provide incomplete information on
household welfare. Rough estimates based on this data put the absolute poverty rate in 2001 at between 15 and 25
percent of the population. These data also suggest a clustering of population just above poverty line, indicating
that many families (estimated to be between 20 and 25 percent of Montenegro's population) could fall into
absolute poverty as a result of a small shock to their income levels. The Bank is now working with the
Montenegrin authorities to prepare an improved household survey for more precise estimation of the level and
incidence of poverty in the republic. The initial results of this survey are expected in August 2002.
9 For example, as of June 2002, unemployment benefits had not been paid since September 2000, and maternity
leave since May 2001.
'° Although Montenegro was less directly affected by sanctions than Serbia, economnic activity was still constrained
by the disruption of trade with Serbia.
5



financing constraints. Authoritarian rule, high military spending and general mismanagement
further reduced efficiency and eroded fiscal balance. Finally, weaknesses in governance and
institutions eroded implementation capacity and created fertile ground for corruption.
12.    Challenges. As outlined in the report Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - Breaking with the
Past, the federal and republican governments face four key challenges in reversing the negative
developments of the last decade:
(i)    Restoring macroeconomic stability and extemal balance;
(ii)   Stimulating growth and creating the basis for a sustainable supply response;
(iii)  Improving the social well-being of the most vulnerable; and
(iv)   Improving governance and building effective institutions.
Since taking office, the respective governments have pursued a two-pronged approach to
meeting these challenges, combining stabilization measures with the first steps in an agenda of
structural reforms aimed at buttressing these measures and reversing the delayed transition.
Stabilization policies and their initial impact are described in Section II.B, while initial progress
in structural reforms is outlined in Section I.C.
B. Stabilization Measures and Recent Economic Developments
13.    At the time of the political changes at the Federal level and in the Republic of Serbia in
late-2000, the Government of Montenegro had already made significant progress in its own
stabilization efforts. During 1999 and 2000, international donors (primarily the EU and USAID)
supported a macroeconomic program based on two pillars: (i) the gradual introduction of the
German Mark (DM) as the sole legal tender (see Box 1); and (ii) substantial foreign grant
financing to cover the fiscal deficit. Combined with the severing of alnost all fiscal links with
the rest of FRY, this left Montenegro with nearly full macroeconomic autonomy."
14.    While significant donor financing helped to address immediate problems, it also
supported relatively loose and unsustainable fiscal policies, and led to the early symptoms of aid
dependence. In 2000, the consolidated republican deficit (on a cash basis) reached 10.4 percent
of Montenegro's Net Material Product (NMP).12"13 By late-2000, the preclusion of monetary
financing of the budget due to the adoption of the DM, a decline in foreign financing towards
more sustainable levels, and the impact of increased wages and social transfers on public
expenditures, forced a renewed focus on fiscal consolidation. The process was first supported by
an International Monetary Fund (IMF) Emergency Post-Conflict Facility for FRY approved in
December 2000, and then by a June 2001 Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) for FRY of SDR 200
For this reason, the discussion of macroeconomnic outcomes below is focused on Montenegro, with cross-
references to FRY being made where appropriate.
12 Excluding extra-budgetary funds, this deficit was 8.3 percent of NMP.
13 NMP excludes services of the "non-material" sphere, including education, culture, public health, banking,
insurance, government services, and defense. GDP is calculated by the Federal Statistical Office, but with a lag of
about two years. Based on analyses of earlier series, Montenegrin officials estimate GDP to be about 25 percent
greater than NMP. For this reason, the ratios of a given variable to NMP reported below will be higher than those
relative to GDP, and comnparisons with other economies should be adjusted accordingly.
6



million (US$249 million equivalent), spanning the period through end-March 2002. The two
IMF arrangements were conditional on tight fiscal discipline, including: i) a detailed fiscal
framework which envisioned a combination of expenditure and revenue measures to reduce
Montenegro's republican fiscal deficit (excluding extra-budgetary funds) to around 5 percent of
NMP in 2001; and ii) more realistic budgeting to begin making inroads into the accumulation of
arrears. In particular, public sector wages and the minimum wage were frozen in late 2000.
Inroads into quasi-fiscal deficits created in the enterprise sector (e.g. through higher energy
prices) worked to further enhance fiscal sustainability.
Box 1:- The German Mark and Euro in Montenegro
Phased introduction of the German mark (DM). In 1999, eroding confidence in FRY's economic policies and
outlook led to a steady depreciation of the Dinar against the DM. As a result, the DM became the dominant means
of payment in FRY. In November 1999, Montenegro formalized this situation by declaring the DM an official
parallel currency. One year later, in November 2000, the new Central Bank of Montenegro (CBM) declared the DM
the sole legal tender in the repulblic. All deposits were automatically exchanged at 36 Dinars per DM, while citizens
and enterprises were given three days to change their cash.
From DM to Euro. The replacement of the DM with the Euro required Montenegro to take part in this conversion.
The exchange of deposits and cash was managed by the CBM. From November, 2001, both prices and bills required
double denomination. On January 1, 2002, the Euro was introduced as Montenegro's official currency. Existing
deposits were automatically converted free of charge. Cash in amounts up to 10,000 DM was exchanged, while
higher amounts had to be deposited to be converted. Both the DM and Euro were legal means of payment until
March 31, 2002. The use of the Euro reinforces non-monetary adjustments (i.e. fiscal policy) as the key
macroeconomic policy instrument.
15.    On May 13, 2002, the IMF Executive Board approved a three-year arrangement for FRY
under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of SDR 650 million (US$829 million equivalent)
spanning the period through end-March 2005. Such an extended arrangement is a prerequisite
for implementing the 66 percent debt reduction negotiated with the Paris Club in November
2001, which cuts FRY's debt by 51 percent upon approval of the EFF, and by a further 15
percent upon its successful completion in 2005. EA macroeconomic objectives include: (a)
achieving GDP growth of 5 percent in 2003-05; (b) reducing Montenegro's inflation from 24
percent in 2001 to 4 percent in 2005; and (c) reducing FRY's current account deficit (before
grants) from 10.9 percent of GDP in 2001 to 8.8 percent in 2005. In Montenegro, key structural
reforms supported by the EFF include: (a) completing the tax reform through introduction of a
VAT; (b) further progress in privatization; and (c) completing restructuring of the banking sector
and strengthening its supervision.
16.    Recent economic developments.       As in the rest of FRY, Montenegro's real output
rebounded from the 9 percent contraction of 1999 (which reflected the impact of the Kosovo
conflict) to recorded low but positive growth rates of about 4 percent in 2000 and 3.5 percent in
2001. The 2001 upturn was driven by a sharp rebound in three sectors; (a) tourism (where
revenues increased by around 30 percent); b) transport (where the real value of services
increased by around 9 percent, primarily due to increased transit of goods to and from Kosovo);
and (c) construction, with real growth of about 9 percent. In contrast, recorded industrial
production contracted by 0.6 percent, with electricity production falling by 6.2 percent. Factors
7



working to reduce output and demand include a transitional recession resulting from shifts in
relative prices and a sharp decline in real wages.14
17.   As in the rest of FRY, the most visible recent changes were exchange rate stability and
substantially reduced inflation. Exchange rates versus the DM/Euro have been maintained at a
fixed level in Serbia, and are stable by definition in Montenegro, where the stabilization policies
described above brought 2000 inflation to 25 percent, well below the 115 percent recorded in
Serbia. In 2001, Montenegro's inflation rate remained roughly constant at 24 percent (compared
to 40 percent in Serbia), the combined result of sharp increases in administered prices and an
annual core inflation rate closer to 10 percent.
18.   FRY's consolidated filscal deficit before grants (on a cash basis) grew modestly from I
percent of GDP in 2000 to 1.3 percent of GDP in 2001, well below the original target of 6.2
percent.'5 This reflected revenue overperformance of 1.3 percent of GDP (driven by tax reform
and improved tax collection) and a compression of spending equal to 3.5 percent of GDP,
relative to original targets for 2001. The latter primarily reflected delayed donor-financed public
investments and a deferral of some initially anticipated debt service payments to 2002.
Consolidated general government revenues (excluding grants) amounted to 41.6 percent of GDP,
and expenditures to 43 percent of GDP. In Montenegro, the cash-based consolidated deficit
before grants declined from 10.4 percent of NMP in 2000 to 6.1 percent in 2001. General
government revenues (excluding grants) amounted to an estimated 46.8 percent of NMP, and
expenditures to 52.9 percent of NMP. Revenue performance was buoyed by a good tourism
season, higher transit fees, and improved collection of excises and customs duties. Nonetheless,
expenditures also exceeded planned levels because of high transfers and subsidies, and higher
spending ahead of the April 2001 republican elections. Driven by the large wage increases and
associated increases in social transfer payments of late-2000, the public payroll (including
government support of the wage bill in some large enterprises) increased to account for 29
percent of total expenditures, or about 15 percent of Montenegro's NMP. Off-budget
expenditures on pensions reached almost 13 percent of NMP. While foreign grants remained the
main source of deficit financing, their lower than anticipated level left a financing gap which was
filled in large part by borrowing from the domestic payments and clearing system.
19.   In FRY,16 foreign trade volumes have increased. Following an 18.6 percent rebound in
2000 from the lows of the Kosovo conflict, exports of goods and services (in US dollars) rose by
a further 8.4 percent in 2001, but remained almost 20 percent below their real 1998 level. More
rapid growth has so far been precluded by capacity and liquidity constraints and a less favorable
external environment. In 2001, the recorded dollar value of imports of goods and services grew
by a much larger 29 percent, primarily reflecting greater donor financing, including for energy
imports. While imports grew much more rapidly than exports, the high grant-financed
component of additional imports meant that the current account deficit increased slightly from
4 During 2001, nomninal wages increased by around 10 percent while the consumer price index increased by 24
percent.
Given its much larger size, these outcomes primarily reflect developments in the Republic of Serbia.
16 Extenal variables are discussed only for FRY as a whole. This is for three reasons. First, the SAC provides
balance of payments financing to FRY. Second, Montenegro's nascent own balance of payments data remain
highly unreliable. Third, as the responsibility for servicing FRY's external debt has yet to be fully apportioned,
detailed estirnates of debt service and key capital account variables rermain prenature.
8



4.2 percent of GDP in 2000 to 5.5 percent in 2001. These relatively constrained levels obscure a
much more negative resource balance (18 percent of GDP in 2000 and 22 percent in 2001),
which has historically been financed by large private transfers from the Yugoslav diaspora, and
to a lesser extent by targeted donor and humanitarian support.
C. Recent Progress in Structural Reforms
20.   In Montenegro, structural reforms began somewhat earlier than in the rest of FRY, with
the support of international donors. While particularly good progress was made in adopting
reform legislation, Montenegro's reforms remain incomplete, and must now be planned in a
more integrated fashion with a greater focus on establishing implementation capacity. Beginning
in 1998, the Government of Montenegro targeted reform efforts at the following six areas:
*  Tax reform. An estimated 30-50 percent of the Montenegrin economy lies outside the
formal sector. In response, the Government has recently begun to take measures to
simplify the tax system and fight the gray economy. A Tax Action Plan approved in
2001 delineates measures for the planning and implementation of a comprehensive tax
code, with a view to broadening the effective tax base and improving tax collection and
A number of new laws were passed in December 2001, including on tax administration,
personal and corporate income taxes, property taxes and excises.
* Price liberalization. The macroeconomic stabilization efforts commenced in 1998 have
been supported by phased removal of price controls. Following the August 2001
liberalization of the prices of bread and milk, Montenegro now has a set of remaining
controlled prices similar to that in other market economies. In addition, the Government
has made progress in raising the remaining controlled prices towards levels which cover
the costs of production.
* Foreign trade reform. Although foreign trade policy and customs are constitutionally
federal areas of competence, Montenegro gradually obtained de facto autonomy over
these areas. It has used this autonomy to establish a liberal trade policy regime. In July
2000, the Government adopted a Temporary Act on Customs Tariffs. Almost 92 per cent
of all products are imported at rates of 5 percent or less, and the average tariff rate is just
below 3 percent. Montenegro has also established its own customs administration.
* Privatization. The extension of the privatization program begun in 1991 has been one of
the main expressions of the Government's commitment to market-oriented reforms. In
1999, the Montenegrin parliament passed a new law establishing the Privatization
Council, which has been responsible for all activities in this area. Montenegro is relying
on a mass voucher privatization (MVP) program for small stakes in selected enterprises
as well as tenders and auctions for majority stakes with a view to attracting strategic
investors. The MVP program was completed in late 2001 when vouchers were
distributed to all citizens and widespread share ownership was established. So far only a
few tenders and auctions have been completed.
9



* Financial Sector. Montenegro has obtained defacto autonomy in this nominally federal
area of competence. In November 2000, its parliament adopted new laws on the Central
Bank of Montenegro (CBM) and on the banking system promoting bank restructuring
and strengthening the supervision capacity of the CBM. A law on the bankruptcy and
liquidation of banks was adopted in September 2001. Diagnostic reports of all 11 banks
in Montenegro have been completed. The main commercial bank has been placed under
temporary administration, and its restructuring is under way. Five of the remaining banks
have been re-licensed.
* Reform of social assistance. To address hardship among a wider group of the population,
the Government of Montenegro has extended the right to family material support (the
main program of cash social assistance) from to those who were unable to work, to those
who are capable of work and responsible for the maintenance of children. At the same
time, it has targeted child allowances, which were formerly given to the first three
children in all families irrespective of need, only to children in families which receive
material support and to children with disabilities. The savings from targeting child
allowances will help in part to meet the costs of expanded material support. While there
is need for careful monitoring and assessment, these changes represent important steps in
improving the coverage and adequacy of benefits of the social safety net.
IIn. THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
21.   After taking the early actions and achieving the initial outcomes described in Sections
I.B and II.C., the Govermnent of Montenegro has now developed a more comprehensive
adjustment and reform program. The Federal and Montenegrin govermnents have requested the
Association's support for key elements of the program focused on the enhancement of
macroeconomic sustainability and the promotion of growth. Given the absence of monetary and
exchange rate policy, the large recent fiscal deficits, the pending resumption of foreign debt
service, and the likely increase in claims on the social safety net, restoring macroeconomic
stability will require addressing immediate pressures through short-term fiscal policy
adjustments supported by the IMF EFF, structural reforms to enhance fiscal sustainability, and
adequate support from the Bank and other donors. Reversing the sharp decline in output and
living standards of the past decade will require creating strong foundations for growth and
employment creation through structural reforms to promote private sector development, a well-
functioning labor market, and a reliable supply of energy. Enhancing transparency will be critical
in addressing both of these challenges.
22.   The reform program of the Government of Montenegro to be supported by the SAC
begins to tackle many of the gaps identified above through discrete policy reforns and steps in
what will be a longer-term process of expenditure containment, sectoral reform, and legal and
institutional development. The program focuses on five areas (see Table 1):
* Reforming and enhancing the transparency of public expenditure management. Gaps in
the associated procedures and institutions have contributed to the loss of fiscal control.
Reforms are needed to prepare and execute budgets in ways which better align
10



commitments with available resources and ensure a more transparent and efficient use of
public and donor resources. To this end, the Government of Montenegro plans to
establish a more consolidated medium-term framework for budget preparation, to
continue implementation of the recently established Treasury system, and to reinvigorate
inspection and auditing procedures.
* Reform of the pension system. Pension expenditures account for a very large one-third of
consolidated public spending. As revenues from contributions cover less than 60 percent
of pension expenditures, the system has been balanced through ad hoc budgetary
transfers and donor support. This has swelled Montenegro's consolidated fiscal deficit
and diverted resources from economic development and social programs. Delays in
pension payments have had a negative effect on the most vulnerable. The program of the
Government of Montenegro to tackle these structural sources of fiscal deficits includes
concrete adjustments to rebalance and improve the implementation of the existing
pension system, as crucial first steps in a longer process of change.
* Reforms of the energy sector. This sector is the source of two significant problems:
quasi-fiscal liabilities in the form of chronic losses of key utilities; and the inability of
electricity supply to meet demand, particularly during the winter. The program of the
Government of Montenegro to address these problems includes a phased set of revenue
adjustments to return the Montenegrin electricity utility to financial self-sufficiency, and
the formulation by the power utility of a strategy to mitigate the supply shortfall problem.
It also includes the first steps in developing a legal and institutional framework to
consolidate the sector's medium-term financial sustainability and ensure that it
contributes to Montenegro's growth potential.
* Reform of labor markets. As summarized in new laws on labor and employment, these
reforms will provide an impetus to growth of employment and output by increasing labor
market flexibility, supporting enterprise restructuring, and integrating the gray economy
into the official economy. They will also enhance fiscal sustainability by bringing
existing entitlements (which are bound to increase further with enterprise restructuring)
in line with available resources, and by eliminating a key bottleneck to cutting
overstaffing in enterprises and state institutions. Reforms to entitlements will contain the
arrears which now prevent these programs from acting as an effective social safety net.
* Improvement of the business environment are required to raise efficiency and facilitate
the emergence of a vibrant enterprise sector which can create new and more formalized
employment opportunities for workers released from inefficient state- and socially-owned
enterprises facing privatization and restructuring. The program will focus on removing
constraints to the entry and growth of new enterprises, on facilitating the exit of
inefficient enterprises, and on completing the system of secured financing to improve
enterprise access to capital.
23.   Together with the maintenance of a sustainable macroeconomic framework consistent
with the IMF EFF, these inter-related and mutually reinforcing reforms are designed to address
both immediate and medium-term causes of fiscal imbalances, and to remove key bottlenecks to
11



restored growth and employment creation. They are also designed to set Montenegro on a path
for deeper structural reforms to be completed beyond the horizon of the SAC.
A. Improving the Transparency and Management of Public Expenditures
24.   Past fiscal imbalances partly reflected weaknesses in public financial management. The
absence of a comprehensive, medium-term macroeconomic framework hampered budget
formulation. Limits on-the government's ability to align commitments with available resources
worked to increase unplanned outlays and/or budgetary arrears. Transparency was reduced by
the fragmentation of general government operations, and by the limited capacity and institutions
for expost audit.
25.   In late 2000, and supported by ample technical assistance, the Montenegrin government
embarked on a program of public finance reforrns aimed at increasing fiscal transparency and
improving budgetary procedures, revenue collection and expenditure control. 2001 was a
landmark year in this respect, when a Law on the Budget System (LBS) and Law on Public
Procurement were passed, and a republican Treasury was established. Other bold steps to
improve the transparency of public finances included full integration of the Ministry of Interior
into the general public expenditure system, including incorporation of Ministry's own revenues
into the single treasury account.
26.   The preparation of a 2002 Budget based on new IMF GFS methodology was generally
successful. In September 2001, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) issued a new Budget Preparation
Instruction to the line ministries. It provided ample training to the line ministries and other direct
budget users (DBUs) on the procedures established by the LBS. The launch of the Republican
Treasury began with appointment of the Treasurer and key staff, and issuance of a Treasury
operations manual. By spring 2002, the Treasury was already processing all public service
payroll. However, due to capacity limitations in the MOF, progress in ex post control was
restricted to the contracting of an ad hoc audit of the 2000 budget to a major auditing firm.
27.   This experience revealed some remaining bottlenecks, particularly in defining sustainable
macro/fiscal and sectoral policies and realistic sectoral budget requests. Uniform and effective
application of the LBS remains hampered by an absence of a range of secondary legislation,
policies, instructions, and operating procedures. Budget consolidation is needed to control the
shifting of fiscal pressure from the republican budget to social funds via the accumulation of
budgetary arrears. The existing organizational structure of the MOF is not yet supportive of its
new roles under the LBS. Institutional capacity for fiscal analysis and policy formulation remains
weak, both in the MOF and in the line ministries. There is no medium-term fiscal framework, no
mechanism to cut back program and policy over-commitments, and no analysis of strategic
allocation of funds across various budget areas. Further progress is also needed to increase the
transparency of the budget process, develop aid monitoring and coordination, and improve public
understanding of government finances.
28.   Reform  Objectives and SAC Measures.   While the passage of legislation and
establishment of a Treasury were major milestones, the challenge now is to implement the
changes introduced by the LBS before starting new reforms. The Govemrnment of Montenegro's
reform program aims to deliver greater macro-fiscal control and accountability of the public
12



finance management system. Further improvements in the monitoring and management of
public expenditures can work to limit unplanned expenditures and better align commitments with
available resources. High standards of transparency in the use of public funds are essential for
efficiency, and for achieving adequate level of social and donor support for the Govemment's
programs. Strengthening institutions for the management of Montenegro's share of FRY's
external debt service will also be crucial for fiscal sustainability.17     To assist the Government of
Montenegro in achieving these objectives, the SAC will support near-term reforms in the three
areas of budget formulation, execution, and audit and control.
Table 1:- Montenegro's Reform Program Supported by the SAC
Ob ectives                   Reform Areas                               Pririties
Achieving a sustainable     Fiscal policy                     Correcting imbalances which emerged after a decade of
medium-term macroeconomic                                     economic decline and recent large inflows of donor
framework                                                    support.
Improving the transparency  Budget preparation                A more comprehensive, medium-term macro/fiscal
and management of public                                     framework for budget planning.
expenditures
Budget execution                 Continued implementation of the new Treasury and the
Law on the Budget System.
Audit and control                A new Intemal Audit Department in the MOF.
Initial steps to create an external audit function.
Achieving a more fiscally   Balance of commitments and        Reforms of the existing pension system.
sustainable pension system  resources in the state pension system
Transparency of implementation   Improving the timeliness of the government's own
arrangements                     payroll tax contributions.
Reducing the fiscal impact of  Financial position of the power  Enhancing revenues through price increases, improved
the energy sector and       utility                           collections and reduced barter.
improving the balance
between energy supply and   Sector strategy and legal framework  A new Law on Energy.
demand.
Creating a labor market more  Labor market flexibility        A new Law on Labor with provisions for severance and
conducive to job creation, and                                other benefits which are conducive to job creation and
improving the effectiveness                                   are more affordable.
and fiscal sustainability of
employment benefits and     Unemployment benefits (UB) and    A new Law on Employment which improves the
programs.                   employment services              functioning of UB by aligning benefits with available
resources and improves incentives.
Improving the business      Framework for the entry and       Adoption and implementation of a new Enterprise Law.
environment as a basis for  operation of businesses
more rapid growth and                                         Adoption and implementation of a new Law on
employment creation.        Framework for the redeployment of  Business Organization Insolvency.
assets to more productive uses
Adoption and implementation of a new Law on
_  The system for secured financing  Secured Transactions.
7 In the medium-term, the main objectives are to gradually replace input-based budgeting with budgeting practices
geared to measurable outcomes; and to further strengthen the transparency of the public spending system by
extending fiscal reporting, inspection and audit functions beyond the republican budget to general government as
a whole.
13



29.   Budget formulation. The SAC will support the continuation and implementation of
reforms to strengthen and increase the transparency of budget preparation procedures. To
simultaneously address the need for a more comprehensive budget and a medium-term
perspective in fiscal policy, it will support the development of a three-year fiscal framework
comprising the central budget, social funds and local governments, and fully reflecting all major
policy commitments, such as the resumption of external debt servicing, bank and enterprise
restructuring, and the reform of the social welfare system. These changes now under preparation
will be introduced with the 2003 budget cycle. The transparency of the budget preparation
process will be further increased by the drafting of a Citizen's Guide to the Budget. To
strengthen aid coordination, the MOF has presented to the Government a draft Interim Policy on
Donor Funding. Moving forward, it is committed to prepare, and the Government to approve, a
larger policy paper on the use of donor funds, including clear procedures for incorporating into
the budget in-year receipt and use of donor funding. In addition, MOF has begun its own
institutional reform, which it is committed to complete by second tranche release. As part of this
process, it has defined the functions and staffing of the Budget Department comprising a budget
formulation unit and a macro/fiscal analysis unit. The macro/fiscal analysis unit has been
established and staffed, with training being provided.
30.   Budget execution. The SAC will support key measures to complete implementation of
the Treasury within the MOF. To strengthen commitment controls, the MOF has successfully
transferred two pilot DSUs and the payroll of all DSUs into the Treasury. By second tranche, it
will have transferred accounts of all ministries and agencies financed from the Government of
Montenegro budget into the single treasury account, and have adopted a time-bound plan for
extending Treasury services to the operations of all social funds. In addition, the MOF will
introduce pilot commitment control procedures on major risk categories of budget spending, on
the basis of which it will propose new controls as appropriate. Furthennore, the Govemment has
outlined the functions and staffing of a Debt Management Department in the Treasury, which it
is committed to establish, and begin staffing and training. Finally, transparency has been
enhanced through generation by the Treasury of monthly budget execution reports which are
being provided to the MOF management team. Once the Treasury is operating at a level which
makes these reports reliable and comprehensive, MOF will provide monthly summaries of
budget execution to the Cabinet and the general public.
31.   Audit and ControL  To enhance the accountability of public spending, the SAC will
support reinvigoration of the essential functions of budget inspection and audit. Continuing the
good practice established in the previous year, the Government has contracted an audit of the
final accounts for the 2001 budget from a major auditing firm and disclosed its results to the
Montenegrin Parliament. Going forward, the MOF will establish and staff an Internal Audit
Department, outline its functions, and adopt both its procedures and an annual audit plan for
2003. Montenegro will also initiate a study on the suitability of different models of extemal
audit, as a basis for choosing the most suitable extemal audit model.
B. Pension Reform
32.   Any program to improve fiscal sustainability in Montenegro must address the fiscal
pressures coming from its over-scaled public pension system. In 2000, this system consumed
14



one of the highest shares of GDP in the ECA region (around 15 percent on an accruals basis),
while generating a deficit of over 6 percent of GDP.'8 While economic decline has played a role,
the current situation largely reflects a sharp increase in the number of beneficiaries and a decline
in the contributor-beneficiary ratio, which currently stands at 1.4:1. Other specific factors
include overly generous and essentially unaffordable benefit provisions,'9 and a history of
accommodating structural deficits through budgetary transfers and donor assistance. In spite of
the latter support, the system has sustained arrears on benefit payments (leaving an average
payment lag of about 2 months), as well as the accumulation of arrears between the pension,
health and employment funds, and from the republican budget to these funds.
33.   Reform Objectives and SAC Measures. Until recently, progress in pension reform was
limited. In mid-2001, the Government of Montenegro appointed two working groups, one to
determine pension policy and the other to develop the technical details of pension reform
options. After this hiatus in pension reform activity, the Government of Montenegro is again
developing measures to improve the fiscal sustainability and implementation of the existing
pension system. Its main near-term objectives are achieving immediate fiscal savings, becoming
current on its own contributions to the Pension Fund, and creating the basis for further future
savings. In the medium-term, it aims to bring pension entitlements fully in line with available
resources through demonstrable reductions in pension spending as a share of GDP, to further
improve the efficiency of the existing system, and to begin laying the groundwork for more
fundamental reformns.
34.   To achieve these objectives, the SAC will support: a) reforms to the existing pension
system; and b) initial improvements in implementation arrangements. While the changes will
bring some hardship to pensioners and some individuals near retirement, they will also allow for
improvements in the pension system and the overall economy. Lowering the deficit in the
pension system is likely to improve the timeliness of pension payments and release budgetary
resources for other priority areas. The changes will also support growth by creating the
possibility of a future phased reduction in payroll taxes, which would improve the incentives for
employment-creating growth and for drawing the informal economy back into the formal sector.
35.   Reforms to the existing pension system. The SAC supports preparation and enactment
of a new law on pension and disability insurance which will make the pension system more
sustainable and reduce the overall fiscal burden through a better alignment of benefits with
available resources. To this end, the Government of Montenegro has accepted and submitted for
public discussion a draft law that inter alia: (i) raises and equalizes the retirement age for men
and women from 60 years for men and 55 years for women to 65 years for both; (ii) raises the
age of availing of early retirement (with pension reductions) to 60 years; (iii) changes indexation
from wage indexation to indexation that is no more than the arithmetic average of wages and the
cost of living; (iv) lengthens the work history included in the pension base calculation; (v)
abolishes privileged work histories; and (vi) abolishes Category mH invalidity pensions (based on
remaining work ability). These reforms (most notably changes to indexation) are estimated to
18 The deficit is measured as the difference between all pension fund expenditures (except for support for pensioners
associations and investment activities) and payroll contributions.
9 Average replacement rates (ratio of pensions to net wages) are in the 80-90 percent range. For old-age pensions,
replacement rates are even higher.
15



yield fiscal savings of at least one-third of a percentage point of GDP in 2003, rising to at least
1.1 percentage points by 2005. If indexation is changed to price growth alone, the latter figure
would rise to around 2 percentage points. Following the public discussion of this draft law, the
Government of Montenegro is committed to submit a satisfactory draft law to Parliament in the
autumn of 2002, for enactment starting January 2003.
36.    Improvements in implementation arrangements. In recent months, the Government has
improved its performance in making contributions for its own employees to the Pension Fund.
Starting July 1, 2002, it is committed to becoming fully current on these payments. This will
improve the stability of system revenues and strengthen overall contribution compliance. To
achieve greater clarity of purpose and operations in the Pension Fund, the Government will
propose the elimination of specified non-pension benefits from the Pension Fund in its draft 2003
budget. Finally, the Govermnent has begun to prepare a more comprehensive reforn of the
existing pension system to follow up on the initial reforms supported by the SAC.
C. The Energy Sector
37.    During the 1990s, prices for energy in Montenegro (particularly for electricity) were
chronically set by the state at levels well below operating costs. The resulting poor financial
state of the state power company, the Electric Power Industry of Montenegro (EPCG), led to its
considerable de-capitalization  through   underinvestment and    deferred  maintenance.     The
industrial sector represents 45 percent of total electricity demand, nearly 90 percent of which is
accounted for by the Podgorica Aluminum Plant (usually referred to by its local acronym KAP)
(see Box 2).    Although industrial consumption declined by 17 percent during the 1990s,
household energy consumption more than doubled, as the under-pricing of electricity led to the
widespread use of electric space heating. The resulting growth of demand and decline in
production has left Montenegro importing roughly one-third of its electricity.           Despite
international donor funding for electricity imports, EPCG was unable to cope with peak demand
in the winter of 2001/2002, when regular 4-hour rolling blackouts became the norm during
colder periods.
Box 2:- The Podgorica Aluminum Plant (KAP)
The decision to build KAP in 1971 was based on using low-cost domestic hydro resources and indigenous bauxite.
As is the case for aluminum smelters worldwide, the investment decision was based on the long-term availability of
low-cost electricity in the form of an imnplied long-term contract. In fact, the current electricity price charged to
KAP of $20IMWh, while below the cost of imported power or the cost of production at the existing coal-fired plant,
is similar to prices experienced by the aluminum industry globally. However, KAP suffered considerably during the
1990s with low production during the sanctions period leaving limited funds for maintenance and upgrading. This
left the plant with low efficiency and an unsustainable debt burden. The plant has come to an agreement with
creditors regarding the existing debt. Foreign advisors have helped KAP to reduce the cost of production
considerably through low cost interventions, resulting in record high production and operating profits for 2001, with
further improvements expected in the next few years. Investments are expected to reduce the cost of production by
at least 10 percent, and lead to reductions in electricity consumption by about the same order. Some of this funding
will come from the divestiture of the downstream industries to private investors. The Government of Montenegro
and KAP management are currently considerinig the next step: continued investments to frdther modernize the plant
before privatization or moving directly to privatization. The Government is studying these options and will discuss
a strategy with the Bank in the autumn of 2002.
16



38.   As demand increased, the electricity sector became a hidden drain on fiscal resources in
the form of losses by EPCG which have been covered by transfers from the state or through
arrears financing. In 2001, even after a bold decision to postpone a traditional reversion to lower
summer tariffs in April 2001 (which kept average tariffs at US$25/MHW, or 50 percent above
originally scheduled levels), prices of electricity remained well below the average operating cost
of EPCG. EPCG's poor finances reflect not only low prices, but also a poor collections record
and high network losses of around 20 percent (with theft presumed to be about one-half of the
total). While the ratio of collections to billings has increased from 55 percent in 1999 to 76
percent in 2001, further progress is needed. Similarly, while the share of barter payment for
electricity has been reduced from 55 percent of total transactions in 1999 to around 30 percent in
2001, the latter level remains unacceptably high.
39.   Reform   Objectives and SAC    Measures. The SAC supports the efforts of the
Government of Montenegro to tackle the sources the fiscal pressures associated with the electric
power system by allowing the system to self-finance (including covering deferred maintenance
and new investment) in as short a time as possible, while maintaining adequate protection for the
poor. The sector will also take steps to improve the reliability of supply, first to reduce load
shedding, and then to achieve quality improvements required to support downstream industry
and the coastal tourism sector. Without such investments, customers would resort to higher cost
options, and diminished output capacity would cut growth potential. The SAC supports reforms
in two broad areas: a) a staged program of revenue enhancement measures to return EPCG to
financial self-sufficiency; and b) the development of a sector strategy and legal framework.
40.   Returning EPCG to financial self-sufficiency.  To this end, the Government has
developed and begun to implement a program of price adjustments, improved operating practices
and investments. Under the part of the program supported by the SAC, EPCG has finalized a
time-bound action plan for reducing electricity blackouts and achieved demonstrated progress in
its implementation.20 This comprehensive program addresses all aspects of the power supply
industry. However, EPCG will need to continue to import electricity for the near- to medium-
term, as no quick solutions are available to address the shortage of generating capacity.21
41.    The Government is continuing electricity price reforms to enable prices to cover
operating and debt service costs by 2003. In November 2001, it established an average winter
tariff for electric power (excluding KAP, which is buying electricity under a separate power
purchase agreement valid until the end of 2002) of 37 EUR/MWh (about US$36/MWh). This
represents an increase of 50 percent from the winter of 2000/2001. To further strengthen
EPCG's finances, the Government also cancelled a traditional shift to lower summer tariffs
which would have returned the average summer price of electricity (excluding KAP) to 25
EUR/MWh (about US$24/MWh). To cushion the social impact of this reform, it also introduced
20 In parallel to changes supported by the SAC, the Government is working with the Bank and other donors to
implement investments and programs to: (a) decrease system losses and theft; (b) introduce energy efficiency
measures in industry (particularly KAP) and households; (c) improve power plant reliability; and (d) arrange for
long-term supply of electricity imports on a competitive basis.
21 The ability to import electricity, however, is limited due to a lack of interconnection with the Westem European
Power Pool (UCTE) and the poor financial condition of EPCG.
17



a lower 'lifeline' tariff (covering the first 500 kWh of monthly consumption) for those families
eligible for the main targeted social assistance progran, the so-called Material Assistance to
Families. The combined effect of these recent policy changes was to reduce the losses of EPCG,
and hence its hidden impact on the budget, by around US$20 million per year, or by about 2.5
percent of Montenegro's NMP. By second tranche release, the Government will establish and
have maintained an average winter price of electricity for 2002/2003 which is satisfactory to the
Bank. To reduce the negative impact of KAP on the finances of EPCG, and more generally to
place its operations on an economically sound basis, the Government will prepare a strategy for
KAP, including a time bound action program that addresses ownership and operating issues for
the supply of bauxite and electricity.
42.    To improve collections, harden budget constraints, and reduce the risk that higher prices
will spill over into higher budgetary and inter-enterprise arrears, EPCG has announced a program
for disconnecting non-payers, based on clear procedures and including specific performance
benchmarks.22    Good early progress in implementation has already decreased losses and
increased revenues. In November 2001 alone, six HV customers, 55 10 kV customers and 9,200
low voltage customers were disconnected from a total customer base of 269,000. By second
tranche release, EPCG is committed to further increase the ratio of collections to billings, such
that its Accounts Receivable have not increased by more than 15 percent of its total revenues
over the previous 12 month period. EPCG has also fully eliminated third party barter, with only
direct barter of goods and services needed by EPCG remaining for now. By second tranche
release, it is committed to have further reduced the share of barter in total collections to a
maximum of 10 percent.
43.    Sector strategy and legalframework    With the support of foreign advisors, the Ministry
of Economy has begun preparation of an energy strategy as a basis for developing a draft energy
law. By second tranche release, the Government of Montenegro will submit a bill on such a law,
satisfactory to the Bank, to the Parliament of the Republic of Montenegro. The law will require
the accounts of EPCG to be audited in accordance with International Accounting Standards, and
envision the establishment of an independent regulator responsible for setting energy prices
based on clearly established criteria. The law will aim to create an enabling environment for
private participation in the sector and to allow competition where feasible.23 This will enhance
prospects for efficiency gains and for the medium-term elimination of budgetary support for the
energy sector.
44.    Recent progress notwithstanding, the power sector remains a key risk to fiscal balance
and macroeconomic stability. The system is still operationally fragile and stretched to the limit
22 This program will allow all industries and budget entities to be disconnected after a suitable warning period.
When public health is a concem, adequate budget resources will be allocated to enable energy payments to be
made in a timely manner.
23 All aspects of electricity supply (generation, transmission and distribution) will be regulated initially due to the
monopoly nature of networks and the constraints on competition created by the small mnarket and network
constraints. However, the separation of generation, transmission and distribution accounts will enable the
regulator to establish network service charges to facilitate Third Party Access. Initially, some large Qualified
Customers will be allowed to enter into bilateral contracts for electricity supply from local or foreign generators.
Once transmission networks are upgraded in neighboring countries, enabling a synchronous connection with the
UCTE, the role of competition may be reconsidered.
18



by years of deferred maintenance. Possible major breakdowns, coal supply problems or an
exceptionally cold winter could further increase the need for imports and/or emergency
maintenance, which would eventually need to be financed from the budget. In addition, as price
increases will have a negative impact on the household income of the poorest (through their
heating bills), there will be a need for careful monitoring of the ability of targeted lifeline tariffs
and the social safety net to provide adequate mitigation of price increases, and possibly for
adjustment of current support mechanisms.
D. Reform of Labor Markets
45.   As was the case in Serbia, where these issues were tackled with the support of a World
Bank Social Protection Grant and a SAC, the current legal framework for the labor market in
Montenegro is one of the most rigid and protective of all transition economies. Overly generous
entitlements, such as severance pay of 24 months of salary, matemity leave of up to two years,
and rigid preconditions for valid dismissals, deter employers from hiring additional workers and
hinder enterprise restructuring and civil service reform. The high costs imposed on enterprises
by the law discourage official employment and push economic activity into the informal sector.24
This impedes efforts to raise public revenues and leaves many workers with no legal protections.
Current matemity leave provisions are a particular deterrent to female employment.
Entitlements well in excess of available revenues are also a hidden drain on fiscal resources.
46.   Expenditures on unemployment benefits (IJB) have been limited primarily by the
confinement of benefits to those workers with some contribution history, a class of workers
which has so far experienced little open employment. In addition, the prevalence of long-term
unemployment means that many job seekers have exhausted their eligibility to benefits. In fact,
out of 80,000 registered unemployed, only 2200 individuals are entitled to a benefit amounting to
60 percent of the minimum wage. However, since no budgetary transfers have been made to the
Employment Fund, the benefit has not been paid since September 2000. In the absence of
reforms to make the system more affordable and incentive compatible, the projected increase in
the number of claimants as restructuring takes hold would further strain UB programs and limit
their effectiveness. In addition, existing labor market programs are costly to administer and are
given almost reverse emphasis to what international experience suggests is most cost-effective.
47.   Reform Objectives and SAC Measures. Rapid action to reform the labor relations
framework is a crucial element in the transition of Montenegro to a market economy. A more
flexible labor market is a prerequisite for successful privatization, for the development of a
dynamic small and medium enterprise base, for drawing enterprises back into the formal
economy, and for attracting new foreign investments. With the use of the Euro precluding
exchange rate changes, it is also a crucial channel through which the Montenegrin economy can
adjust to changing circumstances. Reforms of entitlements are important for fiscal sustainability,
and for eliminating the chronic payment arrears which contribute to vulnerability of those
citizens most dependent on such benefits. To support reforms aimed at creating a more flexible
24 Around 30 percent of employed people are believed to work without contract. The results of a recent household
survey, in which 28 percent of respondents confirmed that their salaries are not registered at the ZOP (Bureau for
Accounts and Payments), also confirm high informal employment.
19



labor market and a more affordable and efficient system of severance, maternity and
unemployment benefits, the SAC would focus on two broad areas of reform:
48.   A new law on labor. This is the single most important reform for enhancing labor market
flexibility and bringing entitlements in line with available resources and to levels characteristic
of other market economies. With the support the Bank, the Government of Montenegro has
developed and submitted to the Montenegrin Parliament a draft law on labor, which would, inter
alia: a) differentiate the level of severance pay between 0 and 6 months for individual dismissals,
according to seniority, and not more than 6 monthly wages for mass lay-offs; (ii) remove
restrictions on circurnstances for concluding fixed term, temporary and part time contracts; (iii)
abolish or reduce special leave entitlements and replace them with a leave without pay option;
(iv) include alternative mechanisms for settlement of individual labor disputes and a mechanism
for resolution of collective labor disputes; (v) ease preconditions for valid dismissal; and (vi)
limit the level of maternity leave relative to current entitlements to 12 months. The Republic of
Montenegro is committed to enact such a law by second tranche release.
49.   Reform of unemployment benefits and employment services. The reform program aims
to ensure the financial sustainability of these programs, to improve incentives for labor supply
and job search, and to ensure that these services are structured to meet the needs of an economy
facing significant restructuring. This program has two elements. First, the Government has
prepared, and the Montenegrin parliament has approved, a new Law on Employment establishing
a flat rate unemployment benefit which lowers the average replacement rate and maximum
duration for receipt of benefits to levels in line with regional comparators and with fiscal
possibilities. Second, the Government will conduct an assessment of the existing labor market
programs and propose a rebalancing from predominantly micro credits and some training
towards more cost effective options such as providing information on vacancies, counseling and
job search assistance.
E. Improving the Business Environment
50.   The return to growth of the Montenegrin economy - and its ability to absorb labor
released through the restructuring of existing enterprises - requires a business environment
conducive to private sector development. Burdened by a myriad of regulations, many businesses
have resorted to operating in the gray economy, or with a foot in both the formal and the gray
economy. A recent analysis of barriers to doing business performed by the Center for
Entrepreneurship and Economic Development (CEED) in Montenegro shows that the largest
obstacles to doing business are (i) administrative burdens, e.g. registration and licensing
requirements, (ii) lack of access to financing, (iii) unfair competition, (iv) frequent changes in the
legal and regulatory environment, and (v) high taxes and levies.
51.   With donor-funded technical assistance, the Government of Montenegro has taken a
number of positive steps to construct the framework of laws, rules, and institutions for a market
economy. In addition to the tax reform, foreign trade reform, price liberalization measures
described in Section II.C., the Montenegrin parliament has recently adopted a new Law on
Accounting and Auditing. This law, designed to improve the transparency of business
operations, will lead to a two-stage conversion to Intemational Accounting Standards to be
finalized in 2003. The new Institute of Accountants and Auditors of Montenegro is the main
20



institution for implementing the law, and for providing training to accountants, auditors, tax
authorities and enterprises. In addition, the business-government dialogue has recently
intensified, mainly in the framework of public debate over the drafted package of commercial
laws. The government is working to formalize such a dialogue for proposed laws or regulations
which have a major impact on business.
52.   Reform Objectives and SAC Measures. Despite this initial progress in improving
Montenegro's business environment, a challenging reform agenda remains. This agenda is
focused on further upgrading the legal foundations and institutional capacity for a sound business
environment. The main objectives of these reforms are: acceleration of economic growth and
job creation, with a particular focus on SME development; promotion of foreign and domestic
investment; and reduction in the size and scope of the gray economy by reducing disincentives
for businesses to enter the formal economy. To this end, the SAC will support priority reforms
to: (i) remove administrative and legislative barriers to entry and efficient operations of business;
(ii) reduce barriers to the efficient exit and redeployment of nonproductive assets; and (iii)
establish a system of secured financing to improve enterprise access to capital.
53.   Reducing barriers to entry and efficient operation of businesses. The Montenegrin
government's efforts in this area have been focused on a new Business Organization Law
(Enterprise Law), which has recently been adopted by Parliament. The new registration
procedures are designed to provide practical, commercially reasonable mechanisms to record
necessary information on a company and to provide access to legitimate users of this
information. The law significantly streamlines the registration process, shifting the principal
approach from approval to notification. It also narrows the functions of the Commercial Courts,
shifting the handling of registration to a Central Registry which comes under the overall
administration of these courts, but has an appropriate degree of independence. The new law also
eliminates the obligatory minimal capital deposit for the limited liability companies and
increases penalties on companies for provision of false information.  To facilitate
implementation of the new law, the Government has developed and begun to implement a time-
bound action plan for introduction of the new registration procedures, including for IT
infrastructure modernization, updating the existing database, staff training of the Central
Registry, and a public information canpaign. It has already secured premises and hardware for
the new business registry, and drafted necessary instructions. The Government is committed to
adopt and begin to implement the registration procedures developed in accordance with the new
Law on Business Organizations by second tranche release.
54.   Reducing barriers to restructuring and exit. To enable the efficient redeployment of
physical and financial assets to more productive uses, the Government of Montenegro prepared a
new Law on Business Organization Insolvency (Bankruptcy Law), which has now been adopted
by the Montenegrin Parlianent. This law establishes rules for the resolution of business failure in
a clear, predictable and fair manner. It provides a mechanism for businesses to reorganize where
possible, and an orderly means of exit when they cannot. It also provides for the orderly
collection of assets, clear and timely claim submission and resolution procedures, and rules
governing the distribution of proceeds to claimants. It contains transparent procedures and
outcomes, as well as definite deadlines and incentives for movement toward case resolution. The
21



law also provides the enabling framework for out-of-court settlement of disputes, and for dealing
with bankruptcy matters spanning beyond Montenegro.
55.   The Government recognizes that a new law is a necessary but insufficient condition for
an effective bankruptcy system. As shown by experiences elsewhere in the ECA region, this
also requires building capacity in the courts and the trustee community. To meet this challenge,
the Government, with technical assistance from USAID, has developed and agreed on a time-
bound action plan for the application of this law. The first steps in its implementation have
included drafting the required forms and training materials, and beginning to train commercial
judges. During the rest of 2002, the major efforts will be focused on expanding training to other
key functionaries in the insolvency system, including government officials, bankruptcy
administrators, attomeys, and accountants.
56.   Developing a functioning system of secured financing is important for improving the
access of enterprises to capital. Collateral legislation in Montenegro is not yet fully developed.
The limited real estate financing goes under the Law on Fiduciary Transfer of Property
introduced in 1996. A Mortgage Law is under preparation. The State Agency of Real Property
efficiently performs the functions of the immovable pledge registry. Leasing operations can be
conducted under the Federal Law on Torts and Obligations. To improve the access of enterprises
to capital, the Government of Montenegro has now turned its focus to completing the system of
secured financing. After extensive public discussion, it has approved a draft law on secured
transactions, which has been submitted the Montenegrin Parliament. The new law will equip
Montenegro with a modem legal framework for secured transactions, as well as with
implementing institutions to support sophisticated credit transactions involving movable property
(inventory, equipment, accounts and consumer goods) as collateral. The Governnent has
developed and agreed on a time-bound action plan for implementation of the new law. It is
committed to successfully implementing this plan, most importantly by establishing and staffing
the centralized Pledge Registry by second tranche release.
F. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
57.   Growth prospects. In Montenegro as in FRY as a whole, positive growth in 2000 and
2001 was primarily driven by one-off rebounds from earlier exogenous shocks. From 2002 to
2004, real output is expected to grow at an annual rate of around 4 percent in both FRY as a
whole and in Montenegro. These projections assume strong macroeconomic management, a
sustained reform effort, adequate donor financing, and further concessional debt rescheduling,
and are thus associated with some downside risk. Near-term growth is expected to be driven by
exports, a more vibrant SME sector better integrated into the official economy, improved balance
in the energy sector, and greater donor financing of investments. These factors are expected to
outweigh the contractionary near-term impact of further fiscal adjustment and the remaining
transitional recession. Medium-term growth will also be driven by greater productivity and
enhanced financial intermediation (including as a result of accelerated privatization,
improvements in the business environment, and banking reforns), the entry of new foreign and
domestic firms (facilitated by the creation of a single economic space within FRY), infrastructure
rehabilitation and investrnents in new productive capacity. A restructured tourism sector will
22



work to promote growth in Montenegro, while gradual reintegration of the shadow economy will
work to increase recorded growth rates.
58.   Fiscalprospects in Montenegro. The limited domestic sources of budget financing25 and
the reduction in external financing to more sustainable levels will require a phased reduction in
fiscal deficits. This will be particularly challenging in the near-term, as the resumption of debt
service payments, the more realistic budgeting of commitments (to cut growth of budgetary
arrears), and the bringing on budget of some quasi-fiscal activities, will create additional cash
outlays, while the expenditure savings from the structural reform program will only come over
time. In such a setting, counterpart funding from the SAC will work to ensure that the overall
fiscal adjustment is not excessively abrupt. The cash-based consolidated fiscal deficit (excluding
official grants) will slightly increase from 6.1 percent of NMP in 2001 to 6.3 percent in 2002,
driven by a much larger increase in public debt service payments, and then begin to decline to
around 4 percent in 2004. Reductions in the outer years will be supported by deeper expenditure
reductions as SAC reforms take hold, and by improvements in tax administration. In parallel,
structural reforms to improve the financial position of energy utilities, other enterprises and
banks, will make inroads into hidden quasi-fiscal deficits. While cash outlays will decline by
around 2.3 percentage points of NMP from 2002 to 2004, the program also achieves additional
cuts in expenditure commitments and hidden quasi-fiscal deficits, with the biggest direct impacts
coming from the energy and pension reforms. More sustainable fiscal policies are expected to
support a reduction of inflation from 24 percent in 2001 to about 12 percent in 2002, and then to
around 5 percent in 2004.
59.   External balances of FRY. The growth of exports of goods and services (in US dollars)
is expected to rise from 8.4 percent in 2001 to around 14.2 percent in 2002, before returning to
more sustainable but still high rates in the outer years. The initial rise of export growth will
primarily reflect the phased restoration of business contacts. In the later years, export recovery
could be supported by a rebound in the economies of key partners, deepened trade integration
(including through the EU Stabilization and Association and WTO accession processes), the
rehabilitation of infrastructure networks, productivity improvements, and higher FDI (supported
by external trade liberalization and a single economic space within FRY).
60.   FRY's current account deficit (including grants) is expected to rise from 5.5 percent of
GDP in 2001 to 9.3 percent in 2003, driven by the increase in debt servicing costs and
investment. It will then begin to gradually decline, reaching around 8.6 percent in 2004. These
levels reflect a fundamental structural imbalance between a low savings rate (growing out of a
deep decline in living standards, the erosion of enterprise profitability, and low budgetary
savings), and the increased investment needs following a decade of severe decapitalization.
Gross domestic fixed investment as a share of GDP is expected to rise from a low 13.5 percent in
2001 to 15.4 percent in 2002 and 17.2 percent in 2004. In parallel, and supported by public
sector saving, a strengthened banking system, and an increase in enterprise profitability, gross
domestic savings will increase from -8.6 percent of GDP in 2001 to -2.4 percent in 2004. In the
early years, donor grant funding will play a significant role in closing the gap between national
savings and investment needs.
25 A nascent treasury bill market does not represent a mnajor source of net financing, as new issues primarily go to
redeeming bills coming due. However, the acceleration of privatization will represent a larger source of financing.
23



Table 2:- Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - Medium-Term Macroeconomic Prospects
2000      2001       2002       2003      2004
National Accounts
GDP (US$ millions) 1/                         8071      10861     12841      13849      14993
Real GDP growth(%)                              5.0       5.5        4.0       4.0        4.0
(% of GDP)
Investrnent                                    14.5      13.5       15.4       16.4      17.2
Gross Domestic Savings                         -3.6       -8.6      -6.4      -4.0       -2.4
Public Sector Balance 2/
Total Revenues  (including grants)             40.0      42.3       44.0      43.5       42.8
Revenues        (excluding grants)             39.2      41.6       43.0      42.4       41.9
Expenditures 3/                                40.1      43.0       48.7      47.8       46.7
Balance (deficit)                             -0.2       -0.6      4.7        4.3       4.0
Before grants                               -1.0       -1.3      -5.7       -5.4      -4.9
External Accounts
Exports of goods and services (% change)       18.6       8.4       14.2       13.1       9.4
Imports of goods and services (% change)       13.1      28.9       15.3       7.3        7.1
Current account balance                        -339      -596      -1050     -1285      -1292
Before grants                              -610      -1187      -1646     -1685      -1741
as % of GDP                                   4.2       -5.5       -8.2      -9.3       -8.6
Before grants                               -7.6      -10.9     -12.8      -12.2     -11.6
Indebtedness 3/
TDO/XGS                                       447.9     432.6      272.6     263.5      259.7
TDO/GDP                                       141.3     110.0       67.0      67.9       67.6
TDS/XGS                                         2.3       3.9       10.9       12.5      12.5
Inflation
Retail price index (e.o.p. - % change)        113.5      39.0       20.0       10.7       6.4
1/ GDP estimates exclude Kosovo. The economy of Kosovo is estimated to be about 6% of the total FRY
economy.
2/ Excludes Kosovo.
3/ Stock of debt includes short-term obligations.
61.    Financing needs. To achieve this macroeconomic scenario and finance the transition to
a market economy under high physical rehabilitation needs and resumed debt service, FRY and
Montenegro will require substantial capital inflows. Even following a sharp increase in dollar
GDP in 2001 (largely driven by real appreciation), FRY's extemal debt remained a very high
110 percent of GDP at end-2001. Between 2002 and 2004, gross extemal financing requirements
are estimated at about US$11.0 billion. These resources are needed to finance US$4.4 billion of
debt restructuring, US$3.7 billion of current account deficits (excluding interest and official
transfers), US$1.4 billion in increased intemational reserves (to raise these to a level of 4 months
of imports), and the remainder of US$1.5 billion to fulfill net income obligations. During this
period, as the fiscal deficit is increasingly brought under control, these needs will shift from the
budgetary sector to the private sector.
24



62.    Financing sources. These needs are projected to be met from       several sources.
Multilateral, bilateral and commercial creditors are assumed to finance US$4.4 billion of these
financing needs through agreements to restructure and reduce outstanding debt and arrears. With
good progress on reforns, including those supported by the proposed SAC and other adjustment
operations, foreign direct investment and other private sector finance will grow to total around
US$2.8 billion during this three year period. The remaining US$3.8 billion of financing during
this three year period will come from official bilateral and multilateral sources. The Bank
program generally, and the proposed adjustment operations more specifically, would represent a
significant share of this financing, and can thus play a crucial role in helping to ensure adequate
fmancing for the reform programs in FRY and Montenegro.
Table 3:- Republic of Montenegro - Medium-Term Macroeconomic Prospects
2000    2001    2002    2003      2004
National Accounts
NMP (millions DM)                           1300    1570    1817    2003      2187
Real NMP growth (%)                         4.0     3.5      4.0     4.0       4.0
(% of NMP)
Consolidated Fiscal Accounts (cash accounts)
Revenues (excluding grants)                 45.8    46.8    46.6    46.5      46.4
Total Revenues (including grants)           56.5    50.8    49.7    49.0      48.3
Expenditures                                56.3    52.9    52.9    52.0      50.4
Balance (deficit)                           0.2     -2.1    -3.2    -3.0      -2.1
before grants                             -10.4   -6.1    -6.3    -5.5      -4.0
Inflation
Retail price inflation (e.o.p.)            ...    24.0     12.0    6.0       5.0
1/ As noted previously (footnote 13), NMP is generally estimated to be about 80 percent of GDP. Under this
assumnption, ratios of a given variable to GDP would be about 80 percent of the ratios to NMP expressed here.
63.   In the event of a London Club agreement on similar terms to the Paris Club agreement,
debt service indicators would decline significantly to still high levels. FRY's total external debt
would be expected to fall from 110 percent of GDP in 2001 to 68 percent in 2004, driven
primarily by deep debt relief, but also by some further real appreciation. This ratio would then
decline further to around 50 percent in 2010. FRY's ability to maintain a relatively stable ratio of
debt to GDP despite relatively large current account deficits, will initially be facilitated by the
high degree of average concessionality of official external financing, and later by increasing
inflows of private capital. The ratio of total debt service to exports would fluctuate in the range
of 11-17.4 percent in the period 2002-2004, and reach a level of around 20 percent in the
medium-term.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
64.    This section provides a summary of the proposed Credit including: (a) details on the
Credit and its implementation; (b) coordination with the IMF and other donors; (c) poverty
implications; and (d) benefits and risks. The broad rationale and objectives of the Credit, and its
links to the Bank's TSS, are discussed in Section I.
25



A. Project Implementation
65.   Credit Amount, Borrower, Terms, Tranching. The proposed Structural Adjustment
Credit (SDR 11.9 million) will be made to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, represented by
the Federal Ministry of Finance. The Credit will be on modified IDA terms, with a maturity of
20 years including a grace period of 10 years, and no acceleration clause. It will be released in
two equal tranches, the first upon Credit Agreement effectiveness, and the second upon
fulfillment of the tranche release conditions. We consider the full completion of the core
measures in the first column of Annex 6, in addition to significant progress already made (see
Sections II.B and III), sufficient to justify the release of the first tranche.
66.   Implementation, Monitoring and Supervision. During SAC preparation, the Association
has assisted the Government of Montenegro in defining processes to facilitate timely
implementation of the agreed reforms. Through regular reviews, the Association will monitor the
general progress of Montenegro's reform program, and more specifically the implementation of
agreed benchmarks described in the Development Credit Agreement and Letter of Development
Policy. This will require regular supervision conducted jointly by staff of the Bank Office in
Belgrade and headquarters-based staff.
67.   Loan management. The Federal Ministry of Finance will open and maintain a Deposit
Account in the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY), on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.26 Loan administration will be the responsibility of a loan manager employed by the
Federal Ministry of Finance, who will be responsible for preparing the withdrawal applications,
maintaining the Deposit Account, arranging for its timely audit (if requested by the Association).
The loan manager will also be responsible for coordinating the preparation of contributions of
the Federal and Montenegrin Governments to the Implementation Completion Report and for
writing those sections related to loan administration. The Credit Agreement will be subject to
ratification by the Federal Assembly before it becomes effective.
68.   Disbursements. Upon Credit Agreement effectiveness, and with the submission by the
Borrower of a withdrawal application, the proceeds of the Credit will be deposited by the
Association into a Euro Deposit Account of the Borrower. Based on the enactment of a Federal
law containing the provisions for onlending the SAC proceeds to the Republic of Montenegro,
and the enactment by the Republic of Montenegro of a counter guarantee law (both Conditions
of Effectiveness), the Borrower will transfer to a deposit account of the Republic of Montenegro
(represented by the Central Bank of Montenegro (CBM)) the Euro equivalent of the proceeds of
the Credit under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The CBM, through its role
as the fiscal agent of the Government of Montenegro, will in turn open a deposit account for the
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Montenegro. If, after deposit in the Deposit Account, the
proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e. to finance items imported from non-
member countries, or goods and services from the Association's standard negative list), the
26 The recent FRY CFAA analyzed the flow of funds for structural adjustment operations with the National Bank of
Yugoslavia (NBY) and did not find difficulties in transferring and tracking credits from the Association to the
NBY and then to govermnent accounts.
26



Association will require the Borrower to either: (i) return the amount to the account for use for
eligible purposes; or (ii) refund the amount directly to the Association.
69.   Reporting, Accounting and Auditing.  The Federal Ministry of Finance, with the
assistance of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the Central Bank of Montenegro, and the
Montenegrin MoF, would maintain records of all transactions under the Credit in accordance
with sound accounting practices. Although routine audits of the deposit accounts will not be
required, the Association reserves the right to require audits at any time. hn such cases, the
Borrower should furnish and audit report not later than four months after the date of the
Association's request for such an audit.
70.   Closing Date. The closing date of the Credit will be September 30, 2003.
71.   Environmental Impact. The proposed SAC is not expected to result in any negative
impact on the environment. In line with Operational Directive 8.60, it has been placed in
Category U, which does not require an environmental assessment.
B. Coordination with the IMF and Donors
72.   The achievement of SAC objectives will be supported by the Bank's close collaboration
with the IMF and donors. The Montenegrin Government's overall reform program has been
designed within a macroeconomic framework consistent with FRY's EFF with the IMF (see
Section ll.B). The EA and the SAC were prepared in close cooperation between the Bank and
the Fund, and complement each other. The IMF has provided technical assistance in areas
covered by the proposed operation, including public expenditure management, while Bank input
was important in developing the structural elements of the SBA and EA.
73.   At a Donor Conference for FRY held on June 29, 2001, multilateral and bilateral donors
pledged a substantial initial package of financial and technical assistance totaling around US$1.3
billion, including sums pledged specifically for Montenegro. The SAC builds on the financial
and technical assistance efforts of two large donors in Montenegro. The European Commission
(EC) is supporting FRY and its two republics through macro-financial support and a large
assistance program  (EUR 230 million).  Its program  in Montenegro makes important
contributions in the areas of public expenditure management, social protection and energy. The
longstanding USAID program provides important support in a wide range of areas, including
public expenditure management, energy, business environment, and pensions. Other agencies
(e.g. Germany's GTZ and KfW, US Treasury) are also providing more targeted assistance in the
public expenditure management and energy areas. During SAC preparation, the Bank has liaised
closely with key donors to ensure broad agreement in overall reform priorities and specific
policies, particularly to ensure that the reforn benchmarks of the SAC are harmonized with
conditionality under other assistance programs.
C. Poverty Implications
74.   The proposed SAC and the Govermment program which it supports will have important
impacts on poverty. Some reforms, such as higher energy prices and the reduction of statutory
27



entitlements to severance pay, could have negative initial impacts. These will be addressed
through two channels. First, reforms to enhance the transparency of public finances should help
to enhance the potential for donor support for payment of social benefits.  Second, the
Government of Montenegro has demonstrated a clear concern for managing any negative social
impacts of reforms. It has implemented recent reforms (see Section II.C) to improve the
targeting of social assistance, and its 2002 budget includes a real increase in resources for social
welfare programs. The authorities are also working with the Bank and other donors to develop
the data and analytical capacity required to ground future adjustment operations in a deeper
understanding of the impact of various policies on the living standards of the poor.
75.   The SAC will have other positive effects on poverty. By supporting the formulation of
more realistic budgets, improved budget execution and reform of entitlements programs, it will
limit the accumulation of arrears on social transfers, thus enhancing the predictability of incomes
of those dependent on such transfers. It will reduce hidden enterprise subsidies which have
delayed restructuring and led to the ad hoc crowding out pro-poor expenditures when the
emergence of hidden liabilities forced sudden adjustments in other expenditures. A more stable
macroeconomy, together with better functioning labor markets, a more secure supply of energy,
and additional fiscal space for development expenditures, will also create the basis for
investments needed for medium-term growth and employment creation, and thus for more
sustained poverty reduction.
D. Benefits and Risks
76.   The proposed SAC will provide a range of potential benefits, in addition to the positive
impacts on poverty described above. First, it will work to enhance stabilization gains made so
far by supporting up front actions to tackle major fiscal imbalances and sectoral reforms to
enhance medium-term fiscal sustainability, and by providing financing to close Montenegro's
budgetary gaps and bolster external reserves. In the absence of such financing, Montenegro and
FRY could be forced onto a financially and politically less sustainable adjustment path. Second,
it will provide a framework for planning an inter-related set of structural reforms designed to
remove key bottlenecks to growth. Third, the elaboration of a sound policy framework and the
Bank's assessment of structural reforms will send a positive signal to donors wishing to provide
budgetary support, as well as to potential private investors and creditors. Finally, by working for
a more stable and prosperous FRY, it will indirectly promote economic recovery in the wider
South East European region.
77.   The proposed SAC also entails external, political and implementation risks. Various
external shocks could strain Montenegro's ability to maintain a sustainable macroeconomic
framework and to return to growth. Donor flows below pledged levels, and/or inability to secure
appropriately concessional debt restructuring from remaining creditors would also exacerbate
macroeconomic fragility. Even debt relief on the most favorable terms will lead to a sharp jump
in debt service payments, further stretching fiscal and external balances. A marked slowdown in
the economy of key trading partners could reduce the growth of exports, foreign direct
investment and other private capital inflows. The resulting downward pressure on the money
supply would have a deflationary impact. While most external shocks cannot be mitigated, the
28



Bank and EC are together monitoring aid flows and working to ensure more timely conversion of
pledges into disbursements.
78.   There are several sources of political risk. Implementation arrangements under the new
union accord will require agreement on critical but as yet undefined details, including on crucial
issues such as the financing of the union structure and the precise modalities for harmonizing
external trade policies and ensuring free inter-republican trade, which could prove more difficult
than envisioned.  Second, while the current Montenegrin government has demonstrated
ownership of the program, and while first tranche measures have been satisfactorally completed,
differences in views within Montenegro's governing coalition on the way to resolve the
constitutional issues could complicate implementation of second tranche measures. Finally, a
public expecting rapid improvements in living standards could eventually tire of the required
sacrifices, eroding support for the program. The Government of Montenegro is working to
broaden public understanding and effect timely implementation. The Bank is working to mitigate
these risks through continued policy dialogue. The establishment of a clear path to European
integration through the EU Stabilization and Association process, and the strengthening of policy
conditionality by other donors relative to the recent past, has also increased the prospects for
sustained reform in the face of such pressures.
79.   The proposed SAC addresses difficult reform  challenges in a setting of uneven
implementation capacity, part of which reflects Montenegro's small size. The SAC begins to
tackle reforms (e.g. in pensions and labor markets) which have been postponed in the past.
There now appears to be a greater understanding for the need for such reforms and commitment
for their implementation. In addition, major ongoing technical assistance efforts are increasingly
shifting their focus from formal adoption of reforms to a deepening of implementation capacity.
80.   On balance, the risks are outweighed by the potential benefits to be derived by improving
the political economy at a difficult and critical juncture of the reform process, by providing much
needed budgetary support, and by creating a more secure and consistent foundation for other
donors to provide similar support. Recovery will remain difficult and will not be possible
without adequate and timely support from the Bank and other donors. These benefits will be felt
not only in Montenegro and FRY, but also in the wider South East European region, as FRY's
more rapid and sustainable recovery allows it to become a stabilizing force in the region.
V. RECOMMENDATION
81.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the Credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
July 10, 2002
29



Annex I
Page 1 of 2
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.) at a glance                                                                   7/16102
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                             Yugoslavia,   Central   middle-
Fed. Rep.      Asia   Income      Development diamond'
2001
Populaton. mid-year (millions)                        10.6      475      2,046                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. USS) I/                 990      2,010     1,140
GNP (AUas method, US$ billions) 1/                    10.5      956      2,327
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (9)                                         0.1       0.1       1.0                    /                G
Labor force (9)                                        0.5       0.6       1.3     GNI    I                        Gros
per                   '        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                              capita                      enroliment
Poverty (% of populaton below national poverfy line) 2/  15 - 25
Urban population (% of total population)               52        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       72        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lIve births)               13        21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              2         ..       11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)    ..       90        80
Illiteracy (9 of population age 15+)                   ..         3        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  69       100       114          -   Yugoslava FR(Serb
Male                                                 69       101       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               70        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratlos'
GOP (US$ billions)                              .       ..       8.1      10 9
Gross domestc investmentVGOP                   ..               14 5      13.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..      ..       31 6      25.4                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..        .      -3.5      -8.6
Gross nabonal savingslGDP                      ..        .      10.3       8.0
Current aocount balance/GDP                    .        .       -4.2      -5.5     Domestic
Interest paymentslGDP 31                      ..       ..        0.6       0.7     s                   ,       Investment
Total debt/GOP                                          .      141.3     110.0       .n.
Total debt servicetexports 3                   ..       .        2.3       3.9
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debtlexports                 ..
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141      2000      2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                                   5.0        5.5       4 3              Yugoslavia, FR (SerbAionl.)
GDP per capita                         .       ..      4.9       5.0       3.8              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services          .       ..    34.8        9.4      10 7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1989      2000      2001      Growth of Investnent and GDP I%)
(96 of GDP)20
Agriculture                                    ..     10.1      17.6        .      10
Industry                                             43.1       37.6        ..     o       ,    ,111*1J
Manufacturing                                                    ..       ..    -lo  9tl      97         Oe    D    01
Services                                             468        44.8              -20
Private consumption                                             85 0      90.2    -4o
General govemment consumpton                    .       ..      18.5      18.4                    GDI       e-GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..       49.6      47.5
(average annual growth)                  1981-91  199141       2000      2001     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   ..        .      -20.0      25.0    4c-
Industry                                      ..       ..       10.9       0.0    20-
Manufacturing                                .        ..        ..        .. 
Services                                      ..       ..         ..         --   -20     9    97    99   99    00   01
Private consumption                            ..      ..       20.0      14.6    o
General govemment consumpUon                  ..       ..      -24.5       5.2   -60
Gross domesbc investment                      ..       ..       17 5       5.6                  Exports  e-   iroorts
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..       28.6     30.0
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the oountry (in bold) oompared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
1/ Estimate for 2000; excludes Kosovo and is calculated using the market exchange rate 2/ Estimated range 3/ On a cash basis.



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.)
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1981     1991      2000     2001     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                      100
Consumerprices                                .        .      71.8     91.1      e
Implicit GDP deflator                                 ..      76 8      91.7
40
Govemment finance                                                                20
(% of GDP, includes cuffent grants)                                               0            I                      I
Current revenue 4/                            ..              40.0      42.3            96    97   9o    99    00    01
Current budget balance                        ..      ..       3.2       0.7           -G     DP deflator -4 CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               ..       0.2      -06                  GDP6denat_r  OCPI
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1981     1991      2000     2001      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports(fob)                            ..      ..      1,923    2,003    e,000
Food                                        ..       ..        .       297    5s000
Other fuel                                                              50     4. 0 0 
Manufactures                                                    .      694
Total imports (fob) 5/                                       3,711     45838   320D0
Food                                         .        .                552     2.000                           J
Fuel and energy                              .       ..        ..    1,032     t 000
Capital goods                                ..                ..    1,012       0
95 96     96 9   96        01
Export price index (1995=1C00)
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       .         .         .               t Exports     * Imnorts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      .       .         ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                             19S1     1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..       .     2.547     2,762     0     l
Imports of goods and services                 ..      ..     4,004     5,160    -1  9    9    97    e 
Resource balance                              ..      ..     -1,457   -2,398    -2--
-3-
Net income                                    .                 -1      -26     _4
Net current transfers                          .       .      1,119    1,828 s                          I   I    I
Current account balance                       ..      ..      -339     -596     -6-
Financing items (net)                         ..       .       585     1,120     e-
Changes in net reserves 6/                    .         .     -246     -524     *9
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ m/llions)         .               516     1,169
Conversion rate (DEC, local/lUSS)             ..        .     44.4      66.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ millions)                                                                   ComposMon of 2001 debt (USS mitl.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..       .     11.407   11.949
IBRD 7/                                     ..      ..      1,812    1,840
IDA                                                            0        0                             A- 1,840
Totaldebtservice                              ..                56      107                                   C 272
IBRD                                        0        0         0        0
IDA                                         0        0         0        0        F 4,424   ,
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..      ..       271      591
Official creditors                          ..               377      333
Private creditors                           0        0        49      202
Foreign direct investment                   ..      ..        25      165
Portfolio equity                            ..      ..         0        0                              E 4,818
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0        0         0        0      A - IBRD                   E -Biateral
Disbursements                               0        0         0        0      B - IDA  D - Other ffiulblateral  F - Private
Prncipal repayrents                         0        0         0        0      C-IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                   0        0         0        0
Interest payments                           0        0 .       0        0
Net transfers                               0        0         0        0
Development Economics                                                                                            7/16/02
4/ Includes current grants. 5/ Breakdown is preliminary WB staff estimate. 6/ On a gross basis. 7/ Inciudes interest arrears and penalty interest.



Annex 2
Page I of 3
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.) - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1997     1998    1999     2000    2001     2002    2003     2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Total Consumption                                                  104      109     106      104     102
Gross domestic investment                                           15      13       15      16       17
Government investment                                              3        1       3        4       4
Private investment                                        ..      11       12      12       13      13
Exports (GNFS)'                                             ..      32      25       25      26       26
Imports (GNFS)                                                      50      48       46      46       46
Gross domestic savings                                              -4      -9       -6      -4       -2
Gross national savings                     ..                       10       8        7        7       9
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                                  10281     8071   10861    12841    13849   14993
(US$ million at current prices)
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 2000 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  ..            -15.7      5.0     5.5      4.0     4.0      4.0
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 2000 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  ..      ..       ..       ..     5.0      3.5     3.7      3.8
Total consumption                         ..      ..      ..       ..    20.7      7.3      1.5     2.8
Private consumption                      ..      ..       ..       ..    15.7      8.2     3.2      3.1
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)a                        3265    3947     2148     2547    2762     3154    3566     3900
Merchandise FOB                      2447    3033     1677     1923    2003     2250    2616     2900
Imports (GNFS)'                       5161     5270    3539     4004     5160    5949     6385    6838
Merchandise FOB                      4799    4849     3296     3711    4838     5567    5985     6424
Resource balance                      -1896    -1323   -1391    -1457    -2398   -2795    -2819   -2938
Net current transfers                   310     655      668     1119     1828    2046     1875    2022
Current account balance               -1561     -660    -764     -339     -596   -1050    -1285   -1292
Net private foreign direct investment   740      113     112       25      165     400     450      500
Long-term loans (net)                    54      25       12      213     502      950     926      813
Officialb                               54      25       12      213     333      787     747      634
Private                                  0       0        0        0      169     163      179     179
Other capital (net, incl. enors & onunissions)  749  407  529     347     453      162     327      464
Change in reservesC                      18     115      111     -246     -524    -462     -418    -485
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)               ..       ..    -13.5   -18.1    -22.1   -21.8    -20.4    -19.6
Annual dollar-value growth rates
Merchandise exports (FOB)              19.8     23.9    -44.7    14.7      4.2     12.3    16.3     10.9
Merchandise imports (CIF)              17.0      1.0   -32.0     12.6     30.4     15.1     7.5      7.3
(Continued)



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.) - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1997    1998    1999    2000     2001    2002    2003     2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)d
Current revenues and grants             ..       ..      ..    40.0     42.3    44.0    43.5     42.8
Current expenditures                    ..       ..      ..    36.8     41.6    45.6    44.1     42.4
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  ..   ..      ..     3.2      0.7    -1.6    -0.6      0.4
Capital expenditure                     ..       ..      ..     3.3      1.4     3.1     3.7      4.3
Overall balance                                                -0.2     -0.6    4.7     -4.3     -4.0
Monetary Indicators
M2/GDPe                                  ..      ..      ..     9.1      8.5     8.9     11.0    14.0
Price Indices( 2000 =100)
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)f           ..       ..      ..   100.0    134.0   146.3   145.3    147.0
Retail price index (% change)           ..       ..    49.9    113.5    39.0    20.0    10.7      6.4
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
b. Includes use of IMF resources.
c. On a gross basis.
d. Consolidated general government.
e. Comprises Serbian money supply only.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.) - Key Exposure Indicators
Estimate             Projected
Indicator             1997    1998    1999     2000    2001    2002     2003    2004
Total debt outstanding and                             ..   11407   11949     8598    9397   10130
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)^              0       0        0     229     502      950     899     991
Total debt service (TDS) (US$m)b       0       0        0      56     107      343     444     487
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/XGSc                                                   447.9   432.6    272.6   263.5   259.7
TDO/GDP                              ..      ..      ..    141.3   110.0     67.0    67.9    67.6
TDS/XGS                              ..      ..      ..      2.3     3.9     10.9    12.5    12.5
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                   0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    34.9     29.3    24.7
Preferred creditor DS/public DS (%)d  0.0   0.0     0.0      0.0    51.1     50.9    45.5    53.0
IBRD DS/XGS                         0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     4.8      4.3     4.1
IBRDTDO(US$m)'                    1144    1128    1148     1119    1012    1834     1834    1919
IDA TDO (US$m)e                      0        0       0       0        0     290     450      535
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. Reflects debt service relief.
c. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services.
d. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IME, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
e. Excludes interest arrears and penalty interest through 2001.






Annex 3
Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of - Status of Bank Group Operations
Operations Portfolio (IBRD/IDA and Grants)
As of 07/05/2002
Active Pnaiects                                                                               Difference Between
Last PSR                                                  Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating           Orbainal Amount In USS Millions  aDbumea  ntsJa
Project ID  Project Name      leveloomest magestago  Fiscal Year IBRD  IDA  GRANT  Cancel. Undisb.  Orig. Fmf Rev'd
Q-W29tln    EE2rM
P074127  FIN SEC DEVT TA GRANT   S          S         2001                 6.00           4.02  1.80
P074145  PRIV SECT DEVT TA
GRANT                   S           S        2001                 6.00           450   2 50
P074618  MONT. ENV.
INFRASTRUCTURE GRANT    S          S         2002                 2.00           2 00   -
P074124  SOCIALASSTGRANT         S          S         2002                10.00           0.60  060
P074136  EMG ELEC POWER RECN
GRANT                   S          S         2002                 6.00           4 07  3.10
P074586  SERBIA SAC              S          S         2002         70.00                   -     -
P074090  TRADE & TRANSPORT
FACILITATION IN SE      S          S         2002          6.76                  6.76   -
P074486  PFSAC                   S          S         2002         85.00                 85.00   -
P075189  SERBIA EDUCATION
IMPROVEMENT             S          S         2002         10 00                 10.00
Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of - Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of May 2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                     Disbursed
FY Approval Company           Loan  Equity Quasi Partic Loan   Equity Quasi Partic
2002 Fresh&Co           7.17   0.00   0.00  0.00   4.78   0.00   0.00  0.00
1982/87 Igalo             8.06   0.00   0.00   0.00  8.06    0.00  0.00   0.00
1985 Jugobanka         4.06    0.00  0.00   0.87   4.06   0.00  0.00   0.87
1980 Monte Hotels      2.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1980 Radoje             1.17   0.00  0.00   0.00   1.17   0.00   0.00  0.00
2002 Raiffeisen Yug     0.00   2.33  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.94   0.00  0.00
1980 SMSIE Yugo         1.08   0.00  0.00   0.00   1.08   0.00   0.00  0.00
2002 Tigar Tyre        14.89   0.00   3.72  0.00   5.59   0.00   0.00  0.00
1987/89 Vojvodjanska     38.09   0.00   0.00 18.94  38.09    0.00  0.00 18.94
Total Portfolio:       76.52   2.33   3.72 19.81  64.83    0.94  0.00 19.81
Approvals l:ending Commitment
Loan   Equity Quasi Partic
2002 MFB Yugoslavia     4.00   1.00   0.00  0.00
Total Pending:          4.00   1.00   0.00  0.00



Annex 4
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (Republic of Montenegro)
Time taken to prepare:         11 months
Identification Mission:       September 2001
ICM Review:                   November 19, 2001
Preparation Missions:         December 2001, February 2002, April 2002
ROS Review:                   April 18, 2002
Appraisal departure:          May 6, 2002
Negotiations:                 May 29-31, 2002
Board presentation:           August 8, 2002



Annex 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
Office of Deputy Prime Minister
Miroljub Labus
July 31d, 2002
Your Exdlmcwy,
Please find eclosed a 1T41 of D  cvoponat PocW for Stncul Ad _umt Credit - Republic
of Mont.egro, sied by M. Miuljub Labus, Duty Pme Miist        of the Fedaal Republic of
Yugoslavia, and Mr. MiuNaw Ev swii , Min r of Fmwae of Rqpbic of Montenego, witten to Mr.
James D. Wolfansohn, Presdt of The Would BanRk
Also, please find anlosed a later Mr. Mioljub IAbus addressd to Mr. Cbristiaan Poortruan,
Country Director for FR Yugslaa at dhe Wolld Bank, resaig the Trasitional Support Strategy for
FRY.
Sinerely,
CHIEF OF nE OFFICE
Mr. Rory O'Sullivan
Chief of Mission
World Bank Coutry Office
Belgrade



Federal RepubHc of Yugoslavia (FRY)
Structural Adjustment Credit - Republic of Montenegro
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433, USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
L     Introduction
Having succeeded to membership in the World Bank on May 8th, 2001, the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) is requesting support from the World Bank for a
comprehensive economic reform program. The government believes that it is best to
present the reform efforts of the two republics of Serbia and Montenegro separately for
consideration for support from the World Bank, as each republic is at a different stage in
its process of transition, and is facing specific challenges and priorities. This Letter of
Development Policy describes the core elements of the economic reform program of the
Republic of Montenegro to be supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC)
provided by the International Development Association (IDA). This program of reforms
seeks to overcome the legacy of many decades of macroeconomic instability and
economic decline.
We are committed to pursuing a rapid and comprehensive transformation to a
market economy in order to achieve sustained and rapid growth. As restoring growth will
require a sustainable macroeconomic framework, and as past macroeconomic instability
has been primarily driven by fiscal imbalances, one of our immediate priorities is
undertaking measures to achieve sustainable fiscal outcomes. In paralleL as growth and
employment cration will require a strong supply response, our other immediate priority
is removing key impediments to the activities of the utilities, industrial enterprises, and
smaller businesses which must create such a supply response. The policy reforms
outlined in this letter are focused on five areas which we believe are the most critical for
achieving these two objectives in Montenegro - public expenditure management,
pensions, energy, labor markets, and the business environment. Our reform program is
being implemented in the context of a macroeconomic framework supported by an
uaangement under the Extended Fund Facility of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
that was approved on May 13, 2002.
The constitutional arrangements related to the relationship between FRY and its
constituent republics are now being revised. On March 14I, 2002, representatives of
FRY, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro signed an agreement for
the future establishment of a union of Serbia and Montenegro. On April 9, 2002, this
agreement was ratified by the parliaments of the Republic of Montenegro and the
ii



Republic of Serbia. In the event that it is ratified by the Federal Assembly, subsequent
steps required for the new constitutional arrangements will be pursued. In parallel, we
would begin to work out a range of detailed arrangements to ensure the practical
implementation of this new constitutional a sngements.. Irrespective of the forthcoming
constitutional changes, both the Govemment of FRY and the Government of the
Republic of Montenegro (GOM) are committed to the full implementation of the
program.
IL    Macroeconomic Framework
As you are aware, Montenegro and Serbia are currently dealing with the dire
consequences of several decades of economic mismanagement under a flawed economic
system, exacerbated by a decade of regional conflicts and sanctions. Despite modest
growth in 2000 and 2001, GDP sfill stands at around one-half of its 1989 level. In 2001,
FRY exports were down about 50 percent and imports about 25 percent from 1989 levels.
Inflation, while now much reduced, remains a source of concem. At the end of 2001,
prices in Montenegro were 23 percent above the level of the previous year. Living
standards have fallen in tandem with the decline in economic indicators. As a result of a
decline in real wages over the past decade, average net wages in Montenegro now stand
at around US$130 per month. A UNDP study in the year 2000 indicated that about one-
quarter of Montenegro's population is living on a monthly per capita income of less than
100 Deutschemarks (US$50) in 2000. Unemployment is high, with the unemployed
appearing to have the greatest risk of poverty. Female and youth unemployment are areas
of particular concem.
The key elements of the IMF-backed macroeconomic stabilization program are
reducing macroeconomic imbalances, contimuing economic restucturing and protecting
the most vulnerable. Fsal policies of the Federal, Montenegrin and Serbian
governments should set the stage for further reductions in inflation, while social policy
will aim to protect the vulnerable. The target consolidated budget deficit (excluding
grants) for 2002 is 5.7 percent of GDP for FRY as a whole, and 6.3 percent of GDP for
Montenegro specifically. No increases in this deficit will be allowed unless concrete
external financing sources are identified. We are strongly committed to continued
adherence to a sustainable macroeconomic framework.
Although Montenegro has already made substantial progress in economic reform,
the complete transition to a market economy will require further rapid and simultaneous
progress in many sectors, as well as a commitment to often difficult future reforms. Over
the past years a phased progam of price libenalization, including the August 2001
removal of controls on prices of basic foodstuffs, has left us with a set of price controls
similar to that in most market economies. Also, the recent-passage of a set of new tax
laws, and the ongoing implementation of a Tax Action Plan, will work to broaden the
effective tax base and improve tax collection. The libealization of our trade and foreign
exchange regimes has created a more favorable basis for export-led growth and increased
the transparncy of our foreign trade system. A fifteen-month wage freeze in the face of
ongoing inflation, reforms to allow greater control and transparency of budget processes,
iii



the completion of a mass pnvatization scheme (which placed most formerly socially-
owned enterprises in private hands), and substantial initial progress in restuctring the
financial sector, have all contributed to the stabilization of the economy and, we believe,
the beginning of economic recovery. Our recent reforms of social assistance, which we
discuss in greater detail below, were important steps in creating a more effective and
affordable social safety net. We anticipate working closely with the World Bank and the
IMP over the coming years to build on this progress.
In addition to the broad reform agenda we have begun, as described above, we are
committed to pursue a set of strucural reforms aimed at improving Montenegro's macro-
financial sustainability, and at removing in the shortest possible time key bottlenecks to
the growth of output and employment in Montenegro. The SAC will support immediate
reforms in the five priority areas noted above, with a view to achieving rapid gains as
well as to creating a basis upon which subsequent structual adjustment operations could
support required follow-up reforms. Details of the policy reforms to be undertaken in the
above sectors are outlined below, along with an indication of the elements of a medium-
term policy agenda.
IIm   Public Expenditure Management Reform
ContexL The unsustainable fiscal outcomes of the past were the result not only of
sectoral policies which placed direct or hidden pressures on our budget (some of these
policies are discussed later in this letter), but also of gaps in our processes of public
expenditure management. The absence of a comprehensive, medium-tenm
macroeconomic framework hampered budget formulation. Weaknesses in our ability to
identify expenditure overuns have hampered our capacity to align commitments with
available resources and has threatened either to create unplanned outlays, or to translate
any revenue shortfall into arrears and/or an undue disruption in government services.
Transparency was hampered by the fragmentation of general govermnent operations, and
by a very limited evaluation and auditing of budget outcomes.
Ffom late 2000, we have already made substantial progress in adjusting sectoral
policies, particularly through measures to raise controUed prices - and thereby remove
hidden subsidies - and to bring existing subsidies onto the budget. At the same time, we
embarked on a donor-supported program of public finance reforms aimed at increasing
fiscal transparency and improving budget planning, revenue collection and expenditure
control. In 2001, the Parliament of the Republic of Montenegro adopted important Laws
on the Budget System (LBS) and Public Procurement, and established a Republican
Treasury. These reforms allowed us to prepare a 2002 Republican budget based on new
IDe Government Financial Statistics (GFS) methodology. In August 2001, the Ministry
of Finance (MOF) of the Republic of Montenegro issued a new Budget Preparation
Instruction to the line ministries. It worked intensively with the line ministries and other
direct spending units (DSUs), and extended training to DSUs on the procedures
established by the LBS. The launch of the Treasury began with the appointnent of the
Treasurer and key staff, and the issuance of a Treasury operations manual. Since 1999,
iv



we also contacted annual audits of the budget to an auditng firm, and in 2001, we began
to implement and enforce the Law on Procurement.
While these initial changes were generally successful, we know that further
reforms and institutional strengthening wre needed to consolidate and deepen this
progress. To complete the implementation of the LBS, we need to adopt further
supporting or secondary legislation, and to conduct an institutional reform of the MOF.
To efficiently detrmine and rationally implement needed reductions in public spending,
we need to strengthen the capacity for fiscal analysis and policy formulation, both in the
MOF and in the line ministries. The fomal mechanism to cut back program and policy
over-commiments, now consist solely of disciplined budget formulation and budget
amendment requests where appropriations limits would be breached without them. We
are committed to continue to increase our capacity to analyze the strategic allocation of
funds across various budget areas. Futher progress is also needed to increase the
comprehensiveness of the budget process, develop aid monitoring and coordination,
hanmonize the budget managcment processes of social funds with central budget
practices, and improve public understanding of public finances. We have already
established parliamentary control over spending below the aggregate level, and will begin
to establish parliamentary control over external audit functions.
Reforms supported by the SAC The GOM has now developed and begun to
implement a reform program which aims to deliver greater macro-fiscal control and
accountability of the public finance magement system. The former will require limiting
unplanned expenditures and better aligning commitments with available resous. In
addition, the major fiscal adjustment which we have commenced, and which we must
sustain for many years, will only be supported by our citizens and by the donor
community, if we are able to show that scarce public funds and donor support are being
spent efficiently and on legislated goals. While the passage of the LBS and establishmet
of the Treasury were major milestones, we still face an extensive agenda of changes to
achieve their full implementation Rather than starting many new reforms, we will focus
our immediate efforts on this agenda.
Our program to acieve these objectives addrases key gaps in the three areas of
budget formulation, execution, and audit procedures and institutions. The efforts of the
GOM in the area of budget fonnruaion are focused on implementing the reforms to
strengthen and increase the trnparncy of budget preparation prooedures which it
initiated in 2001. In particular, to get a more complete picture of state finacs and to
prevent the shifing of fiscal pressure from the repubUcan budget to social fds through
the accumulation of arrears, we wish to introduce a more comprehensive and more
medium-term perspective for fiscal policy. To this end, we are developing a thee-year
macro-fiscal framework which includes the centr  budget, social fumds and local
goverments, and fully reflects major policy commitments, such as the resumption of
extemal debt servicing, bank and enterpnse restructurtng and reform of the socal
welfare system. These changes now under preparation will be introduced with the 2003
budget cycle, beginning with the preparation of a 'Budget in Brief' which explains the
macroeconomic famework and the proposed level and broad composition of
v



consolidated expenditures. We will further increase the transparency of the budget
preparation process drafting a Citizen's Guide to the Budget. To strengthen aid
coordination, the MOF has presented to the GOM a proposed interim policy on donor
funding, which will serve as the basis for a more comprehensive policy including clear
procedures for incorporating into the budget in-year receipt and use of donor funding. In
addition, MOF has begun its own institutional reform, which it is committed to complete
by the end of 2002. As part of this reform, it has defined the functions and staffing of the
Budget Departnent comprising a budget formulation unit and a macro/fiscal analysis
unit, and established, staffed and begun to train the latter.
In the area of budget execution, the GOM is focused on cornpleting
implementation of the Treasury within the MOF. In addition, the MOF has required all
budget users financed from the republican budget to use the standard budget
classification provided by the new LBS. It is committed to introduce pilot commitment
control procedures on major risk categories of budget spending. The MOF has transferred
most DSUs and the payroll of all DSUs to the Treasury. By the end of 2002, we are
committed to implement a modern Single Treasury Account as defined by the OECD-
Sigma standards. We will also develop a schedule for extending the Trasury system to
all social funds. After evaluating the effectiveness of these procedures the MOF will
propose new controls as appropriate. Furthermore, the MOF has established and begun to
develop the Debt Management Department in the Treasury, and is committed to establish
this department, and begin hiring and training its staff. Transparency in budget execution
has also been enhanced through the generation by the Treasury of monthly execution
reports, which are being provided to the MOF management team. The MOF is committed
to making monthly summaries of budget execution available to the Cabinet and the
general public.
Finally, to further enhance the accountability of public spending, we have begun
to upgrade and implement the internal and external audit procedures and institutions of
the MOF and the line ministries. Continuing the practice established in 1999, the GOM
has externally contracted an audit of the final accounts for the Budget 2001, and publicly
disclosed its results to the Montenegrin parliament. It is committed to also disclose these
results to the public and Montenegro will soon initiate a study on different models of
external audit, as a basis for choosing the most suitable model for our circmmstances. In
parallel, the MOF is committed to establish an Internal Audit Department, outline its
functions, provide adequate staffing, and adopt its procedures and the annual audit plan
for 2003.
In the medium-term, the main objectives in public expenditure management
reform are to gradually replace input-based budgeting with budgeting practices geared to
measurable outcomes, and to further strengthen the transparency of the public spending
system by extending fiscal reportg, inspection and audit functions beyond the
republican budget to the general government as a whole.
IV.   Pension Reform
vi



Contex The system of social protection in Montenegro consists of both social
assistance and social insurance (in the form of pensions), and has come under pressure
owing to the economic decline of the last decade, high entitlements and the limited
resources of the state. In 2001, the GOM took important steps to reform Montenegro's
system of social assistance. To address hardship amongst the poor, we extended the right
to family material support (the main program of cash social assistance) from those who
were unable to work, to also cover those who are capable of work but responsible for the
maintenance of children. At the same tume, we improved the targeting of child
allowances, which were formerly given to the first three children in all families
irrespective of need, by limiting benefits to those families with children receiving
material support and families with disabled children. We expect that the savings from
targeting child allowances will help to meet in part the costs of expanded material
support. These changes represent important steps in improving the coverage and
adequacy of benefits in the social safety net. We are critically aware of the need for
continued careful monitoring and assessment of social protection programs, and for
protecting the standard of living of the most vulnerable members of society in a fiscally
sustainable way.
The GOM is now ready to tackle a similar reform of our Republican pension
system. We recognize that current entitlements to pensions in Montenegro are high, and
that our pension spending as a share of GDP is well-above regional levels. In addition to
contributing to a burdensome level of labor taxes, this pension system is a significant
source of fiscal pressure. During 2001, revenues from contributions covered less than 60
percent of pension expenditures, with the remaining gap (over 6 percent of Montenegro's
GDP) being covered through budgetary transfers and other arangements, including
donor assistance. Yet, in spite of such support, the system has tended to run arrears on
benefit payments, between the social funds, and from the republican budget to these
funds. These imbalances have resulted from economic decline, unaffordable benefit
provisions, and a sharp increase in the number of beneficiaries and a decline in the
contributor-beneficiary ratio during the 1990s.
Reforms supported by the SAC. We believe that addressing the fiscal pressures
from the public pension system is a necessary component of any program to improve
macroeconomic sustainability in FRY and Montenegro. For this reason, the GOM is
committed to achieve both immediate and medium-term fiscal savings through reforms
which better align pension entitlements with available resources, and which improve the
implementation of the pension system. The centerpiece of our program to reach these
objectives, and to make the system more consistent with those in the rest of Europe, is a
reform of the existing pension systemL To this end, the GOM has accepted and presented
for public discussion a draft Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance which inter alia:
(i) raises and equalizes the retirement age for men and women from 60 years for men and
55 years for women to 65 years for both; (iu) raises the age at which early retirement
(with pension reductions) can be availed to 60 years; (lii) changes indexation from wage
indexation to indexation which is no more than the arithmetic avage of wages and the
cost of living; (iv) lengthens the work history included in the pension base calculation;
(v) abolishes beneficial work histories; and (vi) abolishes Category m invalidity pensions
vii



(based on remaining work ability). The GOM is committed to full enactment of these
changes to pension entitlements by no later than January 1, 2003.
The GOM is also committed to implementing more comprehensive reforms of the
pension system, including the introduction of mandatory funded and voluntary funded
pensions. Work on these reforms, aided by international technical assistance, is to
continue. The future introduction of a mandatory funded pillar (with significant
investment of pension savings outside Montenegro) will occur at a time when it is fully
consistent with the macroeconomic, fiscal and balance of payments position of the
Republic. Close attention will also be paid to the technical and institutional requirements
for implementing funded pensions. As an important step in the process of legislating the
introduction of funded pensions, a concept paper will be developed outlining the options
for a second pillar and an implementation strategy.
In addition, the GOM will take steps to improve the implementation of the current
pension system. We recognize that past delays in transferring payroll tax contributions
for the GOM's own employees have exacerbated financial imbalances in the Pension
Fund. For this reason, and to improve stability of system revenues and strengthen overall
contribution compliance, we intend to take steps to make the GOM current on its own
payroll tax contributions. We are committed to sustain this progress in the future.
Furthermore, to achieve greater clarity of purpose and operations in the Pension Fund, the
GOM will propose the elimination of specified non-pension benefits from the Pension
Fund in its draft 2003 budget.
These are but the first steps in multi-year process of creating a pension system
which is consistent with our overall objectives of restoring macroeconomic stability and
growth while reducing poverty. We realize that achieving these objectives will require
further difficult measures to structure a pension system in a way that its commitments
represent a lower share of Montenegro's GDP and are fully in line with available
resources. While these changes will bring some hardship to pensioners and some
individuals near retirement, lowering the deficit in the pension system is likely to
improve the timeliness of pension payments and release budgetary resources for other
priority areas. The changes will also support growth by creating the possibility of a future
phased reduction in payroll taxes, which would improve the incentives for employment-
creating growth and for drawing the informal economy back into the formal sector.
V.    Energy Sector Reform
Context The Montenegrin energy sector has been characterized by the setting by
the state of prices, particularly of electricity, at levels which are well below the cost of
production. As a result, the 1990s saw considerable de-capitalization of the sector due to
lack of investment and deferred maintenance. Montenegro's industrial sector accounts for
around 45 percent of its total electricity demand, nearly 90 percent of which is accounted
for by the Podgorica Aluminium Kombinat (KAP). While industrial consumption
declined by 17 percent during the 1990s, household energy consumption more than
doubled as low power prices led to the widespread use of electric space heating. The
viii



growth of demand and decline in production has left Montenegro importing roughly one-
third of its electricity. High demand, low prices, a poor record of collections, and high
network losses combined to produce significant losses for the Electric Power Industry of
Montenegro (EPCG). As a result, EPCG became a major direct and hidden drain on our
fiscal accounts. Even with donor funding for electricity imports, we found it difficult to
match peak demand in the winter of 2001/02. This forced us to impose regular 4-hour
rolling blackouts during many colder periods.
To begin tackling the structural sources of these financial losses and power
shortages, and to reduce and eventually eliminate our reliance on donor-supported
electricity imports, we have developed and begun to implement a phased program of
price adjustments, improved operating practices and focused investments and
maintenance to enable supply improvements to the system. One part of this program
involves working with the World Bank and other donors to implement investments and
programs to: (a) decrease system losses and theft; (b) introduce energy efficiency
measures in industry and households; (c) improve power plant reliability; and (d) arrange
for long-term supply of electricity imports on a competitive basis.
Reforms supported by the SAC The part of this program for which we are
seeking support from a SAC focuses on: a) phased reforms to enhance the revenues of
EPCG so that it will be able to self-fmnance in about 2-3 years; and b) the first steps in the
process of establishing the legal and regulatory framework for the energy sector. Under
this program, EPCG has finalized a comprehensive time-bound Action Plan for reducing
electricity blackouts, and has already achieved progress in its implementation. However,
as no quick solutions are available to help address the shortage of generating capacity,
EPCG will need to continue importing electricity for the near- to medium-term.
Revenue enhancement measures are centered on a staged program of power price
increases. In November 2001, the GOM established an average winter tariff for electric
power (excluding KAP, which is buying electricity under a separate power purchase
agreement valid until the end of 2002) of 37 EUR/MWh. This represents an increase of
50 percent from the winter of 2000/2001. In Apil 2002, to further strengthen the finances
of EPCG, the GOM also cancelled a traditional shift to lower summer tariffs which
would have cut the average summer price of electricitY (excluding KAP) to 25
EUR/MWh. To cushion the impact of higher prices on our poorest citizens, we
introduced a lower 'lifeline' tariff (covering the first 500 kWh of monthly consumption)
for those families eligible for our main means-tested social assistance program, the so-
called Material Assistance for Families. By no later than November 1, 2002, the GOM is
comnmitted to establish an average winter price of electricity (excluding KAP) for
2002/03 which achieves satisfactory further progress in meeting the aims of restoring
financial balance to EPCG and addressing the balance between the supply and demand
for electricity in Montenegro. Assuming that average collections reach around 85 percent
of new billings, these price increases should enable the operating costs of EPCG (net of
donor support) to be fully funded from internally generated cash. To reduce the negative
impact of KAP on the finances of EPCG, and more generally to place the operations of
KAP on an economically sound basis, the GOM will prepare a strategy for KAP,
ix



including a time bound Action Program that addresses ownership and operating issues for
the supply of bauxite and electricity. The draft program will be shared with the Bank so
that its comments can be taken into account before implementation starts January 1,
2003. As we move forward, we will continue to monitor the impact of energy prices on
the welfare of our poorest citizens, and stand ready to consider further mitigation
measures which might be required
While EPCG has already increased the ratio of collections to billings from 55
percent in 1999 to 76 percent in 2001, further progress will be needed to truly harden
budget constraints, reduce the risk of higher prices spilling over into higher budgetary
and inter-enterprise arrears, and avoid the development of a culture of non-payment. To
support the improvement of collections, EPCG has announced a program for
disconnecting non-payers, based on clear procedures and including specific performance
benchmarks. This program will allow all industries and budget entities to be disconntd
after a suitable warning period. When public health is a conern, the GOM will allocate
adequate budget resources to enable energy payments to be made in a timely manner. The
progress we have already made in implementing this program has brought some
deceased losses and increased revenues. By the end of 2002. EPCG is committed to
make satisfactory further progress, as evidenced by its Accounts Receivable increasing
by no more than 15 percent of total revenues during the previous 12 month period.
Similarly, while EPCG had already reduced the share of barter payment for
electricity from 55 percent of total transactions in 1999 to 30 percent in 2001, we see a
need for further progress. EPCG has now eliminated all barter except for some direct
barter of goods and services which it needs for its own use. By the end of 2002, it is
committed to have further reduced the share of barter in total collections to a maximum
of 10 percent, and plans to fully eliminate barter during 2003.
In parallel, we have commenced the process of longer term energy sector reform.
Over time, we hope to shift from meeting urgent needs to becoming competitive in an
open market and adopting the principles of the European Union. As a basis for
establishing the medium-term legal and regulatory framework for the energy sector, the
Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Montenegro is working with intemational
advisors to prepare an energy strategy, which the GOM will adopt during 2002. By no
later than the end of 2002, we are committed to submit a draft Law on Energy,
satisfactory to the Bank, to the Montenegrin Parliament. This law will aim to create an
enabling environment for private participation in the sector and to allow competition
where feasible. It will require the accounts of EPCG to be audited in accordance with
International Accounting Standards, and will envision the establishment of an
independent regulator of energy prices. All aspects of electricity supply will initially be
regulated due to the monopoly natre of networks and the limitations on competition
created by the small market and network constraints. However, the separation of
generation, transmission and distribution accounts will enable the regulator to establish
network service charges to facilitate Third Party Access. Initially, some large Qualified
Customers will be allowed to enter into bilateral contacts for electricity supply from
local or foreign generators. Once transmission networks are upgraded in neighboring
x



countries, enabling a synchronous connection with the Western European Power Pool,
the role of competition may be reconsidered.
In the medium-term, we are committed to further address the losses of the energy
sector through additional measures to increase the level of cost recovery. Our aim is for
EPCG to cover operating and debt service costs by [20031, and then to move to a pricing
regime implemented through an independent regulator which would attract private sector
investments.
VL Labor Market Reform
Context. Labor legislation in the Republic of Montenegro has been amongst the
most rigid of all transition economies, and has represented a serious obstacle to flexible
labor markets. Our cunrent legislation prescribes very generous worker entitlements,
such as severance pay of 24 months of salary, maternity leave of up to two years. and
rigid preconditions for valid dismissals. We are concerned that these provisions have
deterred employers from hiring additional workers (particularly women) and hindered
enterprise restructuring and civil service reform. The high costs which they impose on
enterprises discourage official employment, and push economic activity into the informal
sector. This has impeded our efforts to raise public revenues and to reduce the gray
economy, and has left many workers with no legal protections. As current labor
legislation creates entidtlements well in excess of available revenues, we are also
concerned that it is a hidden drain on our fiscal resources. As the system is generating
arrears (for example, we have been unable to pay maternity benefits since May 2001),
these imbalances are impeding the functioning of our social safety net.
Similarly, our expenditures on unemployment benefits have so far been limited by
provisions which restrict the eligibility for benefits to classes of workers which have up
to now experienced little open employment, or who have already exhausted their
eligibility for benefits. Since we have recently been unable to make budgetary transfers to
the Employment Fund, this benefit has not been paid since September 2000. We are
concerned that in the absence of reforms to  ak  the system more affordable, the
projected increase in claimants as restructuring takes hold would further strain these
programs and limit their effectiveness. In addition, we wish to improve the administraion
of our exising labor market programs and begin to shift the emphasis given to specific
elements towards that which international experience shows to be most cost-effective.
Reforms supported by the SAC. Reform of labor legislation is the central element
of a range of policy measures by which the GOM aims to improve the capacity of the
Montenegrin economy to adjust to changing circumstances. We believe that labor market
flexibility is a prerequisite for success of our privatization program, for the development
of a dynamic small and medium enterprise base, for drawing enterprises back into the
formal economy, and for attracting new foreign investments. Reforms of entitlements are
also important for fiscal sustainability, and for eliminating the arrears on benefit
payments, which contribute to the vulnerability of citizens dependent on such benefits.
xi



Our reforms aimed at creating a more flexible labor market and a more affordable
and efficient system of severance, matenity and unemployment benefits (with levels
characteristic of odter market economies) are focused on two important legislative acts.
First, with the support of the World Bank, the GOM has developed and submitted to the
Montenegnn Parliament a draft Labor Law which mter alia: a) differentiates the level of
severance pay between 0 and 6 months for individual dismissals, according to seniority,
and not more than 6 monthly wages for mass lay-offs; (ii) removes restrictions on
circumstances for concluding fixed term, temporary and part time contracts; (iii)
abolishes or reduces special leave entitlements and replace them with a leave without pay
option; (iv) includes alternative mechanisms for settlement of individual labor disputes
and a mechanism for resolution of collective labor disputes; (v) eases preconditions for
valid dismissal; and (vi) reduces the level of maternity leave to a maximum of 12 months.
We are committed to enacting this law by no later than the end of 2002.
Second, to improve incentives for labor supply and job search, and to ensure that
these services are structured to meet our fiscal constrants and the needs of an economy
facing significant restrucUring, the Republic of Montenegro has adopted a new Law on
EmnploymenL This law reforms the system of unemployment benefits by introducing a
flat rate unemployment benefit which lowers the average replacement rate and maximum
duration for receipt of benefits to levels in line with regional comparators and with fiscal
possibilities. Moving forward, the GOM is also committed to conduct an assessment of
the existing active labor market programs and to propose a refinement of the current
scheme - predominantly micro credits - towards potentially more cost effective options
such as counseling and job search assistance.
In the medium term, we wil define a more comprehensive strategy to address the
implications of enterprise and public sector reform. An integral element of this strategy
will involve the development of a labor redeployment program to address expected
widespread redundancies, including pre-layoff and post-layoff services, and a
strengthening of labor market institutions responsible for offering these services.
V.    Business Environment
ConterA The return to growth of the Montenegrin economy - and its ability to
absorb labor released through the restructuing of existing enterprises - will require a
business envirnment conducive to private sector developmenL We recognize that past
over-regulation has led many businesses to resort to operating in the gray economy, and
may have discouraged some economic activity altogether. We have already taken
important steps to construct the framework of rules, legal systems, and institutions
needed for a market economy. In addition to the tax and foreign trade reform, price
liberalization, privatization and financial sector reform measures described in Section II
above, the Republic of Montenegro has recently adopted a new Law on Accounting and
Auditing, which leads to a phased conversion to Intemational Accounting Standards to be
completed in 2003. In addition, we have recently intensified the business-government
dialogue, and are working to formalize and regularize such dialogue for proposed laws or
regulations which have a major impact on business.
xii



Reforms supported by the SAC Despite this initial progress, we believe that
further measures are needed to upgrade the legal foundations and institutional capacity
for a sound business environment. Their main objectives are: acceleration of economic
growth and job creation, with a particular focus on SME development; promotion of
foreign and domestic investment; and reduction in the size and scope of the gray
economy by reducing disincentives for businesses to enter the formal economy. To this
end, we are focusing our efforts on the three areas of: (i) removing adminisave and
legislative barriers to the entry and efficient operations of business; (ii) enabling the
efficient redeployment of financial and physical assets to more productive uses; and (iii)
completing our system of secured finacing to facilitate enterprise access to capital.
The centerpiece of our efforts to reduce barriers to entry and efficient operation
of businesses is a new Business Organization Law, which has recently been adopted by
the Republic of Montenegro. The new registration procedures are designed to provide
practical, commercially reasonable mechanisms for the GOM to record necessary
information on a company and to provide access to legitimate users of this information.
The Law significantly steamlines the registration process (shifting the principal approach
from approval to notification), eliminates the obligatory minimal capital deposit for the
limited liability companies, and increases penalties on companies for provision of false
information. To facilitate implementation of the new Law, the GOM has developed and
begun to implement a time-bound action plan for introduction of the new registration
procedures. It has already secured needed premises and hardware for the new business
registry, and drafted necessary instructions. Going forward, the GOM is committed to
successfully implement this plan, and to have begun implementing the registration
procedures for new enteprises established by the new Law. The GOM will also seek
feedback from enterprises on the functioning of the new registration procedures as a basis
for their further improvement.
The focus of our refonns to enable the effkcient redeployment of physical and
financial assets is a new Law on Business Organization nsolvency, which was recently
adopted by the Republic of Montenegro. This Law is designed to establish clear and
predictable rules for the resolution of business failure. It provides a mechanism for
businesses to reoanize where possible, and a means of exit when they cannot It also
provides for the orderly collection of assets, clear and tumely claim submission and
resolution procedurs, and rules goveming the distribution of proceeds to claimants. It
ensures the protection of creditors' rights, and in reorganization cases, provides an
equitable allocation of risk. The law also contains transparent and predictable procedures
and outcomes, and definite deadlines and incentives for movement toward case
resolution. Finally, it provides the framework for out-of-court settlement of disputs, and
for dealing with bankruptcy matters spanning beyond Montenegro. The GOM recognizes
that an effective bankrptcy system also requires building capacity in the courts and the
trustee community. To meet this challenge, the GOM, with technical assistance from
USAID, has developed and agreed on a time-bound action plan for the application of this
law. The first steps in its implementation have included drafting the required forms and
training materials, and beginning to train commercial judges. During the rest of 2002, our
xiii



efforts in this area will be focused on expanding training to other key functionaries in the
insolvency system, including government officials, bankruptcy administrators, attorneys,
and accountants.
Developing a functioning system of secured (coUlateral) financing is important
for enhancing the access of our enterprises to capital. We have already established part of
the legislative and institutional framework for such a system. Some ral estate financing
is possible under the existing Fiduciary Transfers Law, with the State Agency of Real
Property performing the functions of an immovable pledge registry. A Mortgage Law is
under preparation. Leasing operations can be conducted under the Federal Law on Torts
and Obligations. The centerpiece of our current efforts to improve this system is a Law
on Secured Transactions, which was recently approved by the GOM and submitted to the
Montenegrin parliament after extensive public discussion. The draft Law equips
Montenegro with a modem legal framework for secured transactions, and the institutions
to support credit transactions involving movable property as collateral. We have
developed a time-bound action plan for implementation of the new Law. We are
committed to successfully implementing this plan, and to establish and staff the
centralized Pledge Registry envisioned by the new Law by no later than end-2002. We
are also working to ensure delivery of training to improve judicial understanding of the
new legal provisions and their means of enforcement, and the dissemination of
information to parties likely to use or benefit from the new system.
The reforms described above are important steps in a long term program aimed at
creating a modem business environment framework in Montenegro which would be
conducive to private sector led growth. We are committed to ensuring their fair and even
implementation.
VII. Conclusion
The last several decades have left FRY and the Republic of Montenegro facing
considerable economic chalenges. We believe that the measures outlined above
demonstrate our strong commitment to confronting the structural obstacles to
macroeconomic stability, growth and poverty reduction. Although we have already made
important progress in managing our resources more effectively, much more remains to be
done and we cannot afford to slacken the pace of reform. Given the burden that gaps in
the areas of public expenditure management, pensions, energy, and labor markets
currently place on our fiscal balance, we expect this package of reforms to bring us much
nearer to our goal of macroeconomic sustainability. In addition, the removal of key
bottlenecks in the energy sector, labor markets, and the general business environment will
be crucial for enhancing the potential for growth and employment creation in
Montenegro. Looking to the medium term, our reforms will be directed at the full
elimination of quasi-fiscal deficits in the form of losses by EPCG and other large
enterprises and of budgetary arrars and other hidden fiscal liabilities. In the longer term,
we understand that significant reductions in overall expenditure commitments as a share
of GDP, including in the areas of pensions and labor markets will be critical for fiscal
xiv



sustainability, especially in the context of increased debt service payments and the
bringing on budget of past hidden fiscal liabilities.
We are also intent on taking further steps towards the establishment of institutions
and systems that will allow us to manage public resources efficiently and transparently,
and to enable the private sector recovery we need to return to sustainable growth. At the
same time we need to ensure that the poorest segments of the population are adequately
protected form the short term hardships of transition. The continued support of the
World Bank and the international community will be essential to us if we are to achieve
these ambitious goals.
Miroljub Labus
Deputy Prime Minster and Minister for Foreign Economic Relations
Federal R ublic of Yugoslavia
Mirosla4vanisevic
Minist of Finance
Republic of Montenegro
xv



Annex 6
Page 1 of I
Key Structural Policies and Reforms
By Board presentation                   By secondtranche (expected November 2002)
Public expenditure management                     Public expenditure mnanagement
Two pilot direct spending units (DSUs) and the payroll of  The Ministry of Finance (MOF) has developed a
all DSUs have been successful]y transferred to the  comprehensive medium-term macro/fiscal framework
Treasury.                                         including major policy commitments, and used this
framework in the process of formulating the 2003 budget
All budget users financed from the republican budget are
using a standard budget classification as provided by the  The Govemment of Montenegro has designed and
new Law on the Budget System (LBS).               implemented a satisfactory Treasury system and has
transferred accounts of GoveTnmeni of the Republic of
Montenegro budget-financed ministries and agencies into
a single treasury account.
The MOF has established and staffed the Intemal Audit
Department, outlined its functions, and adopted its
procedures and the annual audit plan for 2003.
Pension reform                                     Pension reform
The Governmient has accepted and subnitted for public  The Republic of Montenegro has enacted a law on
discussion a draft law on pension and disability insurance,  pension and disability insurance, satisfactory to the Bank.
satisfactory to the Bank.
The energy sector                                  The energy sector
The Government has established an average 2001/2002  The Government has submitted to the Parliament of the
winter tariff for electricity (excluding KAP) of 37  Republic of Montenegro a bill on a law on energy,
EURIMWh (representing a 50 percent increase from the  satisfactory to the Bank.
winter of 2000/2001) and cancelled the traditional
reversion to lower sunmmer tariffs for 2002.       The Govemment of Montenegro has established and
maintained a satisfactory to the Bank average level of
EPCG has announced a program including specific    electricity tariffs during 2002/2003 winter.
performnance benchmarks for disconnecting non-payers,
with demonstrated early progress in implernentation.
The labor market                                   The labor market
The Govemment has submitted a draft law on labor,  The Republic of Montenegro has enaced a law on labor,
satisfactory to the Bank, to the Montenegrin Parliament.  which includes provisions on severance pay, matemity
leave and special leave entitlements, and which is
The Montenegrin Parliament has adopted an Employment  satisfactory to the Bank.
Law, satisfactory to the Bank.
Business environment                               Business environment
The Montenegrin farliarnent has adopted a Law on   The Government of Montenegro has adopted and begun
Business Organizations (Enterprise Law) satisfactory to  to implement registration procedures for new enterprises,
the Bank..                                         developed in accordance with the Law on Business
Organizations.
The Montenegrin Parliament has adopted a Law on
Business Organization Insolvency (Bankruptcy Law),  The Republic of Montenegro Pledge Registry has been
satisfactory to the Bank.                          established and staffed.
The Government has subrnitted a draft Law on Secured
Transactions, satisfactory to the Bank, to the Montenegrin
Parliament.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO)
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
Area/Sector and       Actions recently taken to  Actions to be taken by Board Presentation       Actions to be taken by second tranche release
Key Challenges        achieve desired outcomes
MACROECONOMIC                                   Maintenance of an appropriate medium-term        Maintenance of an appropriate medium-term
FRAMEWORK                                       macroeconomic framework                          macroeconomic framework
OVERALL                                         Satisfactory progress in carrying out the Program  Satisfactory progress in carrying out the Program
PROGRAM
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
Legalframework        In August 2001, Republican  The Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Montenegro  MOF has made satisfactory progress in the preparation and
Parliament enacted a new  (MOF) has prepared a list of secondary legislation,  adoption of the secondary legislation, policies, instructions,
Law on the Budget System  policies, instructions, and operating procedures required  and operating procedures required for uniform and effective
(LBS), reflecting        for uniform and effective application of the new rules for application of the new rules for public expenditure
intemational good practice  public expenditure management, along with a timetable  management.
for their preparation and adoption.
Budget formulation
Comprehensive budget  No such medium-term       MoF has begun developing a comprehensive three-year  The MOF has developed a comprehensive medium-term
framework and          framework exists          macro/fiscal framework as basis for public expenditure  macro/fiscal framework including major policy
accountability                                  planning, comprising the central budget, social funds  commitments, and used this framework in the process of
and local governments.                           formulating the 2003 budget
MOF has prepared a Citizen's Guide to the Budget.
Prudent treatment of  Donor funds (of significant  MOF has presented to the Govemment a proposed  MOF has prepared and the Govemment has approved a
donor funds           but uncertain volume and  Interim Policy on Donor Funding, which at a minimum  larger policy paper on the use of donor funds, including
timing) not fully         defines: (a) authorization to accept donor funds; (b)  clearly established procedure for incorporating into the
incorporated into budget  intra-year fund planning; (c) budget execution   budget in-year receipt and use of donor funding.
accounts.                 commitment control; (d) monitoring; and (e) auditing.
Institutional         Budget management         MOF has defined the functions and staffing of the
development           functions in the MOF are  Budget Department comprising a budget formulation
not separated, staff is   unit and a macro/fiscal analysis unit. The macro/fiscal
inadequate, insufficiently  analysis unit has been established and staffed, with
trained.                  training being provided.
Actions in bold are "core" benchmarks for Board Presentation or second tranche release.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO)
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
Area/Sector and       Actions recently taken to  Actions to be taken by Board Presentation      Actions to be taken by second tranche release
Key Challenges        achieve desired outcomes
Budget execution
Development of a      Treasury established in   Two pilot direct spending units (DSUs) and the  The Government of Montenegro has designed and
single treasuryfunction  November 2001.         payroll of all DSUs have been successfully      implemented a satisfactory Treasury system and has
transferred to the Treasury.                    transferred accounts of Government of the Republic of
Transparency improved with                                                Montenegro budget-financed ministries and agencies
Govemment issuance of     All budget users financed from the republican   into a single treasury account.
GFS-compliant budget      budget are using a standard budget classification as
classification in September  provided by the new LBS.                     MOF has adopted a time-bound plan for extending Treasury
2001.                                                                     services to the operation of all social funds.
Commitment control    The new LBS introduces the                                                Pilot commitment control procedures have been introduced
concept of commitment                                                     on major risk categories of budget spending.
accounting.
Public debt           Very limited capacity to  MOF has outlined functions and staffing of the Debt  Debt management department in the Treasury has been
management            manage public debt.       Management Department in the Treasury           established, with staff being hired and training being
organized.
Fiscal reporting      The Treasury system being  New Treasury is generating monthly budget execution  MOF is providing monthly summaries of budget execution
established under the LBS  reports and providing these to the MOF management  to the Cabinet and the public.
provides for regular fiscal  team.
reporting.
Budget Inspection
and Audit
Institutional capacity  Very limited capacity for                                               MOF has established and staffed the Internal Audit
Budget inspection/Audit in                                                Department, outlined its functions, and adopted its
the MOF and DSUs.                                                         procedures and the annual audit plan for 2003.
External audit        No extemal audit function.  An externally contracted audit of the final accounts for  A study on the suitability of different models for external
the Budget 2001 has been conducted and the results  audit for Montenegro has been initiated as a basis for future
have been presented to the Montenegrin Parliament.  choice of an extemal audit model.
Actions in bold are "core" benchmarks for Board Presentation or second tranche release.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO)
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
Area/Sector and            Actions recently taken to achieve  Actions to be taken by Board Presentation     Actions to be taken by second tranche release
Key Challerges             desired outcomes
PENSIONS
Parametric reforms to make  Two Working Groups appointed to  The Government has accepted and submitted for  The Republic of Montenegro has enacted a
the existing pension system  oversee the development of policy  public discussion a draft law on pension and  law on pensions and disability insurance,
more sustainable and reduce  and modeling of reform options.  disability insurance that, inter alia: (i) raises and  satisfactory to the Bank.
the overall fiscal burden of                               equalizes the retirement age for men and women
pensions.                                                 from 60 years for men and 55 years for women to 65
years for both; (ii) raises the age of availing of early
Both revenue measures and                                  retirement (with pension reductions) to 60 years;
changes to entitlements.                                  (iii) changes indexation from wage indexation to
Indexation that is no more than the arithmetic
average of wages and cost of living; (iv) lengthens the
work history included in the pension base
calculation; (v) abolishes privileged work bistories;
and (vi) abolishes Category III invalidity pensions
(based on remaining work ability).
The revenues of the Pension Fund have been
improved by the Government becoming current
on its contributions to the Pension Fund starting
July 1, 2002.
Budget for 2002 proposes a
reduction in specified non-                                                      Draft budget for 2003 proposes elimination of
pension-entitlements by 50                                                       specified non-pension social benefits from the
percent.                                                                         PF.
Preparation of a further                                   The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs has begun to  The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs has
reforms of the pension                                     develop a concept for more comprehensive reform.  further developed its concept for more
system.                                                                                                     comprehensive reform.
Actions in bold are "core" benchmarks for Board Presentation or second tranche release.



Annex 7
Page 4 of 6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO)
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
Area/Sector and            Actions recently taken to achieve  Actions to be taken by Board Presentation  Actions to be taken by second tranche release
Key Challenges             desired outcomes
ENERGY
The economy is suffering   Over the short-term, shortfalls are  The Govemment has finalized a time-bound  Actions have been taken to reduce the electricity supply
from four hours per day of  being met by a combination of  Action Plan for reducing electricity blackouts  problem prior to the next heating season.
electricity blackouts.     imports and rolling blackouts. The  and have achieved demonstrated progress in its
govemment is developing a       implementation.
The Government will        strategy to deal with this problem
develop a medium term      over the medium-term, including a  The Ministry of Economy has begun preparation  The Government has submitted to the Parliament of
sector strategy to address this  combination of supply and  of an energy strategy as a basis for developing a  the Republic of Montenegro a bill on a law on
problem.                   demand-side measures.           draft Energy Law designed to provide the legal  energy, satisfactory to the Bank.
and regulatory framework to support the sectoral
reform program.
Reduce the quasi-fiscal    The Govemment increased average  The Government has established an average  The Government has established and maintained a
deficit coming from the    power prices (excluding KAP) by  2001/2002 winter tariff for electricity  satisfactory to the Bank average level of electricity
energy sector through      50% in April 2001.              (excluding KAP) of 37 EUR/MWh              tariffs during 2002/2003 winter.
measures which enable the                                  (representing a 50 percent increase from the
Electric Power Industry of                                 winter of 2000/2001) and cancelled the     The Govemment has prepared a strategy for KAP,
Montenegro (EPCG) to cover                                 traditional reversion to lower summer tariffs  including an time bound Action Program that addresses
operating costs as a first step                            for 2002.                                  ownership and operating issues for the supply of
to full cost recovery.                                                                                bauxite and electricity. The draft program has been
shared with the Bank so that its comments can be taken
into account before implementation starts January 1,
2003.
Design and start           The ratio of collections to billings  EPCG has announced a program including  EPCG has further increased the ratio of collections to
implementation of a        has increased from 55% in 1999 to  speciflc performance benchmarks for     billings, such that its Accounts Receivable do not
satisfactory strategy for  76% in 2001.                    disconnecting non-payers, with demonstrated  increase by more than 15 percent of total revenues
improving collections.                                     early progress in implementation.          during the previous 12 months.
Reduce the role of barter  EPCG has reduced the share of   EPCG has fully eliminated third party barter,  EPCG has reduced the share of barter in total
barter in total collections from  with only direct barter of goods and services.  collections to a maximum of 10 percent.
50% in 1999 to 30% in 2001.
Actions in bold are "core" benchmarks for Board Presentation or second tranche release.



Annex 7
Page 5 of 6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO)
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
Area/Sector and            Actions recently taken to achieve    Actions to be taken by Board Presentation   Actions to be taken by second tranche release
Key Challenges             desired outcomes
LABOR MARKET
Create a more flexible labor  A draft Labor Law has been prepared.  The Government has submitted a draft law on  The Republic of Montenegro has enacted a
market                                                         labor, satisfactory to the Bank, to the     law on labor, which Includes provisions on
Montenegrin Parliament which inter alia: a)  severnce pay, maternity leave and special
differentiates the level of severance pay  leave entitlements, and which is satisfactory
between 0 and 6 months for Individual       to the Bank.
dismissals, according to seniority, and not more
than 6 monthly wages for mass lay-offs; (ii)
removes restrictions on circumstances for
concluding fixed term, temporary and part
time contracts; (ill) abolishes or reduces special
leave entitlements, and replaces them with a
leave without pay option; (Iv) Includes
framework provisions on alternative
mechanisms for settlement of individual labor
disputes, and Introduces a mechanism for
resolution of collective labor disputes; (v) eases
preconditions for valid dismissal; and (vi)
limits the level of maternity leave to 12 months.
Make    the   system   of  Draft Employment Law has been        The Montenegrin Parilament has adopted an   The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs has
unemployment     insurance  approved by the Govemment.          Employment Law, satisfactory to the Bank,   assessed the existing active labor market
more incentive compatible                                       which inter alia: (i) establishes a flat rate  programs and is refining the scheme from
and fiscally sustainable and                                    unemployment benefit; (li) differentiates the  predominantly micro credits towards more cost
encourage  more   effective                                     duration of benefit payment between 3 and 12  effective altemative options such as counseling
active labor market programs.                                   months, depending on contribution period.   and job search assistance
Actions in bold are "core" benchmarks for Board Presentation or second tranche release.



Annex 7
Page 6 of 6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO)
POLICY ACTION MATRIX
Area/Sector and         Actions recently taken to       Actions to be taken by Board Presentation      Actions to be taken by second tranche release
Key Challenges          achieve desired outcomes
BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT
Reduce barriers to entry  An analysis of registration   The Montenegrin Parliament has adopted a Law   The Government of Montenegro has adopted and
and efficient operations  procedures was performed by the  on Business Organizations (Enterprise Law)  begun to Implement registration procedures for new
of business by          Center for Entrepreneurship and  satisfactory to the Bank.                     enterprises, developed in accordance with the Law
simplifying and         Economic Development (CEED),                                                   on Business Organizations.
streamlining business   and major findings and          The Govemment has developed and agreed on a time-
registration procedures  recommendations were reflected  bound action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
in the new draft of the Enterprise  introduction of new registration procedures, and made
Law.                           satisfactory initial progress in its implementation.
Increase efficiency of  The Law on Business             The Montenegrin Parliament has adopted a Law   Satisfactory progress has been made in implementing
bankruptcy system to    Organization Insolvency has been  on Business Organization Insolvency (Bankruptcy  the action plan for the introduction of the Law on
allow efficient exit of  drafted and discussed by the   Law), satisfactory to the Bank.                Business Organization Insolvency, inc[uding through
nonproductive assets.   Govemment and submitted to the                                                 the training of a core group of commercial judges,
Parliament.                    The Govemment has developed and agreed on a time-  bankruptcy administrators, attomeys and accountants.
bound action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for
introduction of Law on Business Organization
Insolvency, and made satisfactory initial progress in
its implementation.
Support creation of the  The law on Secured Transactions  The Government has submitted a draft Law on  The Republic of Montenegro Pledge Registry has
system of secured       has been drafted and publicly   Secured Transactions, satisfactory to the Bank, to  been established and staffed.
financing to improve    discussed. The final amendments  the Montenegrin Parliament.
enterprise access to    have been introduced by the
capital.                expert working group.           The Government has developed and agreed on a time-
bound action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
introduction of the new system of secured
transactions.
Actions in bold are "core" benchmarks for Board Presentation or second tranche release.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31506
18°                19                  2O                 21                  220                23°
H U N' A R Y                                                     FEDERAL REPUBLIC
~Szeg                         Arad       OF YUGOSLAVIA
46'       Mo1ocs            /0 anizo                                               EUROPEAN HIGHWAYS  46 -
t  | (;§~$t w BImof \  Sent ot  S  S              OTHER CLASS I HIGHWAYS
X  .7  ; W  }S  Backo I  )  /  2  Na           | | s RAILWAYS
m  Topolo  Ado  ~ ~~-Timppooro               4~AIRPORTS
Apotin  ,                                                 0  TOWNS
- % s t  t \ KulaO_ \ 5 6 6      \                s   REPUBLIC OR PROVINCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITALS
CROA0A 8 9,) X  t  OTemnerin  --- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
BX\  \  3ack-a  \  ~Zrejuni       <~  |     -         - REPUBLIC BOUNDARY
V,nkovc, 0     Palank-                                              - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
45'   =*ma                                                                                             A5' -v  >  45_
enda,s.snont o~accan  ko s nc.o ad                                             ROMANIA
BHE                       n      LGRADEZKovinECEMBR 2001
_ 44 {/ >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~re          g    ci n X raueda  < .4
/                    t      i<                   V    Jagdllna A_ tLoznic
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S                 me                     ol on   ''kS
BOSNIA/ ANDvlX                                                  Petrole\ac
9 _  ri   \y  142>    ;   >   _                   3Pristin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~igdin  u'la  z )bij i 
rhiJmipwOspn7al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ian ca7I7M°rtn>s0n7rnr7if             eksii \  YR,ACD nIAc
Gn7up,ony jldgm ntonwhlogol 5bhsf anyhnnbrSlenn.ca  k      ProkIup le
rdor7nt0roccepbnreofrPuchvndbrie. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ov                                           1 0   t\1  2
43'   lelo Polle                                  Leskc,                       43' -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEEMER20






IMAGING
Report No.: P       7545   YU
Type:     PR



