Report No. PID11218
Project Name             Federal Republic of Yugoslavia,...
Republic of Montenegro-
Structural Adjustment Credit
Region                   Europe and Central Asia
Sectors                  Public Expenditure Management, Pensions,
Energy, Labor Markets, Business
Environment
Project ID               YFPE76764
Borrower                 Ministry of Finance, Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia
Implementing Agency     Ministry of Finance
Republic of Montenegro
Stanka Dragojevica 2
Podgorica, Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia
Telephone: 381-81-224-450
Fax: 381-81-242-835
mf@eg.yu
Environment Category     U
Date this PID prepared   April 24, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                     May 6, 2002
Projected Board Date     August 8, 2002
Country Background
The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) was formed in 1992
out of the Republics of Serbia and Montenegro as the former
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was breaking up in
civil conflict. Nearly ten years of strife, international
isolation and poor economic management left in their wake a
weakened economy, fragile institutions and increased
vulnerability. GDP today is about one-half the level of ten
years ago. During the past decade, FRY experienced chronic
high inflation and had accumulated large domestic and external
debts. Delayed transition and the extensive decapitalization
have left the enterprise, financial and infrastructure sectors
in poor condition. Living standards have declined, and the
level of absolute poverty is estimated to have doubled since
1990. This increase in poverty was accelerated by a
deterioration in social protection systems, including
declining efficiency and targeting. Available financing fell
below levels of existing entitlements, creating chronic
arrears on benefit payments. Unemployment is high and of a
long-duration nature symptomatic of rigid labor markets.
Federal elections in October 2000, and Serbian parliamentary



elections in December 2000, brought to office reform-oriented
governments with a mandate to bring greater democracy,
modernization and integration with the international economy.
By this time, a reformist government in the Republic of
Montenegro (by far the smaller of the two republics, with less
than 10 percent of FRY's population and GDP) had already made
substantial progress in introducing market reforms, with
support from the international community. As part of this
process, the Government of Montenegro, which was already
constitutionally responsible for most areas of economic policy
in the republic, gradually established further de facto
authority over macroeconomic and structural policy.
While significant donor financing helped to address immediate
problems, it also supported high fiscal deficits. In 2000,
the consolidated republican deficit (on a cash basis) reached
around 10 percent of Montenegro's Net Material Product (NMP).
By late-2000, these large deficits and the near absence of
domestic sources for their financing spurred the republican
government to renew its focus on fiscal consolidation.
Subsequent stabilization measures, supported by the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), have brought exchange rate
stability, reduced inflation, and better budget execution. In
parallel, the Montenegrin authorities continued to pursue an
agenda of structural reforms aimed at buttressing these
measures and at reversing the delayed transition of the past.
In addition to reforms in areas supported by the proposed SAC,
important progress has been made in six other areas: price
liberalization, foreign trade reform, tax reform,
privatization, bank restructuring, and the targeting of the
social safety net.
After taking the early actions described above, the
Montenegrin government has now developed a more comprehensive
adjustment and reform program. The Federal and Montenegrin
governments have requested the Association's support for key
elements of the program focused on the enhancement of
macroeconomic sustainability and the promotion of growth.
Restoring macroeconomic stability will require addressing
immediate pressures through fiscal policy adjustments,
structural reforms to enhance fiscal sustainability and
adequate donor support. Reversing the sharp decline in output
and living standards of the past decade will require creating
strong foundations for growth and employment creation through
structural reforms to promote private sector development, a
well-functioning labor market, and a reliable supply of
energy. Enhancing transparency will be critical in addressing
both of these challenges.
Rationale for IDA involvement
The Board of Executive Directors endorsed a Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS) for FRY on May 8, 2001, which proposed
temporary, exceptional access to IDA resources for FRY given
the countries extremely difficult macro-economic circumstance
-2 -



and crushing external debt burden. The TSS outlines three key
objectives of Bank support - (a) restoring macroeconomic
stability and external balance; (b) stimulating growth and
creating the basis for a sustainable supply response; and (c)
improving the social well-being of the most vulnerable and
building human capacity. Adjustment lending is proposed as
the principal vehicle for achieving these objectives, given
the Bank's comparative advantage with this type of financing.
This Structural Adjustment Credit has thus been developed as
an IDA lending operation in FRY consistent with the objectives
and mechanisms outlined in the TSS.
The Proposed Credit
The proposed SAC would support key elements of the reform
program of the Government of Montenegro focused on the
enhancement of medium-term fiscal sustainability and on the
removal of key bottlenecks to sustainable growth and
employment creation. At its core is a set of reforms in five
areas which are particularly crucial for achieving these two
objectives - public expenditure management, the pension
system, the energy sector, labor markets, and the business
environment. Together with the maintenance of a sustainable
macroeconomic framework, these mutually reinforcing reforms
are designed to address near-term causes of fiscal imbalances
and bottlenecks to growth, and to begin progress towards
medium-term benchmarks which will be achieved through deeper
structural reform measures to be completed beyond the horizon
of the SAC.
The SAC would be on modifed IDA terms, with a maturity of 20
years, including a grace period of 10 years. It would be
extended to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, with
counterpart funds being provided to the Republic of
Montenegro. The project will be coordinated by the Ministry
of Finance of the Republic of Montenegro. Implementation of
the reforms supported by the credit will be the responsibility
of the Republican Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and
Social Affairs, and Ministry of Economy.
Environmental Category
The proposed SAC is not expected to result in any negative
impact on the environment. For the purposes of Operational
Directive 4.01, it has been placed in Category U, which does
not require an environmental assessment.
Poverty Category
The proposed SAC and the Government program which it supports
will have important impacts on poverty. Some reforms, such as
higher energy prices, could have negative initial impacts.
These will be addressed through two channels. First, reforms
to enhance the transparency of public finances should help to
-3 -



enhance the potential for donor support for payment of social
benefits. Second, the Government of Montenegro has
demonstrated a clear concern for managing any negative impacts
of reforms, with recent improvements in targeting social
assistance and a 2002 budget which includes a real increase in
resources for social welfare programs. The authorities are
also working with the Bank and other donors to develop the
data and analytical capacity required to ground future
policies in a deeper understanding of their impact on the
living standards of the poor.
The SAC will have other positive effects on poverty. By
supporting the formulation of more realistic budgets, improved
budget execution and reform of entitlements programs, it will
limit the accumulation of arrears on social transfers, thus
enhancing the predictability of incomes of those dependent on
such transfers. It will reduce hidden enterprise subsidies
which have delayed restructuring and led to the ad hoc
crowding out pro-poor expenditures. By improving macroeconomic
stability, the SAC will reduce the risks of crises which could
have particularly negative impacts on the poor. A stable
macroeconomy, together with better functioning labor markets,
a more secure supply of energy, and additional fiscal space
for development expenditures, will also create the basis for
investments needed for medium-term growth and employment
creation, and thus for more sustained poverty reduction.
Benefits and Risks
The proposed SAC will provide a range of potential benefits,
in addition to the positive impacts on poverty described
above. I will work to enhance stabilization gains made so far
by supporting up front actions to tackle major fiscal
imbalances and a sectoral reform program to enhance medium-
term fiscal sustainability, and by providing financing to
close Montenegro's budgetary gaps and bolster FRY's external
reserves. The elaboration of a sound policy framework and the
Bank's assessment of structural reforms will send a positive
signal to donors wishing to provide budgetary support, as well
as to potential private investors and creditors. By working
for a more stable and prosperous FRY, it will indirectly
promote economic recovery in the wider South East European
region.
The proposed SAC also entails risks. External shocks could
strain FRY's and Montenegro's ability to maintain a
sustainable macroeconomic framework and to return to growth.
Even debt relief on very favorable terms will lead to a jump
in debt service payments, further stretching fiscal and
external balances. A slowdown in the economy of key trading
partners could reduce the growth of exports, foreign direct
investment and other private capital inflows. The resulting
downward pressure on the money supply would have a
deflationary impact.
-4-



There are several sources of political risk. The SAC is being
prepared at a time of uncertainty concerning the future of the
Yugoslav federation. An important recent agreement on a
redefined federation remains to be ratified. The need to work
out a range of details could divert attention away from
economic issues. While the current Montenegrin government has
demonstrated clear ownership of the program, differences in
views within Montenegro on the new constitutional accord could
bring near-term political instability, and possibly delay the
implementation of some reform measures.
Finally, the proposed SAC addresses difficult reform
challenges in a setting of mixed implementation capacity. It
begins to tackle reforms (e.g. in pensions and labor markets)
which have been postponed in the past. There now appears to be
a clear understanding for the need for such reforms and a
commitment for their implementation. In addition, major
technical assistance efforts are increasingly shifting their
focus from more formal reform measures to the strengthening of
implementation capacity.
Contact Points:
H.E. Miroljub Labus
Deputy Prime Minister
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
H.E. Miroslav Ivanisevic
Minister of Finance
Republic of Montenegro
Mr. Ardo Hansson
Sr. Country Economist
The World Bank
1818 H Street , NW
Washington, D.C, 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473 9499
Fax          (202) 522 2754
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
May 3, 2002.
-5-



