                                                                                        49933



                                  DATA SHEET TEMPLATE FOR 


                                         PROJECT PAPER 


 Date:    January 18,2007                        Task Team Leader: Robert Jauncey
 Country: Montenegro                             Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
 Project Name: Various
 Project IDs: IBRD70890MOT
 (Montenegro), IBRD7090MOT,
 IBRD7091OMOT, IDA3651AYF (Serbia),
 IDA 36510MOT, IDA36930YF,
 IDA3693AMOT,IDA37050MOT,
 IDA37080MOT, IDA38230MOT,
 IDA39180MOT,IDA39190MOT,
 IDA39830MOT, IDA40480MOT,
 TF53868, TF56543, TF54911, TF55474
I


 Borrower: Currently the Republic of Serbia, as the successor state to the former Federal
 Republic of Yugoslavia and, subsequently, the former Serbia and Montenegro.
 Restructuring will result in the Republic ofMontenegro, following its membership of the
 World Bank Group, assuming obligations for activities in Montenegro.
 Responsible agency: Various
!


 Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m)
 No changes to estimated disbursements as a result ofrestructuring.

I
 Current closing date:
. Various. No changes proposed to closing dates as a result of these restructurings.


 Indicate if the restructuring is:


 Board approved
  RVP approved           l

  Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?         Yes    X No
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                    Yes    X No
 Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                     Yes    X No

  Revised project development objective/outcomes


  Project objectives will not be revised as a result of proposed restructuring


  Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No.


                                Revised Financing Plan (US$m.) 


           Financing plans are not anticipated to change as a result of restructurin . 


                                      PROJECT PAPER 

  REPUBLIC OF SERBIAIREPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO: LEGAL AMENDMENTS 

                       AND ASSUMPTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES 


Introductory Statement

1.     This project paper seeks the approval of the Regional Vice President, Europe and Central
Asia Region, to the Republic of Montenegro assuming responsibilities currently held by the
Republic of Serbia, for loans, credits and grant related to the Republic of Montenegro
(Montenegro), after Montenegro becomes a member of the World Bank, scheduled for January
18,2007.

2.     Activities for which Montenegro will need to assume financial, implementation, and/or
reporting obligations include:

       Activity Name                                      IBRDIIDAITrust Fund Number

       IBRD Loans
       Consolidation Loan D                                       IBRD 70890 MOT
       Consolidation Loan E                                       IBRD 70900 MOT
       Consolidation Loan F                                       IBRD 70910 MOT

       IDA Credits Solely for the Benefit of Montenegro
       Structural Adjustment Credit (Montenegro)                  IDA 37050 MOT
       Emergency Stabilization of Electricity Supply              IDA 37080MOT
       Environmentally Sensitive Tourist Areas                    IDA 38230 MOT
       Health Systems Improvement                                 IDA 39180 MOT
       Pensions System Administration                             IDA 39190 MOT
       Second Structural Adjustment Credit                        IDA 39830 MOT
       Education Reform                                           IDA 40480 MOT

       IDA Credits Partially for the Benefit of Montenegro
       Trade and Transport Facilitation in South East Europe      IDA 36510 YF (Serbia);
                                                                  IDA 3693A MOT (Montenegro)
       Export Finance Facilitation                                IDA 36930 YF (Serbia);
                                                                  IDA 3693A (Montenegro)
       Trust Fund Grants
       Lake Skhoder Integrated Ecosystem Management 

         (GEF project preparation grant)                          TF 53868 

       Tara and Lim River Basin Watershed Management 

         (GEF project preparation grant)                          TF 56543 

       Institutional Strengthening of Governance of Internal 

        Audit and Internal Controls of Central Bank (IDF)         TF 54911 

       Montenegro Health System Development Project 

        (Canadian International Development Agency)               TF 55474 





                                               2 


Background and Reasonsfor Restructuring

3.      Montenegro declared independence from the former union of Serbia and Montenegro
(SaM) in June 2006. In July, Bank management determined'that Serbia was the continuing state
of SaM, and took on all of the obligations and assets of SaM in the Bank Group. On July 17,
2006, Montenegro applied for membership in the Bank Group. On December 29, 2006, the
IBRD Board of Governors adopted Resolution 582, and the IDA Board of Governors adopted
Resolution 214, approving Montenegro's admission to membership. Montenegro will sign the
IBRD and IDA Articles of Agreement, and became a member on January 18,2007.

4.      As a member of the Bank, Montenegro will need to assume legal responsibility for the
various loans, credits and grants which have been provided or administered by the Bank to SaM,
and its predecessor Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY), for the benefit of Montenegro. This
will be done through a tripartite Assumption and Amendment Agreement between the World
Bank, Montenegro and Serbia.

5.      Activities for which Montenegro will need to assume responsibilities include three IBRD
loans (so-called Consolidation Loans) which were taken by the FRY in 2001, nine IDA credits,
and four trust fund grants. Obligations related to the IBRD loans consist of principal, interest
and other charges repayment. Obligations related to the IDA credits consist of project-related
activities, and principal, service and other charges repayment.        While grants impose no
repayment obligations, Montenegro will assume reporting and implementation obligations
associated with active trust fund grants.

6.      Most of the above operations are entirely for the benefit of Montenegro, and Montenegro
will fully assume all legal responsibilities. Two operations, however, are for the benefit of both
Montenegro and Serbia:


    ·  The Export Finance Facilitation Project) has been fully completed and disbursed. As
        such, Montenegro will, under the tripartite agreement, assume the legal responsibility to
        repay the principal and pay service charges associated with the amount disbursed for its
        benefit, as set out in the Development Credit Agreement.

    ·  The Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project is still under
        implementation. Since it is for both the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, the original
        Development Credit Agreement (DCA) needs to be bifurcated between the two republics,
        with a new DCA signed with Montenegro and an amended DCA signed with Serbia.

7.      The total value of IBRD loans for which Montenegro will assume responsibility amounts
to just under Euro 270 million. The total value of IDA credits for which Montenegro will
assume responsibility is equivalent to SDR 59.3 million.




                                                3 


Proposed Changes

8.      The proposed changes will result in Montenegro assuming formal responsibility for
implementation, reporting, fiduciary and repayment and other associated obligations attached to
the loans, credits and grants involved.

9.      For active credits solely for the benefit of Montenegro, implementation arrangements will
remain as set out in current Development Credit Agreements, in which the Republic of
Montenegro was already directly responsible for implementation, although with formal reporting
through the previous state union of Serbia and Montenegro. Only in the case of the Trade and
Transport Facilitation Project will Montenegro need to assume additional procurement, financial
management, and implementation responsibilities associated with the completion of a small
number ofoutstanding contracts. It is anticipated that these responsibilities will be assumed by a
project implementation unit currently responsible for procurement and financial management
arrangements for other credits in Montenegro. Changes are anticipated to be limited, as activities
under this credit remain on track to be completed by March 2007.

Analysis

10.     Proposed changes do not significantly affect the original economic, financial, technical,
institutional or social aspects of the projects as appraised. Proposed changes do not raise the
environmental category of the projects involved or trigger new safeguard policies.
Restructurings do not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.

Expected Outcomes

11.     Proposed changes do not affect the development outcomes, outcome targets, or outcome
indicators ofthe projects involved.

Benefits and Risks

12.     The proposed changes ensure that Montenegro formally assumes all responsibilities for
activities that have been or continue to be implemented in Montenegro. As Montenegro is
already, in practice, responsible for most implementation arrangements for associated with
continuing activities, implementation risks are limited.     Montenegro will assume significant
financial responsibilities under the proposed changes. Again, however, these obligations were in
practice being met previously by the Republic of Montenegro under the state union of Serbia and
Montenegro.     A preliminary debt sustainability analysis suggests that, while World Bank
exposure to Montenegro is significant, Montenegro's overall external debt position is
sustainable. A new Country Assistance Strategy, anticipated in the first half of 2007, will
include efforts to ensure that implementation arrangements, including fiduciary and procurement
systems, are strengthened further. Future lending levels and terms by the Bank will also reflect a
detailed analysis ofMontenegro's debt sustainability position.




                                                   4

