FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
RsPmo No. 230-IN
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
October 3, 1973
Agriculture and Rural Development Division
Asia Projects Department
lThis report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be pubLished, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authornation. The Blan Group does not accept reponsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00              Rs 7.5_
Rs 1           =    US$0.13
Rs 1,000             US$133.00
Rs 1,000,000   5    USR133,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ARC       -    Agricultural Refinance Corporation
GOI       -    Government of India
IDB       -    Bihar State Cooperative Land Development Bank
MID       -    Bihar State Minor Irrigation Department
CROPPING SEASONS
Kharif    -    June to September
Rabi      -    October to February
Summer    -    March to May
FISCAL YEAR
ARC and LDB    -    July 1 to June 30
GOI and State Government - April 1 to March 31
/1   The actual rate fluctuates, as the rupee is pegged to the
pound sterling, which has been floating vis-a-vis the US
dollar since June 23, 1972. On September 21, 1973, the
rate was US$1 = Rs 7.82.



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..............................                 i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........           .................................          1
II.    BACKGROUND    .......................................                       1
A.   India             ...........................................         1
B.    Bihar State .......          .......................... .            3
C.   The Project Area  ................................                    4
III.    THE PROJECT  ..........................................                     8
A.   Definition  ......................................                    8
B.   Detailed Features  ...............................                    9
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing  ....................                   10
D.    Procurement and Disbursement  ....................                  11
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ..........................                    12
A.    Introduction  ....................................                  12
B.    Institutions  ....................................                  13
C.    Lending Terms and Conditions  ....................                  17
V.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS  ..                   19
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ...........           ..     ..............    21
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS                   .....................  23
SCHEDULE A: Minor Irrigation
SCHEDULE B:  Project Lending Terms and Conditions



-2-
ANNEXES:
1.   Agriculture
2.   Irrigation
3.   Farm Models
4.   IDA Disbursement Schedule
5.   The Lending Banks
6.   Increases in Cropped Areas and Production
7.   Financial Rates of Return
8.   Economic Rate of Return
MAP: IBRD 10482



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an agricultural credit project in Bihar State,
and proposes an IDA Credit of US$32 million, to support a 3-year lending pro-
gram in the Tirhut Division of the State, for investment in tubewells and
pumpsets. An important feature would be that most of the 50,000 farmers
directly benefitting from it would have surplus water for sale, owing to the
small and fragmented nature of their farms. This they would sell to at least
a further 50.000 neighboring farmers, many of whom would otherwise not have
any access to irrigation.
ii.       Bihar State has about 10% of the Indian population and only about
5% of the total land. It produces about 6% of the net national product,
and is among the poorest states in the country. Tirhut Division is the most
populous and economically backward of its four divisions, having one-third
of the State's population on one-fifth of the land, and a population density
three times the Indian average. To accelerate development, the State Govern-
ment is giving high priority to improving irrigation in the Division, to help
spread the effective use of high-yielding seeds and fertilizers. The ground-
water resources in the project area are large, and even after the project
has been completed less than one-fifth of the available groundwater would be
in use. However, the State's Minor Irrigation Department requires strength-
ening, and improved groundwater control is needed before orderly development
can be assured. These points are covered in the project.
iii.      As elsewhere in India, the State has an established agricultural
banking network, which for long-term investment comprises the State Coopera-
tive Land Development Bank (LDB) and some commercial banks. However, com-
mercial banks have had only about two years experience in this field. For
successful project implementation LDB's management requires further training,
and its high level of overdues needs to be brought down. To qualify for IDA
finance the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC), the State Government,
LDB and the seven participating commercial banks have prepared a project banking
plan which would be implemented through a Project Coordinating Committee.
iv.       The project would assist in financing minor irrigation development
estimated to cost US$60 million equivalent; about US$30.3 million for diesel
and electric pumpsets, and US$29.7 million for tubewells and land develop-
ment. The estimated foreign exchange component would be USS3.2 million, or
about 5.3% of total project cost.  The IDA Credit of US$32 million would rep-
resent the foreign exchange component plus about one-half of local currency
costs; about 53% of total project cost.
v.        Farmers' contributions would range from 10% to 15% of the .ndivi-
dual investments. For loans through LDB, their payments would include their
obligatory share capital contribution of 5% of the loan amount. ARC would
be the channel for the IDA Credit, and would supervise project operations,
as it already does for the nine on-going IDA-assisted agricultural credit
projects in India.



- ii -
vi.       The Government of India (GOI) would bear the exchange risk on the
IDA Credit, and lend it to ARC, which would repay about three-fourths of it
at an annual interest rate of 5.5% after 9 years, and the balance at 6.0%
after 15 years. ARC would refinance 90% of the loans made by LDB and the
commercial banks, at 7% a year. Loans to individual borrowers would be at a
minijium interest of 9.5% a year, repayable up to 10 years for ordinary
farmers and 15 years for small farmers as defined.
vii.      About 50,000 farmers would make small and widely-scattered invest-
ments over 3 years, thus centralized bulk buying would be inappropriate.
They would buy pumpsets in the local market, which is competitive, and pro-
vide their own labor for on-farm development. Private contractors and the
Minor Irrigation Department would sink the tubewells.
viii.     ARC is competently managed and financially sound.  The existi*g
agricultural banking system in the State would be developed under ARC leader-
ship to provide improved lending facilities for the project. Estimated
financial rates of return to farmers would be from 16% to 27%. Estimated
rates of return to the economy would be from 21% to 32%. The appropriate
assurances having been obtained, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit
of US$32 million.



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) is continuing to channel increasing
credit into the agricultural sector, thereby enabling more farmers to adopt
improved cultural practices and to use modern production inputs. In support
of this effort, IDA has approved nine agricultural credit projects since
1967; one each in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Madhya
Pradesh, Maharashtra, Mysore, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Total
IDA funds involved is US$288 million. The two main objectives of these
projects are to provide medium and long term loans to farmers for productive
purposes and to strengthen the various institutions involved in the loans.
An IDA Credit Review Mission visited India in November, 1972, to evaluate
project experience to date. It found that lending for minor irrigation had
been satisfactory, while the various problems associated with on-farm devel-
opment and equipment procurement were approaching solution, and there had
been a general improvement in the performance of the participating Land
Development Banks and commercial banks. The projects are under constant
review by GOI, and continuing improvement in overall performance can be ex-
pected. The IDA mission also recommended that the role of the Agricultural
Refinance Corporation (ARC), which is the channel for the IDA Credit projects,
be broadened to include development responsibilities as well as refinance.
1.02      This project is based on a proposal submitted to IDA by the Bihar
State Government, following assistance by a FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
preparation mission in 1971. It follows the pattern of the previous agri-
cultural credit projects. It was appraised by Messrs. A. Stoneham, R.
Bailey, C. Bolt, H. McDonald and W. Panton (IDA), and T. Yamamoto (Consultant),
who visited India in February/March, 1973.  This report is based on the
Government's submission and the mission's findings.
II. BACKGROUND
A. India -
2.01      Since 1965, India has changed the emphasis of its development
efforts from industry to agriculture, and has given priority to accelerating
the spread of modern technology by increasing the availability of improved
inputs such as high-yielding seed varieties and fertilizer, particularly
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects of agri-
culture in India is given in Economic Situation and Prospects of India,
Report No. 156-IN of May 8, 1973.



- 2 -
in combination with irrigation facilities. Although 70% of India's labor
force is in agriculture (providing one-half of GNP), the sector's recent
advances have scarcely affected most farmers. Many more could benefit from
the new techniques if credit was available. An increasing credit supply for
farm investment and seasonal inputs is thus important for the continuing
growth of agricultural production,
1/
2.02      A GOI report - , shortly to be published, compares the use and
distribution of agricultural credit in 1970/71 writh the position one and
two decades previously.  One of its main findings is that institutional
sources are providing an increasing share of this credit. It also indicates
increasing use of credit, most of the increase being for agricultural rather
than living expenses. In 1970/71, farmers borrowing for operating expenses
covered less than one-tenth of their requirements by loans. Those borrowing
for investment covered about one-half, compared with one-third in 1961/62.
Sources of credit have changed considerably. Cooperatives accounted for
about one-fifth of total credit in 1970/71 compared with only 3% in 1951/52.
The commercial banks' share is still relatively small, but has increased from
under 1% (1951/52) to 4% in 1970/71. The importance of non-institutional
credit 2/ has declined considerably, from over nine-tenths of the total in
1951/52 to seven-tenths in 1970/71, but it still remains the dominant source.
In 1970/71, farmers with under 2 ha were less dependent on cooperatives and
commercial banks, and much more dependent on non-institutional sources. Co-
operatives and banks advanced under one-fifth of such farmers' total credit,
compared with almost one-third of that of the larger farners. In the same
year cooperatives provided nearly three-fourths of all loans for operating
expenses, while non-institutional sources provided nearly two-thirds of all
investment loans.
2.03      Despite recent progress, a substantial credit gap remains to be
bridged. The Reserve Bank of India has estimated that credit institutions
will require Rs 15 billion (US$2 billion) for long-term agricultural lending
during the Fourth Plan (1969/70 to 1973/74), an annual average of Rs 3 bil-
lion.  This compares with aDout Rs 0.6 billion advanced in 1966/67.  The
estimated increase in short- and medium-term credit requirements is about
11% a year, rising to about Rs 25 billion (US$3.3 billion) by 1973/74.
Provisional figures show the long-term credit suppl-y for 1970/71 at only
about Rs 1.8 billion, and the short-term at only Rs 6 billion.
1/   National Council for Applied Economic Research.  "Credit Requirements
for Agriculture": 1973.
2/   Non-institutional sources include moneyleaders, traders, commission
agents, friends, relatives and landlords.



- 3 -
B. Bihar State
General
2.04      Bihar is situated mostly in the Ganges plain in northeast India
(see Map). It has an area of about 17.4 million ha and an estimated popu-
lation of 56.3 million (1971 census). It has about 10% of the total Indian
population on about 5% of the total land, and after Uttar Pradesh is the
most populous state. Its average population density is 323 per km2, compared
with the 1971 all-India average of 182. About 80% of the working population
is directly engaged in agriculture, which accounts for only 43% of GNP. Ad-
ministratively the State is divided into four divisions and 23 districts.
2.05      In 1968/69 the State's net domestic product was only about 6% of
the net national product, compared with its 10% of population. In recent
years its average per capita income has been about two-thirds the national
average, and is currently about Rs 225 (US$30). Bihar is thus overpopulated
and underproductive compared with the Indian average, and is one of the
poorest states in the country.
Agriculture
2.06      Bihar has a sub-tropical monsoon climate, and two main geographical
regions: the Gangetic plain (in which the project would be located) and the
Chotanagpur plateau. The plain covers about two-thirds of the State in the
north, and is divided by the Ganges river. It has rich alluvial soils, and
an average rainfall of about 1,200 ii. The plateau, in the south, ranges
from about 300 to 1,200 m in  1 evatiot  and consists mainly of red soils on
crystalline rock formations.  It has-an average rainfall of about 1,350 mm.
Over 80% of the State's rainfall occurs during the southwest monsoon from
June to September. Much of the cultivated area is used to produce foodgrains
(mainly rice, wheat and maize) but potatoes, sugarcane and jute are also im-
portant. Annual production is strongly influenced by the incidence of droughts
and floods, which vary considerably from year to year.
2.07      With the high population pressure in Bihar, there is very little
cultivable waste land remaining that could be brought under crops. Farms
are small and fragmented, and of the 7.6 million holdings, 64% are less
than 1 ha, while under 2% are more than 10 ha. Further expansion of produc-
tion must come from yield increases, through improved farming practices,
including the use of high-yielding seeds, increased fertilizer offtake,
better irrigation facilities, and more intensive use of irrigation water.
This is reflected in the State Government's proposals for the Fifth Plan
(1974-79).
Irrigation
2.08      Large-scale canal irrigation in the State commenced with the
construction of the first Sone project in 1873 (180,000 ha), followed by
the Tribeni project in 1900 (110,000 ha), the Kosi project (890,000 ha) in



- 4 -
1955, and the Sone Barrage project in 1962 with some IDA finance (1,400,000 ha).
The Gandak project is presently under construction in Tirhut Division and will
ccmmand about 960,000 ha in the State (para 2.19).
2.09      Groundwater is widely used in many parts of the State for irriga-
tion by tubewells. Except for a small area of consolidated rocks in the
Champaran district, ample supplies of groundwater of generally good quality
occur throughout the Ganges plain. There are two types of wells commonly
used by farmers in the State, the shallow tubewell (up to 30 meters), almost
exclusively diesel-powered, and the medium depth tubewell (30 to 60 meters)
powered by diesel or electricity. There are also a few deep tubewells (over
60 meters) privately owned. Additionally the State operates a public tube-
well system, supplying groups of farmers from electrically-powered wells of
about 80 meters average depth. The performance of this system has not been
as good as was anticipated, partly because command areas of 200-250 ha are
much larger than the 100-120 ha that can adequately be served by each pumping
installation, and partly because the unreliable electricity supply frequently
deprives farmers of water when it is most needed. The importance of smaller
diesel-powered private tubewells as a source of groundwater has been growing
considerably, and they currently irrigate about three-fourths of the area
covered by tubewells.
2.10      In common with other States, Bihar has no legislation controlling
groundwater exploitation, and only an embryonic staff in the Groundwater
Investigation Division of its Minor Irrigation Department (MID). Proposals
for improving groundwater control and strengthening the staff are discussed
in Chapter IV (para 4.14).
2.11      Bihar is short of electric power, and only about one-tenth of
villages have been electrified. Although village electrification programs
are continuing, the power shortages, which frequently occur when the demand
for irrigation pumping is at a maximum, can be expected to continue for
several years. Where electric tubewells have been installed there have on
occasions been long delays before they have been energized. Because of these
problems, most new irrigators are likely to select diesel-powered pumps for
some time to come.
C. The Project Area
Tirhut Division
2.12      The project area comprises the whole of the Tirhut Division, in
the northwest of the State (see Map).  It was chosen because it is the most
populous and economically backward of the State's four divisions and ha* the
necessary groundwater resources. Its growth rate over the past few years
has been the lowest in the State. Its area (3.3 million ha) is about one-fifth,
while its population (17.9 million in 1971) is about one-third of the State
total. Population density (549 per km2) is over two-thirds more than the
State average (323), and about three times that of all India. The average



-5-
size of its 2.6 million farms is only about 0.9 ha, and fragmentation of
holdings is high. 73% of farms are under 1 ha (64% State average) and only
3% are over 5 ha. The remaining 24% are between 1 and 5 ha. These form
the group most likely to benefit directly from the project.
Climate and Soils
2.13      Normal annual rainfall varies from 1,100 mm in the southwest to
1,400 mm in the north. Over four-fifths occurs from June to September,
during, the kharif crop season, when a range of tropical crops are grown,
su-ited to the hot humid conditions then prevailing. This is succeeded by
a cooler, drier period between October and February, the rabi crop season,
when temperate crops are grown and the temperature can drop as low as 40C,
and when irrigation is particularly beneficial. Finally, during late March,
April and early May, the summer season, the weather is hot and dry, and the
temperature can reach 45°C, with monthly rainfall below 10 mm.
2.14      The Ganges plain is the most fertile region of India, and the
project area, which covers the valleys of the Gandak, Buhri Gandak and Kosi
rivers, lies within it. The area soils have been developed over the deep
alluvium deposited by these rivers. The soils are essentially basic in
character, with recognizable differences from place to place, and are highly
produictive. They have been subject to cultivation for many centuries, and
are capable of much higher and sustained yields in the future, provided
heavier fertilizer dressings and improved irrigation, flood protection and
drainage facilities are available.
Agricultural Structure
2.15      The main features of agriculture in Tirhut are discussed in Annex
1. In 1969/70, the latest year for which complete figures are available,
the net cropped area was 2.3 million ha (27% of the State total), of which
0.9 million ha was sown more than once, giving a gross cropped area of
3.2 million ha (29% of the State total), and a cropping intensity of 138%
(State average 132%). The pattern of land use is fairly uniform throughout
the area. Sugarcane (0.1 million ha) is a year-round crop that is generally
harvested during the rabi season. The principal kharif crop is paddy (1.4 mil-
lion ha average in recent years) of which about 10% is irrigated and the rest
rainfed. Maize (0.4 million ha) and millet are also important. During the
rabi season the main crops are wheat (0.4 million ha in 1969/70) and some
barley. Wheat is increasing due to greater availability of irrigation, and
barley declining. Pulses and potatoes are also grown in this season. Some
vegetables are grown during the short summer season, particularly where
irrigation and nearby markets are readily available.
2.16      In spite of a series of land reform measures aimed at its abolition,
a smallholder tenancy system is still operating in the State, including the
project area. In theory it was abolished in the 1950's, but some former
large landowners have retained their position by subdividing their land
among,family members, by illegal oral leases, by shifting tenants and share
croppers from plot to plot, and by lending them money against future crops.



The Bihar Tenancy Act of 1970, which gives tenants some occupancy rights,
and the Bihar Land Reform Amendment Bill of 1972 (Act of 1973, if it becomes
law), which fixes land ceilings and provides for consolidation of fragmented
holdings, could improve the position considerably, provided they are enforced
energetically. While there are no precise figures, probably between 5% and
10% of farmers in the area are exclusively share croppers, and a further
one-third farm at least part of their holdings under some form of tenancy
agreement. Such arrangements generally apply to the smallest farms; farmers
in the 1 to 5 ha group are much less affected by them. The demand for tube-
wells is expected to increase if an energetic land reform progran- is pursued,
but lack of adequate staff to make land surveys will limit tne rate at which
such reform can be carried out.
Irrigation
2.17      The main features of irrigation in Tirhut are discussed in Annex 2.
The increasing and more extensive year round irrigation in the project area
is bringing about an improvement in the cropping intensity, particularly
during the rabi season, and has led to a wider use of higher yielding varieties
(especially wheat, paddy and maize) that are more sensitive tc m.oisture stress
than their local equivalents. Medium- and short-term high-yielding paddy
varieties and hybrid maize, both capable of yields of 2.5 to 3 tons/ha have
been introduced during the kharif season, and are harvested in time to plant
high-yielding wheat varieties giving 3 tons/ha or more in the rabi season.
Potato, as an entirely irrigated crop, has been introduced in the rotation
of the larger farms. Such improvements are substantially increasing incomes
of the farmers concerned, and thereby contributing to the economic development
of the area.
2.18      The project area is underlain by aquifers at relatively shallow
depth, with abundant recharge provided by both direct penetration of rain-
fall and by lateral seepage from the Himalayas. Groundwater conditions
are consequently favorable for development of minor irrigation based on
shallow and medium depth tubewells.  Because the area is relatively fiat,
land levelling is rarely required before irrigation. About 45,003 privately
owned and 800 state tubewells presently irrigate around a quarter o£. a
million ha, or about one-tenth of the net cropped area. Present water use
by existing tubewells is lass than one-tenth of the recharge available
from rainfall alone. This does not include recharge from canal irrigation
and horizontal inflow from the Himalayas, for which no data is currently
available. There is accordingly considerable potential for a marked increase
in groundwater use.
2.19      The Gandak Irrigationi Project is currently under construction in
Tirhut Division. Its maiii canal system should be completed by 1'78 and
on-farm development by about 1986. When completed, its command area will
be almost I million ha, or about two-fifths of the present net cropped area
in the Division. However, many problems require solution before the full
potential of the project can be utilized. Unliess the land consolidation
program is effective, on-farm development will be particularly difficult.
Until the available water is distributed equitably throughout the project,



the groundwater recharge will increase substantially in those areas which
receive plentiful canal supplies. Waterlogging is already developing in
some areas and plans for drainage works are being accelerated. Groundwater
pumping in these areas will be beneficial, since it will reduce the extent
and severity of waterlogging. Additional State and private tubewells will
be installed predominantly in areas within the Division that cannot be
provided with canal water by gravity: these cover about 100,000 ha within
the Gandak project and about 800,000 ha in the rest of the Division.
2.20      There is considerable potential in the project area for irrigation
by pumping from surface water sources including: (a) ox-bow lakes (mans);
(b) perennial rivers; (c) open wells; (d) small reservoirs (tanks); (e) the
increasing number of canals and drains under construction; and (f) from
natural depressions (chaurs). There is also some potential for increased
pumping from dug wells. Farmers have begun to buy small diesel-engined
pumping sets for these purposes. Because of the profitability of irrigation
using these sources, this trend is likely to increase.
Inputs and Services
2.21      The National Seeds Corporation, which has a well developed network
of certified growers, and the State Directorate of Agriculture, which also
produces improved seed (mainly local varieties) on its own seed multiplica-
tion farms, are able to meet current seed demands, except for the very
latest varieties, for which the demand almost always exceeds the supply.
Hlybrid maize has caught on exceptionally well during the last few years,
and the demand temporarily exceeds the supply, which should, however, be
sufficient within the next two years. Supply of seeds should thus be
adequate to meet project requirements.
2.22      Fertilizer is in short supply throughout India, and is allocated
to the States by GOI. The State Government breaks down Bihar's allocation
by districts. A major distribution criterion is the extent of irrigation
in each district, and fertilizer allocations within the project area can be
expected to keep pace with increasing irrigation to the extent permitted
by available supplies.
2.231     Extension staff in the project area has been strengthened through
an intensive agricultural development program, particularly in areas where
irrigation has increased, where in some cases staff has doubled. This
intensification, together with the demonstration effect of the results from
the more progressive farms, has meant that most farmers capable of benefit-
ting from irrigation combined with improved farming practices are aware of
the opportunities it offers. Their most urgent need now is the chance to
purchase the necessary pumping equipment, and this requires adequate credit
availability.
2.24      The additional labor needs arising from more intensive cropping
can easily be met from the existing rural labor supply, which includes
under-employed labor in most farm households as well as unemployed farm
laborers. The proportion of the working population in Bihar classed as



- 8 -
agricultural laborers has nearly doubled during the last decade, to almost
two-fifths of the total. Animal power is abundant throughout the project
area (over 1.8 million working bullocks in 1971), and is adequate to meet
increased cultivation demands arising from the project. There are at present
only about 1,600 tractors in the area, operating almost exclusively on farms
of over 10 ha. Although there is a very small and growing demand from the
smaller farmers for custam tractor services, custom hire units are not com-
mercially attractive, and are unlikely to become so until the cost of hiring
bullock teams becomes considerably more expensive, as may be expected in due
course with increasing cropping intersities under irrigation, especially
during peak plowing periods.
Credit
2.25      Until 1970, the only institutional source of medium and lonig term
agricultural credit was the Bihar State Cooperative Land Development Bank
(LDB), and its lending program was limited by its capacity to process loan
applications. Since then some of the commercial banks have started operations
in this sector. No commercial firm offers hire purchase or deferred payment
terms on pumpsets. The institutional sources of seasonal credit are the
State cooperative societies and, to a very limited extent, the commercial
banks. Non-institutional credit sources are similar to the general Indian
pattern (para 2.02).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
3.01      The project would be a continuationi and acceleration of the lend-
ing programs of LDB and seven participating commercial banks 1/ for financ-
ing minor irrigation development in the Tirhut Division of northwestern
Bihar for three years, under refinance arrangements with ARC. It would
involve about 50,000 loans to individual farmers (mostly on farms of from
1 to 5 ha) and a few groups of farmers, for investment in about 47,000
diesel and electric powered tubewells, and about 3,000 diesel pumpsets for
low lift pumping from surface water and dug wells. An important feature
would be that owing to the fragmented nature of most holdings, many farmers
would be unable to irrigate their complete farm from their tubewells, and
would have surplus water which they would be obliged to sell to neighboring
farmers. This would benefit many of the smaller farmers with less than 1 ha,
who would otherwise not have access to irrigation. The main factor in deciding
project size has been the institutional capacity of the lending banks to
process loans. The project would also strengthen the operations of the State's
Minor Irrigation Department, and introduce improved groundwater control to
ensure the available groundwater is more efficiently exploited in future.
1/   In this report, LDB and the seven participating banks are hereinafter
collectively referred to as "the Lending banks".



B. Detailed Features
3.02      In line with current project area experience, the estimates assume
that 3,000 of the tubewell loans (about 6%) would be for electric-powered
pumpsets, which would all be used on medium depth tubewells. All the rest
of the pumpsets would be diesel powered. Also following current experience,
the estimates assume that 31,000 of the tubewell loans (about two-thirds)
would be for shallow wells, and the balance for medium depth wells. Owing
to the fragmentation of their holdings, most farmers using diesel-power
construct two or more tubewells, one each on the fields most likely to
produce high returns, and move their pumpset between the tubewells, as
required for cultivation. Wells using electric power require a fixed
installation, which cannot be moved, and thus only one tubewell can be
used. In the farm models used in the estimates (Annex 3), the cost of two
tubewells has been included in the investment for diesel-powered pumpsets
with shallow and medium depth tubewells. In practice, the numbers of loans
shown in each category in the estimates would not be limited, and loans
would be determined by farmers' choice and the availability of electricity.
3.03      There are very few places in the project area where the relatively
cheap "cavity" wells can be used, so that the estimates cover the cost of
small diameter tubewells equipped with coir strainers, which consist of a
rope of coconut fiber wrapped around an open steel tubular framework. Such
tubewells invariably use centrifugal pumps, which occasionally have to be
placed in a pit to maintain a suction lift of 5 m or less, since 5 m is the
maximum practical lift for efficient operation. Shallow tubewells of this
type have an average capacity of about 25 m3 per hour, medium depth of about
36 m3 per hour.
3.04      A pumpset coupled to shallow tubewells or using surface water can
produce sufficient water to irrigate about 2.5 ha, and coupled to medium
depth tubewells about 3.5 ha. These areas are larger than the average
irrigated area on individual farms in the project, so the farm models show
some off-farm sales. To make full use of the potential water available from
the pumpsets financed through the project, loan conditions would include an
undertaking by borrowers with more pumping capacity than is needed for their
own farms to sell surplus water or hire their pumpsets to neighboring farmers.
Arralgements for sharing water are already quite common in the project area,
and rates are well established.
3.05      Although annual groundwater recharge is considerably more than
adequate to supply existing and project wells, there is a danger of local-
ized shortage if wells are sited too close together. In the absence of
groundwater legislation, the State must take pragmatic steps to avo-i-d the
problems of uncontrolled development, including over-exploitation. Spacing
criteria for siting future wells throughout the State, including the project,
are given in Schedule A. As most private minor irrigation development is
financed through institutional loans, minimum spacing standards can be
reinforced through specific lending criteria, implemented by the lending



- 10 -
banks, and supported by the State. The lending terms for project loans
are set out in Schedule B, and include a clause covering minimum spacing
standards. The advisability of groundwater legislation is discussed in
para 4.16.
3.06      MID has more than 300 hand drilling rigs in the project area, and
provides a drilling service to farmers. Many private drilling contractors
also offer their services at reasonable rates. These are more than adequate
for project requirements, consequently the project does not include the fi-
nancing of drilling rigs. Farmers themselves usually provide much of the
labor for well drilling. Field channels would be required to distribute
pumped water on-farm. In light soil areas these would be lined to prevent
undue losses. Also some land would require grading to obtain satisfactory
uniform crop yields, to prevent excessive run-off and to economize on water
and labor. Although some of this work would be done by farmers themselves,
the cost has been included in on-farm development estimates.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.07      Estimated project cost and foreign exchange requirements are:
Rs millions           US$ millions         Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Exchange
Tubewells (with pumpsets)
Shallow, diesel          239.1   12.6  251.7    31.8    1.7   33.5         5
Medium, diesel           150.1    7.9  158.0    20.0    1.1   21.1         5
Medium, electric          20.4    1.3   21.7       2.7    0.2    2.9       6
Pumpsets only               17.1    1.5   18.6       2.3    0.2    2.5       8
Total project cost         426.7   23.3  450.0    56.8    3.2   60.0         5.3
Detailed costs are in Annex 3.  Estimates are based on present prices plus a
cost increase allowance of 10%, which would be adequate based on annual price
increases of 5% on amounts disbursed each year. As in previous agricultural
credit projects, there is no allowance for any physical contingencies.
3.08      Finance to cover the total cost of Rs 450.0 million (US$60.0 mil-
lion) would come from the following sources:



- t1 -
Lending                Total         IDA
Farmers    Banks        ARC     Financed      Credit
Rs M   %  Rs M   %  Rs M    %    Rs M       RsM M
Pumpsets                  22.7  10  20.5   9  184.2  81    227.4    122.8   54
Tubewells and Land
<;Development            33.0  15  19.0   8  170.6  77    222.6    117.2   53
Total                55.7  12  39.5   9  354.8  79    450.0    240.0   53
3.09      The proposed IDA Credit of US$32 million (Rs 240 million) would
finance 53% of project cost, and would supply about 68% of ARC support for
the project. IDA financing is based on the whole of the estimated 5.3%
foreign exchange component of the project plus 50% of the estimated local
cost. The foreign exchange cost, Rs 23.3 million (US$3.2 million) would
represent about 10% of the IDA Credit.
3.10      The IDA Credit would be on standard terms to GOI, which would bear
the exchange risk and on-lend to ARC under a subsidiary loan agreement
acceptable to IDA. For loans of 9 years or less to ultimate borrowers, ARC
would repay GOI at the end of nine years at an annual interest rate of 5.75%.
These loans are estimated to be about three-fourths of the total. For loans
of over 9 years, ARC would repay at the end of 15 years, with interest at
6.25%. In both cases there would be a rebate of 0.25% for prompt payment.
ARC would on-lend to the lending banks at 7% a year on the outstanding
balances, and the banks would lend to the ultimate borrowers at a minimum
of 9.5% a year. Assurances on these points were obtained at negotiations.
The onlending rates of ARC and the lending banks are one-half percent above
the rates previously charged in the earlier credit projects. They reflect
the half percent increase in July, 1973, in ARC's refinance rate (para 4.03)
which the lending banks have passed on to their borrowers. This new interest
rate structure remains in line with the prevailing institutional rates in the
agricultural sector, where rates are tending to rise, as in other sectors.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.11      Project execution would involve small investments and operations
on many individual farms, with purchases spread over three years. It would
not be practical to bulk these for centralized procurement. An adequate
choice of pumpsets, including satisfactory servicing facilities, is availaDlu
within the project area, and prices are competitive, so that farmers have
a fair choice at reasonable prices. Procurement of all project items would
thus be by the borrower through normal commercial channels, as in the case
of all previous IDA Credit projects in India involving minor irrigation.



- 12 -
Disbursement
3.12      IDA disbursements are expected to extend over about 3-1/2 years
(Annex 4). Against appropriate statements, disbursements would be 61% of
loans made to farmers by the lending banks. The documents would not be
submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by the lending banks and
be available for inspection by project supervision missions.
IV. ORGANIZATION ANL MANAGEMENT
A. Introduction
4.01      Project financing and organizational arrangements would generally
follow the pattern established under the nine existing IDA-supported credit
projects. The IDA Credit to GOI would be channelled to ARC which would
refinance 90% of the loans made by LDB and the seven commercial banks
participating in the project. The commercial banks have only recently started
operations in the project area, consequently their share of total loans in
the first year is estimated to be only one-fourth. This should rise to about
one-half the total in the third year, giving an overall average of two-fifths.
However, all the lending banks would compete among themselves for project
business, and there would be no allocations to individual banks for any fixed
share of the total.
4.02      To ensure adequate project banking arrangements, a working party of
representatives from ARC, the State Government and lending banks has prepared
a comprehensive banking plan, which is acceptable to IDA. It is more fully
described in Annex 5. The lending banks' 120 branches in the project area
and their staffing are generally adequate for project implementation, although
a few more branches (particularly of LDB) may be opened provided it can be
demonstrated they would be viable within a reasonable time. LDB's staff
training program would also continue (para 4.05). To enable smooth execution
of the lending banks' project responsibilities, the State Development Com-
missioner has agreed to act as chairman of a Project Coordinating Committee.
The Committee would include a senior representative of each of the lending
banks, ARC, MID and the State Government extension service. Its terms of
reference would be to coordinate the work of the institutions involved in
project implementation. The extension service would assist in data collection,
identification and motivation of farmers, and in sponsoring loan applications,
although the ultimate responsibility for individual loans, including the
risk, would remain with the lending banks. MID would assist the banks with
technical advice (para 4.15). It would be a condition of effectiveness that
the Project Coordinating Committee had been set up as described above, and
assurances have been obtained that it would operate throughout the disburse-
ment period.



- 13 -
B. Institutions
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
4.03      ARC, a subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India, and the channel
for the previous credit projects, is well known to IDA 1/. It is a competently
managed organization in sound financial condition. Its objectives are to
provide medium and long term finance to agricultural credit institutions,
and at the same time, to direct and guide them toward a development-oriented
approach to their operations. It refinances state cooperative banks and
commercial banks for funds advanced by them for approved agricultural schemes
which are technically feasible, financially justified, and within a reason-
ably compact area. Its role is important, not only as a source and channel
for development funds, but also for its influence on the lending policies
and,procedures of the agencies it assists. Until recently the spread
between its borrowing and lending rates was rather narrow, but sufficient to
meet expenses, and after allocations to reserves and dividend payments, to
show a small profit. In July, 1973, the spread was widened by increasing
the interest rate to borrowing institutions by one-half percent. This should
ensure sufficient income in future to enable ARC to expand its operations and
improve its appraisal capabilities to include economic aspects and the finan-
cial feasibility of its approved schemes. This would enable it to broaden its
role and become a development institution (rather than continue its current
narrower function of refinancing only). It remains a suitable institution for
overall supervision of this project's implementation. As in previous credit
projects, ARC's accounts would continue to be audited by auditors acceptable
to IDA.
4.04      ARC would ensure that the lending banks follow the policies, terms
and conditions agreed with IDA (Schedule B). The execution of a loan agree-
ment between GOI and ARC, acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of effective-
ness. Subsidiary loan agreements between ARC and the lending banks would be
subject to IDA approval. ARC would ensure that the lending banks followed
the spacing criteria for tubewells detailed in Schedule A. Assurances on
these points were obtained at negotiations.
Bihar State Cooperative Land Development Bank
4.05      General.  LDB is more fully described in Annex 5.  Although estab-
lished in 1957 it did not begin effective operations until 1968. In 1972,
the Reserve Bank of India and ARC made an operational study to ensure that
it could become a suitable channel for future IDA Credit projects. The
study included an appraisal of financial, managerial and operatior.al proce-
dures and results, and proposals for their improvement to bring them up to
satisfactory standards. The main findings of the study covered inadequate
1/   Full details of ARC's organization and operations are contained in
Annex 4 of the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit appraisal Report
No. 1071-IN, dated April 12, 1973.



- 14 -
staff training, insufficient technical staff, deficiencies in loan procedures
and accounting methods, lack of follow-up on defaulters, and lack of policy
for opening new branches. The State Government, with the assistance of ARC,
has taken active steps to implement the proposals for improvement set out in
the study, and the results are beginning to become effective. These proposals
are satisfactory to IDA. Assurances have been received that LDB would con-
tinue to implement its staff training and improvement program.
4.06      LDB's 22-member Board includes 17 representatives of the ind2Lviduals
and cooperative societies subscribing cc its capital, four ex-offinio members
from the State Government, and LDB's Alanaging Director. At the end of
1971/72 there were 73 branch offices, and two small regional offices, one in
the Tirhut Division at Muzzafarpur. Total staff was about 1,300 of whieh
200 were at head office and 1,100 in the field. There were 20 branches in
the project area.
4.07      Resources.  LDB's long-term resources come mainly from share
capital contributed by the State Government, individuals, cooperative
societies and borrowers, and from the issue of debentures. Borrowers have
to contribute 5% of their loan to special non-voting shares.  As at June 30,
1972, paid up share capital was Rs 23 million, of which the State Government
held about one-third.  Debentures outstanding were Rs 211 million, of  hilch
Rs 29 million were special debentures issued by ARC for approved development
schemes. The State Bank of India and the Bihar State Cooperative Bank
provide most of LDB's short-term overdraft facilities. Over the past five
years very small net profits have been made. No dividends have been paid,
and these profits have been added to reserves, which were Rs 2.7 miliion
at the end of 1971/72 or about one-fifth of paid up capital.
4.08      Loans may be made for five years or more for most agricultural
purposes; although in practice about 70% over the past five years have been
for tubewells and pumpsets. In the same period loans advanced have increased
almost fivefold, from Rs 21 million in 1967/68 to Rs 95 million in 1971/72.
Loans outstanding at the end of each year increased from Rs 33 million to
Rs 231 million over the same period, or sevenfold. Around 50,000 loans were
made over this period, indicating that probably less than 1% of farming
families in the State have so far benefitted from LDB loans.
4.09      Overdues.  Poor management and technical advice, weak lending
policies, lack of effort in following up defaulters and a rapid expansion
of LDB's operations have contributed to its high rate of overdues. At the
end of the three years 1969/70 through 1971/72 overdues were 43%, 31% and
31% of demand 1/. In the project area they are currently about the same as
the overall average.  For LDB to be acceptable as a project lending Institution,
overdues must be reduced below 25%. Since the operational study, LDB has
taken a number of steps to improve recovery rates, and future prospects are
much better. Misutilization of loan funds should be virtually eliminated
1/   "Demand" in this context means principal and interest falling due diuring
the year in question plus overdues from previous years.



- 15 -
shortly with improved supervision and follow-up procedures in the field. A
new recoveries section has been opened at head office, and is now beginning
to get into its stride. LDB has recently taken a number of defaulters to
court; the first time it has ever done so. It would be a condition of
effectiveness that overall overdues, and overdues in the project area, had
both been reduced to below 25%. If not, the State Government would provide
LDB with redeemable equity capital and take over direct responsibility for
some overdues, to the extent necessary to achieve an overdues position below
25% of demand, both overall and in the project area. As these overdues
were collected by LDB, the equity would be redeemed. Furthermore, if during
the project period overdues exceeded 25% at any time, the State Government
would take similar action. Assurances on these matters were obtained at
negotiations.
4.10,     Staffing.  A significant cause of LDB's poor operational record
in the past has been the poor quality of its management, and the lack of
technical advice from within and from outside. Since the operational study,
LDB has strengthened its managerial staff and started training programs,
both in-service and at GOI's cooperative colleges, and the Reserve Bank's
College at Poona. These programs are satisfactory to IDA. The technical
cell at head office consists of an engineer and overseer, and will be
strengthened by appointing an agriculturist, geohydrologist and agricultural
economist. It would be a condition of effectiveness that these appointments
had been made. A problem common to Land Development Banks in many States,
including Bihar, is the practice of seconding State Government staff,
particularly from the Cooperative Division, to many of their top positions.
This condition is written into most Land Development Bank constitutions,
but not LDB's.   While many such officers are able administrators, they lack
the necessary banking experience to run such a Bank efficiently. Moreover,
the frequent staff changes which occur as a result of this practice lead to
a lack of management continuity, with its consequent adverse effect on
efficiency and staff morale. Land Development Banks should appoint
experienced staff at all levels as direct employees, who should be able to
regar, their appointment as a career, with opportunities of promotion to the
highesc posts. For this project, assurances have been obtained that a long
term objective for LDB would be its ultimate staffing with direct employees
only, and that, in consultation with the State Government and ARC, LDB would
work towards this objective as rapidly as practicable.
Commercial Banks
4.11      Seven nationalized commercial banks 1/ have agreed to participate
in the project, and between them have 97 branches in the project area,
compared with LDB's current 23. None have their head offices in the State,
but most have an office in Patna supervising State operations.
1/   They are:  (a) State Bank of India; (b) Central Bank of India; (c) Punjab
National Bank; (d) United Commercial Bank; (e) Allahabad Bank; (f) Union
Bank of India and (g) Bank of India.



- l 6 -
4.12      Although the commercial banks have been encouraged to increase
their volume of agricultural lending, there has been little organizational
innovation since nationalization. One significant development has been the
introduction of the "lead bank" system whereby each district is allocated a
commercial bank to guide and coordinate its banking development. Despite
this, however, the banks currently provide less than 5% of estimated insti-
tutional agricultural credit. Apart from lack of experience, their opera-
tions in this sector have been handicapped because they have not had the
privileged position of cooperative banks, which have had substantial
assistance from extension and other State Government services. Under
the project, however, they would have the same assistance as LDB from
these services, and assurances on this point were obtained at negotiations.
4.13      In Bihar, and particularly in the project area, agricultural
lending by the commercial banks is only just beginning, but the prospects
are encouraging. The Central Bank of India is the lead bank throughout
the project area, and has already made studies of banking prospects in some
of the districts. The State Bank of India has opened specific agricultural
development branches in some areas, side by side with their regular branches.
These are staffed with qualified agricultural personnel, and are expected
gradually to take over the whole of the bank's agricultural operatiors in
some areas, as their experience and competence increases.
The State Minor Irrigation Department (MID)
4.14      MID is responsible for construction, operation and maintenance
of State tubewells and low lift pumps, and for drilling private tubewells
on request. It provides technical assistance for farmers in the project
area through its staff of about 35 executive engineers. Its Groundwater
Investigation Division is responsible for State groundwater resources. This
is a new Division that has only 6 relatively inexperienced geohydrologists
to serve the entire State. This is unsatisfactory. Staff urgently requires
training and strengthening. GOI's Central Groundwater Board has agreed to
provide four experienced geohydrologists for three years to assist in
training. One of these would be seconded to LDB. Because of the shortage
of geohydrologists throughout India, the necessary increase in staff can only
be obtained by training recent graduates for most of the positions. A suitable
12-month post-graduate course is offered at Roorkee University. A suitable
program to bring this Division up to the standard necessary for it to assume
complete responsibility for groundwater resources and development in the
State as quickly as possible was presented at negotiations. The program
includes proposals for the next five years covering: (a) staff build-up
and training; (b) coordination with the Gandak River Valley Project Department
to observe and record groundwater levels throughout the Tirhut Division and
ultimately the whole of the State. Details are in Annex 2. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the four geohydrologists from the
Central Groundwater Board would be seconded to the State for three years,
and a condition of effectiveness would be that two of them had been appointed
and were in post.



- 17 -
4.15      In this project it is not necessary to apply a density formula
as used in some of the earlier credit projects, because the aquifers
extend across the whole of the project area. Spacing criteria, however,
are important. Project lending terms would include a clause (Schedule B,
3(d)) to ensure that the spacing criteria of Schedule A would be observed
for all tubewell loans. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) the advice of MID would continue to be available to the lending banks
throughout the disbursement period; and (b) Schedule A would be applied to
all tubewell development within the State Government's direct and indirect
control, including the project.
4.16      Model groundwater legislation has been prepared by GOI for enact-
ment by all the States, but to date none have introduced it in their legis-
latures.   While such legislation is not important for the Tirhut Division
in the short run, because ample groundwater is available, in the long run
it is essential for groundwater control. The sooner it is implemented
throughout the State, the sooner it will be possible to ensure the most
efficient use of the State's groundwater resources. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that GOI would encourage the State Government to consider the
regulation of groundwater exploitation, particularly by enacting suitable
legislation.
C. Lending Terms and Conditions
Interest Rates
4.17      Project lending terms and conditions are detailed in Schedule B.
The interest rate structure would be similar to those in previous credit
projects, but with the recent one half percent increase in rates by ARC and
the lending banks noted in paras 3.10 and 4.02. These new rates are in line
with current agricultural rates throughout India.
Security
4.18      Borrowers should have no difficulty in meeting the security re-
quirements of the lending banks. Security is usually a first mortgage on
the land, together with in most cases a lien on the equipment purchased with
the loan. Under LDB's constitution, if it lends more than 50% of the value
of land, a State Government guarantee is required, and this has been readily
forthcoming when necessary. LDB's current method is to value land at the sum
of the farm gate value of production over the previous three years. Follow-
ing the procedure of previous credit projects, LDB's valuation for project
loans would be based on the estimated value of the land after development
resulting from the loan, and assurances on this point were obtained at
negotiations.
Borrowers' Contributions and Repayments
4.19      Farmers' normal contribution to investment cost would be 10% for
pumpsets and 15% for tubewells and land development. For small farmers



- is -
(defined in Schedule B) the contribution would be 10% for pumpsets and 15%
for tubewells. For groups of small farmers the contribution would be 10%
for pumpsets and tubewells. All farmers' contributions would include the value
of any family labor applied to the investment. For LDB loans it would also
include the mandatory 5% contribution to share capital. Repayment periods would
not exceed the life of the asset financed. For pumpsets they would be 7 years
maximum to all farmers. For tubewells and land development they would be
9 years maximum for normal farmers, and 15 years for small farmers. No
grace periods would be allowed.
Lending Policies
4.20      The lending terms summarized above and detailed in Schedule B woul'd
apply to all project lending. Some current lending by LDB does not conform
to these terms, but all future lending for similar purposes would be required
to do so. The lending terms of commercial banks generally follow Schedule B,
and thus no change is proposed. Assurances on these points were obtained
at negotiations.
Seasonal Credit
4.21      For borrowers to obtain the maximum return from their investments,
they must have access to adequate seasonal credit for operational expenses.
The most important items are fertilizer and seed, which together cost
annually from about one-fourth to one-fifth of the anticipated value of
production. Borrowers obtaining project loans from the commercial banks
would have no difficulty in obtaining seasonal credit from them, since it
is their normal policy to supplement investment loans with some seasonal
credit, particularly for fertilizer and seeds. Borrowers obtaining project
loans from LDB would be cooperative members, whose usual source of seasonal
credit is the primary societies. However, it is not possible to guarantee
that all LDB borrowers would automatically obtain seasonal credit from that
source, although many of them can be expected to do so. Those obtaining
project loans would be the more progressive farmers, who are well aware of
the necessity of fertilizer and quality seeds to get the best results from
their investment. Those unable to obtain credit from institutional sources
can be relied upon to obtain it elsewhere, as many already do in the project
area. Even if they obtained it from moneylenders (their most expensive
source) at the current annual interest rate of about 25%, they would still
find it profitable, as the project farm models demonstrate.
Accounts and Audit
4.22      Commercial accounting firms audit the accounts of the commercial
banks, and the audited accounts are also scrutinized by the Reserve Bank of
India. As in the case of the previous Indian agricultural credit projects,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that the audited accounts of
the participating commercial banks would be submitted to IDA within fo-ur
months after the end of each fiscal year, together with a statement certif ied
by ARC, showing their lending under the project. In conformity with indian
practice, LDB's accounts are audited by a section of the State Government s



- 19 -
cooperative department. This audit is acceptable to IDA. Accordingly,
assurances were obtained that this audit would continue, and that LDB's
audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within four months after the end
of each fiscal year.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS
Production
5.01      Under the project about 235,000 ha would be irrigated; 187,000 ha
on borrowers' farms, and 48,000 on farms buying water from borrowers. The
farm models show that the increased output would come mainly from foodgrains
(wheat, rice, maize and green gram), sugarcane and potatoes. At full develop-
ment, estimated annual production increases would be about 230,000 tons
wheat, 135,000 tons paddy, 40,000 tons maize, 10,000 tons green gram,
120,000 tons sugarcane and 120,000 tons potatoes (Annex 6). There would
be a corresponding reduction of about 24,000 tons of lower value crops,
such as finger millet, barley and grain.
5.02      The estimated net incremental output (from farms of both borrowers
and surplus water buyers) for the first six project years would be:
Project Year         1        2         3        4         5        6
----------------thousand tons------------------
Foodgrain            39      124       260      335       375      394
Sugarcane            12       38        80      102       115      121
Potatoes             12       38        81      103       116      121
Total           63      200      421       540      606       636
Maximum production would be attained in Year 6.  These estimates are based
on the assumptions that:  (a) 20% of total project investment would come in
the first year, 33% in the second, and 47% in the third; (b) project farms
would attain 50% of full development in their first year, 75% in their
second, 90% in their third, and 100% only in the fourth year onwards. From
1950/51 to 1970/71, Bihar's annual increase in foodgrain production averaged
2.25%. A 5% annual increase is projected for the next five years. At full
development, project incremental output of foodgrains would represent nearly
5% of the State's annual production average of about 8.2 million tons for
the 3 year period ending 1970/71, and would thus be a significant contribu-
tion from the poorest Division to State production targets.
Marketing
5.03      Bihar consumes more foodgrains than it produces, and imports the
deficit from surplus states. Cereal imports were 1.9 million tons in 1967/68
and 5 million in 1968/69 (reflecting the preceding bad harvest). Population
and consumption projections indicate a continuing state deficit for the
forseeable future. The projects' annual incremental output at full production
of 0.4 million tons would thus be consumed mostly within the State.



- 20 -
5.04      Except for sugarcane, most farmers sell their produce either in
the village, in small nearby weekly markets, or in larger (but more scattered)
daily wholesale markets. There are sufficient markets within a day's travel
by bullock cart for most project farmers to sell their produce without dif-
ficulty at reasonably competitive prices. Sugarcane is sold either direct
to a nearby factory, or through the local market system. However, many of
the markets lack adequate physical facilities, especially for storage and
grading, and some are seriously congested, resulting in high marketing costs.
The Bihar Agricultural HMarketing Project, with an IDA Credit (294-IN) of
US$14 million became effective in July, 1972, and is now being implemented.
It will expand and improve marketing facilities throughout the State, and
includes 12 new markets in the project area. A further 17 markets in Tirhut
will be improved through other GOI-assisted programs. Marketing costs and
facilities should thus show continuing improvement during the lifetime of
this project.
5.05      The main road and rail systems in the project are adequate.  Most
villages are served by rough and unsurfaced rural roads, which are generally
satisfactory for delivering inputs and collecting farm produce. Road and,
rail transport to the south of the State, including Patna, is restricted
by a single bridge over the Ganges river. A new bridge is being built at
Patna, and should be in operation around 1978/79. It will shorten the
distance between Patna and the project area by over 80 km, and should
help to reduce transportation costs of project inputs and production.
Prices
5.06      GOI continues to encourage agricultural production, particularly
of foodgrains, through price incentives and increasing amounts of newi and
improved agricultural inputs. As in all other states, Bihar establishes
annual minimum support prices for the main foodgrains, particularly rice
and wheat, as recommended by GOl's Agricultural Prices Commission. The
State Government sets minimum prices that it considers would give a fair
return to the farmer. Current prices received by farmers in the project
area are given in Annex 3, Table 3.
5.07      Prices received by farmers are subject to considerable seasonal
fluctuation.  While they are still generally higher than international prices,
some decline in price levels may occur as India progresses towards self-sufficiency
in food and other crops.  To take account of these uncertainties, the project's
financial and economic rates of return have been tested against changes in
prices, and are satisfactory (para 6.04).
Farmers' Benefits
5.08      Over 100,000 farmers would benefit from the project; 50,000 bor-
rowing farmers, and at least another 50,000 buying water. This is about
4% of the 2.6 million farmers In the project area. Participating farmers
would be able to: (a) enter more fully into the monetarv economy by shift-
ing from subsistence to cash crops; (b) increase their average croppi'ig
intensity from about 135% to 180% at full development; (c) increase crop
area and yields, particularly in the rabi season. Furthermore, their in-
cremental production and income would be substantial.



- 21 -
5.09      Based on present prices and costs, and calculating family labor
at prevailing wage rates for farm labor, the financial rates of return on
incremental investments for the four farm models are from 16% to 20% for
tubewells and 27% for lift pumps (Annex 7). These rates are sensitive to
off-farm water sales; assuming a 50% reduction in water sales, they would
vary from 11% to 22%.
5.10      The heavy demand from farmers in the project area for irrigation
facilities has mainly been prompted by the large increase in income that
comes from irrigation. Annex 3, Table 4 details farmers budgets before
and after irrigation, based on the four farm models. These show that at
full production project farmers' net incomes after debt service should on
average be more than doubled. Such increases are sufficient to cover
variations in income due to droughts, floods and other causes, and still
provide adequate incentives for farmers to invest.
5.11      Because of a high excise tax on diesel fuel and heavily subsidized
electricity rates, the cost to the farmer of using diesel power is greater
than using electricity, as is the case in most of the previous credit projects.
In the project area, because of the high degree of land fragmentation, the
cost advantage of electricity is offset by the smaller area of an individual
farm the fixed electric pumpset and single tubewell is able to irrigate,
compared with the flexibility of a diesel pumpset with two tubewells, which
can irrigate the two best areas of a fragmented farm. Also because of the
unreliability of the electricity supply, the diesel pumpset is more attractive
to farmers in the area.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Apart from the direct benefits to the 50,000 borrowing farmers,
and to the more than 50,000 farmers buying water from them, the project at
full production should generate additional year-round employment, both
family and hired labor, of almost 11 million man days a year (equivalent
to 44,000 men at 250 days a year). This is important in Bihar, where the
proportion of the labor force classed as agricultural laborers has nearly
doubled during the last decade, to almost two-fifths of the total force
(para 2.24). It is particularly important in the project area wqhere the
proportion is higher than the State average. The project would also double
the area irrigated by private tubewells in the Tirhut Divison, to about one-
fifth of the net cropped area.
6.02      Benefits to the Indian economy would include:  (a) reduced in-
stability in agricultural production; (b) incremental crop production at
full development (636,000 tons) valued at almost Rs 280 million a year,
mainly arising from greater intensity of land use and shifts to more labor
intensive and higher value crops; and (c) more year-round and increased
employment of labor. The project would also assist GOI and the State Govern-
ment towards the goal of self-sufficiency in foodgrains.



- 122 -
6.03      As in other states, farmers in Bihar do not pay any agricultural
income tax. However, some income would accrue to GOI and the State Govern-
ment through sales and excise taxes on project equipment, estimated at about
Rs 27 million in all. Some production inputs are also subject to taxes, and
these should yield about Rs 22 million a year at full development.
6.04      Projected world market prices (net of inflation) in 1980 are
available for wheat, paddy, maize, sugarcane and barley, and have been used
in estimating the economic rates of return (Annex 8). With the exception
of sugarcane they are lower than current producer prices. After adjusting
for taxes and subsidies, using a seasonably variable imputed rate for labor
based on its opportunity cost, and using projected world market prices,
the economic rate of return for the project components would range from 21%
to 32%. If the income was reduced by 15% the rates would range from 10% to
18%. If the costs were increased by 15%, the rates would range from 15% to
25%. These sensitivity tests are satisfactory.
6.05      Almost a quarter of the farms in the project area are between 1
and 5 ha, and most of the project borrowers would be in this group. Small
farms of less than 1 ha comprise almost three-fourths of all farms in the
area. Substantial numbers of these farms which would not otherwise have
access to irrigation would benefit indirectly from the project through
buying water from borrowers.  The significant increases in farm incomes
and in employment arising from groundwater development in the project area,
where groundwater is abundant and not difficult to tap, indicate that such
development is the most practical way of making an immediate contribution
to the prosperity of this area, which is among the poorest and most populous
in India. It is unlikely that the project would affect the ecology of the
area.
6.06      The project would generate other benefits which have not been
evaluated in the rate of return calculations. These include: (a) the
strengthening of the lending banks (particularly LDB) and the area's credit
system; (b) the demonstration effect on other farms (particu1arly the value
of an assured water supply); (c) the improved quality of drinking water, leading
to improved health; and (d) a major contribution to groundwater control, which
is essential for stabilizing production.
6.07      Measurement of the actual financial and economic benefits which
arise from the project is important, particularly to improve future project
appraisals. The Reserve Bank of India is responsible for it iln the previous
credit projects, under arrangements with ARC. Accordingly, assurances were
received at negotiations that ARC would arrange for monitoring and evaluation
of the financial and economic benefits of this project in the same way
it does those of the earlier projects.



- 23 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) the State Government would apply well spacing criteria as
detailed in Schedule A for the project and all other minor
irrigation development in the State (para 4.15); and
(b) lending banks would adhere to the well spacing criteria
of Schedule A, and follow agreed lending policies and
procedures as detailed in Schedule B (para 4.04).
7.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) the Project Coordinating Committee had been set up
(para 4.02);
(b) the subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and ARC had
been executed (para 4.04);
(c) LDB's overdues were below 25% of demand (para 4.09);
(d) LDB had made three appointments to strengthen its
technical cell (para 4.10); and
(e) at least two of the 4 Central Groundwater Board
hydrogeologists had been appointed and were in post
(para 4.14).
7.04      The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$32 million, on
standard IDA terms.






SCHEDULE A
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Spacing of Wells
In order to avoid the danger of excessive interference of tubewells,
their spacing shall be determined for any area by the following formula:
C
S  = 1000   RxAx     00
rx100
where     S  =  distance between wells in meters
R  =  irrigation requirement for the average
cropping in the area in mm
A  =  size of the area to be irrigated in ha
C  =  cropping intensity
r  =  estimated annual recharge in mm
Example of application of the above formula: Assuming that the irrigation
requirement for a 2.5 ha farm with an average cropping pattern and cropping
intensity of 185% would be 660 mm and the estimated recharge from all sources
would be 190 mm, the spacing would be 400 meters.






SCHEDULE B
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions would be used in
implementing the project and would not be altered without prior IDA agreement:
1.        GOI to ARC
(a) For ARC refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 5.75% minimum, less
0.25% for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years;
(b) For ARC refinancing for more than 9 and up to 15 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 6.25% minimum, less 0.25%
for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years;
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.
2.        ARC to Lending Banks
(a) Annual interest rate of 7% minimum;
(b) Installment repayments to coincide approximately with
collections from ultimate borrowers; and
(c) Refinancing by purchase of debentures or by loans at the
rate of 90% of individual loans.
3.        Lending Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) Annual interest rate of 9.5% minimum;
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost of
project investments may be charged;
(c) Farmers' contributions (including obligatory purchase of
LDB shares, own labor, and other contributions in cash or
kind):



SCHEDULE B
Page 2
(i) for normal lending, a minimum of 10% of the investment
cost of pumpsets and 15% for tubewells and well
improvements;
(ii) for lending to small farmers, 1/ a minimum of 10%
of the investment cost of pumpsets and dug wells,
and 10 to 15% 2/ of tubewells;
(d) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's
repayment capacity, but not to exceed:
(i) for normal lending:
(a) 7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether
financed as separate loans or included in
tubewell loans; and
(b) 9 years on loans for tubewells;
(ii) for lending to small farmers as defined:
(a) 7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether
financed as separate loans or included in
tubewell loans; and
(b) 15 years for all other minor irrigation loans;
(e) Technical standards, in particular spacing criteria, as laid
down by the Minor Irrigation Department to be observed;
1/   Small farmers have been defined, in accordance with criteria
agreed with IDA, as those farmers cultivating an area which
provides them with an annual net income (after cultivation costs
but before debt serve) of Rs 2,400 or less but with sufficient
land to permit an incremental income from the proposed invest-
ment at least high enough to meet the principal and interest
payments on a loan for that investment. This formula is applied
on an individual scheme basis by ARC. Lending to one individual
small farmer would be limited to Rs 10,000, but small farmers
could participate in joint investments where their share of the
total investment cost did not exceed Rs 10,000 each.
2/   10% for two or more farmers in a group loan.



SCHEDULE B
Page 3
(f) Investments to be evaluated in terms of incremental returns
resulting from the additional investments in accordance
with evaluation methods developed by ARC;
(g) Security to be in accordance with arrangements between
lending banks and ARC; and
(h) If his own cultivated area is significantly smaller than
that which can be adequately irrigated by the tubewell
concerned, the borrower would undertake to sell water
surplus to his needs, or to hire out his pumpset, or to
participate with other farmers in the joint investment
and operation of the tubewell.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Background
A. Bihar
1.        Situated in the northeast of the Indian landmass to the northwest
of Calcutta, Bihar occupies much of the lower-central portion of the Ganges
Plain and a large portion of the Chotanagpur Plateau, which lies to the
south of the Plain. Its northern boundary is with Nepal, and the States of
Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and West Bengal lie to the west,
southwest, south and east respectively. It has the second largest population
of all the Indian states; 56.3 million in the 1971 census, equivalent to
10.4% of the total population of India. With an area of 17.4 million ha,
the population density is 323 per km2, compared with the 1971 all-India
average of 182.
2.        Only 10% of the population of 5.6 million is urban, an increase
of one-fifth over the past 10 years. 80% of the working population is
engaged directly in agriculture, and about 43% of total State income in
recent years has been generated within this sector. About 38% of the total
working population is classed as agricultural laborers in the 1971 census,
compared with 23% ten years earlier.
3.        The net State domestic product in 1968-69 was only 6.1% of the
net national product compared with 10.4% of the country's population, and
per capita incomes have averaged about 35% below the national average in
recent years.
4.        The annual changes in these key economic indicators are largely
governed by the varying fortunes of the agricultural sector, which in turn
are strongly influenced by the incidence of floods and droughts. 1966-67
was an especially bad drought year in Bihar, when it experienced an almost
total rain failure, while the 1970 monsoon brought serious flooding. In
1971, unseasonable rains caused extensive damage to standing crops, and the
State was also affected by the 1972 drought, although not so seriously as
several others on the west side of India.
5.        In spite of these vicissitudes the rate of growth of foodgrain
production has been maintained at a level slightly higher than the rate of
population growth during the last two decades. It has risen by 45% from an
average of 5.2 million tons in the three years ending 1950-51 to an average
of 8.2 million tons during the three years ending 1970-71 (equivalent to
an annual 2.25%). This is, however, well below the national increase of
82.7% in the same 20 years.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        In 1969-70, the latest year for which complete figures are
available, the net cropped area amounted to 8.4 million ha, of which 2.7
million ha were sown more than once, giving a gross cropped area of 11.1
million ha, equivalent to a 132% cropping intensity. There is very little
additional land which could be brought under crops, and further expansion
of agricultural production will have to come from increasing the yield on
existing areas. This can be done most effectively by the introduction of
improved farming practices, including high yielding seeds of traditional
and introduced crops, combined with the use of fertilizers and improved
irrigation facilities. The overall effect of these measures would be to
achieve the two-fold objective of increasing the yield of each crop and of
raising the annual intensity of cropping by extending the area under double
and even triple cropping.
7.        Recent experience has shown that the provision of an assured
irrigation water supply is the key factor in enabling farmers to participate
in the advances embodied in the green revolution, for the increased
production comes almost entirely from these irrigated areas. The most
popular crop under these circumstances is wheat; its area and production
has increased markedly during the rabi or cool dry season. Improved varieties
of paddy and hybrid maize have also contributed in no small measure to the
increased output. Production of irish and sweet potatoes has increased
substantially, although the area under these two crops is proportionately
much smaller than that under cereals. Part of the area increase has been
at the expense of other, more traditional crops including barley and the
pulses, of which the most important are Bengal gram, pigeon pea and lentil.
8.        The State Government is well aware of the importance of irrigation,
and its plans for accelerated economic development, as expressed in a
recently published approach paper to the Fifth Plan (1974-1979), will give
high priority to development of the immense groundwater resources of the
State, both through construction of large diameter State tubewells and
through the encouragement of smaller, privately-owned tubewells. At the
same time, the rate of construction of a number of large surface water
irrigation projects, the progress of which has been disappointingly slow
due chiefly to lack of funds, will be accelerated under the plan.
B. Project Area
General
9.        The project area covers the Tirhut Division (3.26 million ha),
the most populous of the four principal administrative divisions of the
State, and occupies the northwestern portion of the State from the north
bank of the Ganges River to the Nepal border (see Map). The Division, which
formlerly comprised four districts, was divided into 10 after an administrative
reorganization in 1972.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       The area is intensively developed agriculturally, with a very
high population of 17.9 million (1971), giving a density of 549 per km
compared with the State average of 323. In consequence, the average size
of operational holdings is extremely small, with nearly three quarters
(73%) less than 1 ha, compared with 64% for the entire State. A further
24% are between 1 and 5 ha, and these will represent the group most likely
to benefit directly under the project, while only 3% are over 5 ha.
11.       The economically backward condition of this area is underlined
by the fact that the original four districts comprising the Division (before
the recent reorganization) had respectively the slowest, second, third
and sixth slowest growth rates of all districts in the State in recent years.
12.       The pattern of land use is relatively uniform throughout the
area in spite of its extent and the wide variety of crops grown on even the
smallest farms. This uniformity reflects the comparatively homogeneous
physical conditions in the area, details of which are summarized below.
Climate
13.       The area has a subtropical monsoon climate, with a normal annual
precipitation varying from 1,100 mm in parts of Saran District in the
southwest to 1,400 mm in the northern parts of Champaran District. About
85% of these rains occur during the southwest monsoon, which blows from
June to September and which corresponds to the kharif crop season, when a
range of tropical crops suited to the hot, humid conditions then prevailing
are grown. This is succeeded by a cooler, drier period lasting from October
to February, when the winds blow with gradually decreasing intensity from
the Himalayan mountain region in the north. This period, when temperatures
as low as 4°C may be experienced, corresponds to the rabi crop season, when
temperate crops are grown and when irrigation is particularly beneficial.
Finally, during late March, April and early May, a period of hot, dry weather
is experienced, with temperatures rising as high as 45C and rainfall below
10 mm in some months. This period, known as the summer (garma) season, is
occasionally used to grow vegetables, pulses and paddy, although this is only
possible if a ready supply of irrigation water and suitable nearby markets
are available.
Soils
14.       The project area lies entirely within the Ganges Plain and the
soils are developed over the deep alluvium deposited by the Ganges and
several of its left bank (northern) tributaries, principally the Gandak,
Buhri Gandak and Kosi Rivers and their numerous subsidiary streams, whicn
continually deposit fresh material eroded from the soft, often calcareous
rocks of the Himalayan Ranges.
15.       The soils are for the most part well drained and porous, 'ight
to medium textured loams with high proportions of silt and fine sand;
heavier textured clay loams are much less common. The soil reaction is basic
in character over most of the area, with moderately high pH values averaging
around 7.5 to 8.5, except in parts of western Saran District, where values



ANNEX 1
Page 4
as high as 9.5 may be found and where patches of non-productive saline and
saline alkali soils occur; and in the north of Champaran District, where
neutral and slightly acid soils extensively occur.
16.       Differences between the soils from place to place can be
correlated with slight differences in the micro-relief of the plain, which
is not uniformly flat but a series of almost level terraces laid down at
different times by the individual rivers. The older soils, which are more
leached and have more highly differentiated profiles, are to be found on
the more elevated sites, while the younger soils, which are also generally
the most fertile as well as the most flood-prone, occur most frequently in
the lower areas.
17.       In spite of the recognizable differences between the soils, which
impose variable management requirements from place to place, their productivity
is fairly consistently high throughout the project area, with the exception
of the comparatively small patches of saline alkali soils mentioned above,
which require specialized treatment for their recovery.
18.       The superior quality of the majority of these soils has been
appreciated by mankind for many centuries, and is the root cause of the high
population density in the Ganges Plain. Throughout this long period,
agricultural systems based on a variety of mainly indigenous crops suited
to the soil and rainfall conditions have evolved gradually, as a result of
a long trial and error process, and a satisfactory balance now exists
between the available nutrient supply, which is removed from the land in the
form of crops, and the amount replaced by mineral decay, replenished through
flood, or returned as vegetable and animal waste.
19.       The more intensive cropping patterns now being introduced coupled
with higher yields impose a greater demand on soil nutrient reserves, which
can only be replenished by the application of heavier fertilizer dressings.
This fact is well appreciated by the more progressive farmers, and is
continually stressed by the extension personnel of the Directorate of
Agriculture, with the result that the demand for fertilizers currently
exceeds the supply.
20.       Less readily appreciated at this juncture is the progressive
deterioration in soil structure due to loss of organic matter than can be
expected to take place under the more intensive cropping systems. The
introduction of green manure crops into the cropping cycles, as well as
continued emphasis on the return of all animal and vegetable wastes to the
land, therefore deserves the close and continuing attention of the
agricultural research and extension agencies.
Soil-Water Relationships
21.       The more precise management needs of the recently introduced
and 4ncreasingly popular higher yielding varieties has accentuated the
long felt need for improved and more widespread irrigation water supplies
on a year-round basis.  A variety of water supply and distribution systems,



ANNEX 1
Page 5
ranging from simple hand-operated wells serving very small areas to very
large, complex barrage and canal surface irrigation schemes, are currently
meeting this demand.
22.       Minor irrigation systems are best exemplified by state and
privately owned tubewells, in which the abundant groundwater resources of
the project area are tapped only when required within the restricted command
of the well, and in which drainage is readily effected by cessation of
pumping leading to vertical percolation through the pornu; subsoil within
the restricted locality. Such systems afford little or no risk of inadvertent
waterlogging or flood damage in neighboring areas. They are therefore a
most effective way of providing a locally reliable water supply to the
extent that the recharge characteristics of the aquifer will permit. Provided
that the quality of the water is acceptable for long-term irrigation needs,
as experience to date suggests is the case over the greater part of the
project area, there is no danger of ecological upset within the areas of
influence of the wells.
23.       In the neighborhood of already identified saline and saline
alkali soil areas, as indicated on soil maps or from other sources, where
the possibility of high salt concentrations in pumped irrigation water is
greatest, a cautious approach to well siting and boring is called for, and
tubewell construction should only be permitted after a test of water quality
has been made. More generally, and recognizing the very limited available
knowledge of water quality variations within the project area, monitoring
of water quality, as well as watertable depth variations, should be undertaken
as routine.
24.       The further development of tubewells under the project, which will
be confined to the portions of land not irrigable by canal within the
Gandak command area, as well as to the more extensive area of land lying
outside the gross command area of the Gandak system, will not adversely
affect, or be affected by problems of irrigation and drainage associated
with the system. The additional recharge to the aquifers through seepage
from the system will constitute a definite benefit to the tubewell operators
in parts of the command area. Conversely, the tubewells could afford some
relief, through their lowering effect on the watertable, in some situations
where they are operated close to waterlogged patches within the command
area.
Agriculture
25.       Within the project area of 3.3 million ha, the net area sown in
1969-70 amounted to about 2.3 million ha, of which 0.9 million ha, or almost
two fifths, were sown more than once, equivalent to a cropping intensity of
about 138%. In addition, about 0.09 million ha were under miscellaneous
tree crops or permanent pasture not included in the sown area, and about 0.25
million ha were under fallow. Most of the remaining area was variously
utilized as forest (0.09 million ha), barren lands or cultivable waste
(0.11 million ha), or put to non-agricultural use (0.42 million ha) (Table 2).



ANNEX I
Page 6
26.       The recently published results of the 1971 Agricultural Census
indicate that, in spite of continuous attempts at land reform during the
past two decades, a high proportion of the land within the project area is
owned by a relatively small number of operators. For example, about 28%
(0.8 million ha) of the total area of operational holdings are more than
5 ha and are owned by only 3% (82,000) of the total operators.
27.       Under a proposed program of land reform now awaiting legislative
approval (1973-74 has been declared Land Reform Year by the State Government),
lower ceilings on land holdings would be more strictly enforced while other
sharecropping and tenurial reforms, including a much needed consolidation
of holdings would be carried out within the project area. The reforms would
be introduced progressively through the project area, commencing with
Muzaffarpur District in 1974, where advance preparation involving an
updating of the land cadasters for each village has already been completed.
Champaran District would be covered similarly within a year or two and
Saran and Darbhanga Districts would be covered during the third phase, which
is scheduled for completion in 1980.
28.       These reforms, if implemented, should have a very favorable impact
on agricultural production. The high degree of fragmentation, which is a
major reason for the popularity of movable pumpsets, is seriously inhibiting
the fuller use of land in a number of ways. The imposition of lower ceilings
should also contribute towards increasing the overall intensity of cropping,
because larger farms usually show lower cropping intensities.
Seasonal Cropping Patterns
29.       Area statistics show that about three quarters of a million ha more
land is cultivated in the kharif, or main rains season than in the rabi, or
cool dry season and the summer, or hot, dry season combined. For All-India
statistical purposes, the summer season crops are grouped under the rabi,
although in the project area this season is recognized as a separate one.
About 18% of the broadly defined rabi crops in the area are actually summer
season crops. Paddy, maize and green gram are becoming increasingly popular
in this season in those parts of the project area where there is a reliable
canal irrigation supply. The high pumping cost of tubewell water, due to
the heavy demands of these crops, especially paddy, at this time of year
limits the extent of summer cropping on farms with private tubewells, except
for small areas of pulse.
30.       The principal kharif crop is paddy (1.4 million ha average in
recent years), of which about 10% is irrigated and the rest rainfed. Maize
(almost 0.4 million ha), finger millet and similar coarse cereals (a little
less than 0.1 million ha) comprise the bulk of the remaining cropped area.
Paddy includes about 1.2 million ha of late maturing (winter) varieties,
an area that has remained fairly static in recent years, and about 0.2 million
ha of early or medium term (autumn) paddy. This latter area has increased
by about 33% in recent years, reflecting the increasing use of medium term
high yielding varieties, which have increased in popularity along with the
advent of irrigation.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
31.       Although the area irrigated during the kharif is not extensive (at
least during normal years when rainfall is abundant), some supplemental
irrigation is used, particularly in the drier years or if the rains are late,
(when irrigation of the paddy nurseries can be crucial), or to extend the
growing season beyond the end of the rains. The availability of a supplemental
irrigation supply, even though it may not be used in some years, is
a major factor determining the change over from local to higher yielding
paddy and hybrid maize varieties, when the maintenance of optimal moisture
conditions for the crop is especially important.
32.       The main rabi crop is wheat, to the extent of nearly 0.4 million
ha in 1969-70 (almost double the area of a few years earlier), due largely
to the introduction of irrigation, which was supplied to more than 55% of
the crop area in that year. Barley (rather less than 0.2 million ha) is
the second most extensively planted rabi crop, the area of which has been
declining in recent years although 18% is irrigated, as farmers with irrigation
turn preferentially to wheat.  A wide variety of pulses is also grown in the
rabi, including red gram, bengal gram and lentil. All of these are frequently
sown as follow-on crops, interplanted with the kharif cereals at various
stages of the growth cycle, to the extent of around 0.3 ha in recent years,
but showing a declining trend of about 5% annually. This decline is almost
entirely attributable to the introduction of irrigation, when wheat becomes
the favored crop at the expense of the longer maturing and lower yielding
traditional pulses.
33.       Other important crops h'r-s      i  the r-  are sugarcane (a little
over 0.1 million ha), a year round crop usually ratooned once, the area of
which has changed very little in recent years, and potato (around 0.05 million
ha), an increasingly popular crop amongst the irrigated farmers, and particu-
larly those with access to cold storage facilities.
34.       The combined area of irrigated crops in 1969-70 was just over
0.4 million ha, of which 39% was wheat and 36% paddy, while the remaining
25% included barley, maize and sugarcane, together with smaller areas of
rabi pulses, fruits and vegetables. The potential for further irrigation
within the project area is high, since the total rabi cropped area in
1969-70 was more than 1.2 million ha.
35.       The net area irrigated from different sources within the project
area has risen from 0.27 million ha in 1967-68 to 0.40 million ha in
1970-71, or almost exactly 50% over three years. This increase followed
the serious 1966 drought; shortly after, came the large scale introduction
of high yielding cereal varieties, when the advantages of irrigation became
particularly apparent. The increase in irrigated area came from a variety
of sources, including government canals (27% increase), tanks (85% increase)
and others (80% increase), but most spectacularly from tubewells, which
rose by more than 300%; from 27,000 ha in 1967-68 to 109,000 ha in 1970-71
(an incremental rate of 27,000 ha per year) (Table 3). Part of the
increase in the area irrigated by tanks and other sources is due to the
installation of lift pumps.



ANNTEX 1
Page 8
Cropping Patterns Variations
36.       In spite of the apparent uniformity in the physical conditions and
the crops grown within the project area as shown in the agricultural
statistics (published by the Directorate of Statistics and the Directorate
of Agriculture), there are important variations in cropping patterns, not
only between non-irrigated and irrigated lands but also within these groups.
These are based on slight differences in the relief, soil and moisture
characteristics within what otherwise appears to be a relatively level and
homogenous plain.
37.       Broadly, the differences range from moist, low lying to better
drained, more elevated areas, and with countless transitions between these
extremes. These impart a complexity to the farming systems not usually
evident at first sight, and makes generalization difficult.
38.       The lowland pattern includes a high proportion of kharif paddy,
both irrigated and rainfed. Rainfed paddy is usually a local late maturing
(winter) variety, capable of yielding up to 1.2 ton/ha on the better holdings.
Because of its late maturity, cultivation in the rabi is restricted, and
only a small area can be planted in this season, usually to local variety
wheat, yielding around 1 ton/ha, or pulse. After acquiring an irrigation
installation, which gives a useful insurance against drought at all seasons,
and especially where the danger of flooding is minimal, the farmer is likely
to go over to medium term, high yielding varieties of paddy capable of
giving average yields around 2.6 ton/ha and to develop a larger area of wheat,
using a high yielding variety, capable of 2.8 ton/ha yield averages.
39.       In the highland pattern, the proportion of kharif paddy is lower,
while maize (either as a sole crop or intercropped with a pulse) capable of
yields in the order of 1 ton/ha, or finger millet giving yields of around
0.8 ton/ha, become more important. Also the overall cropping intensity
and the extent of rabi cropping (with barley rather than wheat) is higher
than in the lowland pattern, even when unirrigated. After irrigation, higher
yielding paddy, and hybrid maize giving around 2.4 ton/ha, both become
popular in the kharif, while barley is displaced by the high yielding and
more profitable wheat in the rabi.
40.       Potato or sugarcane may be introduced in either of these patterns,
or their yields increased through irrigation, while pulses tend to lose
popularity, except for green gram grown mainly for household consumption.
This is one of the few crops likely to catch on a summer crop amongst
farmers with tubewells, in contrast to farmers using canal irrigation water
at much lower water costs. Summer paddy or maize may be grown also.
Farm Models
41.       The farm models used in Annex 3 to support project detailed cost
and yield assumptions are representative of the farms in the 1-5 ha class
that fall between the two extremes outlined above, and that are of a size
most likely to benefit under the project. Water sales, which are included



ANNEX 1
Page 9
in each of the tubewell models, benefit the smaller and poorer farmers in
the neighborhood of those able to equip themselves with tubewells and pumps.
Seasonal Inputs
42.       The irrigation improvements arising from the project must be
accompanied by an increase in the supply of high yielding seeds, and by
fertilizers, without which the productivity of the land will inevitably fall
as the nutrient reserves are depleted under the heavier cropping regime.
The National Seeds Corporation, which has a well developed network of
certified growers, and the Directorate of Agriculture, which also produces
improved seed (mainly local varieties) on its own multiplication seed farms
in each block, are able to meet current demands from farmers, except in the
case of the very latest varieties, the demand for which almost always exceeds
the supply during the early stages of introduction. They should experience
no difficulty in meeting the further demand arising from the project. A
possible exception could be in the supply of hybrid maize, which has caught
on particularly well in north Bihar, including the project area, during the
last three years, so that demand temporarily exceeds the supply. Because
estimates of demand were conservative, some Terai Development Corporation
hybrid seeds are now selling at more than double the regulated price
within the project area. Efforts to increase the supply, including the
involvement of the Agricultural University of Bihar (which has its head-
quarters at Dholi, within the project area), are expected to rectify this
situation within a year or two.
43.       Fertilizers are in short supply throughout India, and supplies are
allocated to each state by the GOI. The Bihar State Goverment, through
a Joint Director in the Directorate of Agriculture, is responsible under
the authority of the Fertilizer Control Act for breaking down its allocation
into districts. A further breakdown on a block basis takes place at the
district level. The extent of irrigation in any area is a major criterion
in determing allocations at these various levels. Allocations within the
project area should rise equitably, commensurate with the increase in the
project's irrigated area, insofar as available supplies will permit.
Distribution is not a problem, as a network of depots, including private and
cooperative sales points, exists throughout the project area.
Extersio;,
44.       Agricultural extension is primarily the responsibility of the
Directorate of Agriculture, which has a Joint Director in the project area
assited by 4 District Agricultural Officers and 160 Block Agricultural
Officers, who are technically responsible for the work of the Village Level
Workers, averaging 10 in each block. In addition, the extension staff of
more than half the blocks in the project area have been strengthened through
the Intensive Agricultural Development Program. In these blocks, the
selection of which is governed mainly by the effectiveness and extent of
irrigation, the agricultural staff is usually doubled, with two Agricultural
Officers and three or four Special Subject Officers, assisted by 20 Village
Level Workers to each block.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
45.       The staff are responsible for familiarizing the farmers in their
area with the improved agricultural practices most appropriate to their need,
as well as performing the normal regulatory functions of the Directorate.
Several years exposure to the possibilities and limitations of the new high
yielding varieties made available through this service, coupled with the
successful demonstration of the advantages of the new practices afforded by
many of the progressive farmers, now appears to be bearing fruit. The
greatest need is for the tools, especially irrigation, without which
subsistence farmers are unable to advance into the modern farming world.
Labor
46.       Additional labor needs arising from the more intensive cropping
patterns adopted under the project can be met adequately from the existing
supply of rural labor. This includes a high proportion of under-employed
within farm households, as well as a very considerable, but difficult tb
estimate, reservoir of unemployed and seasonally employed farm laborers.
Animal power, which is abundant throughout the project area (over 1.8
million working bullocks in 1972), should be sufficient to meet most of the
increased cultivation demands arising from the higher cropping intensity
within the project area. Farmers with irrigation report no difficulty in
hiring supplementary bullock power from neighbors who lack irrigation.
Tractors, which numbered only 1,586 in the project area in 1971-72, are
confined almost exclusively to the larger farms exceeding 10 ha. Custom
hire units do not appear to be comercially attractive in the area at
present.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Operational Holdings and Farm Size
Number of Holdings              Tirhut as
Size Class           Tirhut Division        State         % of State
ha               ----     thousands---------
less than 0.5             1,453             3,510            41.4
0.5 to 1.0                  462             1,346            34.4
1.0 to 2.0                  329             1,114            29.5
2.0 to 3.0                  153               578            26.5
3.0 to 4.0                   80               343            23.3
4.0 to 5.0                   52               227            22.9
5.0 to 10.0                  60               322            18.6
over 10.0                    22               138            15.9
Total          2.611             7,578             34.5
Source: 1971 Census Preliminary Results: Agricultural Census
Commissioner, Bihar, Patna, 1973.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Area and State - Land Utilization 1969-70
('000 ha)
Tirhut                  Tirhut as
Division      State      % of State
Total topographical area               3,263       17,337         18.8
Forest                                    89        3,018          2.9
Barren and uncultivable land              94        1,072          8.8
Land put to non-agricultural use         421        1,518         27.7
Cultivable waste land                     15          534          2.8
Miscellaneous tree crops and groves       71          186         38.2
Permanent pasture and other
grazing land                           16          175         9.1
Current fallow                           201        1,528         13.2
Other fallow land                         54          907          6.0
Net sown area                          2,302        8,399         27.4
Area sown more than once                 874        2,669         32.7
Total cropped area                3,176      11,068         28.7
Source:  Annual Season and Crop Report for the Agricultural Year
1969-70. Directorate of Statistics and Evaluation,
Government of Bihar, 1972.



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Area - Net Area Irrigated b  Different Sources  1967-68  1968-69  1969-70 and 1970-71
Canal                               Wells
Agricultural Year   Government    Private       Tanks    Tubewells       Other Wells        Other Sources./    Grand Total
1967-68           95.7 (36)    O.S ()    17.3 (7)   27.1 (10)         99.6 (37)           27.7 (10)          268.3 (100)
1968-69         101.8 (32)    2.7 (1)    23.9 (8)   64.2 (20)         79.0 (25)          44.5 (1h)           316.1 (100)
1969-70         120.2 (32)    0.3 (_)    29.7 (8)   84.1 (23)         83.9 (23)           50.8 (14)          369.0 (100)
1970-71         121.6 (31)    0.9 (_)    31.2 (8)  109.3 (t7)         8h.3 (21)          h9.8 (13)           397.1 (100)
1/ Lakes, rivers, and minor surface water.
Source: Annual Season and Crop Report, 1969-70. Directorate of Statistics and Evaluation, Government of Bihar,
Patna, 1972.
July 25, 1973






ANTNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Minor Irrigation
Hydrogeological Conditions
1.        The project area comprises the Tirhut Division located in the north-
western part of Bihar. Except for a small portion of Champaran district
which is underlain by semiconsolidated rocks, the Division occupies a portion
of the vast Indo-Gangetic alluvial plain formed during the pleistocene epoch.
The deposits consist principally of beds of fine to coarse sand, clay and
silt, with some admixture of kankar (limey nodules). The aquifers penetrated
by most tubewells are strata of medium to coarse sand of varying thickness
and depth. Existing wells have been drilled to depths of a few hundred feet
but have not fully penetrated the alluvium.
2.        The principal streams draining the project area are part of the
Ganges river consisting of the Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati and several
smaller streams. Most have their origin in the Himalaya Mountains or in
the foothills in Nepal north of the international boundary. Stream gradients
are low and slopes are toward the southeast. The largest and most important
river is the Gandak which supplies water to the Gandak Irrigation Project
now under construction. Project works consist of a barrage located near
the Nepal boundary which diverts Gandak River flows into the Main Western
and Main Eastern Canal systems. The Main Western Canal furnishes water
to distributaries in both Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and is designed to serve
a gross command area of 357,000 ha in the latter, as well as 570,000 ha
in Bibar. The Main Eastern Canal is designed to serve a gross command area
of 390,000 ha in Bihar as well as a small area in Nepal.
3.        The climate of the area is sub-tropical with hot summers and
mild winters. Temperatures range from a low of about 4°C in January to a
high of 45°C in May and June. Average annual precipitation varies from
112 cm in Saran District to 139 cm in Champaran District, with about 85%
occurring during the monsoon period from June through September. Tn general
the magnitude of rainfall is influenced by the Himalaya Mountains with
orographic cooling providing slightly higher rainfall to those areas close
to the mountains.
4.        Except for the sn-all area of semi-consolidated rocks in Champaran
District, for which no data are available, ground water of generally good
quality occurs throughout the area. For the greater Dart of the area it
occurs under water table conditions, although near the Nepal boundary it may
occur under confined conditions with well construction difficult and expensive.
For all practical purposes water table conditions may be assumed zhroughout



ANNEX 2
Page 2
the area where private well development is expected to occur.  Recharge to
aquifers in the project area occurs in three ways: (1) by direct penetration
of rainfall, (2) by deep percolation from canals and water applied for
irrigation and (3) by horizontal inflow through aquifers outcropping near
the mountains where recharge occurs from the numerous perennial and intermit-
tent streams draining the Himalayas. Based on the Chaturvedi formula
Rp = 2 (R - 15) 2/5 where R = annual average rainfall and Rp = rainfall
penetration to the ground water reservoir, the average annual recharge in
the alluvial area of the Tirhut Division is about 590 M m3. Present use
by existing tubewells is estimated to be about 60 M m3 which indicates
that about 530 M m3 of recharge is available from precipitation on the area.
This does not include recharge from canal irrigation or horizontal inflow
through aquifer zones that may extend to the Himalayan foothills. There
are no data presently available for making estimates of recharge from
these sources. The Gandak Project Canal system is now under construction and
until such time as the available water is utii7?e' 2cquitabl;- throu;hout the
project, the ground water recharge will increase substantially in the areas
which receivo plentidfu  canal suppites.  In fact waterlogging is already
developing in some areas and plans for drainage works are being accelerated.
Ground water pumping in those areas will be beneficial in that it will delay
or otherwise reduce the extent and severity of waterlogging. In those areas
not designated to receive canal water supplies it will be necessary to
evaluate the horizontal recharge in order to fully utilize the available
ground water resources. Hydrologic characteristics of the aquifers could
be determined by making pumping tests on existing wells, for example the
State tubewells, utilizing the criteria established by the Theis non-equili-
brium formula. Until this is done, well spacing should be based on estimates
of recharge directly from precipitation on the area. The small area of semi-
consolidated rocks in the northern part of Champaran district should not be
included in this project until such time as data are available to demonstrate
the technical and economic feasibility of its development.
Tubewell and Irrigation Technology
5.        As in most alluvial areas the depth and thickness of aquifers
varies greatly, and the yield from tubewells depends to a large extent on
the total thickness of aquifers penetrated. The State tubewells, of which
there are about 740, are owned and operated by the Minor Irrigation Department,
and have an average depth of about 80 meters and yield about 57m3 per hour.
They are fitted with a pump chamber of about 30 cm in diameter and the strainer
consists of slotted pipe of about 15 cm diameter with a gravel filter. The
Department has several rotary rigs and under an accelerated program is drilling
about 10 per month. The water is delivered to the outlets in brick lined
channels and farmers are charged the same rates as those under the canal system.
These tubewells are in areas which cannot be served by canals, and sites are
selected by a committee chaired by the local District Commissioner. Whenever
possible they are located in clusters for convenience of operation and main-
tenance, and for obtaining electric power.  Tney currently irrigate about
60,000 ha.
6.        The depths of private tubeweels in the project area ranges from
about 25 to 65 meters, and discharges range from 25 to 36 m3 per hour. They



ANNEX 2
Page 3
may be classified into two cateaories depending on their depth and yield.
Category I would include those tubewells of less than about 30 meters in
depth with yields averaging about 25 m3 per hour. Category II would include
those whose depth is greater than 30 meters but less than 60 meters and
yielding an average of about 36 m3 per hour.
7.        There are two basic designs of private tubewells in Bihar.  One is
a "cavity" well, so called because it has no strainer. The casing, usually
about 10 cm in diameter, is seated in a hard clay deposit which overlies a
laver of sand that funcions as the aquifer. During development of the well
the sand is removed by pumping, and forms a cavity around the open end of the
casing. The clay deposit must be able to support the weight of the overburden
or the cavity will collapse. Farmers prefer this type because of its low
cost, but there are only a few places in the project area, mostly in Saran and
Champaran Districts, where the necessary geological conditions are to be
found. Practically all other private tubewells utilize the 'coir" strainer,
which consists of a rope made from coconut fiber wrapped around an open steel
tubular framework.
8.        The Minor Irrigation Department has more than 300 hand drilling
rigs in the project area and provides drilling services for the farmers if
they desire. Also there are many private drilling contractors in the villages
whose services can be obtained at reasonable rates. These are more than
sufficient to provide a competitive service in the area.
Conjunctive Use of Surface and Groundwater
9.        Upon completion of the Gandak Irrigation Project around 1978, there
will be a marked increase in groundwater recharge on the Gandak Project area
with some resulting waterlogging. In fact, waterlogging has already been
of concern to State officials, and plans for construction of the drainage
system are being accelerated. Therefore anv pumping of ground water from
aquifers underlying the area will tend to delay or otherwise mitigate the
effects of waterlogging. Because canal supplies will be limited in the rabi
season to perhaps 25% of the canal command area and because irrigation is
most needed for rabi crops there will be opportunity for conjunctive use of
the surface and ground water supplies. The extent of such use will be
determined bv the number of tubewells constructed and utilized in the project
area. It is anticipated that because of the shortage of rabi canal water
(there being no reservoir storage on the Gandak River) many farmers in the
Gandak Irrigation Project Command area will utilize tubewells to irrigate
rabi crops.
Drainage and Flood Control
10.       Until quite recently, the area was subject to frequent and widespread
flooding from the Ganges and its southward-flowinr  tributaries including
the Gandak. A massive program of flood embankment construction is now nearing
completion in northern Bihar, and as a result the risk of inundation from
these rivers has been very considerablv reduced.  A length of erb-ankment
remains to be constructed on the right bank of the Burhi Candak, to protect



ANNEX 2
Page 4
a large area in which canal irritfation development is presently held up due
to flooding from the river. The State Government is enlisting assistance
from COI to provide additional funds for this vital work. In the rest of
Tirhut Division, flood bunds will be built during the next three years
which will provide a high degree of protection from river flooding to much
of the cultivable area.
11.       Although the estimated annual groundwater recharge in the project
area is more than adequate to supply the needs of the proposed tubewells
in addition to those presently in use, the wells must be spaced so as not
to cause excessive interference, which could cause some wells to go dry.
Model legislation has been prepared by the Central Government with a view
to eventual enactment by all the States, but until such time as legislation
has been passed, the State Government should agree to enforce well spacing
criteria, not only for project investments but for all minor irrigation
development within its direct or indirect control.
12.       Most of the shallow tubewells would utilize a coir strainer but
a few tubewells in suitable areas would be of the cavitv type. Likewise
most of the medium tubewells would utilize the coir strainer. In some
areas where the water table is more than 3 or 4 meters below the land
surface (estimated to be about 3% of the project area) the pump would be
placed in a brick-lined pit so as not to exceed the dynamic suction lift
of the centrifugal pump. If the suction lift is much greater than about 5
meters the efficiency of the pump decreases and the impellers may be damaged
by hydraulic cavitation.
13.       It is estimated that there are more than 45,000 privately-owned
tubewells in the project area in addition to the 700 to 800 state tubewells.
In 1972 approximately 12,000 new private tubewells were constructed. New
state tubewells are being drilled at the rate of about 10 per month. There
are more than 30,000 private dugwells in the project area, most are utilized
for domestic purposes, or to irrigate garden vegetables. Very few persian
wheels are in use.
14.       The tubewells constructed under project lending would irrigate
about 235,000 ha, and utilize about 10% of the 590 M m3 of groundwater
estimated to he available for development.
Ouality of Water
15.       Although no chemical analyses of groundwater are available from
tubewells in the project area, the Groundwater Investigation Division reports
that groundwater is of suitable quality for irrigation use. This is
supported by analyses 1/ of groundwater from. alluvial aquifers within the
same drainage basin in Uttar Pradesh.
1/   Bulletin No. 1 of the Exploratory Tubewell Organization.  Appendix No. 11,
1963, p. 225.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Appraisal Criteria
16.       Although estimates of groundwater recharge from direct penetration
of rainfall over the area as a whole indicate that there is adequate scope
for development of the quantities required for the project there remains
the danger of interference among wells if they are located too close together.
To avoid this the Groundwater Investigation Division would conduct studies
of recharge and determine in advance of well siting the minimum distance
between wells. This distance can be computed for any area by the following
formula:
s= 1000/  R xA x  c
ffr x 100
where s = minimum distance between wells in meters
R = irrigation requirement for the average
cropping pattern in the area in m m
A = size of the area to be irrigated in hectares
c = cropping intensity
r = estimated annual recharge in mm
17.       This spacing criteria has been specified for other agricultural
credit projects in India and is in accordance with guidelines issued by
the Central Groundwater Board. In this project is is not necessary to
apply the density formula because the deep aquifers in the Indo-Gangetic
plain extend across water table divides and it is thus impossible to delineate
discrete elementary watersheds.
Pumping Equipment
18.       Practically all energized tubewells in the project area, except
state tubewells, utilize centrifugal pumps. It is not uncommon for a farmer
to construct a shallow tubewell from his own resources and rent a pumpset
during the irrigation season from a neighbor or pump supplier. Consequently
most pumpsets are of the portable type.  Many farmers have more than one
tubewell usually on separate holdings and the pumpset can be moved as needed.
Most farmers would prefer electr4cally driven pumps if dependable power were
available because of its lesser cost and operational convenience. In the
project area only about 17% of the villages are electrified and there is a
shortage of generation capacity. Power is not availab1e to operate pumps
during peak demand periods and voltage fluctuation frequently cause motors tc
fail. For these reasons it appears that most irrigation farmers will
select diesel engines as a source of power. Indigenous diesel engines and
pumps are in adequate supply.  Annex 3, Table 2, shows cost est-imates for
the various types of tubewells including both electric and diesel power units
and accessory equipment.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Irrigation Water Requirements
19.       Irrigation water requirements for the farm models were estimated
by the procedure described in Technical Series No. 2 of the Water Management
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture entitled "A Guide for Estimating
Irrigation Water Requirements" dated July 1971. This procedure utilizes
crop consumption use coefficients determined experimentally. The coefficients
represent the ratio of crop use for a given time period to "Class A" evapora-
tion pan, usually determined on a monthly basis from the time of planting the
crop until it reaches maturity. Evaporation data were obtained from Scien-
tific Report No. 146 published by the India Meteorological Department. A
portion of the rainfall that occurs during the growing season is utilized by
crops. Rainfall data were obtained from "Memoirs of the India Meteorological
Department Vol. XXXI, part III". The estimates of monsoon rainfall uti-
lized by crops were based partly on procedures described in Technical
Series No. 2 referred to above and partly on studies made by Nippon Koi Ltd.
at Hardinath Experiment Station in the Tarai area of Nepal. Estimates of
well yields were based on field observations and discussions in India
during appraisal. Soil moisture storage in the root zone of crops was not
evaluated, primarily because data were not available but also because a more
conservative evaluation is obtained by not considering such storage. For
this reason and because of inaccuracies in the data, crop water shortages of
up to 15% of requirements are not considered significant. Farm models assume
an irrigation efficiency of 75%, because the areas to be irrigated are close
to the wells, and provision is included for brick lined channels, so that
conveyance losses would be negligible. Provision also has been made for minor
land shaping where required.
Low-lift Pumping From Surface Water Sources
20.       There is considerable potential in the project area for irrigation
by pumping from surface water sources. Farmers have begun to buy small diesel-
engined pumping sets for this purpose, and these sources are generally
expected to be developed as follows:
(a) Ox-bow lakes, are frequently located near the main rivers
as a result of meandering. The water surfaces are rarely
more than 2 to 3 m below the surrounding irrigable land.
Pumping lifts are therefore minimal, and discharges of about
45 m3/hr can easily be obtained from 3 to 4 hp pumpsets.
Farmers owning 1 to 2 ha and such a pumpset can, therefore,
profitably irrigate their own loldings and sell water to
adjacent landholders to the extent of about one ha. Pumping
can be continued when required throughout the year.
(b)  Open wells with depths to watertable of 2 m to 10 m are
fairly numerous in the area. 3 hp to 5 hp centrifugal pump-
sets are used for drawing from these sources. Their use is
likely to increase in areas outside the State irrigation
project corn.ands.



ANNEX 2
?age 7
(c) Small reservoirs or "tanks" have been constructed near
numerous villages. Water stored in them after rain is
available for small-scale irrigation by pumping, provided
that village water supplies are not jeopardized.
(d) As the Gandak Irrigation Project canals and drains are
developed, considerable areas of land which are too high
to be commanded by gravity distribution will be within
reach of a water supply that can be pumped against low
heads over short distances. This type of low-cost irrigation
operation is expected to become popular with farmers who
would otherwise have to depend upon State or private tube-
wells. The total area which is too high to be commanded by
the Gandak Canal system in Tirhut Division exceeds 100,000 has,
of which about 20% might be irrigated by private pumping
from Gandak channels.
Organization and Management
21.       The Minor Irrigation Department (MID) is responsible for construc-
tion, operation and maintenance of the State tubewells and low-lift pumps
and for drilling private tubewells when requested to do so by farmers. It
is also responsible for assessment of the groundwater resources of the State
through its Groundwater Investigation Division. MID is under the general
direction of the Production Commissioner, and under the immediate super-
vision of a Chief Engineer. He supervises these drilling circles, each
under the supervision of a superintending engineer who in turn supervises
from four to six district offices, each in charge of an executive engineer.
22.       Technical assistance is provided to farmers by MID field engineers.
There are 4 executive engineers and 31 assistant executive engineers in the
project area, supervised by a Superintending Engineer. For the project,
this staff will continue to provide assistance to individual farmers.
23.       The Groundwater Investigation Division, started in 1971, is under
the direction of an executive engineer, attached to the office of the
Chief Engineer, MID. At present the staff is 8, of which 2 engineers and
a geologist are working in alluvial areas. MID has a phased program to
increase the Division's staff sixfold by 1976-77, as follows:



ANNETX 2
Page 8
Current  73-74  74-75  75-76  76-77
Number of Sections                 1        3       4      5       6
Staff:
Engineers /a                     3       14     18      21     24
Geologists                       5        7      8      10      11
Hydrologists                     -        4      5       6      8
Geophysicists                    -        3      3       3      3
Chemist                          -        1      1       1      1
Total                   8       29      35     41      47
/a Assistant engineers and above.
The existing section will remain at Patna headquarters, while the others
will be assigned to the Divisions as they are formed. The first to be
formed in 1973-74 will go to the project area, and a second will go there
by the end of 1974-75. Provision has been made in the State's 1973-74 Bud-
get to finance the year's staff increase adequately.
24.       Because of the shortage of experienced geohydrologists in India,
it will be necessary to employ recent graduates, and train them for many
of the positions. At least two will be sent each year to Roorkee University
or the Indian Institute of Technology (Bombay), and for all recruits an
in-service training program will be arranged by MID. In addition, the
Central Groundwater Board has agreed to provide four experienced geohydrolo-
gists to train new staff in field procedures during the project period.
One of them is expected to be seconded to LDB to train its staff.
25.       The State Governument set up a Groundwater Board in 1972, to advise
it on major policy issues, and to get basic studies done. Its composition
includes the Development Commissioner, Agricultural Production Commissioner,
and representatives of MID, Public Health Department, Irrigation Department,
Central Groundwater Board and Planning Board.
26.       At present pre-monsoon and post-monsoon water level observations
are made in 1971 of the 200 wells in the project area, and monthly observa-
tions have been started in 10 of them. As soon as sufficient staff is
available in the expanded Groundwater Investigation Division, monthly obser-
vations will be extended to all of them. There will be full cooperation
in this work with the Gandak Command Area Development Authority, recently
formed.



ANNEX 3
Thble f
INDIA
BhAR AGRICnLTUOAL CREDIT_PROJECT
Detailed Investrnt Cost and Yield A-sunptions
Finan. ial
Are  (ha.                Yield (ton/ha)        Cross Prodncton Value (Ps) Productio- Cost iRp)                Net ProdcttionValue. (Rs
Colt                      Poll                          Full                      Full                        Poll
efre       Development      Befnre   Deoelpnent         befort     D lpm t    Befoae    Developeent            Before   Developeent        crenentel
MODEL 30 1.  IRv TMERT_ DIesD   I Powered Movable           wth twR8                                 I    aed Atet  1.5 h
YhARIF    A-u Paddy                              0.2            _            1.2          -             132.00           -          91.00          _             41.00         -           (41.00)
Winter Paddy                           0.9            -           1.2          -             594.00           -         410.00           -           184.00         -          (14.00)
EYV Paddy                               -            1.2            -         2.6              -           1,716.00         -       1,176.0D             -       540.00         540.00
Majie (with Red GCon)                  0.25           -           1.0          -             162.00           -          114.00          -            48.00         -           (48.00)
Hybrid Maice                            -           0.2            -          2.4              -             312.00         -         206.00             -       104.05         106.00
RABI     LCocl Wheat                             0.R5           -            1.0          -             187.00           -         140.00          -             47.00         -           (47.00)
HYV Wheat                               -            1.0            -         2.8              -           2,100.00         -       1,192.00             -       908.00         908.00
Red Gram (after FaiOe)                0.25           -            0.4          -              90.00           -          29.00          -             61.00         -           (61.00)
Bengal Coat                            0.1            -           0.5          -              45.00           -           28.00          -             17.00         -          (17.00)
Potato                                  -           0.2             -         9.0              -             630.00         -         438.00             -       192.0n         192.00
50UMMER    Green Craw                             -            0.2            -          0.8              -             120.00        -          109.00            -         11.03          11 00
1,359.00
CROPPING _NTENSITY                              130%           186%                                                                           PIln water saes cone.  .0 ho Off-fern        430.00
Mino  short teo  ordit intecet               (78.00)
Total                     1,711.00
MoBFL NO I0 D_LEITM3NT  Diegel Powered Movale LLit_Pump(Rs _6 O0): Iriated Are  1.5 h.
KhARIF   ACu  Paddy                              0.2            -            1.2          -             132.00           -          91.00           -            41.03         -           (41.00)
Wioter Paddy                           0.9           _            1.2          -             594.00           -          410.00          -            184.00         -         (184.00)
CDV Paddy                               -            1.2            -         2.6              -           1,716.00         -        1,149.00            -        567.07        517 03
Muie  (ait, Red Cram)                  0.25           -            1.0         -             162.00           -          114.03          -             4B.00         -           (48,00)
Eybrid Matei                            -           0.2             -         2.4              -             312.00         -          20S.00            -       106.00         106.00
RABI      Local Whnat                            0.25           -            1.0          -             187.00           -         140.00          -             47.00         -           (47.00)
EYV Wheat                               -            1.0            -         2.8               -          2,10,.00         -        1,061.00            -      1,039.00       1,0O9.00
Red Gra  (Ofte  Moms-)                 0.23           -            0.4          -              90 .00          -          29.00                        6 1.00        -           (61.00)
Rengal Cram                            0.1            -           0.)          -              45.00           -           28.00                        17.00         -          (17BW)
Potato                                  -           0.2             -         9.0              -             630.00         -          430.00            -       200.00         200.00
SUNdLER    Coa Cra-                               -            0.2            -          0.8              -             120.00        -           87.00            -         33.00          33.00
1,547.00
CROPPTNG_ITENSITY                               130%           186%                                                                            Plns water notes fpo-  1.0 ha Off-fapm      250.00
Minuss.hora term credit int--               (78.00)
Total                    1,719.00
MODEL No In-  lNSTMENT   Die.el Powered H-vabl. P E          .et with Two Medi,nDepth Tubewells (Rs 10.910) _Irigsted Area  2.5 h.
KRARIF    Winte- Paddy                            1.0           _            1.2          -             660.00           -          456.00          -           204.00          -         (204.00)
hYV Paddy                               -            1.1            -         2.6              -           1,573.00         -        1,067.00            -         506.00        506.00
Maie (with Red Gram)                   0.4            -            1.0         -             260.00           -          183.dO          -             77.00         -           (77.00)
maise (sole atop)                      0.2            -            1.0         -             130.00           -           92.00          -             38.00         -           (38.00D
ybhid Maize                            -           0.8             -         2.4              -           1,248.00         -          825.00            -         423.00       423.00
Pioger Millnt                          0.2            -           0.8          -              88.00           -           72.00                        1.0           -           (16.00)
RABI      Tonal Wheat                            0.2            -            1.0          -             150.00           -          112.0D          -             38.00         -          (38.00)
RYV Wheat                               -            1.6            -         2.8              -           3,360.00         -        1,805.00            -       1,555.00      1,555.00
Red Coon (alter  aCiee)                0.4            -            0.4          -            144.00           -           47.00          -             97.00         -           (97.00)
Be-gal Gram                            0.2            -           0.5          -              90.00           -           57.00          -             33.00         -           (33.00)
Barley                                 0.45           -           0.8          -             198.00           -          162.00          -             36.00         -           (36.00)
Potato                                  -            0.1            -         9.0              -             315.00         -          211.00            -         1O0.OO        104.00
Sug-r-aue                              0.25          0.3         25.0        40.0            562.00        1,080.00      351.00        740.00         212.00       340.00        128.00
00R    G--een Gram                                 -           0.1            -          0.8              -              60.00         -           50.00            -         10.00      _  10.00
2,187.00
CROP INGINTENEDIT                               142%           184%                                                                              Plot wate- sairn Crfss l.C ho Off-Faor  444.00
Mi.ns hert term  redit intereat          (100.00)
Total                    2,531.00
MODEL  NIV : TEVNTMENT_ Electria Poweced  Rt.tion0rv Pnpse  with one MedimnDepth Tawell (Es 7,000)  Iiate_d Are 1.25 ho of e 2.5 ho Porm
ERARIF    Wint- Paddy                            1.0          0.6           1.2         1.2            660.00          396.03      456.00        274.00        204.00       122.00        (82.00)
hYV Paddy                               -            0.5            -          2.6              -            715 00         -          477.00            -         238.00        238.00
Maie  (with Red Graw)                  0.4           0.3           1.0        1.0            260.00          195.00      183.00        137.03          77.00        50.07        (19.00)
Naie  (sole trap)                      0.2            -            1.0                       l30.00           -           91.00          -             39.00         -           (39.00)
Rybrid Maize                            -            0.5            -         2.4              -             780.00         -          515.00            -         265.00        265.00
Ringer Millet                          0.2           0.2          0.8         0.8             88.00           88.00       72.00         72.00          16.00        16.00
0ART      Local Wheat                            0.2            -            1.0                        150.00           -          112.00          -             30.00         -          (38,00)
RYV Wheat                               -            0.8           --         2.8              -           1,680.00         -          841.00            -         339.00        838.00
R.d Cram (afte- laiee)                0.4           0.3          O04          0.4            144.00          108.00      47.00         35.00          97.00        73.00        (24.00)
Beogal Cra                             0.2           0.2           0.5        0.5             90.00           90.00       57.00         57.00          33.00        33.00
Iorley                                 0.45           -            0.8         -             198.00           -          162.00          -             36.00         -           (36.00)
Pnotto                                  -           0.1             -         9.0              -             315.00         -          215.03            -         100.00        100.00
Sng-rcane                              0.25         0.25         25.0        40.0            562.00          900.00      351.00        577.00         211.00       323.00        112.00
MPKINq !NTENSITY                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,316.00
COOPPINI INTENSITY                              142%           160%                                                                              Plun  water sales fos-  0.5 ho Of-F-a     315.00
Miens she-t term  credit interest         (50.00)
Tntel                   1,581.00
July 25, 1973






ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
A. Shallow Tubewell - Diesel (Model I)
Investment                        Item                      Investment Cost - Rs
Drilling 25m                               270
Casing 10m                                 300
Strainer 15m coir                          180
Fittings & Development                     150
Land Shaping                               150
Brick lined Channel                        630
Pumpset 5hp diesel                       4,000
Sub Total                                5,680
Contingency for Price Increase             568
Total Investment                         6,248
Plus additional well                     1,848
Initial investment Cost                  8,096
Replacement costs in 8th year
Pumpset                                  4,400
Labor to replace strainers                 200
Total                                    41600
Operation and Maintenance
Fuel-342 liters at Rs 0.91/hr              311
Labor and supplies                          5;
Total annual cost                          372



ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 2
B. Liftpump - Diesel (Model II)
Investment                          Item                     Investment Cost - Rs
Land shaping                              150
Brick lined Channel                       630
Pumpset 3-4 HP diesel                   3,800
Fittings                                  150
Suction and delivery pipe, 50m            600
Structures                                120
Total investment                        5,450
Contingency for Price Increase            550
Initial Investment Cost                 6.000
Replacement costs in 8th year
Pump and engine parts                   2,800
Labor                                     200
3,000
Operation and Maintenance
Fuel 167 liters at Rs 0.91/
liter                                   152
Labor and supplies                         30
Total Annual Cost                         182



ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 3
C. Medium Tubewell - Diesel (Model III)
Investment                        Item                      Investment Cost - Rs
Drilling 50 m                              600
Case 20 m                                  600
Strainer 30 m Coir                         360
Fittings & Development                     200
Land Shaping                               150
Brick lined Channel                      1,050
Pumpset 5 hp                            4,000
Sub Total                                6,960
Contingency for Price Increase             696
Total Investment                         7,656
Plus additional well                     3,256
Initial Investment Cost                 10,912
Replacement costs in 8th year
Pumpset                                 4,400
Labor to replace strainers                 400
4,800
Operation and Maintenance
Fuel 435 liters at Rs 0.91/liter           396
Labor and supplies                          79
Total Annual Cost                          475



ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 4
D. Medium Tubewell - Electric (Model IV)
Investment                         Item                    Investment Cost - Rs
Drilling 50 m                              600
Casing 20 m                                600
Strainer 30 m                              360
Fittings and Development                   200
Land Shaping                               150
Brick lined Channel 50 m                 1,050
Connection Charge                          900
Pump house                                 800
Pumpset 5hp                              1,700
Total Investment                         6,360
Contingency for Price Increase             636
Initial Investment Cost                  6,996
Replacement costs in 8th year
Pumpset                                  1,870
Labor to replace strainer                  200
Total                                    22070
Operation and Maintenance
656 Kwh at Rs 0.18/Kwh                     118
Fixed Charges                               35
Total annual cost                          153



ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDIA
BIRAR AGRICULTURAL CREDTr PROJECT
Project Area - Crop Prices
The following are the constant price projections at the
wholesale level of the crops to be grown under the project:
Crop                   Prices in Rs per Quintal (100 kg)
Barley                                55
Bengal Gram                           90
Green Gram
Maize                                 65
Paddy                                 55
Potato                                35
Red Gram                              90
Finger Millet                         55
Sugarcane                              9
Wheat                                 75



ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Farm Budgets Before and After Irrigation
Model                        I             II             III           IV
Two Shallow   Diesel Lift    Two Medium   One Medium
Type of                       Tubewells      Pump            Tubewells    Tubewell with
with Diesel                    with          Electric
Investment                    Pumpset                        Diesel        Pumpset
Pumpset
Irrigated Area (ha)
On-Farm                        1.5            1.5            2.5             1.25
Off-Farm                       1.0            1.0             1.0            0.5
Total                      2.5            2.5            3.5            1.75
Investment Cost (Rs)            8,100          6,900         10,910         7,000
Net Income (Rs)
At present                      400            400             750           750
At full develop-
ment /a                     2,100          2110           3,280         2,330
Increment                     1,700          1,710          2,530         1,580
Increment includ-
ing returns to
family labor                1P980          1,990          2,880         1,850
Debt service
(principal and
interest)                     900            680          1,200           760
Increment after
debt service                 1,080          1,310          1,680         1,090
Financial Rate of
Return () lb                     16             27             20             20
/a   Full development commences in the fourth year.
/b   The financial rates of return should not be looked at in relation to the
investment cost and net increimental income figures in this table as the
figures are incomplete for estimating the financial rates of return.  For
details on which the rates of return have been estinated see Annex 8.



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimnated Crop Irrigation Water Requirements
JAN             FEB             MAR             APR              MAY            JUNE            JULY             AUG.            SEPT             OC              NOV              DEC
MAIZE HYV                                                                                                 'n~
GREEN GRAM
KHOARI F PADDY A' V
POTATO
SU,GARCANE                                     AA
WHEAT HYV
Crap  -fft,ti-r  k                                                                                                                               t                10               089
El -                                                                                                                          68               A6 301
Elff--a  -ra ,,ha22                                                                                                          ISO              163130
Crap IrrIgatlanreat  -                                                                          A      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A   
S,latr red           'h.                                                                                                        A                A                0              0 
"Ir         , t, Cr
rsrapaatr930                                                                                                  322 7
Ettnrtlanr.I,f.lt                                                     A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  45  42
Crap I rra0ntaoa rear -                                               9~ ~ ~~~~                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 282  A
faaa dal  raat   TS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a                                   2~~~20          376S
Rat  e.trr cr52   * lb                                              2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1208  3,700     A
ire.                                                                                                                        -176               163             163             146              00
Eff-tlae. ... f,I                                                                                                             166              212             203             2314             45
Pa-  del  raRt   754f                                                                                                          13                A                A             16              77
Craretr   t6.91                                                  2729                                                                                                                                                                A
Part eaporntlaa .-1                        62                04 2742                                                                                                                                                             629
El -                                       50                23                                                                                                                                                 12               60
EOf-srrI'e-latl                            0                  A0                                                                                                                                               lo                A
Crap  Ir~~~~ satIRe  rast - -  56           2~~~~~~~3                                                                                                                                             3              67
Pa-  d:l  ras T1 l                          4                30                                                                                                                                                 2I               a2
Aa2  ase    a4 7.70                                         300                                                                                                                                                170              602
Crap rr-fflraer                                52               .0             .48               .54              .60              70             .0                 0              92              ea             .725
Parneaparallarre.               6~       ~      ~~~     ~     ~~2 112  186        300              272             37125                             224             127              90             90               62 6
8. -                            ~~~              ~~~~           ~~~              ~~~~32  206  09  162  223         210              L12              270             100              79             ER               41
Ettrrllasralntall                A        ~        ~      ~      ~        ~        ~       ~       ~ 0  0  0  45   I5                2              204             74                7                 
Crop Irrlgallar,  cast.  -       33~~~1           2D6            89               26                796                       0     22                                41              4 7
Paradal      rst7        ffl               40               141            IIa               226              137              00                0                0a                            499                               5
In  eae    r0          620                               1,4 10        2.808             2.160            2.370              S00o                                0               A            490             9A0R
C-np-fettl.e-                                  94               .93            .36               .11                                                                                                                                 5
P..rarrtlr                                  2                12            206               156                                                                                                                                 6
Er                                         180204                           667               17                                                                                                                                 3
Elfartlne  raInfall         7                  7     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00
Cm8 Iraloattan  rest.         nelsA-158           204             17                17
Pat. Ral  real  '0~ art.            210               272             89                1224
?a etrrsa   6                 2.100             2.22             090               220
Modal S. Tee Sh.11-a TIba.all. Ylldi.. 25 .31hr and a... LnEn   D.5ii-nIeN    d.nr,,       9,Olslrs
7.2haGra=   lIre                                                                             240              752
122  ha , tartP pady                                                                                                          156                20                              102            747
7 2 h   PaLat                             11.0               60                                                                                                                                                  34             160
I 7 h          HWs 17                  2.~120             2.720            909               220
Ar-la.  Ona,l ej.r  .3                   ,.48             2.7860           09                 "64             752             156S                                0              292             04              34             260
Aft.ts-  Sales a                        2_493              .85             587               204              496            1103                0                0              1222            256             23             106
Patal p,sg. ..2               3,721~~~""        6.1           T.4r2                764            rII0A25                                                                           234-
TatalaaalIeEt. a3             1~~~~6, 200?      5.670         8.200              8.008            6.200          6.70200          6.2000            6.2070           5,707.00               6.       7076OD         4 200
lIIlerro62                                                02            24                 12               27               6                0                7                2             22              2 
M.dal 2 It   LiftP       Vi.ldl5  4 a.31/h n d IS.-L.. 1.5 h. Pt.. .W ter 0..    a         ..Oss  na
0.2 h  mnlssaHa                                                      1                                                          0                                 0                2
L.26  Eh: arhlE  paddy AP                                                             1                                       226527                              0              192             04 0 
L70.           HW 17                    2100O             2,720            890               220
Rn ar  renlas           .3              2:248             2.780      f     827               480              722             1286                0               0              292             040             0                6
OT.Ip    al.a                           1.4813            1.835            587               306              469             203                         0       D               22             524             23             210
Total pa~~~~~ags *2 ~~IT.'M5                   -4825          -Ir7                 79             TJSM               ns                                '               32-9          2,3-9'4          .57             -1
YnaI.711.6..                    j 21.4D0            10.304         11.608            21.040           11.400          12,040           21.408           211408           21040           12.408         21,040           11,407
Mede, Ill Tea  M.dle. Oslh T             -a.11, 21.141_ a   5 6 .31h, S Snr-ltg 2  2h  la17h    aseSl,sen  n
M.~~ ~~~ Tl.10 wt.  ..   .. I                                                                                                                      0                0
02Iarse raj                                                                                 120               7I
LoI      - p : ...                         r4                30I                                                               43                0                0              176             770             1d
h.., ::~NW                          3,6                .5             454                                         I 2__4
7.a- 2.aallal1.a3                                                         .83               6480            8,3 811           327            8 83                  a                             141 10 9  3    250           I143
0 IrlllaaIInrr                               0~ ~ ~~~                        ~~~              ~~~            ~         ~~4.h  23 8   1,7  08  0   0                             9 1             2        1        51
0T  ta1  E5.rI   raddy                                                                                     -1                t1-3     I                   0                      82r    I        37209r2-
Ol6aParata                    0                                                                       I                                                                         1    72~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6     
23 ha srrsarnar.       f   ~~~~.105             3128        0.85                547              59              2050           0,3              a.3                ,50           8,122          7,5             635
08  ha Vhsar oyv                                6~~~~~~~~6  8     1                 I20  27                                1                                                                                         22231  51
AOE-lh.  tls764                                           2 02                               28               0701                                                0               320            289)           97 
0Sata h.     ege                        13601             3.30.          71.20               1~76             OW17                                                02T                            61
Onral aralls6ls .3  0.812              2,992         8,833      ~      ~~~~~     ~     ~~~               ~~~ 9,40  1902      832 20035                     0 50            8822           620 
I   al [I[.., In                        29                405            26                12                9               4                0I               0                                7             4                 9
1, ld d.ay   .ddLr .II    .. Ia                  a-Y     Fbr-nf.Ea  NW076S-72






ANNEX 4
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit
Quarter ending
Each Quarter        Cumulative
1973/74                                 Rs M       US$M       Rs M    US$M
March 31  1974                      -          -          -       -
June 30, 1974                      2.3         0.3        2.3    0.3
1974/75
Sept. 30, 1974                     2.3         0.3        4.6    0.6
Dec. 31, 1974                     28.5         3.8      33.1     4.4
March 31, 1975                    15.0         2.0      48.1     6.4
June 30, 1975                      3.8         0.5      51.9     6.9
1975/76
Sept. 30, 1975                     3.8         0.5      55.7     7.4
Dec. 31, 1975                     48.0         6.4    103.7    13.8
March 31, 1976                    24.0         3.2    127.7    17.0
June 30, 1976                      5.2         0.7    132.9    17.7
1976/77
Sept. 30, 1976                     6.0         0.8    138.9    18.5
Dec. 31, 1976                     67.5         9.0    206.4    27.5
March 31, 1977                    33.6         4.5    240.0    32.0
June 30, 1977                       -           -      240.0    32.0
Total                 240.0        32.0






ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Lending Banks
A. Introduction
1.        During project preparation, the State Government invited ARC to
prepare a banking plan to cover loans to individual farmers, on the premise
that the anticipated loan volume would be more than could be handled by LDB,
and thus the assistance of the commercial banks would be essential for timely
project execution. ARC has held discussions with LDB and the commerical
banks, and a suitable banking plan has been evolved. It is described in
more detail below (Section D).  Seven commercial banks have agreed to
participate, and expect to handle about two-fifths of the total loan volume
between them, with LDB dealing with the balance.
2.        To evaluate LDB's effectiveness as a channel for project loans, a
team from the Reserve Bank of India and ARC made an in-depth study of its
operations in 1972. Their report makes a number of proposals to improve LDB
structurally and financially, and these are set out below (pars 29). The
State Government, with the active assistance of ARC, is taking steps to
implement them.
3.        Of the loans to be handled by the commercial banks, the bulk
(about three-fourths) is expected to be through the Central Bank of India
(the "lead bank" throughout the project area) and the State Bank of India,
with the other five banks handling the remainder. However the volumes to be
handled by LDB and the other banks would not be fixed, and there would be
some competition between them all. The lead bank in any district is
responsible for coordinating the development efforts of the financial
institutions in that district, and for liaising with the district author-
ities in the local interest. The lead bank is also required to make a
survey and identify areas for bank expansion. It also chairs meeting of
district banking consultative committees.
B. The Bihar State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd.
Constitution
4.        LDB was registered in December, 1957, as the Bihar State
Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank Ltd., under the Bihar and Orissa Cooperative
Societies Act of 1935, to operate throughout the State, and with its head
office in Patna, the state capital. It changed its name to the present one



ANNEX 5
Page 2
in February, 1973.  -ts operatione are directed by a 22-member Board of
Directors. Ex-officio members are: LDB's Managing Director; the State
Development Commissioner; the State Registrar of Cooperative Societies, the
State Agricultural Production Commissioner and the State Financial Commis-
sioner. The remaining seventeen are elected for a 3 year term from among
the delegates, representing the shareholding cooperative societies throughout
the State. The Board elects one of its members as Chairman.
5.        The Board is empowered to appoint an Executive Committee, a Staff
Committee, and any ad-hoc committee to carry out specific functions. The
Chairman and Managing Director must serve on both of the first two committees.
Every branch much have a branch committee, whose membership must not exceed
15, and must include the LDB district and branch manager, and 5 local represen-
tatives of the Government. The "General Body" includes the Board members,
individual shareholders and delegates representing the shareholding coopera-
tives, and is the ultimate authority of LDB. It can conduct meetings
(ordinary, extraordinary and special) under rules similar to shareholder
meetings of limited companies.
6.        The authorized capital of LDB is now Rs 52.5 million, made up of
various classes of shares: "A" class by individual cooperative members and
societies; "B" class by the State Government; "C" class by individuals
(limited to a total of Rs 2,500 only); and "E" class by borrowers (without
voting or profit sharing rights). LDB is empowered to obtain funds by share
subscription, debentures, fees, deposits, subsidies and grants from Government,
and by other borrowings. Total borrowing is limited to 25 times the paid up
share capital plus reserve fund. It is required to contribute every year to
a debenture redemption (sinking) fund.
7.        LDB may make loans for:  (a) land development and other productive
purposes; (b) the redemption of mortgages on land and other property; (c)
the liquidation of agricultural debts; (d) the acquisition of land titles;
and (e) the erection or repair of agricultural houses. Loans can only be
granted against first mortgages of land and for not more than 50% of the
value of such land. The Board may sanction a loan in excess of this pro-
vided it is for productive purposes and the excess is guaranteed by the
State Government. Loan repayments from members must be used for repaying:
firstly miscellaneous expenses, secondly interest charges, and lastly
principal.
8.        FIfty percent of the annual net profit must be allocated to the
Reserve Fund, and the balance may be used for shareholder dividends not
exceeding 6% and/or contributions to one or more of the Bad Debt, Building,
or any other approved Funds, bonus to employees and donations 'knot exceeding
7-1/2% of the net profit) to a Common lood Fund.  The accounts close on
June 30 each year, and statements showing the ar.n-a. recalts ana d.sburse-
ments, and a balance sheet oE tzbeat date must De senrt to the Registrar of
Cooperatives withi n 15 GS of >ti  Ceer 6yThere is no 'provision aozr audit
in the constitution, but this is covered by the 1935 Act, and is made by the
Audit Division of the Cooperative Department.



-ANNEX 5
Page 3
Organization and Management
9.        The first fully elected Board did not take office until late in
1969. It should meet at least once every three months, and has held about
8 meetings a year since that date. No general meeting was held in 1970/71
as required under the conatitution, but the position was regularized on
December 22, 1971, and a subsequent meeting was held in 197i/72. Five head
office committees have been set up by the Board: (a) Executive; (b) Plan-
ning and Development; (c) Accounts; (d) Appointments' and Services; and
(e) Technical. The Technical Committee, which was formed on the suggestion
of the Reserve Bank of India, has been largely concered with the selection
of pumpsets (diesel and electric) of various makes suitable for LDB financing.
Advisory Committees are operating at every branch.
10.       At the end of fiscal 1971/72 there were 73 branch offices (com-
par<v  with oinly 41 at the end of 1967/68). Total staff w;s abovit 1,100, *9 .
'Which about 200 were at head office and 1,100 in the field offices.  In tlc
Tirhut and Koshi Divisions, LDB has small regional offices (at Muzaffarpur
and Purnea) under Regional Managers, who are responsible for the offices
in their Divisions. The normal complement of each regional office is
about 20. Throughout the state there are 18 district offices, each with
a small staff of about 4, who supervise the branch offices in their district,
and countersign checks for disbursement of loans up to Rs 15,000. The
normal complement of a branch office is a Manager, 1 land valuation officer,
4 to 6 supervisors, and 4 others. Branches with a heavier work load have
additional staff posted as necessary. Most of the senior staff have been
seconded from Government (chiefly from the Cooperative Division). The
State Government assists the opening of new branches by meeting the cost of
the extra staff; in full during the first year; two-thirds during the second;
and one-third during the third.
11.       There are 5 main divisions at head office under the Managing
Director. The Secretary's duties include office supervision, valuation,
and legal. The Loan Officer is responsible for all loans. The Administra-
tion Officer looks after staff and administration affairs. A Special Officer
supervises the Planning Section, ARC Schemes (para 28 below), and the
Technical Cell. The Chief Accounts Officer is responsible for the accounts,
debt recoveries and statistics.
Source of Funds
12.       Financial details of LDB over the past five years are given in
Tables 1 and 2, which show the growth during that period. Assets increased
seven times, but with a corresponding increase in expenses. The figures
show a small net income each year.
13.       LDB's own funds consist of its issued share capital and reserves
which were Rs 29.7 million at June 30, 1971. The breakdown of its share-
holdings over the past five years is as follows (figures in brackets are %
of annual total):



4AThE  5
Page 4
As at June 30:         1968        1969       1970       1971     1972
--Rs million---------------
Class
A: Individuals and societies 2.6(51)   4.0(53)    5.8(56)   10.4(61)  15.2(66)
B:  Government                  2.5(49)   3.5(46)    4.5(43)    6.5(38)   7.5(33)
E:  Borrowers                    _         0.1(1)     0.1(1)      0.1(1)    0.2(1I
Total shareholdings /a   5.1(100)  7.6(100)  10.4(100)  17.0(100) 22.9(100)
/a   "C" class shares (limited to Rs 2,500 total) are too small to be shown:
at June 30, 1972 they were Rs 100 only.
14.       The State Bank of India and the Bihar State Cooperative Bank pro-
vide most of LDB's short term overdraft facilities. Longer term borrowings
are through debentures; and as with similar banks in other states, there are
three main types: (1) ordinary, (2) rural and (3) special development. The
GOI, Bihar State Government, the Life Insurance Corporation of India, the
State Bank of India and some other land development banks subscribe to LDB's
ordinary debentures. Interest rates vary from 4.5% to 6% a year, with
redemption periods from 10 to 15 years. At present 10 year debentures are
floated at 5-3/4%.
15.       Rural debentures are guaranteed by the State Government, and are
issued to encourage rural savings. They are of two types. The first is
sold to individuals, and repayable after 5 years, with an annual interest
rate of 6%. The Reserve Bank of India subscribes one debenture for every
seven sold to individuals. The second is repayable after 10 years, with an
annual rate of 5%, but has been unsuccessful, since its interest rate is
lower than rates offered by commercial banks. LDB's rural debentures out-
standing at June 30, 1972 was Rs 21,700 - a negligible proportion of its
total debentures of Rs 210 million.
16.       Special development debentures are issued to finance specific
schemes in defined areas, approved by ARC. They are subscribed by ARC and
the State Government. ARC subscribes 90% for minor irrigation schemes and
67% for others. Debentures periods vary from 7 to 11 years, and the current
interest rate is 6.5%.
17.       Over the five years, fiscal 1968 through 1972, LDB has paid an
average annual rate of 5.9% for its debentures. The 1972 rate was slightly
lower, at 5.8%.
Lending Operations
18.       Over the past five years, LDB's lending operations have been as
follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Year Ending June 30:      1968    1969    1970    1971    1972(%)    Total(%)
-------------- Rs million -------------------
Tubewells with
pumpsets                10.0    12.4      9.9    29.3    29.0(31)   90.6(38)
Pumpsets                    -        -      7.3    23.4    43.0(45)   73.7(31)
Irrigation wells           *-        -      0.3     0.2      2.8(3)      3.3(1)
Tractors                   9.6      9.2    12.6    15.0    18.2(19)   64.6(27)
Land levelling              -        -      0.4      1.5     1.1(1)      3.0(1)
Debt redemption            0.8      0.7     1.2      1.2     0.7(1)      4.6(2)
Other purposes             0.1      0.4     0.1      0.2      -          0.8(-)
Total                20.5    22.7    31.8    70.8    94.8(100) 240.6(100)
Almost all the lending has been for tubewells, pumpsets and tractors, but the
1972 figures show the proportion for pumpsets is much above the 5-year
average, whereas that for tubewells and tractors is below. Corresponding
figures for the first seven months of fiscal 1973 show 50% for pumpsets, 28%
for tubewells, and 19% for tractors, demonstrating that loans for pumpsets
only continue to increase at a greater rate than that for tubewells (with
pumpsets). The total loans for fiscal 1973 (ending June 30) is expected to
be about Rs 125 million, with about 4,500 loans for tubewells (with pumpsets),
and almost 10,000 for pumpsets only.
19.       From October, 1971, the loan periods have been 7 years for tractors
and pumpsets, and 9 years for irrigation wells only and up to 10 years for
other purposes. Repayment normally starts 18 months after completion of the
loan. Installments fall due at the end of January, May or October, depending
on, and following by about a month, the harvesting period of the najor crops
grown in the area. Interest rates are currently 9.5% for all loans.
20.       Loan applications are made to branch offices on a prescribed
application form, and accompanied by: an admission fee of Rs 1; a share
application and Rs 25 for its cost; administration charges of between Rs 10
and Rs 30, depending on loan size; and legal fees of between Rs 5 and Rs 20,
depending on loan size. Loans for amounts up to Rs 5,000 are disbursed at
branch level, those above referred to Regional or Head Office as required in
the regulations. After loan sanction the borrower executes a mortgage bond
in duplicate for which he pays Rs 3. At that time he also buys "E9 shares
in LDB to the value of 5% of the loan. Disbursement of loans is made wherever
possible direct to the vendor of the equipment.
Operational Results
21.       LDB's recovery position since 1968/69 is as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Year            Demand          Recovery        % Recovery
---    Rs million-----
1968/69          6.6              4.6              69.7
1969/70         11.6              6.6              56.9
1970/71         18.8             12.9              68.6
1971/72         31.9             21.9              68.6
While the recovery percentage has improved following the low 1969/70 figures,
it nevertheless remains relatively low. in absolute terms overdues at the
end of 1970/71 were Rs 5.9 million, increasing to Rs 10.0 million at the
end of 1971/72. The reasons for these overdues are various, but can be
grouped as follows:
(a) failure of crops due to severe drought and floods in
various areas and varying seasons;
(b) misutilization of loans due to lack of verification of
purchases and follow-up of borrowers;
(c) delay in energization of some electric tubewells; and
(d) lack of effort in following up defaulters.
22.       The following table shows the variation in overdues among branches
for 1968/69 through 1970/71:
Overdues                        1968/69       1969/70       1970/71
- number of branches
up to 15%                           3             4            7
Above 15% and up to 25%            13             1           10
Above 25% and up to 40%            18            18           31
Above 40X and up to 50%             8            16            9
Over 50%                            1            13            1
Total                   43            52           58
At the end of 1970/71 only 29% of the branches had overdue rates of 25%
or lower.  The overdues position remains manageable.  Just over a half have
been overdue for a year or less, and only about one-tenth has been owing for
more than three years. Few Loans have been rescheduled to date. An addi-
t'onal 2% pena'ly interest rate is charged on arrears.
23.       Since early 1972 LDE has taken various steps to improve recovery
rates, and future prospects of improved collections are much better. While
crop failures due to drought and floods are outside LDB's control, misutili-
zation of loan funds is now receiving considerable attention at branch
level, and specific field staff are ncw responsible for verification that
each loan is being used for its original purpose, and that the correct
equipment is being purchased and utilIzed. Follow-up procedures are also



ANNEX 5
Page 7
in operation. Some defaulters are now being taken to court for recovery,
and this is having a salutory effect on others.
24.       Between about September 1969 and April 1971 a number of loans for
electric tubewells were made, although the wells were not energized by the
State Electricity Board until (in some cases) early in 1972. This was due to
a lack of liaison between LDB and the Board. Borrowers were thus unable to
pay their first installments when due.  While electric tubewells are a suaZ.
proportion (under 10%) of LDB's loans for tubewells, these defaults con-
tributed to loan delinquency. There is now better liaison between the two
institutions, and energizing delays of this magnitude are unlikely in the
future.
25.       LDB's main hope for improved collection of overdues in the future
must come from its Recoveries Section, which was started in December, 1971,
under the Chief Accounts Officer. Although the Section's early performance
was disappointing, it is now beginning to get into its stride. Its main
functions are to:
(a) scrutinize details of overdues received from branches,
and compile records;
(b) review action taken by branches against defaulters;
(c) issue instructions to branches for collection of
overdues; and
(d) visit branches as required to accelerate action
against defaulters, particularly those branches
with poor recovery rates.
26.       Net profits have been small, but some reserves have been accumulated.
LDB's own capital (shares and reserves) has increased fivefold over the past
5 years, but as a percent of total funds has declined from 14.6 to 9.1 over
the same period. It is expected to decline very slightly again for fiscal
1973 (to 9.0), but thereafter to increase to about 11% for fiscal 1977
(Table 1). The following table shows the position:
Net Profit       Provisions   Paid-up      Capital  Capital & Reserves
before            and        Share         and           as %.
Year      Distribution       Reserves-a  Capital       Reserves      Tota.il Funds
-- - ----             Rs million
1968          0.15              0.59        5.06         5.65           14.6
1969          0.43              1.04        7.56         8.60           i2.3
1970          0.58              1.63       10.59        12.02           11.8
1971          0,29              1.93       17.04        18.97           10.5
1972          0.75              2.71       22.98        25.69            9.i
/a   Includes undistributed profits of previous years.



Page 8
ARC Schemes
27.       LDB operates five minor irrigation schemes, and one land reclam-
ation and mechanization scheme under ARC special development programs.
Progress has generally been slow and well behind schedule.  All the minor
irrigation schemes have been rephased, due mainly to causes outside LDB's
control, and only partly to slow processing of applications by LDB. Out-
side causes have included slow construction of tubewells by the Minor
Irrigation Department due to shortages of equipment (chiefly pipes and
strainers) brought about by uncoordinated procurement procedures. Delay
in energization of electric tubewells (para 24) has also contributed to
the rescheduling. Slow implementation of the land reclamation and
mechanization scheme has been due to inadequate supply of tractors in the
earlier stages, insufficient technical staff from the State Government,
together with LDB's lack of publicity for the scheme and inadequate follow-
up procedures. However, the position has improved over the last year or
so, and future schemes should operate more closely to schedule.
operationaal Study
28.       The main objective of the 1972 operational study made by the Reserve
Bank of India and ARC was to ensure that LDB could become a suitable channel
for IDA credit projects. The study included an appraisal of its financial,
managerial and operational procedures and results, and proposals for their
improvement to bring them up to the standards required to operate an IDA
credit project. Its major findings are given below.
29.       Of the 58 branches operating at the time of the study, 22 were
considered to be viable, 25 potentially viable, and the remaining 11 not
likely to be profitable within the next 3 years. The study noted LDB did
not make any detailed studies before opening new branches, and recommended
that future branches should only be opened after such studies had been made,
covering area of operation, location, distance from farthest village,
communication facilities, business potential, and the effect of opening
on other LDB branches. A major criterion would be that potential annual
loan business within 3 years of opening would be Rs 3 million minimum. The
study also recommended a review of the area of operation of all branches,
with readjustment as necessary to maximize their efficiency and viability.
30.       At the time of the study, only 8 of LDB's senior staff had taken
the land mortgage banking courses at the Cooperative Bankers Training College,
Poona, and there was no systematic in-service training program for head
office and field staff.  Witn ARC assistance, training programs at asl
levels have been introduced and are underway.
31.       The study considered LDT E technical staffing inadequate, both
at head office and inr the Zield. The head office technical cell consists
of an execut-ive engineer and oxrerseer. and wll be strengthened by appointing
an agriculturalist, a hydrologist and an economLst, together with supporting
staff. Field technical staff has also been increased.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
32.       The study found various deficiencies in loan procedures, some
fairly widespread, other confined to individual branches or areas. LDB's
procedures did not limit the amount of the loan to the cost of the invest-
ment, nor did it provide for repayment according to the borrower's repayment
capacity. Changes in income resulting from the investment were not taken
into account, and LDB did not insist on insurance for pumpsets, tractors and
other equipment in the joint names of LDB and the borrower. There were
various irregularities at some branches, including verification of land
valuation figures by District Officers, loan disbursement payments, and
verification of utilization of loans. Revised loan procedures have been
introduced to take into account the study's recommendations, and inspecion
procedures and staff at regional and branch levels have been strengthened to
reduce and eventually eliminate the irregularities..
33.       The study made some observations on the accounting side.  After
July, 1970 some 20 branches started maintaining their own accounts, but
this resulted in head office delays in presenting consolidated accounts.
Large balances of cash have remained idle for unnecessary long periods,
leading to unnecessary loss of income. There have also been unnecessary
delays in completing the audit, due mainly to unsatisfactory maintenance
of account books. Improvements in procedures to eliminate these three
major shortcomings have been made.
Inspection and Audit
34.       LDB has been inspected by the Reserve Bank on 5 occasions, and
the reports submitted to LDB's Board. It was not, however, inspected by
any officer of the Cooperative Department prior to late 1972, when the
first inspection was made. Arising from the study, an internal inspection
cell has been set up at head office to make periodical and regular inspections
of branches.
35.       Since July, 1969, the Cooperative Audit Division has operated a
concurrent audit within LDB. The Division also makes an annual audit, at
head office and all branches, and their findings are submitted to the Finance
Department of the Bihar State Government. This Division also audits the
accounts of other State LDB's involved in other IDA Credits. Its performance
is satisfactory and acceptable to IDA.
The Project Area
36.       LDB operates 20 branches in the Tirhut Division through a regional
office at Muzzafarpur.  In 1972 the Division's share of total LD3 lending
was as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Tirhut
% of each
Tirhut          Total         Category
-    Rs million ----
Tubewells (with pumpsets)        18.4           29.0             63
Pumpsets                         17.3           43.0             40
Tractors                          4.6           18.2             25
Others                            0.1            4.6              2
40.4           94.8            43
Although the Division has only about 32% of the State's total population and
29% of the gross cropped area, it is getting a proportionately larger share
of LDB's lending program, particularly for tubewells and pumpsets.
37.       The Operational Study considered that of the 17 branches then
operating in the Tirhut Division, 8 were viable, 7 potentially viable
within the next 3 years, and 2 likely to remain unprofitable for this period,
mainly because their operational areas were too small.
38.       LDB's recovery rates in the Division compare with its overall rates,
as follows:
Tirhut             Overall
-------    %-----------
1968/69                   n.a.                69.7
1969/70                  58.8                 56.9
1970/71                  64.5                 68.6
1971/72                  66.3                 68.6
Although recovery in the Division remained a little behind LDB's state
average, it improved slightly in 1971/72.
C. The Commercial Banks
39.       The seven commercial banks taking part in the project would be:
(a)  State Bank of India
(b)  Central Bank of India
(c)  Punjab National Bank
(d)  United Commercial Bank
(e)  Allahabad Bank



~A1xZNEX 5
Page ??
(f) Union Bank of India
(g) Bank of India
All are nationalized banks, are included in the Second Schedule to the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, have paid up capital and reserves of at
least Rs 500,000, and are entitled to borrowing facilities from the Raserve
Bank of India.
40.       Although the commercial banks have been encouraged to increase
their volume of agricultural lending, there has been little organizational
innovation since nationalization. One significant development has been
the introduction of the lead bank system whereby each district was adllocatetd
a commercial bank to guide and coordinate its banking development (para 3`.
Despite this, however, the estimated proportion of institutional credit pro-
vided by the commercial banks throughout India is currently less than 5%.
Apart from lack of experience in agriculture, their operations in this
sector have in the past been handicapped because they have not had the
privileged position of cooperative banks which operate under simp'er Lendin
requirements, and have substantial free assistance from extension and ctheir
State government services.
41.       In Bihar, and particularly in the project area, agricultural  ending
by the commercial banks is only just beginning, but the prospects appear
encouraging. The State Bank of India has opened specific Agricultural
Development Branches in some areas, side by side witn their regular branches.
These are staffed with qualified agricultural personnel, and are expected
gradually to take over the whole of the bank's agricultural operations irn
some areas, as their experience and competence increases.
D. The Banking Plan
42.       Following discussions with the IDA Identification Mission o-
July, 1971, the State Government and ARC agreed to work out a banking Plan
for the project, to include the commercial banks, since it was clear h*:L
on its own could not handle the volume of loans expected under the =o_ect.
43.       The tentative details are given in the following table, alt .ouW-
the actual volume handled by each bank would not be fixed, and there   - -
competition between them.



ANNEX 5
Page 12
Loans
No. of  /a                 Value       % of
Bank                        Branches-  No.('000)       Rs M    Total Value
LDB                                 23          30.0         232        60
State Bank of India                26            6.3          47        12
Central Bank of India              55            8.8          66        17
Punjab National Bank                7            1.8          16         4
United Commercial Bank              3            0.3 )              )
Allahabad Bank                      2            0.3 )         8    )    2
Union Bank of India                  1           0.2 )              )
Bank of India                       3            2.3          19         5
Total         120          50.0         388       100
/a   in project area.
44.       Build-up of loans over the disbursement period is estimated to be:
Project Year              1              2          3          Total
-------------loans ('000)------___
LDB                    7.5(75)/a    10.0(61)   12.5(53)    30.0(60)
Commercial banks       2.5(25)       6.5(39)   11.0(47)    20.0(40)
10.0(100)     16.5(100)  23.5(100)   50.0(100)
/a   Figures in brackes are % of annual total.
Thus LDB would be expected to take 75% of the loans in the first year,
reducing to 53% in the third as the capacity of the commercial banks builds
up, and making an overall average of 60%. Of the total of 50,000 project
loans, about 20% would be disbursed in the first, 35% in the second, and
47% in the third year.
45.       To ensure smooth execution of the banking plan the State Develop-
ment Commissioner has agreed to act as coordinator between the participating
banks, with ARC actively assisting him. The State Government extension
services would assist all the lending banks in collection of data, identifica-
tion and motivation of farmers and in sponsoring loan applications, although
the ultimate responsibility for individual loans, including the risk, would
be with the lending banks. The State Groundwater Investigation Division
would assist all banks with technical advice as required.
46.       The proposed lending terms for the project are set out in
Schedule A.



BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Bihar State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd.
Condensed Statenent of Net IncTo
(in Ps million)
-_____-----------------_---Actual--------------------------------               ----------------------------Projected------------------------------
Year ending June 30:         1968             1969            1970            19n              1972            1973            1974            1975             1976            1977
INCOME
Interest earned on
Other loans             1.56( 76.8)    3.45( 75.3)    5.58( 83.b)    8.39( 86.7)    14.31( 89.5)   20.90( 85.5)   27.60( 82.4)   31.60( n7.5)   34.80( 60.7)    36.10( 51.4)
Project loans             -               -               -               -                 -               -              0.40(  1.2)    4.50( 10.2)   10 70  18.7)    18.20( 26.0)
Interest on investaents-e, 0.03(  1.5)    0.04(  0.9)    0.26(  3.9)    0.47(  4.9)           1.03(  6.4)    2.87( 11.7)    4.80( 14.3)    7.4o( 16.7)   11.00( 19.2)    15.10( 21.5)
Other incoa                2,21.fl          1.09( 23.8)      _85( 12._7)    081( 8.4            66   4.1)    o.68(  2.8)    0.70(  21)    0.70(  1.6)    o.80(  1.4)  o.80(  LI)
Total income             2.03(100.0)    4.58(100.0)    6.69(100.0)    9.67(100.0)    16.00(100.0)   2IJ.45(100.0)   33.50(100.0)   114420(100.0)   57.30(100.0)    70.20(100.0)
Interest paic m
Ordinary debentures    o.88( 43.3)    1.79( 39.1)    3.36( 50.2)    5.72( 59.7)            8.74( 54.6)   12.60( 51.5)   16.60( 49.6)   18.00( 42.5)   16.70  29.5           14.80( 21.1)
Special debentures        -               -               -                -               1.4o(  8.8)    2.00(  8.3)    2.90(  8.5)    7.00( 14.0)   14.0t 241.8           22.10( 31.4
Other borraiings        0.02(  1.0)    0.51( 11.1)    0.39(  5.8)    0.8%(  8.7)           1. 48(  9.2)    1.10(  4.5)    1.00(  3.0)    080   1.8)    0.60(  1.0            0.GU(  0.6
Salalies and allow,ances   0.66( 32.5)    1.41( 30.8)    1.66( 24.8)    2.06( 21.3)           2.65( 16.6)    5.45( 22.2)    7.90( 23.6)   10.50( 23.8)   13.30( 23.2)    17.00( 214. 2)
Administration              0.31( 15.3)    0.42(  9.2)    o.68( 10.2)    0.73(  7.6)          0.94(  5.9)    1.50(  6.1)    2.50(  7.5)    3.10(  7.0)    4.30(  7.5)            5.60(  8.0)
Depreciation                                0.02(  04)    0.02(  0.3)    0.03(  0.3)         _       0.2)  _.1(  0.10)    0.20(  o.6)    0.30(  0.7)    0.40(  0.7)              o.50(  0.7)
Total exporses          1.88( 92.6)    4.l5( 90.6)    6.11( 91.3)    9.38( 97.0)    15.25( 95.3)   22.75( 93.0)   31.10( 92.8)   39.70( 89.8)   49.70( 86.7)    60.4o( 86.0)
MET 1lO                        0.l5(  7.i4)    0.43(  9.4)    0.58( 8.7)    0.29(  3.0)          0.75(  4.7)    1.70(  7.0)    2.4s0(  7.2)    4s.5        0       7.60( 13.3)      9.80( 14.0)
Figur.3  in bTackats aifa e   of total i   .
/XtJnly inc23  1   frcza Si9n7g Fi (-!           2). 
Jtly 2S, 1971,



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Bihar State Cooperative Land Development Bank Ltd.
Condensed Balance Sheets
(in Rs million)
-Actual ---------------                        ----________--_--Projected-
As at June 30:       1968     1969      1970     1971      1972       1973      1974     3975      1976      1977
ASSETS
Cash on hand and at banks   1.77      3.78      4.49      8.30    11.88       13.00    10.00      7.00     5.00      4.00
T-ve:-tments 1/              0.56      3.25     5.79    1h.79    27.46       46.oo    74.00   112.00   163.00   21h.00
Loars to members
Under the project          -         -        -         -        -           -       6.00    60.00   138.00   234.00
Others                   32.55    52.65    80.80   145.58   230.52        306.00   388.00   422.00   449.00   457.00
Other assets                 3.81      7.66    10.44    10.29    11.71        15.00    17.00    19.00    20.00    21.00
Total assets         38.69    67.3h   101.<2   178.96   281.57       380.00   495.00   620.00   775.00   930.00
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Dehertures
Ordinary and rural       23.12    3-.62    73.42   126.46   181.96       253.00   332.00   358.00   341.00   305.00
Special                    _-                 -         -      28.72      40.00    60.00   142.00   291.00   455.00
Overdrafts                   3.00    10.12      2.22    19.31    18.23        19.00    16.00    22.00       8.00     8.00
Other liabilities            6.92    11.00    13.86    122    27.01           34.00   -40.00   146.00    54.00    60.00
Total liabilities   33.0    58.74    89.50   159.99   255.88        346.00   448.00   558.oo   694.00   828.00
Capital
Paid up  0ares            6.05      7       10.39    17.06    22.98        30.00    42.00    55.00    70.00    86.00
fleqr~ee  arA undistri-    E.q9    1.04      1/3       1.93     2.71        4.00     5.00      7.00    11.00    16.00
buted income                                                                    __-_-__
Total capital         5A65      8.60    12.02    18.97    2c.69        34.00    47.00    62.00    81.00   102.00
ar- I2;ita3       I8M9    "7.34   101.52   178.96   281.57        380.00   49'.00   620.00   775.00   930.00
-   -     -                - -       -______             -o =
l/Investments are mainly sums set aside each year according to law and placed in a Sinking Fund to provide for
repayment of debentures on due dates.
July 25, 1973



AMNEX 6
BIHAR AGRPCULTLURAL1 ZDIT PROJECT
Estimated Increase in On-Farm Cropped Area and Production
Cro_  ed Are. (ha)                                        Production (tons)
Preven.t and                              Yull                                                     Full
Projeced Crops   Before          Deve-oeren-       Increase                Before        Develomuent          Increase
Paddy                    53,400             58,400            5,000               64,080            149,320             85,240
Maize                     18,100            19,600            1,500                18,100            45,700             27,600
Finger i1let              3,200                600           (2,60C)               2,560                480             (2,080)
rmheat                   11,700             57,200          45,500                11,700            160,160            148,460
Bsrley                     7,200               -             (7,200)               5,760                -               (5,760)
Red Gram                 14,900                900          (14,000)               5,960                360             (5,600)
Bengal Gram               6,600                600           (6,000)                3,300               300             (3,000)
Greet Gram                  -                8.100            8.100                   -               6.480
Subtotal Foodgrains  115,100            145,400           30,300              111,460            36?,800            251,340
Sugarcane                 4,000              4,650              650               100,000           186,000             86,000
Potato                                       8.400            8.400                   -              75,600             75.600
Subtotal               4,000             13,050            9,050               100,000           261,600            161,600
Total                 119,100           158,450           39,350               211,460           624,400            412,940
_                                     m 
Estimated Increase in Off-Fark"Cropped Area and Production
l.ddy                    31,333             34,240           2,907                37,600             87,64-2            50,042
Maize                      9,507             9,653              146                 9,507            22,663             13,156
Finger Millet              1,280               240           (1,040)                1,024                192              (832)
Wheat                      6,947            31,946           24,999                 6,947            89,449             82,502
Barley                     2,880               -             (2,880)                2,304                -              (2,304)
Red Gram                  8,227                360           (7,867)                3,291                144            (3,147)
Bengal Gram                3,546               240           (3,306)                1,773                120            (1,653)
Green Cram                  _                5,053            5_53-_                                  4,042              4,042
Subtotal Foodgrains 63,720             81,732           18,012               62,446            204,252            141,806
Sugarcane                 1,600              1,860              260                40,000            74,400             34,400
r3tea'o                   __                 5,173            5,173                                  46,557             46,557
Subtotal               1,600             7,033            5,433               40,000            120,957             80,957
Total                65,320             88,765           23,445               102,446           325,209            222,763
Total Estimated Increase in Cropped Area and Production
Foodgrains               178,820           227,132           48,312               173,906            567,052           393,146
Other Crops                5,600            20,083           14,483               140,000            382,557           242,557
Thtal               184,420            247,215          62795                313,906            949,609            635,703
'""f9-i2rm" meena other farms which buy water from 7ro4eet farmsrs.
Pel 2, 19,71






INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Rates of Return to Farmers
(Rs)
Year:               1           2            3            4-7            8            9-15
MODEL I Investment: Diesel Powered Movable Pumpset with two Shallow Tubewells (Rs 8,100) Irrigated Area 1.5 ha On-Farm plus 1.0 ha Off-Farm,/
Net Value of Incremental Production l'                                             856       1,284        1,540         1,711          1,711         1,711
Capital Investment                                                               8.100                                    -           4.600
Net Incremental Flow                                                            (7,244)      1,284        1,540         1,711         (2,889)        1,711
Financial Rate of Return:        16%
MODEL 11 Investment: Diesel Powered Movable Liftpump (Rs 6.000) Irrigated Area 1.5 ha On-Farm plus 1.0 ha Off-Farm
Net Value of Incremental Production 1/                                             860       1,290        1,547         1,719          1,719         1,719
Capital Investment                                                               6_jJ                                     -            3.000        _
Net Incremental Flow                                                            (5,140)      1,290        1,547         1,719         (1,281)        1,719
Financial Rate of Return:        277
MODEL III Investment:  Diesel Powered Movable Pumpset with two Medium Depth Tubewel_s (Rs 10.910) Irriated Area 2.5 hO                       1.0 ha 0ff-Farm
Net Value of Incremental Production 1,                                           1,266       1,899        2,278    -   2,531           2,531         2,531
Capital Investment                                                              10.910                                    -            _4.800
Net IncrementAl Flunw                                                            (9,644)     1,899        2,278         2,531         (2,269)        2,531
Financial Rate of Returc:        20%
MODEL IV Invest-L: Electric Powered Stationary Pumpset with one Mediure      Depth Tubewell (L 7__,00) Irriated Area 1.25 ha of a 2.5 ha Farm plus 0.5 ha
Off-Farm
Net Value of inc'Le:ental Produrtion 1/                                             791      1,187        1,423         1,581          1,581         1,581
Capital Inristm,ent                                                              7Q00                                                  2, 70
NeL Incrr.iLa_-Aal Fiow                                                          (6,209)     1,187        1,423         1,581           (489)        1,581
Firtaciil Rata sof Retu`X:       20 7|
If   S<       S* 51I~; {- S:it) >.^tr2. 7'iz/A- 9''3 -O e;ad all wub*qtvant y~ara   100-,,
?/   Ofi}f-~- a-; ;~; : ..-.  --t.   ., . P 1;av ualy u f-t- proj .--    a
S    i     {, 9   - Hi - 






1ANNEY 3
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rates of return from project investments have been
calculated as shown in Table 1. The following assumptions have been made:
(a) World market prices (in constant dollars) as projected by
the Commodity and Export Projections Division of IBRDf'
Economic Analysis and Projections Department have been
used to estimate benefits. These projected prices for
1980 (estimated c.i.f. India in rupee equivalent) are as
follows:
Price per Ton (Rs)
Wheat                                 600 -
Paddy                                 490  -
Maize                                 550
Sugarcane                             115
Barley                                525
(b) Current price levels net of import, excise and sales taxes,
as well as subsidies, have been used for investments and in
calculating operating costs, with allowances for cost
increases excluded.
(c) Labor has been given the following imputed values according
to seasonal demand:
(i) The prevailing wage rate of Rs 4.50 per man day for
the relatively scarce skilled labor required during
the peak labor demand period of land preparation; and
(ii) A prevailing wage rate estimated at Rs 1.50 per man
day during the remainder of the year when unskilled
labor required for other activities is in abundant
supply.
2.        Based on the above assumptions, the economic rates of return
over the life of the project would range from 21% to 32%.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
3.        A sensitivity test shows the following:
Farm Model                 _              II         III        IV
----percent---------- -
As per Table 1            21              32          25        24
15% reduction in
benefits       10              18          13        13
15% increase in costs   15                25          20        19



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDIA
BIHAR ANRICVLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return to Farmers
(Ra)
Year;                    1               2              3              4-7              8             9-15
MDDEL I Investment:  Diesel Powered Movable PumPset with two Shallow Tubewells (Rs 7300); Irrigated Area 1.5 ha On-Farm plus 1.0 ha 0ff-Farm-l
Net Value of Incremental Production-r/                                               895            1342           1611            1790              1790             1790
Capital Investment                                                                  7300                     -                     -                  00
Net Incremental Flow                                                               (6405)           1342           1611            1790             (2210)            1790
Economic Rate of Return                             21%
HDDEL II Investment: Diesel Powered Movable Lift pump (Re 5200): Irrigated Area 1.5 ha On-Farm plus 1.0 ha Off-Farm
Net Value of Incremental Production1/                                                834            1252           1502            1669              1669             1669
Capital Investment                                                                  5200              _             -              -                 2700              -
Net Incremental Flow                                                               (4366)           1252            1502           1669             (1031)            1669
Economic Rate of Return                             32%
MDDEL III Investment: Diesel Powered Movable Pumpset with two Medium Depth Tubewells (Rs 9400); Irrigated Area 2.5 ha On-Farm plus 1.0 ha Off-Farm
Net Value of Incremental Productio1/                                                 1263           1894            2273           2526              2526             2526
Capital Investment                                                                  9400             -               -              -                4200
Net Incrementai Flow                                                               (8137)           1894            2273           2526             (1674)             2526
Economic Rate of Return                             25%
MODELB. IV Investment:  Electric Powered Stationary Pumpset with one Medium Depth Tubewell (Rs 5600); Irrigated Area 1.25 ha of a 2.5 ha farm plus 0.5 ha Off-Farm
Net Value of Incremental Production                                                   719            1078          1294             1438              1438              1438
Capital Investment                                                                   5600             -             -                                 1800               -
Net IncrementaZ Flow                                                                (4881)           10'8           1294            1438              (362)             1438
Economic Rate of Return                              24R
1/ Year I - 50%; year 2 - 757%; year 3 - 90R; and all subsequent years - 1002
2,' "Off-Farm" moans other fanes which buy water from projoct fsrmers.
Note: Short tarm credit intere,t was not, included in these .alculatiorq.
July 5, 1973






S H                             A H  < O >4 < 9 IBRD  10482
o<5ArRo        we                                                               INDIA
J   -._S \.A_ k J          | GANDAK SCHEME GR055 COMMAND AREAN    - .N-ARDN,    SNAND SANNPAR
- g  I N D I A    '  g Z ~ENRA_         ElTN  FLOO /RTnO  LMBNEMNT    ,- .==  SWAMSCAD MUDFIAT
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'K\ ,   r                                                   0    T a .s ' MA\N ROADS DISTRICT POUNDARIES 0 2D JD SD  P D
oTFo ~ ~ ~   ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~ ~ AHRS .r PURN AOD INAETR
\  ;-4-.                                                            u
i   >                                                       S    _    (t    Il'   ,/IEU,^s,.,,",,, ''' 18 E' .L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y  J
AABAHN                          A 
j\~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   N0~
A                                                                       BHA
AGRICULTURAL  CREDIT   PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
S H A H A B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                2             D           D
Y/                                             - OfANSS                                          3 NHeFAAIGN AANLRNE
N                                                                                                 N   'NAN,    N..    N  N N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
SERADNOA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e



