CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 440 IN
Project Agreement
(Bihar Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
BIHAR STATE COOPERATIVE LAND
DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
DATED NOVEMBER 29, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 440 IN
Project Agreement
(Bihar Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
BIHAR STATE COOPERATIVE LAND
DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
DATED NOVEMBER 29, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT       ASSOCIATION      (hereinafter  called  the  Association),
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC) and
BIHAR STATE COOPERATIVE LAND DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
(hereinafter called LDB).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President, (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that ARC
and LDB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter
set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the State of Bihar acting by its Governor, the said State has agreed to undertake
certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and ARC, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ARC on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARC and LDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC and LDB shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) ARC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
the Borrower on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
ARC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any prcvision thereof.
(b)   ARC shall, as soon as may be after the date of this Agreement, invite
to participate in the Project the banks listed in the Second Schedule to the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934, on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set
forth in Schedule I to this Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   Subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) of this Section, ARC shall
enter into agreements with LDB and each bank responding to ARC's invitation
under paragraph (b) of this Section on terms and conditions (including inter alia
those set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
(d)   ARC shall: (i) require Participating Banks to maintain separate accounts
for Project lending and (ii) ensure that the annual audited accounts of such Banks
are furnished to the Association within four months of the end of their fiscal
year together with a statement of Project lending for such Banks certified by ARC.
(e)   ARC shall take due measures to ensure that any bank referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section lends for minor irrigation investments only where:
(i)         such bank is capable of effective agricultural loan operations;
and
(ii)        such lending conforms to the criteria set forth in Schedules 1
and 2 hereto.


﻿5
Section 2.03. (a) The relending terms and conditions and the procedures
for carrying out the Project shall be as set forth in Schedules I and 2 hereto,
as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Association, the Borrower, ARC and LDB.
(b) ARC shall take all necessary measures to ensure that LDB and the
Participating Banks in their operations adhere to the lending terms and conditions
and the appraisal criteria and procedures relating to minor irrigation set forth in
Schedules 1 and 2 hereto.
Section 2.04. ARC shall, after consultation with and agreement by the
Association, withhold refinancing under the Project from any branch of LDB which
fails to achieve a recovery rate of 75% of all demand (principal and interest on
outstanding loans) falling due during the fiscal year ending June 30 of each year.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ARC shall
ensure that all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit set
forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement are used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.06. ARC and LDB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to them by the
Borrower and by ARC, respectively, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the goods financed out
of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
to them and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. ARC and LDB shall at all times charge interest on all of their
loans at rates sufficient to enable ARC and LDB, respectively, to (a) cover all
operating expenditures and charges including taxes (if any) and interest payments
on borrowings, and (b) maintain adequate provisions for bad debts and maintain
adequate general reserves in accordance with sound commercial practice.
Section 2.08. ARC shall monitor and evaluate on a continuing basis the
financial and economic benefits resulting from the Project.
Section 2.09. ARC in consultation with the Association shall continue to
assist in the maintenance by LDB and its branches of sound business and financial
practices.


﻿6
Section 2.10. LDB shall adhere to the lending terms and conditions and
the appraisal criteria and procedures relating to minor irrigation set forth in
Schedules 1 and 2 hereto.
Section 2.11. ARC shall take due measures to ensure that all Participating
Banks lend for all minor irrigation investments in the Project Area only where
such lending conforms to the criteria and terms and conditions set forth in
Schedules 1 and 2 hereto except for schemes submitted under the aegis of the
Small Farmers and Marginal Farmers Development Agencies in Bihar.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC and LDB
Section 3.01. ARC and LDB shall: (a) at all times manage their affairs,
maintain their financial position, plan their future expansion and carry on their
operations, all in accordance with sound business and financial practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced
and competent staff in adequate number; and (b) take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of their business or in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LDB shall apply
the same criteria to all similar types of lending in Bihar that they apply to Project
lending and, with respect to such similar types of lending, shall not offer more
favorable terms than are offered under Project lending except for schemes under
the aegis of the Small Farmers and Marginal Farmers Development Agencies in
Bihar.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC and LDB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices their operations
and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARC and LDB shall: (i) establish and maintain separate
accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on account of the Project;
(ii) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent


﻿I
7
auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of said separate
accounts and their financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning their accounts and financial statement and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association, ARC and LDB shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association,
ARC and LDB shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of ARC and LDB and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association, ARC and LDB shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
ARC of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. ARC and LDB, respectively, shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine all their records and documents relevant to the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, ARC
and LDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿I
8
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date when all principal amounts withdrawn by ARC under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and interest thereon shall have
been repaid by ARC to the Borrower.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARC and LDB of this event, and, upon the giving
of such notice this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-                                 9
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shive Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India
Cable address:
AGROFINANS
Bombay
For LDB:
Bihar State Cooperative Land
Development Bank, Limited
Bank Road
Patna 1,
India
Cable address-
Land Bank
Patna, India
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of
(i) ARC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other person or
persons as ARC shall designate in writing; and (ii) LDB may be taken or executed by
its Secretary or such other person or persons as LDB shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. ARC and LDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of ARC and LDB, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by ARC and LDB
respectively pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ 1.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
BIHAR STATE COOPERATIVE LAND
DEVELOPMENT BANK, LIMITED
By /s / T. N. K:ul
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions shall be used in implementing the
Project and shall not be altered without the prior agreement of the Association:
1. Lending terms from ARC to LDB and Participating Banks
(a)   Interest rate to be not less than 7% per annum;
(b)   Repayments to be in installments set to coincide, more or less with
the maturity period of special debentures purchased by ARC or as
the case may be, with expected collections of Agricultural Loans
refinanced.
(c)   Refinancing to be by way of purchase of debentures or by loans at
the rate of 90% of individual loans.
2.   LDB and Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a)   Interest rate to be not less than 9-1/2% per annum;
(b)  A once and for all evaluation fee of 1/2% of the cost of project
investments may be charged;
(c)  Farmers' contributions (including obligatory purchase of LDB shares,
own labor, and other contributions in cash or kind):
(i)        for normal lending to be a minimum of 10% of the
investment costs in the case of pumpsets and 15% for wells
and well improvements;
(ii)       for lending to small farmers* to be a minimum of 10%
of the investment costs in the case of shallow wells,
dugwells and pumpsets, and 15%** in the case of
tubewells;
*     "Small Farmers" shall have the meaning assigned to it from time to time
by the Association and ARC as the same may be incorporated in any
agreement between ARC and LDB or a Participating Bank concluded pursuant
to Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement.
**   10% for two or more farmers in a group loan.


﻿12
(d)   Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate borrower's repayment
capacity, but not to exceed:
(i)         for normal lending:
(A)   7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether financed as
separate loans or included in tubewell loans; and
(B)   9 years on loans for tubewells;
(ii)        for lending to small farmers as defined:
(A)   7 years on loans for pumpsets, whether financed as
separate loans or included in tubewell loans; and
(B)   15 years for all other minor irrigation loans.
(e)   Technical standards, in particular spacing criteria, to be as laid down
by the Minor Irrigation Department and subject to the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(f)   Investments to be evaluated in terms of incremental returns resulting
from the additional investments in accordance with evaluation methods
developed by ARC;
(g)   Security to be in accordance with arrangements between LDB and
Participating Banks on the one hand and ARC on the other; valuation
of land for security on Project loans to be based on the estimated
value of the land after development resulting from the loan; and
(h)   If his own cultivated area is significantly smaller than that which can
be adequately irrigated by the tubewell concerned, the borrower shall,
as a condition of the loan, be required to sell water surplus to his
needs, or to hire out his pumpset or to participate with other farmers
in the joint investment and operation of the tubewell.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Spacing of Wells
In order to avoid the danger of excessive interference of tubewells, their
spacing shall be determined for any area by the following formula:
C
S    =     1000           RxAx     100
rxlOO
where      S     =     distance between wells in meters
R     =    irrigation requirement for the average
cropping in the area in mm
A     =    size of the area to be irrigated in ha
C     =    cropping intensity
r     =    estimated annual recharge in mm


