-    -            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9049
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECTS
(LOANS 1598-CO AND 1857-CO)
OCTOBER 9 , 1990
Trade, Finance and Industry Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BR      -     Banco de la Republica (Central Bank)
DFCs    -     Development Finance Companies
SMEs    -     Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises
ERR     -     Economic Rate of Return
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency: Colombian Peso (COL$)
US$1    -   COL$ 100 (June 1984)
COL$1   -   US$0.01
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C 20433
U.S.A
O4hc* of 01recoCw-Gma
Opevetmm fv.kglmnn
October 9, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Colombia - Seventh
and Eighth Development Finance Companies Projects
(Loans 1598-CO and 1857-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Colombia - Seventh and Eighth Development Finance Com-
panies Projects (Loans 1598-CO and 1857-CO)" prepared by the Latin America
and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit of these projects has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I This document has  restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the petfomoce  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bantk uthorietioo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECTS
(LOANS 1598-CO AND 1857-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE         .................... .. ...........................                 i
EVALUATION SUMMARY.                     .            so...................iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
Project Identity .......... ...         ..... .....1
Macroeconomic and Sector Environment                 1.           .
Project Objectives                             .. .4
Project Design and Organization                         ..4
Project Implementation         5.        ....... ...                              5
Implementation of Investment Projects..                                           7
Performance of DFCs ................... .............................            10
Bank Performance        .........................................                11
Sustair.ability ...     .       ................                                 12
Lessons Learned ....... ....12
Conclusions . . .. .           ..... .....    .     ..... . ...                  13
PART I Annexes:
A - Distribution of Loans by Industrial Sector and Data on
the Sector's Internal and External Competitiveness  .15
B - Details of Sample Projects    .               .16
C - Investment Project Evaluation                    .        .17
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .18
INTRODUCTION         ............... . .18
I.  GENERAL FEATURES OF IBRD LOANS 1598 AND 1857 .19
II.  TREND OF LOAN APPROVALS. BY PROJECT CATEGORY ......22
A.  Gene-ral Trend. .......                          ....                   22
1.  Loan 1598. ..........       ..........                              22
2. Loan 1857                .....22
B.  Sectoral and Geographic Distribution .....23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
III. INTERMEDIATION OF THE RESOURCES ........                                .....   30
A. Rlules Governing the Finance Corporations                    .30
B.  Evolution of the Finance Corporations (1977-85) .33
1.  Capitalization        .      ........ . .. . .                           33
2. Portfolio quality .. . ........ .33
3. Profitability ......            ....... . .34
C. Evaluation of New IBRD Corporations                  ....34
IV. RESOURCE MOBILIZATION                   ...43
A. Industrial Investment    ..43
B.  Finance Corporations.......                                                   43
C.  Cofinancing ..... ......                                                      44
CONCLUSIONS .              ......... .. ..... .. ..                     ..49
Tables:
1.  IBRD Loan 1598:  Eligible Project Categories anLd Allocations                     24
2.  IBRD Loan 1857:  Eligible Project Categories and Allocations                      25
3. IBRD Loan 1598: Placement of Loan Resources, by Project
Category .26
4. IBRD Loan 1857: Placement of Loan Resources, by Project
Category                  ......... .27
5. IBRD Loans 1598 and 1857: Total Approvals, by Economic
Sector  ......... .28
6. IBRD Loans 1598 and 1857: Geographic Distribution
of Approvals                  ...........29
7. Finance Corporations: Funds Raised by Term Certificates
of Deposit    .......36
8. Finance Corporations: Paid-up Capital + Legal Reserve/Total
Assets  ...37
9.  Finance Corporations:  Doubtful Debts/Total Portfolio .38
10.  Finance Corporations:  Net Profit/Capital + Reserves .39
11.  Finance Corporations:  Gross Financial Margin  .40
12.  Finance Corporations:  GFM + Investment Return .41
13. Operating Profit/Loss.                                                             42
14.  IBRD Loans 1598 and 1857:  Industrial Investment .46
15.  Finance Corporations:  Resource Mobilization, IBRD
Loans 1598 and 1857 .47
16.  Approvals Under Cofinancing and IBRD Loans 1598 and 1857                           48
PART II Annex:
1  IBRD Loans i598 and 1857:  Project Components and Categories                      52
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                 ..........53
1. Related Bank Loans             .. . .              ......                          53
2. Project Timetable - Loan 1598-CO                     .. ...54
3. Disbursements Loan 1598-CO                        . ......                         54
4. Project Timetable - Loan 1857-CO                       .. ...                      55
5. Disbursements Loan 1857-CO.                         ...                            55



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT 'INANCE COMPANIES PROJECTS
(LOANS 1598-CO AuD 1857-CO)
PREFACE
The following is a combined Project Completion Report on the Seventh
and Eighth Development Finance Companies Projects (Loans 1598-CO and 1857-CO)
to the Banco de la Republica with the Guarantee of the Republic of Colombia.
Loan 1598-CO was approved by the Executive Directors on June 15, 1978 and
closed on October 14, 1983 after cancellation of $9.36 million. Loan 1857-CO
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 27, 1980 and closed on
December 31, 1987 after cancellation of $11.32 million.
Parts I and III of this Project Completion Report were prepared by
the Bank's Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, based upon
information obtained from the LAC Information Center, the Borrower's archives
and field visits to some of the loan beneficiaries. Part II was prepared by
the Banco de la Republica, the borrower under these two operations.
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments, but none were
received.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECTS
(LOANS 1598-CO AND 1857-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
These projects constitute the seventh and eighth lines of credit
directed to the industrial sector in Colombia. The loans have been made to
BR, operating as a second-tier institution for selected DFCs which have the
principal responsibility for project evaluation and supervision and undertake
the credit risk.   Including the two operations under review, a total of
$492.5 million equivalent have been made available by the Bank for DFCs'
credit operations in Colombia.
Projects obiectives
The main objectives pursued by the projects are:
(i) complementing the resources required for financing investment
requirements in the industrial sector;
(ii) supporting the development of DFCs as sound and predominantly
term financing institutions with an adequate project appraisal
and supervision capability;
(iii) supporting the Government's priorities in the industrial sector
in the areas of export development, industrial decentrali-
zation, improved capitalization of industrial companies, promo-
tion of medium- and small-scale enterprises, reduction of
ownership and market concentration, containment of industrial
pollution and adaptation of local and foreign technology; and
(iv) supporting the Government's policy priorities related to DFCs
development by improving their profitability and portfolio
management, increase their risk capital operations and increase
their domestic and external resource mobilization capability.
The various project objectives were incorporated as specific condi-
tions and features in the on-lending terms for the various types of invest-
ment projects, eligibility criteria for the access of enterprises to the
loans and financial and operational conditions to be met by the DFCs to
become eligible to channel bank resources.
Implementation experience
There were significant differences in implementation performance in
the two projects as a result mainly of the different economic conditions



- iv -
prevailing during their respective bx-'4cution period. In the case of Loan
1598-CO, the loan was fully committed on schedule and there was a one-year
delay in disbursements. The main departures from appraisal estimates was the
low utilization of the equity financing component and the cancellation of
$9.2 million of the loan (para. 14). In the case of Loan 1857-CO, there were
significant delays in committing and disbursing the loan amount and some of
the objectives originally pursued by the Bank were modified to accommodate
deteriorating eccnomic conditions.   As in the case of the previous loan,
there was reallocation of funds from the equity to the debt financing
component and a total of $11.2 million were cancelled from the loan
(para. 15).
The implementation of investment projects by industrial firms was
done in an efficient manner, creating additional productive capacity with
acceptable cost effectiveness.   Initial financial performance of investment
projects is mixed as a result mainly of the prevailing economic conditions
(paras. 22-24).
Performance of DFCs regarding the appraisal and supervision of
investment projects, administrative efficiency and portfolio management was
satisfactory. DFCs performance is below standard in calculating the ERR for
sizable investment projects. This is mainly related to DFCs' reluctance to
use economic evaluation as a relevant factor in making lending decisions
(para. 29).
Main findings and conclusions
The operation was successful in achieving the general objectives of
providing the resources required by the industrial sector to finance its
expansion, ensuring an appropriate appraisal and efficient execution of the
investment projects financed by the loans (despite the shortcomings in their
economic evaluation) and in further developing the DFCs capacity as term
financing institutions (paras. 23-24, 31-32). However, the loans had a very
limited impact in promoting the declared Government objectives in the indus-
trial and financial sectors. This is a result mainly of the lack of effec-
tiveness of project conditionality in neutralizing the distortions derived
from the Government's macroeconomic and sector policies (paras. 6-8) and the
incentive framework for the industrial and financial sectors (paras. 16-19
and 29-30).   Moreover,  given the level of maturity reached by DFCs in
Colombia, continued support by the Bank of directed credit lending should be
phased-out and substituted by improving incentives for mobilization of domes-
tic resources (para. 35).
The main conclusion is that the stage of development financing in
Colombia has reached a mature stage in terms of the appraisal capability and
financial soundness of DFCs.   In order to seek further progress in the
development of a domestic capital market in Colombia and an efficient alloca-
tion of industrial credit, the emphasis should be shifted towards removing
the distortions in the financial and industrial sector, namely, reduction of
directed credit lines and forced investment and of the anti-export bias pre-
vailing in Colombia's trade regime. Without a clear understanding with the
Government on these areas continuing financing of directed credit operations
with external resources may militate against the objectives these operations
are expected to pursue (paras. 35-40).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH AND EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECTS
(LOANS 1598-CO AND 1857-CO)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
1.   Project Names:  Seventh and Eighth Development Finance Companies
Projects
Loan Numbers :  1598-CO & 1857-CO
RVP Unit      : Trade, Finance and Industry Operations
Country Department III, Latin America and the Caribbean
Sectore      : Finance and Industry
Including the two referenced lines, a total of $492.5 million
equivalent has been made available by the Bank to finance development finance
companies in Colombia.
This report will present a combined evaluation of these two
projects.
Macroeconomic and Sector Environment
2.       The two projects were executed under very different macroeconomic
scenarios in terms of sources and economic growth pace, however, they share a
continuously deteriorating trend in exchange rate and fiscal management and
in the incentive framework for industrial sector growth and financial sector
development. In the case of the Seventh DFC Project a significant expansion
of the economy was taking place, mainly as a result of the coffee boom that
started in end 1975.   Macroeconomic policies were focused on sterilizing
accumulated reserves and smoothing the increase in aggregate expenditures
resulting from the incremental inflows of foreign exchange. Coffee, illegal
export earnings and foreign borrowings had expanded domestic liquidity and
increased inflation to unacceptable levels.
3.       During the first half of the seventies economic management had
focused on export promotion and manufacturing had been the main source of
growth. During the second half, the services sector became the main source
of growth. Manufacturing sector growth slowed from an average 7.8% per annum
during the 1970-75 period to 3.4% during the 1975-1980 period.   Overall
export expansion and diversification into non-traditional exports slowed.
There was a significant expansion of Government consumption and a strcng
surge in fixed investment as a result of an aggressive public sector invest-
ment program that masked a decline in private sector investment activity.
Thus, the swift pace of loan commitments under the Seventh DFC project and
the overall satisfactory project execution can be traced back to a transitory



- 2 -
surge in domestic demand brought about by expanded domestic liquidity and
Government consumption which in turn created a strong but short-lived indus-
trial reactivation during the years 1978-79.
4.       The period of execution of the Eighth DFC Project coincided with the
end of the coffee boom in 1980 and the failure to put in place  adjustment
policies adjusting the economy to reduced export earnings and   aggregate
demand levels. GDP growth fell from an average 5.5 Z p.a. during the 19PS-80
period to an average 1.32 during the 1981-83 period.   The manufactu.ing
sector's performance was drastically affected, generating negative growth
ratee (-0.7% growth average during the 1981-83 period as compared with an
average 3.4% growth during the 1975-80 period) and a diminishing share in GDP
(from 23.8% in the 1975-80 period to 21.7% in the 1981-83 period).   As a
subst4tuge to adjustment, the Government underpinned demand growth through
higher nublic expenditure, domestic credit creation and foreign borrowings.
This  1,ought about inflationary pressures.   In order to check inflation
(running at an average 25% during 1981-83), chete was a slowdown in the pace
of devaluation of the peso that led to real appreciation of the peso of 26.4%
by 1983 in relation to the exchange parity prevailing in 1975. This resulted
in a significant loss of competitiveness and further reduction in the rate of
growth of non-traditional exports.
5^       The attempt to maintain aggregate demand through public sector
expenditures brought about a sizable growth of the fiscal deficit and a
widening current account deficit at a time when the ensuing Latin American
debt crisis drastically curtailed the possibilities of external financing.
The Government's response to a drastic fall in reserve levels during 1983 and
most of 1984 was the imposition of steeper import controls and a timid
acceleration of the crawling peg.   These measures were not sufficient to
redress the domestic and external imbalances faced by the Colombian economy
while further distorted the incentive framework for the productive sectors.
The poor performance of the economy and particularly of the industrial sector
during this period was reflected in the very slow pace of loan commitments
under the Eighth DFC Project.
6.       The basic trends described in terms of the macroeconomy and the
manufacturing sector had significant repercussions in the financial sector
which was utilized by the Government as the main instrument to sterilize
incremental foreign exchange earnings.   Sterilization measures included -
drastic increase in reserve requirements and open market operations by BR at
rates substantially above the deposit rate ceilings set for financial insti-
tutions.   These measures limited the financial sector's ability to raise
resources in the domeetic market and encouraged the emergence of an informal
financial market.
7.       In addition, the Government increased forced investment requirements
on financial institutions as it emphasized the role of direct credit lines as
the manner of smoothing the crowding-out effects of the sterilization
measures.   These developments had serious effects on the profitable of the
formal financial sector and their ability to strengthen their equity base.
The restrictions on the sector were partially eased in early 1980 with the
elimination of rate ceilings on certificates of deposit and a reduction in
reserve requirements.   However, as a result of the slowdown in economic



growth, the weakening of the capital structure of financial institutions and
the prevalence of unorthodox banking practices by economic conglomerates
controlling the main financial entities, a major crisis erupted in the sector
in 1982 which led to the liquidation, temporary intervention and nationali-
zation of some of the major banks. Thereafter, the Government has initiated
a gradual process of liberaliztotion aimed at improving the profitability of
the sector and strengthening its capital base.  It is now contemplating the
reprivatization of the banks and greater foreign ownership of financial
instiLutions. In relation to directed credit lines, there has been a consis-
tent policy towards reducing the weight oi forced investmenits, increasing tbe
profitability of diracted credit operation and allowing financial interme-
diaries freedom in setting their deposit and lending rates. This policy has
had some positive effects on the financial performance of DFCs, as will be
discussed below.
8.       The performance of the industrial sector in Colombia during the
1978-85 period is characterized by low or negative growth rates that are a
result of demand management policies and the reliance of the sector on the
domestic market as its principal source of growth. Aside from the effect of
macroeconomic policies, the sector's development has been undermined by the
prevalence of a poor internal and external competitive environment. Internal
competition has been impaired by market concentration.   Over 65% of four
digit industrial sectors show a high or moderate market concentration struc-
ture. External competition has bee.n limited by a protectionist trade regime.
Quantitative restrictions cover 83Z of 1988 industrial domestic production.
The anti-export bias and dependence on the domestic is reflected in the
deteriorating performance of manufactured exports which fell from 7.5% of
domestic production in 1975 to only 4.8% in 1984.  The lack of competitive-
ness is reflected, in the negative productivity growth in the sector. Recent
studies show that during the 1977-80 period, factor productivity declined by
1.3% of total output despite a real output growth of 7.9%.   As a resilt,
manufacturing sector contribution to the economy has remained practically
stagnant since the late 60' (about 21% of GDP) and the industrial sector
share of GDP in Colombia remains substantially below the industrial sector
performance in Latin America and in newly industrialized countries.
9.       The loans under review did not include specific conditionality
linking loan disbursements to the maintenance of an acceptable sector policy
framework, despite its relevance in ensuring the attainment of the projects'
objectives.   There was a marginal link requiring lending interest rates on
peso denominated loans to be maintained at positive levels including a spread
of at least two percentage points for the DFCs.  The two projects provided
for mechanisms to review periodically compliance with this objective.   The
Bank and the Colombian authorities had no difficulties in agreeing on the
appropriate level of peso denominated interest rates since they applied
exclusively to Bank financed operations. In addition, there were discussions
with the Government on the mechanisms and arrangements to enable DFCs to
carry out the term transformation of resources raised in the domestic markets
on a short-term basis. The actual implementation of the term transformation
mechanism resulting from these discussions was implemented under the Ninth
DFC project.



-4-
Proiect Obiectives
10.      The project pursued the traditional objectives of DFC lending of
complementing the resources required to finance investment in the industrial
sector and supporting the development of DFCs as sound and predominantly term
financing institutions.   In addition the projects pursued a number of
specific objectives related to the industrial and financial sectors.   With
respect to industrial policy, the projects supported the Government's priori-
tias in terms of export development, industrial decentralization, improved
capitalization of industrial companies, promotion of small and medium scale
ente-prises, reduction of concentration in the industrial sector, containment
of industrial pollution and adaptation of local and foreign technology.
1l.      In terms of financial sector policies,  the projects  supported
measures to improve DFC's profitability and portfolio quality, increase their
risk capitalist role and their capacity to mobilize domestic and external
resources. In addition, the projects sought to encourage lending to a larger
number of enterprises and an increase in the number of DFCs eligible to
intermediate Bank funds.   The various project objectives were reflected as
specific conditions and features in the on-lending terms for the various
types of investment projects, lending criteria for enterprises, and financial
and operational criteria for DFCs to become eligible to channel Bank
resources.
Proiects Design and Organization
12.      The design of the two projects under review followed the conceptual
framework, definition of roles and responsibilities and the conditionality
that was applied in previous DFCs operations in Colombia and which has proved
successful in transferring resources to the industrial sector and
strengthening DFCs as specialized term financing entities.
13.      In the case of the Seventh DFC project some new features were intro-
duced to deal with some of the secondary objectives pursued:
(i) to Increase support for the Government's export promotion and
decentralization strategies, aggregate loan ceilings by group
of related companies was increased from $4 to $8 million
provided the incremental portion would be applied for financing
of export or decentralization projects;
(ii)  the incentives for DFCs to invest in industrial companies were
enhanced by an increase in the amount of the loan allocated for
equity investments (from $5 million in the Sixth Line to $10
million in the Seventh Line) and by expanding the type of
projects eligible for investment from solely decentralization
projects under the Sixth Line to export and small- and medium-
scale enterprises projects in the Seventh Line;
(iii) to increase DFC's profitability the overall debt equity ratio
was increased from 6:1 to 9:1;



- 5 -
(iv) to provide additional incentives to DFCs to fund medium-and
long-term loans with short-term resources, the current debt to
equity ratio was replaced by a current assets to equity ratio;
(v) Domestic resource mobilization targets were increased substan-
tially in nominal terms, and a target for mobilizing external
resources of about $ 20 million was set under this loan to
introduce mature DeCs to international capital markets; and
(vi) to provide incentives for new DFCs to participate in the inter-
mediation of loan funds, flexible eligibility rules were
established (mainly increasing the debt/equity limit) which
allowed new DFCs limited access to intermediate loan resources
while moving towards full eligibility under the Bank credit
lines.
14.      In the case of the Eighth DFC Project, the following innovative
features were introduced:
(i) to ensure wider access to loan funds, enterprises or groups of
enterprises with total assets exceeding Col$1.5 billion became
ineligible for Bank loans and lending limits from the previous
line were maintained in nominal terms; and
(ii) the role of BR was expanded from review and approval of sub-
projects and supervision of new DFCs to include the supervision
of all DFCs participating in the loan.
Proiect Implementation
15.      There were significant differences in implementation of the two two
projects. In the case of the Seventh DFC Project, the signing took place in
mid-1978 when the economy was booming, including a strong domestic demand for
manufactured goods. The loan was fully committed by end 1980, as expected at
the time of appraisal.   Disbursements were delayed by one year from the
original closing date of December 31, 1982.  There were, however, some sig-
nificant departures from original appraisal estimates: (a) the low utiliza-
tion of the $10 million risk capital component led to a $7.4 million reallo-
cation to finance regular sub-loans; (b) the cancellation of $9.2 million of
the loan, corresponding mainly to amounts committed by the DFCs which were
cancelled by industrial firms; and (c) the financing of only 148 investment
projects of which 17% were decentralized projects, against an ini.ial expec-
tation of 200 projects and 40% of the loan, respectively. The initial target
that about 30Z of the loan would be utilized by small- and medium size firms
was substantially met. Over 45% of the loan was utilized to finance regular
investment projects and 29% of the loan applied towards financing export
promotion projects. The domestic and external resource mobilization targets
set for DFCs were also met.
16.      The Eijhth DFC Project was initially affected by a seven-month delay
in loan signing because the Government had temporarily run out of borrowing
authority from Congress.   Thereafter, a permanent source of implementation
problems was the deteriorating economic situation that had a serious impact



- 6 -
on the investment climate. The Bank was generally responsive to requests by
the Colombians to make the terms and eligibility requirements for the project
more flexible.   Despite this flexibility there was a one and a half year
delay in the commitment of the loan and about a three and a half year delay
in disbursements (to August 1988). As with the Seventh DFC Project there was
a $ 7.0 million reallocation from equity investment financing to the regular
investment  sub-loan component.   Also,  $11.32 million of the loan were
cancelled, corresponding to loan commitments which were not utilized by the
borrowing companies.   The newly established objective of ensuring a wider
access to the loan by benefiting small and medium enterprises was only
partially achieved since there was not sufficient demand from these companies
and the big industrial groups were cut-off from direct access to the inter-
national capital markets due to the debt crisis.  As a result, only 27Z of
,he loan amount was utilized by small and medium firms and about 50% of the
loan benefitted large enterprises.  Moreover, reversing the achie-ements in
previous loans towards supporting the Government's export promotion and
decentralization strategies, over 80% of the loan was utilized to finance
regular industrial investment projects and only 11% was committed for export
and decentralization projects.  As with the Seventh DFC Project, the tech-
nology development and pollution control projects represented just over 4Z of
the total loan amount.
17.      Despite the policy objectives pursued by the two operations under
review, they had a very limited impact on developments in the industrial and
financial sectors. In the first place, the export promotion objectives were
compromised by the Government's exchange rate and import policies. These led
to negative growth rates of industrial exports during the period 1978-1984
and a steady decline in the use of loan funds for export development projects
from 54% in the Sixth DFC loan, to 29% in the Seventh and 9% in the Eighth.
The figures on the projects' contribution to export development are highly
unreliable since DFCs did not monitor export performance by companies that
obtained financing for export development projects.
18.      In the second place, the objectives of reducing market and geo-
graphical concentration in the industrial sector fell short of expectations.
The percentage of loan funds lent to small- and medium-scale enterprises
remained constant at about 27% for the two operations.  A number of companies
classified as small-and medium companies are related to big industrial groups
which established new firms with a low asset base to make them eligible for
the concessional terms granted to SMEs under these lines. The checks carried
out by the DFCs and BR to probe firm linkages to industrial groups were
mostly of a legal and formal nature.   Recent studies on industrial sector
development in Colombia show that market concentration in the industrial
sector has grown significantly during the 1968-84 period. Annex A shows the
level of internal and external competitiveness of the various industrial
sectors based on the proportion of production accounted for by the top four
firms and the level of quantitative restrictions covering imports and the
distribution of loans resources among them. There seems to be no established
pattern between the percentage of loan proceeds allocated to a specific
sector and its level of internal and external competitiveness, except that
about 70% of loan resources were committed to those sectors that show a
moderate to low level of market concentration and a high level of quantita-
tive import protection.   It may be concluded that these operations did not



- 7 -
directly contribute to the increased market concentration in the industrial
sector vut have gone to highly protected sectors, presvmably with relatively
high levels of profitability.
19.      In the same way, efforts to promote decentralization of industrial
development have not shown any significant re&ults. The amount of the loans
allocated to firms located in areas outside the main industrial centers
remained constant at about 33% as had been the experience with the previous
two DFC operations.   This diatribution reflects the normal pattern of geo-
graphic distribution of industrial sector output.
20.      Finally, the efforts to strengthen the capital base of industrial
firms through equity financing by DFCs did not prove effective. Over 70% of
the equity component of the loans had to be reallocated to the debt financing
component of the loans. Industrial firms in Colombia show high indebtedness
levels. By 1984 the median indebtedness of industrial firms in Colombia was
68% of total assets. The incentives towards increased leverage of industrial
firms are explained by the preferential tax treatment of debt financing under
Colombialk Law, the weakness of stock markets and the highly concentrated
ownership structure of industrial firms.   This incentive structure was
partially neutralized by the 1986 Tax Reform Law that reduced tax incentives
on debt financing.
Implementation of Investment Projects
21.      An analysis of the efficiency in implementation of investment
projects financed by the two loans and their financial impact was carried out
based on a sample of 23 projects (7 financed by Loan 1598 and 16 by Loan
1857) representing about 24% of total loan amounts  (See Annex B).   This
analysis utilized data presented by the DFCs and borrowers for loan applica-
tions, the project evaluation performed by BR staff and the periodic reports
regarding project execution and operation presented by the DFCs and invest-
ment enterprises to BR pursuant to the respective lending agreements. These
reports are reviewed by BR staff on a regular basis and utilized as a basis
for BR's selective project supervision. The analysis included visits to four
of the enterprises included in the sample to obtain first-hand information on
the execution of investments, financial performance and experience of entre-
preneurs in operating these lines.   In addition, DFCs provided up to date
information on debt service performance of each of the companies included in
the sample.
22.       A basic conclusion coming out from the analysis is that by and
large, industrial firms participating in both lines of credit carried out
their investment projects in an efficient manner, creating additional produc-
tive capacity with acceptable cost effectiveness.  Initial financial perfor-
mance of investment projects is mixed, as a result of the prevailing macro-
economic environment, specific industry circumstances and market conditions.
23.       In the case of Loan 1598, investment projects were completed with
an average cost overrun of 5.8% and created on average 71.2% of the capacity
that had been originally estimated, thus, the actual cost overrun per unit
investment generated was 46% of the appraisal estimate  (Annex C).   The
average delay in project execution was 3.2 months.   The lower generated



- 8 -
capacity was compensated for three companies that had over 100Z capacity
utilization  (average capacity utilization was 120.6%).   To determine the
preliminary financial performance of these projects, the financial rate of
return estimated at appraisal was recalculated for the first two years of
project operation and compared with the actual first two-yiars return
achieved by these projects.  Four projects had better than expected initial
financial performance, two of them (Minipak SA and Gases de Bucaramanga Ltda)
having fully recovered the investment after two years of project operations,
while in the other two cases a substantial portion of the investment had been
recovered.  In all these cases, the projects had significant positive impact
in the overall companies' finances although at an early stage of project
operation.   Of the three projects with poorer actual performance, there is
one case (Lanera del Pacifico) achieved a positive, although lower, return
and faced overall financial distress as reflected in its poor debt servicing
record.   The other two projects do not show comparatively lower capacity
generated per unit investment (77% in the case of Industria e Inversiones
Samper SA and 582 in the case of Tubos de Vinilo de Soledad Ltda) than the
other projects and have good capacity utilization.  However, they show very
low investment pay back (14.48% and 23.6% of investment costs respectively),
confirming the projects' low profitability. Tubos de Vinilo de Soledad Ltda.
was a new company at the time and the loan financed its initial capital
investments.   Its good debt servicing performance during the recent yea-s
seems to indicate that it was thereafter able to overcome its iritial finan-
cial difficulties.   In the case of Samper SA the project consisted in the
expansion and modernization of the company's cement plant.  There were sig-
nificant cost overruns resulting from delays in land acquisition and the
unforeseen need to expand existing roads to transport the new equipment to
the plant site.  As a result, project operations were postponed for almost
one year.   These  difficulties  in project  execution,  plus  Governm-nt
controlled prices on cement and weak cement demand, started creating some
signs of financial distress in 1983.  These difficulties were compounded by
the accelerated devaluation of the peso in 1985, which forced the company to
file for receivership in early 1986. As a result of the debt relief provided
by creditors (45% of total indebtedness), a strong demand during the years
87-88 and increases in cement prices, the company has been recently
generating an operational surplus.
24.       In the case of Loan 1857 the average cost overrun was 35% with an
average delay of 12.4 months (See Annex C). The newly generated capacity of
these projects was  12% above what had been originally estimated.   As a
result, the actual cost overrun per unit investment was 45% over the
appraisal estimate.   In the case of this loan the results are heavily
affected by the very low performance of the firm Pasteurizadora Santanderiana
de Leches that shows a 343% cost overrun.   If an average is calculated
without accounting for this firm, the cost overrun per unit investment is
improved to 25%, that is below the cost overrun per unit in Loan 1598. The
rate of utilization of that capacity was 80%.   The recalculation of the
initial two years financial rate of return shows that seven of the projects
financed had a substantially better than expected financial performance, one
project (Cementos Rio Claro) was within the expected performance range and
the remaining eight projects were well below their expected financial perfor-
mance. As in the case with projects under Loan 1598 there is no strong cor-
relation between cost effectiveness in project execution and financial



- 9 -
performance. While six of the good performing projects have low cost overrua
per unit investment, the two remaining good performing projects (Ingeser de
Colombia and Ingenio Rio Paila) had significant cost overruns. Of the eight
low financial performance projects, only three (Pelex Ltda, Pasteurizadora
Santandereana and Empresa Rio San Alberto) show a very high cost per unit
investment, while the remaining five show average cost effectiveness. More-
over, only two of these companies (Cementos del Norte and Frigorificos
Colombianos) have faced overall financial distress and sought informal relief
from their creditors.
25.       The main differences in terms of efficiency in project implementa-
tion and financial performance seem to be related to the different economic
conditions prevailing during the periods of disbursement of the two opera-
tions and specific industry conditions. The longer delays in project imple-
mentation experienced under Loan 1857 are explained mainly by the stringent
import restrictions imposed in the early eighties when even capital goods
import licences financed with long-term official credit lines were issued
after substantial delays.  The differences in actual generated capacity and
rate of utilization are related to the economic agents' expectations on
future economic developments at the time of loan application. In the case of
Loan 1598 that was committed during a period of economic expansion, indus-
trial firms took a conservative approach towards expanding their productive
capacity and carried out only 71% of the investments originally applied for.
As a result, they had 120% average capacity utilization and may have foregone
some additional expansion. In the case of Loan 1857 industrial firms seem to
have misread the depth and duration of the recession that prevailed during
the disbursement period of this operation.  In this case the firms expanded
capacity by 12Z more than their initial loan applications and ended up
utilizing only 80% of their increased capacity.  The different reactions to
expected economic developments in terms of expanding productive capacity did
not have a definite effect on the initial financial performance of investment
projects.   Those financed by Loan 1598 show overall acceptable financial
results, while investment projects under Loan 1857 show very mixed financial
performances resulting mainly from the prevailing recessionary market condi-
tions.   Independently from the projects' financial performance most firms
show a prompt debt service record. As mentioned above, there are three cases
in which firms have sought debt rescheduling, adversely affecting the DFCs
portfolio, and only one loan was declared non-performing. The good repayment
record reflects the careful portfolio management that has characterized DFCs
performance, as will be discussed later.
26.      Preliminary calculations done to determine cost of job created in
the sample investment projects reflect a substantial increase from the cost
per employment under the two previous DFC operations, which was already
considered on the high side. While there may be plausible explanations for
this significant increase,i.e., a trend towards financing increasingly
capital intensive projects, the figures reported by firms as permanent
employment creation may significantly understate actual employment generation
since the current labor regulatory environment has induced firms to hire
mainly temporary labor.  Due to the unreliability of the employment figures
reported no judgement as to the job creation costs under these two operations
will be made.



- 10 -
27.      It can be concluded that due to the maturity achieved by both BR and
the DFCs in the evaluation and supervision of investment projects, and, on
the other hand, that the main beneficiaries of these lines of credit are the
bigger and more mature industrial firms in Colombia, the technical and finan-
cial risks undertaken are reasonable and there is an efficient utilization,
within the cost effectiveness parameters discussed above, of the Bank loans
in meeting the investment needs of those industrial firms.
Performance of DFCs
28.      The DFC system in Colombia has evolved into two basic groups: those
DFCs that are predominantly term financing entities, i.e., the eight DFCs
that bave access to the Bank lines of credit, and those DFCs that have taken
advantage of the domestic resource mobilization authority provided to DFCs to
intermediate funds on a short term basis.   There are radical differences
between these two groups in terms of financial and operational structure.
This report will focus exclusively on the first group.
29.      As discussed above, one of the basic objectives pursued by these
projects was to strengthen the role of the DFCs as term financing institu-
tions. The performance of the DFCs in terms of appraisal and supervision of
investment projects, administrative efficiency and portfolio management has
continued to evolve satisfactorily over the years.   The only limitation in
terms of appraisal capability is related to the requirement that sizable
projects should be subject to an economic evaluation to   account for the
project's return to the economy as a whole and to eventually eliminate
projects that show a satisfactory financial return as a result of distortions
prevailing in the economy. DFCs regularly conducted the ERR calculations for
these projects.   However, there have been inconsistencies in defining the
relevant data for purposes of international price comparisons and a
generalized practice among DFCs to disregard economic evaluation as a
relevant factor in their decision to finance an operation. Consequently, it
may be concluded that the economic efficiency of some projects may not be as
high as the ex-ante ERR calculations suggest and that lending decisions by
DFCs and BR are taken mainly on the financial merits of the project and the
creditworthiness of the firm.
30.      In terms of portfolio management, the critical period for the indus-
trial sector did imply a significant increase in the share of non-performing
debt on the total portfolio from an average 0.742 during the period 1974-80
to an average 3% during the period 1981-85.   However,  it was still kept
within manageable levels.
31.      In terms of profitability, performance by DFCs was quite reasonable
during the period 1978-80 averaging   a 39.6% return on equity in nominal
terms.   Thereafter earnings fell and remained negative in real terms until
1986. Th.s was as a result of higher average funding costs from an increased
proportion of resources raised from the public and the requirement that a
higher share of own resources be used in funding direct credit operation
which were lent at mandatory low or negative interest rates. DFCs took some
measures to protect their profitability consisting mainly of a significant
increase in their leverage (from an average debt to equity ratio of 4.7 in



- 11 -
1976 to 9.0 in 1982) and the liquidation of profitable equity investments.
These measures were not sustainable in the medium-term.   The monetary
authorities eventually introduced measures to improve the DFCs' profitability
on term financing operations.  The downturn in profitability had a signifi-
cant effect in the capitalization level of DFCs.  From an average growth of
24.2Z during the period 1974-80, the growth of capital and reserves slowed to
15.5Z during the period 1981-86.   This implied a decapitalization of these
entities in real terms.  Despite the rather dismal performance of the DFCs
participating in Bank loans in terms of profitability and capital growth,
they did outperform all other segments of the financial sector, namely, DFCs
operating in the short term market, and the banking sector which faced a much
more drastic deterioration of their financial position during the period. In
the case of Bank financed DFCs, only Occidente and Colombiana incurred in
temporary non-compliance with the financial conditionality set in the loan,
mainly in terms of exceeding indebtedness limits. Remedial action was taken
by both DFCs in due course.   The overall superior performance of the Bank
financed DFCs during the crisis has led the Government to set the basic
financial and operational policies governing these DFCs as the standard for
all DFCs in Colombia. This decision will force all other DFCs to carry out a
radical adjustment and widen the scope of the institutions specialized in
term financing within the Colombian financial sector.
Bank Performance
32.      The process of preparation and supervision of these two projects
reflects the level of maturity achieved in the relations between the Bank, BR
and the participating DFCs.   The Bank's role is increasingly perceived as
focusing on the up-stream policy and institutional aspects of the development
banking system.   BR has evolved into assuming the main responsibilities in
the supervision of the financial and investment banking performance of the
DFCs and the latter have gained increased autonomy in the evaluation of
investment projects and the approval of loans to industrial firms. While the
Seventh DFC Project worked out as planned, in the case of the Eighth DFC
Project there was a need for a more intensive involvement of Bank supervision
in order to deal with the problems in the financial and industrial sectors
and their adverse effects on loan commitments and disbursements.   The Bank
responded with openness and flexibility to the various requests made by BR to
modify the original terms of the loan. The Bank agreed, inter alia, to sub-
stantially increase the eligibility ceiling that had been -et for large
enterprises, enabled the financing of public works firms and authorized the
participation of the Corporacion Financiera Popular to increase the share of
small- and medium-scale enterprise financing under the loan.   The only
misgiving that arises from this flexible approach is that the changes agreed
focused more on expediting loan commitments and disbursements instead of
dealing with the macro and sectoral policies that were generating the adverse
results in project execution. This approach was conducive to a compromise of
the project objectives, as has been discussed above.
33.      The Bank has required under this type of operation that the amounts
committed by DFCs should not exceed the amount of the loan.  Although this
practice may seem appropriate to avoid overextending the financing capacity
of DFCs, it does not take into account the significant '-evel of loan commit-
ments that are cancelled or not utilized by industrial firms in the process



- 12 -
of project implementation as a consequence of iiiaccurate price estimates or
the decision to scale down or cancel the investment plans due to changes in
market conditions. As a result, over $20 million of the two loans that had
been originally committed by the DFCs had to be cancelled because of the
changing plans of industrial firms, increasing the financial costs for BR and
the DFCs. In the future the Bank should consider allowing overcommitment of
the loan by, say 15%, to allow for subsequent cancallations by industrial
firms. BR would undertake to meet any financing needs that would result from
this overcommitment.
Sustainability
34.      Sustainability of DFCs as term financing institutions was not
improved during the period under review.   There has been a significant
increase in the level of resources mobilized in the domestic market from only
2% of total assets in 1975 to an average 21% during the period 1978-86. This
was due mainly to the authorization granted to DFCs in 1975 to accept
deposits. However, these domestic resource mobilization efforts represent an
average nominal growth of 34.55% during the period 1978-86 and compare
unfavorably with the average 66.8% growth of the banking sector during the
same period and implies a very modest ilLcrease in real terms given the
average increase in inflation for the period of 22.4%. Moreover, since most
domestic resources are raised on a short term basis and the DFCs have been
reluctant to assume term transformation risks (aside from the counterpart
requirements posed by the officia'l rediscounting mechanisms referred to
below), this increased ability of DFCs to raise resources has increased DFCs
short-term lending rather than strengthen their role as term financing
entities.  However, in recent years, and as a result of the introduction of
variable rates in their lending operations under the Bank's Ninth DFC opera-
tion, DFCs have increased their term transformation role and average asset
maturity structure.
Lessons Learned
35.      The analysis of these two projects leads to the conclusion that this
form of investment lending is successful in achieving some traditional but
limited objectives, namely, providing the term resources required by the
industrial sector to finance its expansion and develop the capacity in the
financial sector to allocate those resources efficiently by developing an
adequate evaluation and supervision capacity. The maturity DFCs ha- 3 reached
in the appraisal and supervision of industrial projects and their good
management record constitutes a significant achievement resulting from these
DFC operations which may constitute an invaluable base from which the Govern-
ment could continue to build a domestic capital market.
36.      There are however shortcomings to this type of lending, namely, its
lack of effectiveness in deaLing with the distortions generated by an
inadequate macroeconomic and/or sector environment and the eventual con-
straint to further growth of domestic capital markets that may result from
financing investment mainly through directed credit.
37.      In the case of the industrial sector in Colombia, these projects
made only a limited contribution to the declared export oriented strategy, to



- 13 -
reducing the geographic and market concentration that has characterized
sector development and to reducing the high level of indebtedness that has
prevailad in industrial firms.   This was mainly because the incentives
provided by these loans in terms of concessional credit terms or favorable
eligibility requirements could not effectively neutralize the distort~.2
incentive framework derived from the Government's macroeconomic and sector
policies.   A clear example of this situation is reflected in the stated
export promotion objectives of these operations, where the export development
incentives included in the projects (a concessional lending rate and the
possibility to borrow in pesos) were offset by policies aimed at revaluing
the peso and at significantly strengthening the anti-export bias prevailing
in the trade regime.
38.      In terms of financial sector objectives, the DFCs possibilities to
develop as self-sustainable financial institutions that can raise a substan-
tial portion of their term resource needs in the domestic markets and allo-
cate them in accordance with market-based criteria was adversely affected by
the decision of the economic authorities to utilize the financial sector as
the principal instrument to control monetary expansion and to compensate for
the diminished flow of resources to thi real sectors by increasing resources
allocated to directed credit lines.  Moreover, the significant increase in
reserve requirements and the interest rate ceilings imposed on directed
credit lines had drastic effects on DFCs' profitability, casting doubts on
the financial viability of DFCs that have subsequently been overcome.
39. A basic lesson to be derived from this is that for these loans to
achieve their declared sector policy objectives, an adequate policy framework
should be in place or clear understandings should have been reached with the
Government on the reforms needed to eliminate distortions in the relevant
sectors and in an appropriate macroeconomic framework.
Conclusions
40.      It can be concluded therefore that in order for these projects to
achieve their main objectives (development of a domestic capital market and
efficient allocation of industrial credit) it may have been justified in the
initial stages to provide directed credit lines. However, when DFCs reach a
maturity level as the one achieved by DFCs in Colombia, the emphasis should
be shifted towards creating the framework for increased mobilization of
domestic financial resources which may be contradictory with maintaining
foreign directed credit lines available.   The introduction under the Ninth
DFC operation of variable market-based lending rates was an important step in
that direction. Further actions towards reducing directed credit lines and
increasing competition in the financial sector constitute the appropriate way
to approach the development of a term credit market in Colombia. In the same
line, further actions should be agreed with the Government to remove distor-
tions in the incentive structure prevailing in the industrial sector that may
prevent an efficient allocation of resources. At thia stage, a clear under-
standing should be reached as to the basic policies and strategies the
Government should pursue to ensure further development of the financial
sector and to allow an efficient allocation of resources in the economy. The
Bank could assist in the implementation of those policies and strategies
through lending instruments that would promote the liberalization and
deepening of the domestic financial market.



- 15 
ANNEX A
DISTRIBUTION OF LOANS BY INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
AND DATA ON THE SECTOR'S INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL COMPETITIVENESS
LOAN      LOAN     CR4*       QR 5
COVERAGE
INDUSTRIAL
SECTOR                    CIIU       1598      1857
Food Production           311        12.13Z    17.65     36.3        94.7
Food processing           312         2.24      2.07     33.3        91.6
Beverage                  313         7.63      1.46     92.4       100.0
Tobacco                   314         0.62      1.70     83.1       100.0
Textiles                  321         6.81      8.61     61.6        92.8
Apparel                    322        0.38       .36     17.7        97.8
Leather Product           323         0.25       .40     68.7        40.7
Footwear                  324                    .16
Wood Products              331                   .50     57.4        92.5
Wood Furniture             332                   .25     25.8       100
Pilep., Paper             341         3.51      4.37
Printing                  342         6.27      3.70     45.2        76.9
Industrial Chemical       351        14.05      9.9      57.8        57.4
Drugs, Cosmetics          352         0.45      2.5      46.5        66.2
Petroleum                 354         2.05               78.5        87.5
Rubber Products           355         0.46      0.27     86.6        87.3
Plastic Products          356        10.06      6.98                 95.5
Pottery, Ceramics         361         2.24      2.46     71.9        85.7
Glass Products            362         0.97      0.37     94.4        78.1
Nonmetal Products         369        12.65     17.34     45          86.8
Iron, Steel and Basic     371         1.46      1.69     61.7        84.4
Metal
Non Ferrous Metals        372                    .77     93.4        38.3
Fabricated Metal Prod.    381         4.07      3.95     46          91
Non Electric Mach         382         1.55      0.9      41.9        68.8
Electric Machinery         383        3.75      1.17     55.7        70.2
*     An indicator of internal competition, measures the proportion of
subsector production accounted for by the four top firms in each
sub-sector. Value closer to 100 indicate greater level of
concentrations.



DETAILS OF SAMPLE PROJECTS
(Thousands of Col3)
FIRM'S NAME            PROJECT     ECONOMIC      LOAN        FINANCIAL           PROJECT COSTS           WORLOD BANK LOAN (USI)  EDCXANCE   ITITIINC OPERATIONS
LOCATION     SECTOR                  INTERMEDIARY    PROPOSED        ACTUAL      PROPOSED    DISB1uRSEMtNT   RATE       OJECTED    REAL
TEMPRO LTDA. CIA.SCA.     BOCOTA         321       1857 00   COF.SANTANDER    8452,771       S472,927     83,520,109    82.960,184    155 00   SEPT/81   SEPT/82
ORSA EDITORIAL EL TIEMPO   BOCOTA        342       1857 00   COF.COLOMBIANA    1674/069      1798.828     13,500,107    13,150,009    159.00   JUN/82    JUL/83
CEMeNTOS RIO CLARO SA.   RIOCLARO        369       1857 00   COF.NACIONAL    16,936,000   510,347.200     19,600.000    *2,032,932    168.00 o  JU/86      MAY/86
PRGOO'XTORA TABACALERtA DE
COLOMBIA S.A.            BOSA           314       1857 00   COF.VALLE         8565.459      S909.6ri6    S3,125,000     13,030,298    166.00   JAN/83    NOV/83
ARIDOS Y MINERA DEL
TLUJELO LTD.             TUNJUELITO     290       1857 00   COF.COLOMBIANA    *137.751      S200.192     81,376,751     11.301.345   165.00   JAN/83      FEB/84
COMESA, INOUSTRIA
METALMECANICA SA         SOACHA         331       1857 00   COF.COLOMBIANA    1193,800      U426,818     11,311,533     81.311,533    168.00   FEB/84    JUN/87
PELICULAS EXTRUIDAS LT
PEMEX                    BOGOTA         356       1857 00   COF.COLOMBIANA    S212,920      1593,312     11,753,000     81,753,000    170.00   JUL.83    JUL/S4
PRMDUCTOS ALIMEWrTICIOS
MARGARITA               BOGOTA         312       1857 00   COF.COLOMBIANA   8147,815       S332,315     31,166,325     11,166,325    170.00    JUL/83    JUN/84
INCESER DE COLOMBIA       B.BERMEJA      220       1657 00   COF.SANTANDER    S578,984    11.077.960      13.880,042     S3,879,820   1104.00   AUC/84    SEPT/84
CONCRETOS Y ACRECADOS
LTD                     CALI           369       1857 Do   COFPVALLE         *205,987      U428,910     81,385,000     81,385.000    155.00   JAN/82    OcT/83
PASTEURIZADORA SANTAN-
DEREANA 06 LEIH   N      BOCOTA         311       1857 00   COF.SANTANDER      3111,998     S215,241       *960,000       5925.111    S65.00   JAN/83    OCT/84
CEMENTOS DEL NORTE        CUCUTA         369       1857 00   COF.COLOM8IANA  11,993,695    13,272,531     39,200,000    47,639,778    163.26   JUN/84    SEPT/84
PRIGORIFICOS COLOM-
BIANOS SA                80OTA         311       1aS7 00   COF.COLOMBIANA    8589,494      S029.251      1,.984,186    11,968,035    180.93   JAN/82    AUG/84
INCENIO RIO PAILA         CALI           311       1857 00   COF. VALLE        8412,000      1642,822     12,186,000     82,184,176    170.00   DIC/86    FEB/84
PIMO CEMENTO MANIZALES
LTD                     MANIZALES      369       1857 00   COF.CALDAS        *228,877      S430,643       1980,309       1936.773    167.72    FEB/83    SEPT/84
EMPRESA RIO SAN
ALBERTO SA              CESAR          311       1857 00   COF.COLOMBIANA    1121,258      1396,542       *985,560       8985,588    170.00   JAN;a4    AUC/84
FABRICA DE ALAMBRES
TECNICOS SA              BOGOTA         381       1598 00   COF.SANTANDER    t164,816       S506,10S     11,759,536     81,716,536    142.00   aJNlo      OCTISO
MINIPAK SA                BOCOTA         356       1598 00   COF.SANTANDER      886,032       191,264       *910,419       S883,442    843.00   JAN/79    JUL/79
CASES DE sUCARAKANCA      BUCARAMANGA   354        1598 00   COF.SANTANDER      1118,366     1100,942    t1,270,149      11,154.615    142.50   DIC/s8    MAY/81
INDUSTRIA E IWMVSIONES
SAMPSR SA                LA CALERA      369       1593 00   COF.COLOMBIAMN  14,565,000    S8,920.000     s3,800,000    13,727,397    148.00    AL/Bi    APR/82
TUOOS DE INILO DE
SOLEDAD LTD             BA8RRANQUILLA  356       1598 00   COF.COLOMBIANA    S566,111      1646,643     83.847,000    13,696,151   145.00   AUG/80    DIC/so
ALUMINIO REYNOLDS
SANTO DOMINGO SA         BARRANQUILLA  381        1598 00   COF.NORTE         1131,275      8139,245     31,451,250     81,449,144    10.00   JAN/80    NOV/80
LANERA DEL PACIFICO       YUM80          321       1598 00   COF.SANTANDER      154,233       154,233       1628,342       1628,342    13.00    OCT/79    SEPT/79
COMESTIBLES LA ROSA       RISARALDA      311       1598 00   COF.OCCIDENTE    1309,817       1309.817     83,376,183    12,865,274     844. 00   oIc/o     FEBte



INVESTMENT PROJECT EVALUATION
Project Cost       Project                                                    Cost overrun/        Two year operation
overrun CX)        execution                   Calacity CX)                    savinfs per      Financial Rate of Return
(actual/appraisal     delays            Generated              Utilized           capacity          Appraisat
Firm Name                             estimate)          (months)      (Actual/proiected)   (Actual/orojected)       senerated %       estimate      Actuat
Loan 1857
Texpro Ltda.                                     -16                 12                111                     110               -24               5.8        20.5
Casa Editorial El Tiempo                           -5                12                 83                      80                14              -9.0        29.0
Cementos Rio Claro SA.                            22                 11                100                      88                22             -66.4       -58.7
Product. Tabacalera de Col SA.                    37                 10                146                      74               -06             -13.0         5.5
Aridos y Minerales del Tunjuelo Ltda.              24                 12               100                      99                24             -44.0        -6.6
Comesa Industria Netalmecanica                    20                 40                100                      45                20              -5.0        43.5
Pelex Ltda.                                       37                 12                 75                      45                83               0.1       -11.8
Pro. Alimenticios Margarita                       43                 12                289                     106               -50             -14.3       -26.2
Ingeser de Colombia                               86                  2                125                     100                48             -10.0        51.8
Concretos y Agregados Ltda.                       74                 21                160                      26                 8              -3.7         7.9
Pasterizadora Santanderiana de Leches             64                 21                 37                     102               343             -77.0      -485.5
Cementos del Norte                                37                  3                100                      68                37             -21.4       -37.7
Frigorificos Colombianos SA.                       6                 31                100                     ltl                06              -8.7       -51.2
Ingenio Rio Paila                                 52                -12                 86                     89                 77               7.3        57.2
Fibro Cementos Manizales Ltda.                    39                  5                 94                     115                47              22.1        -4.4
Empresa Rio San Alberto SA.                       43                  7                 87                      22                64             -89.6      -212.4
Average                                                            TKZ 1112.0 
Loan 1598
Minipak SA.                                         6                 6                 72                      80  -             47               9.3        17.9
Gases de Bucaramanga                              -15                 -7                 -                       -                  -            -10.0        34.4
Industria e Inversiones Samper SA.                30                  9                100                     117                30               5.7       -15.5
Tubos de Vinilo de Soledad Ltda.                   14                 4                 66                     109                72             -41.0        -48.6
Aluinio Reynolds Santo Domingo S.A.                 6                10                 68                      86                55             -75.4        -15.1
Lanera del Pacifico                                 0                 -1                50                     211                25               6.8          1.8
Comestibles La Rosa                                 0                 2                  -                       -                  -           -192.0      -126.0
Average                                           5.83.2                              71.2                   120.                 49
X
c:



- 18 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW? FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
INTRODUCTION
Performance under the 7th and 8th World Bank lines of credit (loans
1598 anid 1857) to finance ind-<R- ;I-sector investment will be evaluated using
the following procedure.
We shall first rev>..  nte characteristics and purposes of each
credit line and the changes madie, <analyzing the latter in light of the
macroeconomic environment.
Next, we shall examine the performance of the Finance Corporations
that channeled these resources during the effectiveness of the credit lines
(1978-85), indicating the principal measures pertaining to their performance
and evaluating the principal indicators against those of the Corporations that
had access to these credit lines.
Finally, we shall analyze achievement of the resource mobilization
targets projected when the external loans were designed, in light of
industrial-sector investment during the analysis period and the contribution
of the Finance Corporations to its financing.



- 19 -
I. GENERAL FEATURES OF IBRD LOANS 1598 and 1857
In July 1978 and December 1980 the World Bank and the Banco de la
epCiblica concluded agreements under which IBRD granted loans of US$100 million
Loan 1598) and US$130 million (Loan 1857), respectively, to be channeled through
he Finance Corporations to the financing of industrial development projects.
Since both credit lines pursued many different objectives, prior
esource allocations were made in accordance with the various project
ategories or components eligible for financing and the specific purposes of
ach credit line. 1/
As will be seen from tables 1 and 2, there were assigned to each
roject component or category a specific amount, a size limit for eligible
nterprises and a set of different interest rates in accordance with the
timulus it was desired to give to specific types of project.
In the case of loan 1598, US$85 million was initially allocated to
he ordinary investment component, both with and without exchange risk. 2/
reference was given to smaller enterprises by limiting the peso resources of
ach component to enterprises with assets of less than Col$150 million. In
[dition, as an exception to this rule, enterprises carrying out
-centralization and export projects (defined in Annex 1) with assets above
.1at limit could have access to resources without bearing the exchange risk.
In addition, with the aim of supporting small enterprises the
apital investment component was restricted to those with assets of less than
31$150 million.
With a similar purpose, pollution control and technology projects
are assigned the lowest interest rate (20%) and no asset limit was imposed.
In 1980 US$7.4 million was transferred from the capital investment
3 the ordinary investment component. The purpose was to make effective use
E the resources allocated to the latter component and attend to the greater
inancing needs of ordinary investment projects. As will be seen from table
, in 1979 total approvals for ordinary investment and decentralization and
port accounted for about 87% of the quota (US$85.0 million) while the amount
pproved for capital investment was only US$2.6 million or 26%.
/   The specific components are defined in Annex 1.
I The term "without exchange risk" refers to user loans denominated in
pesos and the term "with exchange risk" to those denominated in dollars.



- 20 -
8.        At the end of 1979 the Banco de la Reputblica asked IBRD to raise the
interest rates for the ordinary investment peso subloans from 25% to 27% p.a.,
and this took effect in 1980. This change arose out of the need to maintain
positive interest rates in real terms for the peso subloans; this was not
being obtained with the 25% rate owing to the increase in the cost 'f living
index at that time and the expectations concerning both inflation and the cost
of money.
9.        However, because loan 1598 resources were placed quickly, very few
loans were approved at the 27% interest rate.
10.       The agreement concerning the 8th credit line (loan 1857) included a
series of changes in relation to loan 1598 designed to optimize resource
allocation (table 2).
11.       With the object of avoiding further build-up of devaluation losses,
it was decided that 60% of the 8th credit line would be transferred with
exchange risk to the user. This portion was intended to finance investment
projects with assets of over Col$150 million but not over Col$1,500 million,
which constituted the upper limit of eligibility for loans out of its funds.
The purpose of this restriction was to help only those enterprises that had no
alternative sources of external financing and, in addition, to stimulate the
cofinancing mechanism (combination of resources of various foreign exchange
sources for execution of the same program) which had been quite successful in
the previous credit line. At the beginning of 1981 a new quota of US$15
million (10% of the credit line) was created for loans to public works
contractors; this was deducted from the amount originally allocated to the
financing of ordinary investment projects.
12.       The 40% transferred without exchange risk was subdivided as
follows: 20% for investment projects of enterprises with assets of up to
Col$150 million; 5% for decentralized or export projects of enterprises with
assets of up to Col$1,500 million; 10% for investment of the Corporations in
new capital of enterprises up to Col$250 million and up to Col$1,500 million
for decentralized and export enterprises; and finally, 5% for research and
development, pollution control and tachnological improvement projects, limited
in the case of the latter component to enterprises with assets not exceeding
Col$1,500 million.
13.       For this "without exchange risk" portion, interest rates were set of
27% for investment projects and 24% for technology, research and pollution.
For the portion allocated in dollars a rate of 15% was set.
14.       Under this allocation both loan 1598 and loan 1857 sought to orient
the development credit resources toward small and medium manufacturing-sector
enterprises.
15.       However, the original division was changed several times during the
life of the credit line in response to the economic situation prevailing
during the first half of the 1980s; as we shall see later, this departed from
the original objective to some degree.
16.       At the end of 1981 the demand for 8th credit line resources had been
low: up to September 1981, 10 months after signature of the agreement, about



- 21 -
US$22 million had been approved, equal to 15% of the total amount. This
pointed to a need to amend some of the conditions of the credit line.
17.       For 1982 access was allowed to enterprises with total assets of over
Col$1,500 million but not more than Col$3,000 million at December 31, 1979.
The reasons for this change were as follows. First, Monetary Board Resolution
25/1981 widened access to the resources of the PriVate Investment Fund (Fondo
para Inversiones Privadas--FIP) to include enterprises with assets exceeding
Col$1,500 million; it was then appropriate to follow a uniform policy with
respect to the development credit beneficiaries and extend this measure to
loan 1857. Second, the Finance Corporations were receiving many applications
from enterprises with assets in excess of the limit and, in view of the
incipient stagnationi in 1980-81, it was appropriate to include them as
possible credit line beneficiaries.
18.       Later, in 1983, the assets limit was raised to Col$6,000 million at
December 31, 1982 for allocation of resources with exchange risk.
19.       In March 1983 US$20 million was transferred from the dollar subloans
portion to the pesos subloans portion for small and medium enterprises. Under
the latter component the Corporaci6n Financiera Popular (CFP) and other
finance companies were allowed access for lending to enterprises with fixed
assets of up to Col$60 million (with 27% p.a. interest).
20.       In 1984 further amendments were made to the agreement, including the
following:
(a) introduction of flexible dollar interest rates;
(b) extension of the deadline for authorization of disbursements to
December 31, 1983;
(c) formalizing of the entry of the CFP as the eighth Corporation
channeling resources of this credit line.
21.        Finally, the capital investment component was reduced twice:  US$1
million was transferred to the technology component in 1984 and US$7 million
to ordinary investment in 1985.
22.        As a result of all these changes, the agreement concerning the 9th
credit line was made less complicated, with greater access for both final
users and intermediaries. Thus, it was decided to include all enterprises of
eligible sectors in the 9th credit line, without no limit on assets, the
investment category quotas were eliminated, and a simplified procedure was
introduced both for granting loans--with and without exchange risk--and for
setting interest rate levels.
23.       In summary, the complexity of the regulations governing the previous
credit lines, due basically to the many different objectives pursued in
granting the credit, in practice hampered and delayed placement of the
resources and led to frequent requests for changes in the agreements. This
problem was largely eliminated in the 9th credit line agreement.



- 22 -
Ir. TREND OF LOAN APPROVALS, BY PROJECT CATEGORY
A.   General Trend
1.   Loan 1598
24.        Table 3 depicts the placement of loan 1598 resources, by project
component or category, in terms of number and amount of final approved
applications, taking into account reductions and increases of approved loans.
25.        Of the US$100 million in loan 1598 resources, approvals totaled
US$98 million, which was reduced to US$89 million through various
cancellations, giving net utilization of 89%.
26.        Against the amount allocated to ordinary investment, in both dollars
and pesos, including decentralization and export, approvals were made of
US$91.7 million, equal to 108% of the original quota. Approvals were also
made of US$3.9 million for technology and pollution control and US$2.6 million
for capital investment, equal to 78% and 26%, respectively of the amount
allocated in the original agreement.
27.       In general, except for capital investment, the amounts utilized per
component approximately equaled the corresponding quotas.
28.       The loan resources were placed expeditiously, in just over two
years, with the peak demand in 1979. This is explained by the economic boom
at that time, when the real GDP growth of 8% in 1978 stimulated favorable
expectations. In addition, the controls imposed on the financial sector had
stimulated the growth of an extra-banking sector whose long-term lending
interest rates were considerably higher than those set by the Corporations for
their World Bank operations.
29.       Capital investment recorded the lowest demand, with approvals of
only US$2.6 million out of an initial quota of US$10 million. The reason lies
in the fact that the World Bank lends only for shares of new issues that
involve high risk and not for transactions in shares already listed on the
stock exchange.
30.       Under the ordinary investment component, decentralization and export
enterprises accounted for nearly 50% of approvals, owing to the attractiveness
both of the resources granted without exchange risk and of the interest rate.
In contrast, small enterprises with assets not exceeding Col$150 million
accounted for 28% of the ordinary investment quota.
2.   Loan 1857
31.        Unlike the 7th credit line, the total amount of approvals under loan
1857 (table 4) exceeded the loan amount of US$150 million, though only 92% of
the line was actually used.



- 23 -
32.       The changes agreed upon between Banco de la Republica and IBRD to
redefine each component led to fairly wide discrepancies between utilizations
and quotas. Thus, in the case of ordinary investment, dollar investment
approvals totaled US$78 million against an allocation of US$55 million (+
42%), while peso investment approvals reached only 61% of the allocation of
US$57 million.
33.       It is noteworthy that total approvals for decentralization and
export (US$22.3 million) amounted to nearly three times the initial budget of
US$7.5 million.
34.       The capital investment and technology, research and pollution
components were progressively adjusted in light of the existing demand.
35.        In the case of public works contractors, a very low volume of
resources was used, owing to the creation of a credit quota for that activity
in 1982 on more advantageous terms.
36.       Placement of this credit line was thus divided very unequally among
its many components and was particularly slow. This is expiained by several
factors: first, the reduced performance of manufacturing, which posted
negative real production growth rates in 1981 and 1982, reflected also in low
levels of investment; second, the decline in world interest rates, which made
the terms offered by the credit line less competitive.
37.       The fact that financing was based on the enterprises' asset levels
encouraged large enterprises to set up, fictitiously, "new" companies whose
size allowed them to obtain financing without assuming the exchange risk.
38.       Generally speaking, it can be concluded that the pace of placement
of 7th and 8th credit line resources reflected the prevailing economic
conditions. It is stressed also that neither credit line fully achieved the
goal of support for small enterprises.
B.   Sectoral and Geographic Distribution
39.        Loans 1598 and 1857 exhibit very similar sectoral and geographic
distribution (tables 5 and 6).  Chemicals (14.3%), non-metal minerals (13.7%)
and food products (11.6%) absorbed 40% of 7th line and 43% of 8th line
resources.
40.        Geographic distribution was the same in both cases, with 66% and
67X, respectively, of the resources concentrated in the Antioquia, Bogota and
Valle regions. 1/ This demonstrates the ineffectiveness of decentralization
mechanisms based solely on more favorable terms of some loans without regard
to other factors such as remoteness from markets, deficient infrastructure,
etc.
1/   Although in the case of loan 1857 decentralization and export approvals
greatly exceeded the quota, this does not signify a contribution to
decentralization but rather a positive impact on export projects.



Table 1
IBRO LOAN 1598 (US$100 MILLION)
ELIGIBLE PROJECT CATEGORIES AND ALLOCATIONS
With RiSK                         Without Risk
Technology
Ordinary            Ordinary       Capital      & pollutioi
investment          investment   investment  control
Original 1978                   85.0                       10.0          5.0
Quota
(US$ million)
Change 1980                     92.4
BENEFICIARIES            Original 19t8                        to 150 Ordinary
Enterprises              per Dec. 1977         to 150                             to 150       No limit
with total               balance sheet                        to 150 Decentr.
assets of:                                                    and Export
(Col$ million)
22 Ordinary
INTEREST RATE           Original 1978           10.75              25                             20
(% p.a.)                                                                       21 Decentr.
8  Export
Chaniqe 1980                              27
SoQurc.e Agreement and amendmetnts.
Date: June 15, 1989
ADH/efg.



Table 2
IBRO LOAN 1857 (USS150 MILLION)
ELIGIBLE PROJECT CATEGORIES AND ALLOCATIONS
With Risk                                                 Without Risk
Public                    Oecentr.                     Technolo-    Research
Ordinary    works          Ordinary    &               Capital      gical ,,an-   and            Pollution
investment  contractors  investment  export            investment  provement    development   control
QUOTA           Original 1980       75.0                      30.0        7.5             15.0                         7.5
(USS million)  Change 1981                      15.0
Change 1983         55.0                      50.0
Change 1984                                                               14.0                         8.5
Change 1985                                   57.0                         7.0
BENEFICIARIES  Original 1980                                                          250 Ordin.
(enterprises   per bdlance        1,500        1,500          150        1,500        1,500            1,500         No limit    No limit
with total      sheet at                                                              Decentr. &
assets not      12/31/79                                                              export
exceeding       Change 1982
(Col$ mill.)   per balance        i,000        3.000          150        3,000        3,000            3,000
sheet at                                                              Oecentr. &
12/31/79                                                             export                                                           r'
Change 1983
per balance       b,000        6,000          300
sheet at
12/31/82
INTEREST       Original 1980        IS          15            27            27            24           24             24            24
RATE (% p.a.)
Change 1984    Libor + 2   Libor + 2                                  24 and 27 assets of
(Min 12.5   (Min. 12.5                               Col $250-3.000 million
Max. 15)    Max 15)
SOurce: Agreement and amendments.
Date: June 15, 1989
AOH/efg.



Table
IBRD LOAN 1598: PLACEMENT OF LOAN RESOURCES BY PROJECT CATEGORY
(US$ 000)
1 9 7 8                   1 9 7 9                       1 9 8 0                   T O T A L
Project Category                    Amount                    Amount                        Amount                     Amount
No.    Approved  Final   No.   Approved  Final    No.           Approved  Final   No.   Approved  Final
Ordinary Investment
in dollars              1          84       79      16   15,592  12,370         4        4,680   3,832    21    20,356  16,281
in pesos               14       3,611   3,336       48   17,556  16,068        11        5,082   4,700    7'    'b,241) 24,104
Decentr. and Export        h        7,703   7,589      23   29,476  28,125          8        7,985   7,574    37    15,164  43,288
Capital Investment         I          211      211      3    2,381   2,247                                             2,'',)!  2,458
Technological
Improvement and
Pollution Control          2          115      62       4    1,187       949        9       2,595   2,260    15        3,d9    s,271
TOTAL                     24      11,724  11,277       94   66,192  59,759        32       20,342  18,366   150    98,25B  89,402
a'
Source: DCI 9isbursements Sertion d,ita.
Date:    June IS, 1989



Table 4
IBRO LOAN 1857: PLACEMENT OF LOAN RESOURCES BY PROJECT CATEGORY
WUSS 000)
1 9 8                   1  9 8                1 9 8 3                 1 9 8 4                1 9     5              T O    A L
Project Category             Amount                   Aunt                   mount AAmount                                 Amount_                 Amount
No.  Approved  final  No.  Approved  Final  No.  Approved  Final  No.  Approved  Final  No.  Approved  final  No.  Approved  final
Ordinary Investment
in dollars         18     17,175 14.399  20       12,131 10,684  17      26,890 21,499  17      20,492 19,628   1        1,755  1,293  73      78.443 67,503
in pesos           19      5,978  5,791  19       11,012 10,733  32       9,598  9,105  36       8,913  8,593   1           56      55 107     35,557 34,277
Oecentr, and Export   5        4,554  4,489   7       3,271  3,076   7        4,219  3,007   9      10,329  9,954                          28      22.373 20.526
(apital Investment    2        1,469  1,317   2       1,071  1,012   1        2,400  2,400   2       2.086  2,058                           7       7.026  6.787
rechnological
Improvement and
Pollution Control      7      3.216  2,260   3        1,686  1,461   8       2,893  3,168   2          505    446                          20      8,300  7,335
Public Works
Eontractors                                   4       1,372  1.483   1          260    214   1         400    367                           6       2,132  2.064       b
TOTAL                 51     32.392 28,256  55       30,543 28,449  66      46,260 39,393  67       42,825 41,046   2       1,811  1,348 241    153,831 138,492
Sourcem OCI Disbursements Section Data
(late:    June 15. 1989



- 28 -
Table 5
IBRD LOANS 1598 AND 1857: TOTAL APPROVALS, BY ECONOMIC SECTOR
(percentages)
CIIU                             7th                         8th
Sector                           Loan                        Loan
130                                                          1.7
210                                                          0.4
220                            0.3                            3.2
230                             1.1
290                                                           1.0
311                           11.6                           17.5
312                             1.9                           2.0
313                             7.9                           1.4
314                             0.6                           1.7
321                             7.2                           8.3
322                            0.4                           0.4
323                             0.2                          0.6
324                                                           0.2
331                                                           0.5
332                                                           0.2
341                             2.9                           4.3
342                             6.0                           3.6
351                           14.3                            8.9
352                            0.5                            2.7
354                             2.1
355                             0.5                           0.3
356                            10.3                           6.8
361                             2.0                           2.4
362                             0.9                           0.4
369                            13.7                          17.0
371                             1.3                           1.7
372                                                           0.8
381                             4.2                           3.9
382                             1.6                          0.1
383                             3.9                           1.1
384                             0.8
385                             0.5
500                             0.7                           1.8
632                             2.6                           4.9
719                                                          0.2
TOTAL                           100.0                         100.0
Source: DCI Statistics
Date:    June 15, 1989
ADH.efg.



- 29 -
Table 6
IBRD LOANS 1598 AND 1857: GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF APPROVALS
(percentages)
Geographic                        7th                         8th
Area                           Loan                       Loan
Antioquia                          27.4                         18.2
Atlantico                          14.3                          6.9
Bogota                             21.0                         24.3
Bolivar                             5.7                          3.8
Caldas                              1.0                          1.0
Cundinamarca                        4.6                          3.6
Santander                           2.9                          5.5
Valle                              17.6                         24.5
Others                              5.5                         12.2
TOTAL                             100.0                        100.0



- 30 -
III. INTERMEDIATION OF THE RESOURCES
41.       During the 1970s the financial sector posted acreleratcd growth in
terms not only of volume of resources raised but also m  .mcer :t
institutions and diversification of intermediation instrumelits.
42.       The sector's vibrancy in that period is explained by Lhe ~n'2r,2ased
liquidity due to the 1975-78 coffee boom and the substantial impro%'ement in
the real sector of the economy.
43.       However, these same factors were largely responsible for the various
problems that the financial sector faced during the first half of the 1980s.
44.       The need to control monetary expansion and ensure the availability
of cheap resources to certain sectors to which the authorities assigned social
priority led to the imposition on the financial sector of high cash reserve
and compulsory low-return investment levels. Added to the controls imposed on
lending interest rates, these led many financial institutions to try to evade
these measures by resorting to unorthodox banking practices. Moreover, owing
to high credit demand fueled by favorable expectations, "the financial
institutions concentrated their lending, did not study the risks with
sufficient care and failed to ensure that their foreign-currency loans were
placed at amortization terms similar to those applicable to the resources out
of which they were making them. At the same time, they allowed their overhead to
grow too fast." 1/
45.        In general, the enterprises took on excessive debt because of the
tax advantages offered by greater leverage and also applied resources to
speculative purposes. Moreover, equity increases took the form of asset
revaluation, giving the appearance of sound financial structures. When the
growth of the economy slowed, producing fiscal disequilibria and suspension of
external credit, the high debt levels had disastrous consequences for the
enterprises.
46.        The effects of all these practices were reflected in the :i- an:ral
system, with high delinquent portfolio levels which generated : uilily
problems, low rates of return, defaults and decapitalizatior.
47.        The Finance Corporations, as resources channeling .t;-::!tS.
escape these effects, although the impact was smaller for them, particularly
(for a number of reasons which will be referred to later) those handling
resources of the international agencies.
A.   Rules Governing the Finance Corporations
48.       As part of development credit policy during the analysis period
(1977-85), certain measures were taken to facilitate accomplishment of the
purposes for which the Finance Corporations had been set up.
1/   Editorial Notes, Revista Banco de la Republica, July 1985.



- 31 -
49.       First of all, with a view to active intervention by the Corporations
in the capital market, in 1977 the Monetary Board imposed a requirement that
at least 102 of assets be held in capital investments in enterprises. Later,
by decrees 2461 and 3277 of 1980, this requirement was replaced by an
obligation to hold enterprise investments equivalent to 60% of their equity
(raised to 80% on December 31, 1982).  These investments would be represented
by shares, quotas or social-interest participations in manufacturing,
agricultural or mining enterprises, acquired on both the primary alid secondary
markets. As will be -een later, this decision had a positive impact on the
Corporations' profits during the financial-sector crisis.
50.       Although these measures increased the percentage of share securities
in the Corporations' total assets, their role as development banks continued
to be very limited. Moreover, due to the flexibility of the rules governing
the operations of the Finance Corporations, during the second half of the
1970s a large number of institutions were set up that specialized more in
short-term operations than in true development activities. This compelled the
authorities to adopt a number of reforms tightening the requirements for
creating such institutions, strengthening their equity structure and
reorienting them toward their original objectives. These reforms were set
forth in Decree 2461 of 1980.
51.        The rules contained in Decree 2461 attenuated, for the Corporations,
the impact of the 1981-84 crisis on the financial system, specifically in the
strengthening of their capital. Thus, Decree 2461 prescribed that each
Corporation's total obligations to the public could not exceed 15 times its
paid-up capital and legal reserve; this reduced their debt capacity (the ratio
was previously 1:20) and compelled them to capitalize.
52.       In response to the financial problems of mid-1982, the Finance
Corporations were provided with resources to meet transitory liquidity needs.
To that end, Monetary Board Resolution 72 of 1982 set an ordinary quota of up
to 102 of each entity's paid-up capital and legal reserve and prescribed
utilization periods of 30 days, extendable to 45 days, on each occasion,
subject to a limit of 90 days a year. Later, by Resolution 55 of 1984, these
rules were amended to introduce a variable quota, also linked to caiUal and
reserve, whose amount depended on the Corporation's portfolio amortizationl
terms. The amount of each Corporation's ordinary quota would be determined as
follows:
-    up to 502 of its paid-up capital and legal reserve when at least 10%
of its portfolio is amortized in not less than one year;
-    iup to 75% of its paid-up capital and legal reserve when at least 25%
of its portfolio is amortized in not less than one year;
-    up to 1002 of its paid-up capital and legal reserve when at least
50% of its portfolio is to be amortized in not less than one year;
-    up to 1502 of its paid-up capital and legal reserve when more than
502 of its portfolio is to be amortized in not less than three years.



- 32 -
53.       The introduction of this credit quota at the Banco de la Republica,
increasing in step with the length of term for which the Corporations'
resources are committed, has helped to enhance their degree of specialization
in medium- and long-term operations.
54.       Major importance has been assigned in development credit policy to
the principle that the financial intermediaries shall supplement the
rediscount resources by funds of their own so as to ensure that the limited
resources available benefit the maximum number of enterprises and avoid total
and undesirable dependence on Banco de la Republica funds to finance priority
sectors.
55.       However, owing to the lack of a developed capital market, the
financial intermediaries, particularly the Finance Corporations, capture a
very large proportion of their remunerated resources through short-term
instruments, especially 90- and 180-day Certificates of Deposit. In addition
to the scarcity of long-term resources, Decree 399 of 1975 allowed the Finance
Corporations to receive funds in money as 90-, 180- and 270-day term
deposits. This led to great growth in the resource mobilization--at short
term--particularly during the period 1975-80 (table 7).
56.       The intermediaries would consequently have to grant development
loans at medium and long term out of resources raised on the money market,
without any suitable term-conversion mechanisms. As a result they sometimes
encountered serious liquidity difficulties and uncertainty concerning the
intermediation margin on their development operations, since these resources
were placed at fixed rates whereas their cost depended on market conditions.
57.       To resolve this problem a mechanism was set up that allowed a fixed
differential to be maintained between the intermediaries' income and
fund-raising costs in development operations. Resolution 109 of 1983
authorized the lending institutions to charge, on the resources contributed by
them in development operations, a variable interest rate that would have a
margin of up to 3 points above the "average cost of mobilization through term
certificates of deposit" (DTF indicator), to be announced weekly by the Banco
de la Repdblica. This mechanism links the interest rate on own resources to a
market mobilization indicator so that the intermediary's margins are (a) on
the rediscounted portion of the loan, the difference between the rate set by
the monetary authority for development loans and the corresponding rediscount
rate, and (b) on the non-rediscounted portion (this margin also constant over
the life of the loan) the difterence between the loan interest rate and the
cost of raising the resources.
58.       This measure raised the profitability of the more
development-oriented Corporations by guaranteeing a stable margin on those
operations and allowing a suitable term-conversion mechanism.
59.       The introduction of the "DTF" indicator to permit flexible
development-loan interest rates was widely accepted by the financial
intermediaries, to the point that it came to be applied generally for ordinary
placement and mobilization operations.



- 33 -
B.   Evolution of the Finance Corporations (1977-85)
60.       In order to determine the financial performance of the Corporations
that channeled IBRD resources during the life of loans 1598 and 1857, we
propose to analyze their situation, comparing it with that of the other
Corporations.
1.   Capitalization
61.       Table 8 depicts the evolution of the ratio capital + legal
reserve/total assets for the Private Finance Corporations, divided into two
groups on the basis of their access to the external loans. This ratio is
indicative of the Corporations' financial soundness, since the higher it is,
the sounder the backing for the intermediation function.
62.       For all Finance Corporations together, the ratio declined during the
analysis period from 9.7% in 1977 to 7.9% in 1985, with a sharp fall from the
beginning of the 1980s. It should be noted that the Corporations channeling
international agency resources posted a slightly rising and relatively stable
performance, while the "Other Corporations" exhibited wider fluctuations and a
declining trend for the period 1980-83.
63.       For the last two years of the first half of the 1980s the figures
appear in principle to show that the "Other Corporations" posted greater
underlying financial strength. However, share of equity in total assets for
1984 and 1985 was 12.6% and 13.1%, respectively, for the Corporations
channeling external resources against 6% and 4.6% for the others. This is
explained by the losses posted by "Other Corporations", as a result of which
equity is lower than the sum of paid-up capital and legal reserve.
64.       In conclusion, the Finance Corporations exhibit a declining ratio of
paid-up capital + legal reserve to total assets during the period 1977-85,
while the Corporations handl..-.g IBRD loan resources show more appropriate
capitalization, with positive profits, than the Other Corporations.
2.   Portfolio quality
65.       This indicatoi is measured as the share of doubtful loan debts in
total portfolio. The figures in table 9 indicate a substantial increase in
doubtful loan debt during the analysis period, particularly during 1981-85.
In the case of the Corporations with access to external resources, this
indicator rises from 0.8% in 1977 to 4.4% in 1985, with 1982-85 the peak
period. This growth is far below that for Other Finance Corporations (from
0.7% in 1977 to 15.81 in 1985); this is due in part to their specialization in
investment project financing, which allowed them to set up suitable project
appraisal and supervision mechanisms, plus the requirement of real security in
support of the loans, additional to that required by IBRD and the Banco de la
RepuLblica to maintain an appraisal team.
66.       The rise in the ratio of doubtful debts to total portfolio also
implies a growth of non-productive assets, indirectly impairing the capacity
to generate profit. In addition, it increases the institutions' risk since
doubtful loan debts is a potential source of losses, with a high probability
that they will become charges to Profit and Loss.



- 34 -
3.   Profitability
67.       Tables 10 through 13 show the major profitability indicators for the
Finance Corporations. The figures for the group as a whole show a positive
trend for nearly all indicators until 1981, from which year they fall sharply,
with negative results in 1984.
68.       The Corporations handling World Bank resources show a markedly
better profitability trend than the others. Thus, while the latter posted
losses from 1983 onward, the former have consistently shown profits, with a
slackening in the years 1982-84 but a recovery from 1985.
69.       A factor in raising these Corporations' profits or reducing their
losses during the financial-sector crisis (1982-84) was the appreciation in
value on the sale of shares and participations in real-sector enterprises in
which they had made investments, chiefly in compliance with the rules
contained in decrees 2461 and 3277 of 1980. In addition, the profitability of
the more development-oriented Finance Corporations was boosted by the measures
taken by the Monetary Board with the object of guaranteeing a stable margin on
those operations (Resolution 109 of 1983).
70.       In analyzing the indicators for the Finance Corporations channeling
external resources it should be noted that in 1984 interest and commission
income would have fallen short of expenditure under those headings, including
administrative costs and portfolio protection, but for investment income.
Thus, the financial margin for that year was Col$1,190 million, against
overhead and portfolio costs of Col$1,595 million.
C.   Evaluation of New IBRD Corporations
71.       The requirement of a tighter debt/equity ratio, the attractiveness
of the more profitable short-term operations and the relatively small
allocation of loan funds meant that only one new Finance Corporation (Aliadas)
participated, on a limited basis, in the 7th and 8th lines of credit.
72.       During the analysis period the Corporation's financial situation was
badly aftected, specifically from the year 1981, by risky operations that did
not produce the expected results.
73.       In the 1981 evaluation the Corporation had exceeded the limit set in
the cases of debt/equity ratio (6:1) and current assets/equity ratio (4.5:1).
Moreover, it showed slow utilization of the various Banco de la Repulblica
rediscount lines and World Bank loan funds.
74.       As of December 31, 1983, though it was complying with the limits set
by the World Bank for these two ratios, its net profit had fallen by 91% in
relation to 1982. The main reasons for this deterioration in profits were the
reduction in equity capital, due basically to the reduction in retained
earnings that do not have a direct cost; the increase in capital stock
investments, which operationally had an appreciably lower annual return than
other operations, and finally the increase in doubtful loan debtors.



- 35 -
75.       As of June 1984 the Corporation's financial situation was beset by
problems of over-investment in low-yield shares, a reduced intermediation
margin and a high level of unproductive assets and consequent negative impact
on operating profit (with the result that it did not show an operating profit
at the close of fiscal 1984). Owing to the drawdown of its reserves through
losses of previous fiscal years it had to resort to substantial capitalization.
76.       The first talks between the Suramericana Finance Corporation and
Aliadas concerning a possible merger took place in August 1984, and the
absorption of Aliadas by Suramericana was made official in November 1985.
Suramericana benefited from the merger because it strengthened its equity, its
leverage and its productive assets with the acquisition of Aliadas'
investments in the Companiia Nacional de Chocolates and Enka de Colombia.
77        The assets were reviewed to determine in which cases provisions
needed to be made to avoid burdening Suramericana's Profit and Loss account.
An agreement was reached under which Aliadas would use the profit on the sale
of Enka and La Nacional de Chocolates shares to Suramericana to set up the
appropriate provisions so as to compensate Suramericana satisfactorily for its
take-over of the remaining assets.
78.       With the accomplishment of the merger the quality of Suramericana's
assets deteriorated a little even though they had been taken over with the
necessary provisions to maintain its soundness. However, from 1986 to 1987
the value of the assets almost doubled, equity value rose and operating
account and profits improved, evidence of the positive impact of the merger.
79,       In summary, analysis of the major financial indicators for the
Finance Corporations for the period 1977-85 brings out the negative impact on
them of the recessive economic climate combined with the financial crisis in
the first half of the 1980s.
80.       It also reveals that, in the same situation, the Corporations with
access to external resources performed favorably in comparison with the other
Corporations, specifically in terms of profitability and portfolio quality.
81.       In addition, the measures taken during the analysis period made a
positive contribution to the Corporations' performance during that period in
spite of economic stagnation.



- 36 -
Table 7
FINANCE CORPORATIONS: FUNDS RAISED BY TERM CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT
(Col$ million)
IBRD
Finance                 Other                  Total for
Year     Corporations           Corporations              Private FCs
1974            162                     45                     207
1975            316                    246                     562
1976          1,189                  2,387                   3,576
1977          2,245                  6,139                   8,384
1978          5,631                  8,511                  14,142
1979          4,248                  7,299                  11,547
1980          6,848                 10,109                  16,957
1981          8,101                 14,682                  22,783
1982          8,754                 16,449                  25,203
1983         17,648                 17,727                  35,375
1984*        21,455                  9,472                  30,927
1985         30,353                 13,237                  43,590
Source:   Revista Banco de la Reptiblica, October 1987, Department of Credit
to the Financial Sector.
A From 1984 the Aliadas and Grancolombiana Finance Corporations are excluded.
Date: August 24, 1989



- 37 -
Table 8
FINANCE CORPORATIONS: PAID-UP CAPITAL + LEGAL RESERVE/TOTAL ASSETS
(percentages)
IBRD
Finance                Other                 Total for
Year    Corporations          Corporations            Private FCs
1977          4.8                 11.9                    9.7
1978          6.4                  11.2                   9.7
1979          6.7                  11.4                   9.8
1980          6.7                 10.2                    9.1
1981          7.5                   9.1                   8.5
1982          7.5                  8.8                    8.3
1983          7.1                   8.1                    7.8
1984*         7.3                  12.2                   8.3
1985          6.5                  13.5                    7.9
Source:   "Estado y evoluci6n de la capitalizati6n de Bancos y Corporaciones
Financieras", Francisco Ortega and Rudolf Hommes R., November 1984,
Banco de la Republica, Department of Credit to the Financial Sector.
* From 1984 the Aliadas and Grancolombiana Finance Corporations are excluded.
Date: August 24, 1989
ADH/Jhr



- 38 -
Table 9
FINANCE CORPORATIONS: DOUBTFUL DEBTS/TOTAL PORTFOLIO
(percentages)
IBRD
Finance                Other                 Total for
Year    Corporations          Corporations            Private FCs
1977          0.8                 0.7                     0.8
1978          0.5                 0.5                     0.5
1979          0.5                 1.2                     0.6
1980          0.4                 0.7                     0.5
1981          0.9                 1.5                      1.0
1982          2.9                 1.7                      2.6
1983          2.6                 5.6                      3.1
1984*         4.1                16.1                     6.4
1985          4.4                15.8                     6.4
Source:   "Estado y evolucion de la capitalization de Bancos y Corporaciones
Financieras", Francisco Ortega and Rudolf Hommes R., November 1984,
Banco de la Reputblica, Department of Credit to the Financial Sector.
* From 1984 the Aliadas and Grancolombiana Finance Corporations are excluded.
Date: August 24, 1989
ADH/Jhr



- 39 -
Table 10
FINANCE CORPORATIONS: NET PROFIT/CAPITAL + RESERVES
(percentages)
IBRD
Finance                Other                 Total for
Year    Corporations          Corporations            Private FCs
1977         37.5                  15.4                   32.1
1978         40.2                 14.4                    24.8
1979         45.5                 13.0                    39.5
1980         33.3                 13.9                    29.9
1981          _ _                   - _
1982         18.5                   1.9                   13.3
1983         11.5                 -0.4                      7.8
1984*         9.5                -46.0                    -6.4
1985         14.4                -30.2                     0.3
Source:   Revista Banco de la Repuiblica, October 1987, Department of Credit
to the Financial Sector.
A From 1984 the Aliadas and Grancolombiana Finance Corporations are excluded.
Date: August 24, 1989



- 40 -
Table 11
FINANCE CORPORATIONS: GROSS FINANCIAL MARGIN 1/
(Col$ million)
IBRD
Finance                Other                 Total for
Year    Corporations          Corporations            Private FCs
1977        655.5                 309.7                   965.2
1978         912.2                319.4                 1,231.6
1979      1,015.5                 146.1                 1,161.6
1980      1,792.8               1,304.1                 3,096.9
1981      2,288.6               4,746.2                 7,034.8
1982      2,863.4               7,298.4                10,161.8
1983      2,704.8               4,872.8                 7,577.6
1984*     1,190.0                -229.0                   961.0
1985      1,004.0                -171.0                   833.0
Source:   Banco de la Republica, Department of Credit to the Financial
Sector.
'/ GFM = Difference between interest and commission received and interest and
commission paid.
* From 1984 the Aliadas and Grancolombiana Finance Corporations are excluded.
Date: August 24, 1989.



- 41 -
Table 12
FINANCE CORPORATIONS: GFM + INVESTMENT RETURN
(Col$ million)
IBRD
Finance                Other                Total for
Year    Corporations         Corporations            Private FCs
1977        841.1                 340.3                 1,181.4
1978      1,212.6                 481.7                 1,694.3
1979      1,814.8                 632.0                 2,466.8
1980      2,487.2               1,708.0                 4,195.2
1981      3,366.6              5,121.2                  8,487.8
1982      4,027.2               7,697.5                11,724.7
1983      3,802.4              5,533.6                  9,336.0
1984*     2,481.0                 167.0                 2,648.0
1985      3,116.0                 179.0                 3,513.0
Source:   Department of Credit to the Financial Sector.
* From 1984 the Aliadas and Grancolombiana Finance Corporations are excluded.
Date: August 24, 1989.



- 42 -
Table 13
FINANCE CORPORATIONS: OPERATING PROFIT/LOSS 1/
(Col$ million)
IBRD
Finance                Other                 Total for
Year    Corporations          Corporations            Private FCs
1977         671.8                265.5                  937.3
1978         962.8                380.9                1,343.7
1979      1,428.9                 478.9                1,907.8
1980      2,024.1               1,469.2                3,493.3
1981      2,563.3               4,725.0                7,288.3
1982      2,960.6               7,111.1               10,071.7
1983      2,316.1               4,537.9                6,854.0
1984*       886.0                -856.0                   30.0
1985      1,072.0                -511.0                  561.0
Source:   Department of Credit to the Financial Sector.
1/   Includes:  Gross Financial Margin + Investment Return - Overhead -
Portfolio Protection.
* From 1984 the Aliadas and Grancolombiana Finance Corporations are excluded.
Date: August 24, 1989



- 43 -
IV. RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
A.   Industrial Investment
82.      On the basis of the outlook for industrial growth, investment in
industry was projected at US$1 billion a year during the life of loan 1598
(1978-80) and US$1.9-2.1 billion during the life of loan 1857 (1981-83). The
Finance Corporations participating in IBRD loans would have to finance 10-12%
of this projected industrial investment during the 7th and 10-152 during the
8th credit line.
83.       As will be seen from table 14, in 1978-80 actual industrial
investment was very close to projected volume. Following a severe crisis in
1975, industry recovered substantially owing to the improvement in domestic
demand capacity generated by the coffee boom, creating favorable economic
expectations. This stimulated entrepreneurs to invest substantial amounts,
particularly in productive capacity expansion and working capital to meet the
growing demand.
84.       A factor in this iucremental investment was the low real interest
rates, which lowered the cost of borrowing, enabling entrepreneurs to obtain
resources at low cost with promissory sales and stimulating investment.
85.       The situation was different in the 8th credit line period, which as
mentioned in the section evaluating the placement of these resources lasted
two years longer than originally expected. Industrial investment in 1981-85
was lower than projected (1981-83), reflecting the recessive economic
problems. The enterprises' high debt levels, declining domestic and external
demand, rising interest rates and accelerating devaluation were reflected in
lower investment during the analysis period, with the beginnings of recovery
only in 1984.
86.       These conditions are clearly reflected in the industrial investment
figure for the period 1981-85 (table 14), which fell short even of the Arinimum
amount estimated for 1981-83.
B.   Finance Corporations
87.       The Finance Corporations accounted for 27% of industrial investment
financing in the period 1978-80 and 19X in 1981-85, which exceeds the
projected contribution. It should be noted, however, that the data cover both
the Finance Corporations with and those without access to the external loan
resources, and the percentage contribution of the former group is actually
lower, although still close to the projection.
88.       Table 15 shows the Finance Corporations' principal sources of funds
during the analysis periods. The IBRD loans accounted for 137 (7th line) and
17% (8th line) of resource requirements, against original estimates of 30-40%
and 25-30%. Also, cofinancing resources accounted for a significant share
until 1983, when the supply of international resources slowed as a result of
the Latin American debt crisis.



- 44 -
89.       Own resources of the Finance Corporations account for a high share
of the resources mobilized. Here again, however, it has to be borne in mind
that the amount is for all Finance Corporations together and, moreover,
includes resources of other international agencies and ot the Industrial
Development Institute (Instituto de Fomento Industrial).
C.   Cofinancihg
90.       In view of the importance of cofinancing in channeling assistance to
Finance Corporations and as a requirement of the IBRD loans in trying to meet
the industrial sector's long-term external resource needs, we propose to
evaluate its performance in comparison with that of loans 1598 and 1857.
91.       Cofinancing approvals were generally much more expeditious than had
been expected. In 1980 (table 16) the total amount of cofinancing approvals
was practically four times those made against loan 1598 resources. Although
this was a year of low activity of the loan due to its depletion, the
immediately previous year marked the peak in terms of both number and amount
of the IBRD loans, and both were exceeded by cofinancing, which confirms the
importance this financing alternative is acquiring for Colombian industry.
92.        In 1981 and 1982 the volume of cofinancing credit was very similar
to that of loan 1857, which it complemented. Because of slow placement of the
8th credit line, for 1982 one of the restrictions was lifted to allow access
by enterprises with assets of between Col$1,500 and Col$3,000 million as of
December 1979.
93.       Financing for projects of these enterprises had to include
cofinancing resources equal to at least the amount received from IBRD.
94.       This measure helped to strengthen cofinancing in view of its
advantages of long amortization term and ease of processing. At the same time
its cost tended to decline, particularly in the second half of 1982, when it
was even below the rate for the 8th credit line. This created a new obstacle
to placement of the latter and led to further amendments to its regulations.
95.       The cofinancing interest rates were flexible, tied to the prime rate
or Libor. The margins on these rates fluctuated between 2 and 3 points and
were generally higher in 1979 and 1980, intermediate in 1981 and lower in 1982.
96.       Generally speaking, the volume of cofinancing resources approved by
the Finance Corporations exceeded the minima imposed by the World Bank--amply
in the case of the 7th credit line (US$91.7 million, against the required
US$30 million) and satisfactorily in the case of the 8th line (US$75.6
million, against US$60 million).
97.       Despite this successful performance, for the second half of 1982 the
readiness of the international banks to supply resources to Colombia changed
negatively as a consequence of the difficulties some Latin American countries
were having in repaying their external debts.



- 45 -
98.        Banks abroad began to cancel the quotas agreed upon informally di`
the Colombian Finance Corporations or, where more solid commitments existed,
set financing terms that made the operations unprofitable for the Colombian
intermediaries.
99.       In order to protect the interests of enterprises that were counting
on such resources to complete ongoing projects, a study was undertaken of
applications of this kind. It was found that some projects fell within the
regulations governing loan 1857 but the expenditures eligible for financing
were outside the "age limit" set by IBRD. Later the World Bank authorized an
exception to this rule, and using the funds then available under the 8th line
(US$10 million) the quotas was divided among the five Finance Corporations pro
rata to their outstanding approvals. In addition, the Banco de la Repuiblica
requested and obtained the authorization of the CAF to apply the outstanding
balance (US$6.5 million) of the second CAF line of credit to financing of
these operations.
100.      Generally speaking, during the life of loans 1598 and 1857 the
resource mobilization by the Finance Corporations was satisfactory, despite
the adverse economic conditions that prevailed during the first half of the
1980s.



- 46 -
Table 14
IBRD LOANS 1598 AND 1857:  INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT
Indubtrial Investment             Proportion Financed by FCs
Period        Projected       Actual               Proiected            Actual
US$million    US$ million         US$ million   %    US$ million   X
1978-80        3,000           2,774            300-360   10-12       741         27
1981-83    5,700 to 6,300    4,748 1/           570-855   10-15       889 1/      19
to
630-945
Source:  Financial Accounts, Banco de la Republica and DANE.  DCI calculations.
1/ Data for the period 1981-85 (period of placement of loan 1857).
Date: June 15, 1989.



- 47 -
Table 15
FINANCE CORPORATIONS: RESOURCE MOBILIZATION, IBRD LOANS 1598 AND 1857
1978-80                    1981-85
USS million   %             US$ million   %
Own resources                          413       57                592       67
Cofinancing resources                   92       12                 75        8
IBRD loan                              100      13                 150       17
Financial funds,
Banco de la Republica                  136       18                 72        8
Total Resources                        741      100                889      100
Source:  Financial Accounts, Banco de la Repablica and DANE.  DCI calculations.
Date:    June 15, 1989.
ADH/Lmcp.



- 48 -
Table 16
APPROVALS UNDER COFINANCING AND IBRD LOANS 1598 AND 1857
(US$ 000)
Cofinancing                 IBRD 1598              IBRD 1857
Year       No.      Amount              No.    Amount         No.      Amount
1978                                     24     11,724
1978         14       5,957              94     66,192
1980        114      85,735              32     20,342
1981         56      30,824                                     51      32,392
1982         60      32,465                                     55      30,543
1983         20      12,326                                     66      46,260
1984                                                            67      42,825
1985                                                             2        1,811
Source:  DCI statistics.
Date:     June 15, 1989.
ADH/Lmcp.



- 49 -
CONCLUSIONS
101.      The placement performance of World Bank loans 1598 and 1857
differed, as a consequence both of the prevailing economic situation and of
the rules specific to each.
102.      However, neither credit line achieved the hoped-for result of
development of small and medium industry, and their contribution to credit
deconcentration and decentralization was very small. The quotas set for each
credit line component were altered a number of times to adapt them to the
demand for resources. The restrictions imposed on access to the peso
resources led many enterprises to set up small subsidiaries, thereby defeating
the objective of channeling funds to small industrial firms.
103.      Moreover, utilization of the capital investment component was fairly
low, owing to the Finance Corporations' lack of incentive to acquire new,
high-risk share issues.
104.      Although the two credit lines were very similar in design, the
resources of the 7th line (loan 1598) were placed particularly expeditiously
and with few changes. This was due more to the favorable economic climate
during the life of the loan than to prior appropriate allocation.
105.      As a result of the difficulties encountered in allocating the
resources of the 8th credit line, the ninth World Bank loan (2477), signed in
November 1984 for US$90 million, included a number of important new features
designed in general to simplify the rules governing access for both onlender
and end-user.
106.       First of all, it was decided to include all enterprises in eligible
sectors, without asset limits, since the international capital market
restrictions meant it was no longer true that the larger enterprises had
access to that market for their foreign exchange financing needs.
107.       Moreover, in view of the need that had arisen during the previous
two credit lines to amend the terms of the agreement with respect to user
terms, for this credit line the investment category quotas were eliminated and
simplified procedures were instituted both for approving loans with and
without exchange risk and for setting interest rate levels (flexible rates).
108.      Like the complicated system of resource allocation, the requirements
imposed on the Finance Corporations in relending these credit resources
restricted access to them and meant that only one new Finance Corporation
participated, on a limited basis.
109.      In light of this, for the 9th credit line the rules were simplified
to allow a larger number of intermediaries to participate.



- 50 -
110.      Similarly, although the 7th and 8th loan agreements prescribed that
the Finance Corporations could approve loans for a spe~cified amount without
the prior authorization of the Banco de la Republica, that measure was only
really executed in the case of the 9th credit line, for which a free limit was
set of US$250,000 for autonomous approval by each intermediary Finance
Corporation.
111.      Concerning the development of the Finance Corporations, during the
effectiveness of the 7th and 8th credit lines, particularly the latter, their
major indicators deteriorated and they lost dynamism as a result both of the
general economic situation and of the financial system crisis-developments
that affected the Corporations channeling World Bank resources to a smaller
degree. This is evidence of the beneficial effect on these Corporations of
the requirements imposed by both the IBRD and the Banco de la Republica
concerning minimum compliance with certain indicators (debt/equity and current
assets/equity) and the quality of project appraisal and supervision.
112.      In light of these considerations, in 1987 the National Government
issued Decree 2041 introducing important changes in the legal system governing
the Finance Corporations. With the primary aim of reorienting them toward
full performance of the functions of a promotion and development bank, a
number of measures were taken, including the following.
113.      First of all, the objective assigned to these intermediary
institutions was unified on the basis of their specialization, introducing the
concept of "definition factor" (coefficiente de definici6n), which measures
the percentage share in total lending of medium- and long-term operations
using own and Banco de la Repablica rediscount resources. A Finance
Corporation is considered to comply with its corporate purpose if it presents
a definition factor of over 50%, prior to June 30, 1989; otherwise it must
convert to a Commercial Financing Company or liquidate itself.
114.      To strengthen the Corporations' equity position, a minimum capital
requirement was prescribed of Col$1,000 million for newly established
Corporations and Col$700 million in 1989 and Col$1,000 million in 1990 for
existing Corporations.
115.      In addition, with the object of reducing risk exposure, the decree
laid down a new leverage limit, prescribing a debt ratio of 10 times net
equity, 1/ compared with the previous rule of 15 times paid-up capital + legal
reserve.
l/   Comprising paid-up capital, reserves, current-year and retained profits,
bonds obligatorily convertible into shares (Bonos Obligatoriamente
Convertibles en Acciones--BOCEAS), exchange adjustment and investment
revaluation up to 502 of the sum of paid-up capital, current and retained
profits, reserves and BOCEAS.



- 51 -
116.      To guarantee suitable profit levels, the Corporations were given new
income sources such as medium- and long-term factoring services,
secondary-market brokerage operations, advisory services to enterprises, and
so on.
117.      It should be noted that before Decree 2041 was enacted a number of
measures had been taken that helped to improve the profitability of the more
development-oriented Corporations. Thus, Monetary Board Resolutions 24 and 25
of April 1987 altered the terms of lending out of financial funds administered
by the Banco de la Repuiblica to che effect that the interest and rediscount
rate would be determined on the basis of the most recent average cost of CD
funds (Tasa de Costo Promedio de Captacion a Traves de Certificados de
Deposito a T6rmino" (DTF). This measure significantly improved the Finance
Corporations' intermediation margin.
118.      It is hoped that this package of measures will enable the Finance
Corporations to reorient and consolidate their objectives.
119.      In summary, it can be stated that although some of the objectives of
these credit lines were achieved more slowly than originally expected, the
lessons learned during one credit line unquestionably served to improve the
channeling of the resources to industrial operators.
120.      Thus, the achievemients of the programs financed by IBRD loans 1598
and 1857 include: lower interest rate subsidy, greater exchange risk borne by
the industrial enterprises, greater simplification of rules, and increased
autonomy of the Finance Corporations.



- 52 -
Annex 1
IBRD LOANS 1598 AND 1857: PROJECT COMPONENTS AND CATEGORIES
Ordinary Investment Projects:  Specific development projects to be
carried out by an enterprise.
Capital Investment Projects:  Minority investment, different from a
subloan, that a Finance Corporation proposes to make, out of the loan
resources, in the capital of eligible enterprises.
Export Investment Projects:  Investments for installing new facilities to
produce export goods or foreign tourism services, or to increase the
capacity of existing facilities, that are expected to generate net
foreign exchange receipts attributable to the export investment project
over a period of five years calculated from the date on which it enters
into execution. Such exports had to represent not less than 25Z per
annum of the value of the incremental production due to the project.
Industrial Decentralization Investment Projects:  Investment projects to
be executed outside the metropolitan areas and zones of influence of the
cities of Bogota, Cali and Medellin.
Pollution Control Projects:  Projects to be carried out by an investment
enterprise, using the resources of a subloan, to purchase and install
equipment for control of pollution caused by machinery and equipment.
Research and Development Projects:  Projects to be carried out by an
investment enterprise in order to improve the design of its products or
production processes through research and development programs.
Technological Improvement Projects:  Projects to be carried out by an
investment enterprise in order to acquire new technology or to adapt
product designs or processes to existing production techniques.



*   - 53 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH AND EIGHT DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECTS
Loans 1598-CO and 1857-CO
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Title             Loan       Year of                Status
Amount    Approval
1.  Development Finance      250        1966            Fully disbursed
Companies Project                                  and repaid.
2.  Second DFC Project      12.5        1968            Fully disbursed
and repaid.
3.  Third DFC Project       25.0        1969            Fully disbursed and
repaid.
4.  Fourth DFC Project      40.0        1971            Fully disbursed.
5.  Fifth DFC Project       60.0        1973            Fully disbursed and
repaid.
6.  Small-scale Industry   5.50         1975            Fully disbursed and
repaid.
7.  Sixth DFC Project       80.0        1976            Fully disbursed.
8.  Second Small-scale      15.0        1977            Industry fully
disbursed.
9. Third Small-Scale
Industry                32.0        1980            Fully disbursed.
10. Fourth Small Scale      40.0        1984            Disbursements pending.
Industry
11. Development Banking    90.0         1984            Disbursements pending.
12. Fifth Small-Scale       80.0        1989            Pending signing.
Industry.



- 54 -
2. Project Timetable-Loan 1598-CO
Date planned  Date Revised         Date Actual
Identification                                               9/77
Preparation                                                  11/77
Appraisal                                                    12/77
Negotiations                                                 5/78
Board Approval                                               6/15/78
Signing                                                      7/27/78
Loan effectiveness       9/78           11/78                11/28/78
Loan closing           12/31/82         3/31/83              3/31/83
Loan completion                                              10/14/83
3. Disbursements Loan 1598-CO.
Total amount loan:   $ 100.00  million.
Total disbursements: $ 90.64 million.
Cancellations:        $   9.36  million.
Estimated date final disbursement: June, 1983
Actual date final disbursement:       October, 1983



- 55 -
4. Project Timetetable - Loan 1857-CO
Date planned  Date Revised        Date Actual
Identification                                               12/78
Preparation                                                  5/79
Appraisal                                                    11/79
Negotiations                                                 4/80
Board approval                                               5/27/80
Signing                                                      12/10/80
Loan effectiveness       9/80           9/81                 7/9/81
Loan closing             12/84                               12/31/87
Loan completion                                              9/9/88
5. Disbursements - Loan 1857-CO
Total amount loan:    $  150.00 million.
Total disbursements:  $  138.68 million.
Cancellations:         $   11.32 million.
Estimated date final disbursement: June, 1985
Actual date final disbursement:       September, 1988



