Document of
The World Bank                      FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2885a-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
April 29, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of  |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
All currency amounts are expressed in Colombian Pesos (Col$)
and US Dollars (US$).
April 1, 1980
US$1.00 = Col$ 45.64
Col$1.00 = US$0.0219
Average exchange rate for calendar year 1979 was US$1:Col$ 42.59.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ANDI             Asociacion Nacional de Industriales
(National Association of Industries)
BR               Banco de la Republica (The Central Bank)
CAT              Certificado de Abono Tributario (Tax Rebate Certificate)
CD               Certificate of Deposit
CF               Corporacion Financiera (Investment Bank)
CFP              Corporacion Financiera Popular
COFIAGRO         Corporacion Financiera de Fomento Agropecuario y
de Exportaciones
COLCIENCIAS      Fondo Colombiano de Investigaciones Cientificas y
Proyectos Especiales (Colombian Fund for Scientific
Research and Special Projects)
DANE             Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica
(National Statistics Department)
DDC              Department of Development Credit of BR
DFC              Development Finance Company
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
FEDESARROLLO    Fundacion para la Educacion Superior y el Desarrollo
(Institute for Economic Studies)
FFI              Fondo Financiero Industrial (Industrial Financing Fund)
FIP              Fondo de Inversiones Privadas (Private Investment Fund)
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
IFI              Instituto de Fomento Industrial
(Industrial Development Institute)
IIT              Instituto de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
(Technological Research Institute)
INCOMEX          Instituto de Comercio Exterior
(The Colombian Foreign Trade Agency)
KfW              Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
PROEXPO          Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones
(The Colombian Export Promotion and Financing Agency)
UPAC             Units of Constant Purchasing Power (Indexed Instruments
Issued by the Savings and Loan Corporations)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR ... * ................... . . . . . . . . . .  .  1
The Economic Setting  ... ................... .. ....... .        1
Manufacturing Sector Evolution              ...................   1
Sectoral Structure ......................... .......             2
Export Policies and Performance ..................               3
Industrial Protection ............................               6
Industrial Sector Planning   .......................             7
Geographic Distribution of Industry ..............                7
Employment ....................................................  8
Technology Policy . ............. . . . .  .............. ..     9
Industrial Pollution Control .....................              10
Outlook for Industrial Growth and Investment .....              11
II.   THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ................    ..........  ....... .         12
Institutional Structure ........... ..          .............   12
Financial Sector Policies and Evolution ....... . ..            12
Recent Development and Prospects   .................            14
Industrial Financing .....         .................... . ..    15
Need for the Proposed Loan              .......................  19
III.    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PARTICIPATING
INSTITUTIONS ......................             ... ..              19
A.   Background .......................  .............                19
B.   Banco de la Republica ......  ...... o ........ o.. .            20
C.   The Participating Financieras ...          .......  .........    22
Background and Ownership             ......................   22
Organization and Staff             .......................    23
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision ... oo ......            23
Operations and Impact   .......... o    ...............       24
Financial Position and Results ....          .............    30
Resource Structure and Needs             .................    34
D.   Participation of Additional Financieras             ..........   37
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Colombia in November 1979
composed of Messrs. K. Challa, J.T. Bentley, G. Faillace and Ms. A. Velarde of
the Bank, Mr. N. Bruck (UNIDO), and Mr. G. Castaneda and Ms. S. Atala
(Consultants). Mr. P. Knotter participated in final mission discussions.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.  THE PROJECT ...........................................    39
Project Objectives .......   ........................    39
The Proposed Bank Loan and Components ......... ...    40
Eligible Enterprises and Lending Limits ..........    41
Onlending Terms and Interest Rates ............ ...    42
Margins to the Intermediaries ................... .   44
Participation in the Loan .................... ....    44
Approval Limits ..................................    45
Procurement and Disbursement     .....................    45
Cofinancing      ......................................    46
Review of the Loan Conditions ................ ....    46
Benefits and Risks .................... ...........    46
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................    47
ANNEXES
Annex 1  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 2  Banco de la Republica - DDC's Statement of Operating Policies
and Procedures
Annex 3  Checklists for the Evaluation of Technology Development
and Pollution Control Subprojects
Annex 4  Supplementary Tables
T-1 :  Gross Domestic Product by Origin at Factor Cost, 1970-78
T-2 :  Unemployment in Urban Centers
T-3 :  Wages and Salaries in the Manufacturing Sector
T-4 :  Effective Exchange Rate for Exports, 1970-79
T-5 :  Exports of Manufactured and Other Products, 1967-78
T-6 :  Manufacturing Sector Average Growth Rates in Real Terms
T-7 :  Capacity Utilization in the Manufacturing Sector, 1972-79
T-8 :  Manufacturing Sector Structure by Product Category
T-9 :  Size Structure of Manufacturing Enterprises by Number of Employees
T-10:   Financial Structure of Manufacturing Enterprises by Asset Size
and Activity, 1976-77
T-11:   Protection in the Manufacturing Industry as of December 1976
T-12:   Geographic Distribution of Industrial Activity
T-13:   Geographic Concentration of the 500 Largest Enterprises
T-14:   Imports According to Use, c.i.f., 1967-78
T-15:   Exports Structure by Decree of Processing, 1970-78
T-16:   Total Institutional Credit by Source, Term and Sector, 1974-78
T-17:   Estimated Effective Yields on Financial Instruments, 1974-79
T-18:   Industrial Credit Outstanding by Source, 1974-78
T-19:   List and Characteristics of Financieras in Operation
T-20:   Distribution of the Sources of Funds for Industrial Development,
1974-78



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
Annex 4   Supplementary Tables (Continued)
T-21:   Indices of Activity on Colombia's Stock Exchanges, 1972-78
T-22:   Term Structure of Financiera Loans, 1974-78
T-23:   Sources of Funds for Financieras, 1973-78
T-24:   Net Financial Savings, 1971-79
T-25:   Indicators of Banking System Activity, 1978/79
T-26:   Analysis of Financiera Loan Portfolios as of September 30, 1979
T-27:   Analysis of Total Subloan Approvals Under the Seven DFC Loans
T-28:   Analysis of Subloans Approved Under Loans 1223-CO and 1598-CO
T-29:   Evolution of Financiera Staff During 1979
T-30:   Financial Statements of CF Caldas
T-31:   Financial Statements of CF Colombiana
T-32:   Financial Statements of CF Nacional
T-33:   Financial Statements of CF del Norte
T-34:   Financial Statements of CF del Valle
T-35:   Financial Statements of CF Santander
T-36:   Financial Statements of CF de Occidente
T-37:   Financial Statements of CF Aliadas
T-38:   Selected Financial Ratios of the Financieras
T-39:   Financial Ratio Projections, 1980-84
T-40:   Financiera Arrears Position (as of September 30, 1979)
T-41:   Mobilization of Domestic Resources by the Financieras
T-42:   Cofinancing Results by Financieras (as of December 31, 1979)
Annex 5   Documents Available in the Project File






I. THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
The Economic Setting
1.01      Over the past 15 years substantial structural transformation has
taken place in the Colombian economy and the country is now well advanced
in the transition from a predominantly rural, agricultural and largely self-
contained economy to an urban industrial society, more interdependent with
the world economy and with neighboring countries in the Andean region. Manu-
facturing has made a major contribution to this transition, particularly since
1967. In the 1970s, the Colombian economy grew on average at about 6% p.a.,
manufacturing, utilities, finance, and transport and communications being the
most dynamic sectors. The decade was marked by strong growth during the first
half, averaging 6.8% per year during 1970-74 (continuing from the dynamism of
the late 1960s), a significant slowdown during 1975-77, with GDP growth rates
averaging 4.4% in real terms per annum, and a remarkable "bounce-back" in
1978, when GDP growth rate exceeded 8% in real terms (Annex 4, T-1). Inter-
national reserves accumulated rapidly in the later part of the decade as a
result of high coffee prices, and contributed to substantial growth in
aggregate demand, as well as to unprecedented inflation levels. The growth
rate in 1978 was the highest in the decade and reflected the significant
recovery of the three largest sectors, namely, agriculture, industry, and
commerce, and the high coffee export level. Urban unemployment in 1978 stood
at its lowest level in many years (Annex 4, T-2). Real wages and salaries
in manufacturing made significant progress in 1978 after several years of
stagnation (Annex 4, T-3). While output was increasing rapidly in real terms,
the average annual inflation rate was reduced from 34.8% in 1977 to 16.7% in
1978, through a variety of fiscal, monetary and trade measures oriented
towards containing money supply growth. 1/ However, inflation accelerated
again in 1979, reaching about 24.8% for the year on an average annual basis
(Annex 4, T-4), and the near-term prospects are that it will average at about
18% over the next three years.
Manufacturing Sector Evolution
1.02      After the second world war, industrialization became an important
component of the country's development strategy. The principal instrument
used to promote domestic industrial growth during these years was the creation
of a barrier through high effective protection, which encouraged production
for import substitution. Aided by these policies, industrial value added
expanded rapidly at an annual rate of 6.7% from 1953 to 1968. By the mid-1960s,
most of the easy import-substitution opportunities were exhausted. However,
aided by periodic economic policy adjustments, manufacturing industry continued
to be a leading growth sector during the decade of the 1970s, contributing
between 17% and 19% of Colombia's GDP.
1.03      In an effort to cope with the recurrent foreign exchange problems,
the authorities reconsidered the thrust of the country's economic policies in
1967. A new economic strategy was introduced which was intended to promote
and diversify non-traditional exports. The most important elements in this
1/  Measured by the annual average of the blue collar consumer price index.



-2-
strategy were the introduction of a crawling-peg exchange rate system, and an
export incentives package that included a tax rebate certificate (CAT), credit
on concessionary terms for export-related activities and an import duty
draw-back system called "Plan Vallejo." In the ensuing years, manufacturing
exports became an increasingly important source of both foreign exchange
earnings and industry output growth.
1.04      Between 1968 and 1974, manufacturing GDP in real terms as well as
employment in the sector grew at an impressive 8.3% per annum, consistently
outpacing the growth of GDP as a whole during these years. Manufacturing
exports rose from about US$62 million (12.1% of total exports) in 1967 to
US$529 million (37.3% of total exports) by 1974 (Annex 4, T-5). To achieve
the rapid growth, the average annual growth rate of gross manufacturing
investment more than tripled from 4.1% in real terms for 1960-68 to 14.7%
during 1968-74 (Annex 4, T-6). As a result of the recession in 1975 in many
developed countries, domestic anti-inflation measures, and the consequent
substantial slackening of manufactured exports, manufacturing sector growth
rate dropped sharply during 1974-77 when the sector's GDP contribution grew
only at an average annual rate of about 4% and its contribution to employment
only at 2.3% (Annex 4, T-1 and T-6). Following near stagnation in 1975
(growth rate of 1.3% in real terms), the manufacturing sector recovered
somewhat in 1976 and 1977, with growth rates of 6.7% and 4.2%, respectively,
induced by an increase in domestic demand for consumer goods (generated by
high coffee earnings and income from illegal exports) which compensated for
the lagging demand for Colombia's manufacturing exports. Industrial investment
grew rapidly in these two years to compensate for low investment levels in
previous years. In 1978 the manufacturing sector's value added grew by 8.5%,
investment by 6.0% and employment by 4.2%, reflecting further expansion in
demand associated with higher coffee receipts and the recovery in investment.
Manufacturing plant capacity utilization exceeded 85% during 1977-78, being
substantially higher than the 75% average recorded in 1974-76. Capacity
utilization was highest in the textiles, garments and clothing, chemicals,
paper and printing, and food, beverages and tobacco industries (Annex 4, T-7),
while wood, wood products, machinery and transport equipment subsectors had the
lowest capacity utilization.
1.05      The growth rate of GDP as a whole as well as of industrial sector GDP
is estimated to have slowed down to about 5.5% in 1979. Capacity utilization
is still running high, and substantial investment is under consideration by the
private sector. Since demand appears to be strong, while inventories at
mid-year were at normal levels, 1/ the main constraining factors to achieve a
high industrial growth are likely to be plant capacity and raw material
supply.
Sectoral Structure
1.06      Significant changes have taken place in the structure of manu-
facturing production since the postwar years. In the early 1950s, consumer
goods accounted for as much as 82% of gross output, intermediate goods for 16%,
and capital goods for 2%. By the mid-1970s these shares were 55%, 36% and
1/   Based on ANDI and FEDESARROLLO  surveys and field interviews by the
appraisal mission.



-3-
9%, respectively. In value added terms, the food, beverages and tobacco
industries lead all other sub-sectors with a 28.5% share, followed by the
chemicals (including petroleum refining) with 22.3%, and textiles, garments
and clothing with 18.7% (Annex 4, T-8). At present the largest number of
manufacturing enterprises are found among the textiles, garments and clothing
industries (22.9% of total number), followed by the food, beverages and
tobacco (21%) and the metal products, machinery and equipment industries
(20.7%). About 83% of the manufacturing enterprises have between 10 and 100
employees; however, about 52% of the employment in the sector, 64% of wages
and salaries, and 62% of the gross product are accounted for by firms with
200 or more employees (Annex 4, T-9). 1/
1.07      There are significant differences in the financial structure of
manufacturing enterprises by size. In general, small enterprises rely more
on equity and non-institutional sources of financing. An analysis of 1976-77
data shows that the smallest manufacturing enterprises (i.e., those with
Col$ 20 million or less in total assets) financed 60% of their assets through
credit or other liabilities, of which only 17% was from institutional sources
of credit (Annex 4, T-10). In contrast, the medium-sized and larger enter-
prises financed about one-third of their assets through institutional sources.
The largest enterprises were able to finance more than one-quarter of their
assets through retained earnings and reserves. Although the financial
structure of the enterprises also varies throughout the different industrial
groups among these subsectors, there are few substantial differences (Annex 4,
T-10).
Export Policies and Performance
1.08      Excessive reliance on growth of capital-intensive import substituting
industries (which in turn depend heavily on imported inputs) became evident
by the mid-1960s. The reforms implemented in 1967 maintained incentives for
import substitution, but the relative attractiveness of exporting was substan-
tially increased. Exporters were given a tax rebate certificate (Certificado
de Abono Tributario--CAT) equivalent to 15% of the export value (f.o.b.),
mainly to compensate for the overvalued currency. The exporters were also
eligible to import duty-free intermediate products and raw materials needed
for the production of goods for export. In addition, concessionary credit was
made available through Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (PROEXPO). Finally,
and perhaps most importantly, between 1967, when the crawling-peg exchange
rate system was introduced, and 1975, the exchange rate of the peso for the
US dollar rose by 67.6% in nominal terms and by 18.2% in real terms, 2/ making
Colombia's manufactured goods more competitive in international markets.
1.09      In the years since 1975, faced with the task of managing balance
of payments surpluses and the trade-off between the long-term development
objectives and the short-term difficulties in controlling inflation, the
government has maintained the crawling-peg exchange rate policy, but at a pace
which resulted in an appreciation of the Colombian peso against the US dollar
in real terms. 2/ Consequently, between 1975 and 1978 the US dollar exchange
1/   Percentages computed on the basis of sectoral statistics covering
enterprises with 10 or more employees.
2/   Based on differences in the relative movements of the dollar and peso
price indices.



- 4 -
rate experienced about a 15% decline in real terms. 1/ Furthermore, in early
1975 the CAT rate was drastically reduced from 15% to 5% for most products and
was virtually eliminated for others, in order to reduce its fiscal burden, 2/
to avoid providing subsidies to industries that did not need or deserve them
(e.g., fictitious or low value-added exports which were becomiitg increasingly
common), and to reduce potential for frictions with trading partners which
were beginning to become noticeable. In 1977, new changes in CAT rates were
introduced, increasing the rate for most industrial products to 8% and reducing
it for most other products; the net effect of the 1977 changes was to slightly
reduce the average CAT percentage.
1.10      In an attempt to compensate at least partially for the lagging
exchange rate, CAT rates were raised again in 1978, establishing four
different levels (12%, 9%, 5% and 0.1%), depending on the product category.
Further adjustments were put in effect in 1979, reclassifying exports according
to their value added, labor used and decentralization impact, but maintaining the
the same four basic rates for CAT. The government's intention seems to be to
maintain this level of rates and classification in the near term. Annex 4,
T-4 (column F) presents estimates of the adjusted real exchange rate for
exports over the last decade, taking into account the combined effect of
movements in the nominal exchange rate, inflation and CAT levels. It shows
that the adjusted real exchange rate in 1979 was 16.2% lower than in 1975. 3/
1.11      Financing for non-traditional exports is provided by PROEXPO through
rediscounting of credits (denominated in domestic or foreign currencies)
provided by banks and other financial institutions to exporters. PROEXPO
provides: pre-shipment working capital financing for up to 80% of the export
value with terms of up to 8 months at a 17% interest rate; 4/ financing for
capital goods and other production equipment in selected subsectors--up to
90% of the investment cost for agro-industrial projects, with terms of up to
8 years and a 14% interest rate, and up to 50% of the investment cost for
tourism projects at annual interest rates of 18-20% depending on the term
(maximum 8 years); and post-shipment financing denominated in US dollars of
up to 100% of f.o.b. or c.i.f. value (depending on the carrier) for terms not
exceeding 180 days in the case of exports of consumer and intermediate goods,
and for longer terms of up to 7 years in the case of capital goods exports, at
interest rates of 4-6%. PROEXPO also offers export insurance services.
1/   Excluding the impact of changes in credit subsidies through PROEXPO.
See Annex 4, T-4, column D.
2/   By 1974 the payments for CAT absorbed about 8% of the country's current
revenues.
3/   These estimates do not include the effect of credit subsidies provided
through PROEXPO, since this effect varies considerably depending on the
percentage of investment financed by PROEXPO, the term of such financing
and the difference between the interest rates under PROEXPO's and alter-
native sources of financing. Based on very approximate estimates, the
average subsidy provided through PROEXPO's credits appears to have
increased gradually from about 1% in 1974 to 2-3% in 1978/79.
4/   All interest charges are paid quarterly in advance.



1.12      PROEXPO's importance has grown since 1967 not only in terms of its
largely expanded volume and proportion of non-traditional exports (i.e., other
than coffee) financed, but also because of the increasingly favorable interest
rates to the exporting enterprises in comparison with market interest rates.
In order to increase PROEXPO's resources, the government raised the import
tax destined to finance the institution, from 1.5% of the c.i.f. value, which
had been in force since 1967, to 3.5% in September 1975 and to 5% in October
1975. Consequently, PROEXPO's resources and volume of operations expanded
rapidly between 1974 and 1978. The volume of PROEXPO's short term credits,
which account for the bulk (90%) of its operations, quadrupled from about
US$151 million equivalent in 1974 to US$607 million in 1978. The corresponding
total values of non-traditional exports supported through PROEXPO were US$680
million in 1974 (that is, a 22% coverage on the average by PROEXPO's financing)
and US$1.0 billion in 1978 (62% coverage) respectively. Credits for industrial
exports during the same period rose even more rapidly from US$101 million (26%
coverage) to US$416 million (78% coverage). 1/
1.13      The import duty drawback system (Plan Vallejo - para. 1.03) consti-
tutes the other major instrument to promote manufacturing exports. It exempts
raw materials, intermediate products and capital equipment used in the produc-
tion of manufactured exports from all import duties and other charges. About
45% of all non-traditional exports in 1977-78 benefited from such duty-free
imports, compared to about 35% in 1974-75.
1.14      Between 1967 and 1974, manufactured product exports grew at the
average annual rate of about 35.9% in current US$ terms. The share of manufac-
tured exports in total exports increased from 12.1% in 1967 to 37.3% in 1974
(Annex 4, T-5). 2/ The corresponding shares of exports in total industrial
output rose from about 2% to 8%. The 1975 international recession resulted in
a decline of 9.6% in nominal terms of manufactured exports, but the growth of
total manufacturing output during 1976-77 (para. 1.04)--although offset in part
by the appreciation of the real effective exchange rate (para. l.lO)--helped
manufactured exports growth in dollar terms to keep pace with world inflation.
1/   In addition to the above major credit lines, PROEXPO administers several
specialized credit lines including: those created by the Corporacion
Andina de Fomento (CAF) to finance exports to the Andean Pact countries;
credit support for the development of frontier areas; assistance to the
Corporacion Financiera Popular for export financing of medium and small-
scale enterprises; and financial assistance to the Instituto de Fomento
Industrial (IFI). The total volume of these credit lines is US$20-25
million.
2/   There are three main sources of exports statistics in Colombia.  DANE,
which collects exports data on the basis of customs clearance documents
("manifiestos"); INCOMEX, which records data on export registrations for
licensing purposes ("registros"); and Banco de la Republica which records
the foreign exchange surrenders ("reintegros") from exports. Of these
DANE's statistics seem to reflect actual exports most closely, and are
the main data source used in this report. Also, the exports data need to
be corrected for over invoicing, estimated by FEDESARROLLO at 6% of
non-traditional exports for recent years, and for contraband shipments to
neighboring countries.



- 6 -
In 1978 manufactured exports registered a significant growth in real terms,
having increased 29.5% in US$ compared to world inflation in equivalent dollar
terms of about 16% (Annex 4, T-4 and T-5). 1/
1.15      The single most important market for Colombia's manufactured export
products is the Andean Group. More than 40% of Colombia's industrial exports
are directed to the four other Andean Pact countries, and about 60% to the
Latin American and Caribbean region as a whole. If illegal trade (mostly to
neighboring Venezuela and Ecuador) is also taken into account, the Andean
Pact countries probably receive as much as 50-60% of Colombia's total
industrial exports. Colombia is relatively successful in exporting compara-
tively sophisticated and capital intensive products to neighboring markets,
while its exports to industrial countries are concentrated in labor-intensive
products (wood products, garments and leather products).
Industrial Protection
1.16      Although the general trend since 1967 has been towards lower and more
uniform levels of protection, some industries established during the earlier
import substitution stage of industrialization still receive high levels of pro-
tection. The favorable balance of payments position which Colombia has enjoyed
in recent years has been conducive to some progress in lowering import barriers.
As of year-end 1976, the average nominal tariff ranged from 21.0% for basic
metal industries to 59.6% for textiles, garments and leather products.
1.17      Imports in Colombia are classified into two types, free imports and
those prohibited or requiring prior import license, the latest categorization of
imported items having been performed in August-September 1979, when the
government transferred 672 items from the prior license list to the free list.
In 1974, 70.2% of the items in the tariff schedule were classified under
prior license; this percentage, which had been reduced to 46.6% by August 1979
was further reduced through the latest measures to 33.4%. The latest changes,
however, represent only about 4% of the total import value. The product
categories that currently have the highest percentages of products under
the prior license list are transport materials (81.5%), capital goods (42.9%),
and agricultural products (41.8%). In addition to the above reclassifications,
tariffs on an additional 8-9% of the total number of items on the tariff list
were reduced substantially (by 10% or more) and another 25% of the items
experienced minor tariff reductions; the resulting net average reduction of
tariffs was about 2%. 2/
1.18      An accurate computation of effective protection estimates within the
Colombian industrial sector would have to take into account the composite
effect of licensing, tariffs, prior deposits and available subsidized financing.
1/   Preliminary estimates indicate that manufactured exports grew by 38% in
US dollar terms in 1979.
2/   Since August 1979, in an effort to absorb part of the excess liquidity
in the financial system (and thus help control inflation), the Government
has been requiring importers of capital goods to maintain a prior deposit
equal to 35% of the value of the imports until the imports are cleared
at customs. This measure more than nullified the effect of the 1%
reduction affected in 1979 in the tariff for capital goods.



-7-
The only reliable way of obtaining such estimates may be through direct price
comparisons between domestic and equivalent imported products; such comparisons
are difficult to make and have not been carried out for Colombia in recent years.
The most recent study on effective protection was carried out by the National
Planning Department of Colombia in 1977, based on tariffs in existence at the
end of 1976. The results of this study indicate that average effective protection,
without considering any lowering in the actual protection levels due to any
redundancy ("water") in protection, varies between about 30% for the chemical
industries to 116% for textiles, garments and clothing industries subsector
(Annex 4, T-11). The study also indicates that Colombia's effective protection
is close to the minimum external tariff (MET) specified under the Andean Pact
for most product groups. With the exception of three product groups, namely,
textiles, garments and leather products, metal products, machinery and equipment,
and non-metallic minerals categories, the effective protection estimates were
within 10% of the MET levels. The average effective protection level exceeded
the MET level by the largest margin in the case of textiles, garments and
leather products. 1/ Three manufactured products groups, basic metals, food
and beverages and chemical products, had effective protection levels below
those specified under MET. The average effective protection levels are likely
to have decreased since the 1977 study, as a result of the recent import
liberalization measures (para. 1.17).
Industrial Sector Planning
1.19      While explicit industrial planning has been incipient, the Govern-
ment's approach has generally been to adjust the framework of policies (e.g.
those concerning industrial exports, protection and financial sector regula-
tions) from time to time based on overall macroeconomic requirements (paras.
1.03 and 2.04), and to rely largely on the private sector to reflect the poli-
cies in the form of detailed investment plans. The National Planning Department
is currently preparing an indicative plan for the sector, which is expected to
be published in the coming months. This plan is likely to be very general in
nature, but the authorities have been developing indicative plans for the
development of particular subsectors such as the glass, leather, pulp and
paper, copper and plastics industries, which could serve as the basis for
fixing priorities among subsectors in the global plan.  Overall, the need for
planning as a tool for rational industrial sector development policies is
becoming increasingly recognized by the Colombian authorities.
Geographic Distribution of Industry
1.20      Colombia's difficult topography has given the country a strong
regional character. In spite of improvements in communications, it is still
made up of several semi-independent regional markets. As a result, industrial
activity is more decentralized in Colombia than in most other Latin American
countries. Nevertheless, the three largest urban centers and their areas of
influence, Bogota, Medellin and Cali, account for more than 60% of industrial
value added and nearly 70% of industrial employment. By the mid-60s some
concern began to develop over the excessive concentration of the economic
1/   Using data on actual price differentials for different clothing categories
in 1978, realized effective protection for exporting firms using Plan
Vallejo was estimated to be about 38%, compared to 30-100% (depending on
the clothing category) for firms catering only to the domestic market;
the effective protection for exporting firms not using Plan Vallejo was
estimated to be negative. See Why the Emperor's New Clothes are Not Made
in Colombia by David Morawetz, World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 368,
January 1980.



activities in a few urban centers, and the need to encourage further develop-
ment in the nation's secondary cities. The first official attempt to halt or
reverse the process of geographic concentration was introduced in 1967, through
special labor and salary legislation, which was translated into minimum-salary
and wage differentials among regions depending on the existing c:ncentration.
However, the main industrial centers continued to grow, putting heavy pressure
on infrastructure facilities, and causing increasingly serious problems of
congestion and atmospheric and water systems pollution.
1.21      In 1975, the Government passed a new and more comprehensive set of
policies for industrial decentralization. The major instruments for deflect-
ing growth to secondary cities were: (a) restrictions on foreign investment
in new enterprises to cities other than Bogota, Medellin and Cali and their
areas of influence; (b) greater access to official development credit at
slightly more favorable terms; and (c) infrastructure upgrading in secondary
cities. In addition, development of industrial parks has been viewed by the
Government as an important instrument for industrial decentralization,
and a specific decree (Decree 2613) was passed in 1976 to stimulate their
development. However, as the results of the industrial parks program to date
have not been encouraging, the Colombian administration modified (through
Decree 2143 of August 1979) the program, defining the specific areas where
industrial parks development is permitted, and granting a series of incentives,
including special credit facilities and tax benefits to industrial park
developers as well as to enterprises wishing to locate their plants in the parks.
1.22      Overall, the progress achieved over the past decade towards reducing
the concentration of industrial activity has been very limited. Indicators of
concentration of the value added and employment in the three main urban centers
appear to have remained about the same between 1967 and 1977 (Annex 4, T-12 and
T-13). The Bank has supported the decentralization policies by helping to
finance infrastructure projects and by allowing firms located outside the
three main urban centers the option to have access to financing in pesos under
previous DFC loans.
Employment
1.23      Unemployment has generally decreased in Colombia since 1976.  By
early 1979, unemployment among the urban labor force was about 8%, lower than
at any time during the past decade. This speaks well of the Government's efforts
to increase employment, particularly in view of the rapid population growth
in the 1960's, and the country's rapid urbanization. Manufacturing employment,
which grew only at an annual rate of 1.6% during 1963-68, rose at a much more
rapid rate of 8.3% per year during the 1968-74 period, reflecting the rapid
industrial growth induced by the 1967 policy reforms. The employment growth
was particularly notable in labor intensive subsectors, such as textiles, garments,
footwear and mechanical engineering, which were export-oriented and responded
well to the 1967 incentives. In the years since 1974, however, growth of manu-
facturing employment has generally not kept pace with that of the sector's value
added (Annex 4, T-6), reflecting at least in part the reduced export orientation
of the manufacturing sector in the subsequent years (para. 1.14). In 1978, it
was estimated that total industrial sector employment was about 1.25 million,
or almost one quarter of the total urban employment. 1/
1/   See also paras. 3.20 and 4.19 for a discussion of the employment impact
of the previous and proposed Bank loans.



-9-
1.24      Despite periodic increases in wage rates, 1/ industrial wages are
still fairly low in Colombia in comparison with other Latin American countries
(para. 2.15). With the slower rate of peso devaluation over the past few
years, Colombia has probably lost some of its comparative advantage in labor
costs, but still remains quite competitive in the Latin American context.
Technology Policy
1.25      Colombia has recently started to define an technology development
policy. Until 1967, the acquisition of foreign technology or the related
services was not subject to government regulations. Under Decree 444 of 1967,
which regulates external trade and foreign exchange transactions, all technology
transfer contracts are required to have specific authorization of the Royalties
Committee and an authorization of the required foreign exchange from the
Global Licenses Committee of INCOMEX. The Royalties Committee is to base
its decisions on technology transfer on an analysis of Colombian and inter-
national legal practices, balance of payments effects, and patents terms
and other specific restrictions of the contracts. The Andean Group's Decision
24 of 1973 (elaborated further through Decisions 84 and 85) provided a more
comprehensive framework for foreign technology acquisition and recommended
a selective foreign technology import policy, based on the nature and impor-
tance of the technology being considered, potential for its absorption and
adaptation, possibilities for the domestic development of comparable technology,
the expected impact on the Andean region and some specific contract features.
In general, Colombian policies in the past have been "defensive" or protec-
tionist, concerned mostly with control of royalty payments and the balance
of payments impact, rather than a comprehensive approach towards local tech-
nology development and adaptation.
1.26      There are two institutions in Colombia concerned specifically with
technology development in the industrial sector--the Technological Research
Institute (IIT) and the Colombian Fund for Scientific Research and Special
Projects (COLCIENCIAS).  IIT is a non-profit organization patronized by the
Agricultural Fund, Banco de la Republica (BR), the National Coffee Federation,
the Industrial Promotion Institute and the Colombian Petroleum Company.  It
has been operating since 1958 and offers technology research services, advice
on production processes, and laboratory and other technical assistance.  IIT
currently employs 52 professional staff. Its physical facilities include
two pilot plants, several laboratories, experimental kitchens and green houses
and library facilities. A large proportion of IIT's contracts in recent years
have been related to government projects (40%) and the patronizing institutions
(13%), but private enterprises have also been getting significant amounts of
assistance. Its efforts are currently concentrated in the processing of
agricultural products, including product quality research of processed foods,
and agro-chemicals, and in the research related to chemicals, ceramics and metal
working industries. About 60% of IIT's costs are covered by income from ser-
vices rendered; the cost of its services to small industrial firms is reduced
by special subsidies. 2/
1/   Minimum wages were increased by almost 40% in 1979, more than keeping up
with inflation; increases in average wages are likely to be much lower than
in minimum wages, however.
2/   The subsidies are provided through a special account in BR from out of the
interest rate differential arising from channeling low cost KfW funds to
the final beneficiaries.



- 10 -
1.27      COLCIENCIAS was created in 1968 to promote the country's technolo-
gical development. It operates under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Education and is responsible for providing financial support to technology
development and for making recommendations on overall scientific and tech-
nological policy. In addition to the government's budgetary allocations,
COLCIENCIAS obtains financial and technical support from international orga-
nizations.
1.28      COLCIENCIAS identifies the technological requirements of the devel-
opment plan, sectoral programs, and of specific projects. It also helps
strengthen and adapt the technological capacity of firms through provision of
financial support to a variety of science, technology and related human
resource development programs in priority areas such as nutrition, housing
and construction materials, education and health, natural resources utiliza-
tion and preservation, and physical environment improvements. Programs
supported include those specifically related to productive activities in the
industrial (especially mining and metallurgical) and agricultural sectors.
Whenever applicable, it supports the development of engineering consulting
services and of specific research programs undertaken. In order to facili-
tate selection of the most suitable technologies by industrial firms,
COLCIENCIAS has also been developing, in cooperation with other national and
international institutions, an information system on the available technolo-
gies in the various fields of industrial activity and their relative advan-
tages and disadvantages. To strengthen the technological capacity of small
industrial firms, COLCIENCIAS organizes visits for the managers of such firms
to technologically advanced plants in the country and abroad. COLCIENCIAS
identified the lack of adequate financial resources and shortage of technical
experts as two of the major constraints limiting technology development in
Colombia. Efforts made under past Bank DFC loans to promote technology
development through provision of financing at preferential terms have had
partial success and would be pursued more intensively under the proposed loan
(paras. 3.21 and 4.10).
Industrial Pollution Control
1.29      Colombia's industry is strongly concentrated in and around a few
cities (para. 1.20), and pollution has become a serious problem in all of them.
The first attempts to tackle pollution problems were made in 1963, when the
Corporacion Autonoma Regional de la Sabana de Bogota y de los Valles de Ubate
y Chiguinguira (CAR) passed regulations for water pollution in the areas under
its jurisdiction. CAR was followed by another regional agency called
Corporacion Autonoma del Valle del Cauca (CVC), with jurisdiction over the
Cauca valley of which Cali is the center. Over the last three years, CAR and
CVC passed more detailed regulations specifying maximum permissible levels of
industrial effluents in their respective regions and deadlines for meeting
such standards. Until recently, there has been little coordination among the
various public agencies at the national level with respect to pollution
standards and their administration.
1.30      The first comprehensive legislation at the national level was estab-
lished in 1975 through the National Code for Renewable National Resources. This
was followed by the promulgation of the National Health Code (Law 9 of January
1979) which gives the responsibility for formulating specific regulations re-
garding the permitted levels of industrial emissions and effluents to the
Ministry of Health. Among other things, the law prohibits the installation



- 11 -
of industrial plants that do not comply with the new regulations, and contem-
plates the establishment of deadlines for compliance by existing industrial
plants and punitive measures for violators, ranging from admonitions and
fines to mandatory closing of plants. The Ministry of Health is presently
developing specific national regulations on emissions, which are expected to
be passed by early 1980. In the interim, the Ministry of Health has delegated
its authority to administer effluent standards to regional bodies such as
CAR and CVC.
1.31      The most serious pollution problems in Colombia are found in some
river basins. Since 1970, several studies had been made on ways to reduce
the pollution level of the Bogota river, whose waters cannot at present be
used for household or industrial purposes. The Bogota river pollution has
become a national problem because of the large size of the area affected,
which threatens the Magdalena river basin. However, no significant actions
have yet been taken to improve the conditions of the Bogota river. Serious
problems also exist in the basins of the Medellin river and, to a lesser
degree, the Cauca river.
1.32      Private industry in general appears to have a positive attitude
vis-a-vis the pollution problem. A few large industrial enterprises are now
publishing advertisements alluding to the need to protect the ecology and the
physical environment, and one of them introduced an annual prize in 1979
for the best work done in the field. Under the present circumstances, given
the apparent readiness of the authorities to enforce the new regulations,
the two main factors limiting pollution control efforts appear to be the lack
of adequate financing, and, often, insufficient technical capacity to design
the appropriate projects for meeting the minimum permissible standards. The
proposed loan would help in overcoming the first obstacle by providing financ-
ing for industrial pollution control investments at attractive terms and
interest rates (paras. 4.10 and 4.12). As to the second, the authorities and
the private sector industry associations are aware of the difficulties and are
considering measures to develop an information system on specialized foreign
consulting services to develop adequate local technical capacity.
Outlook for Industrial Growth and Investment
1.33      Colombia's economic growth over the medium term will depend on the
Government's success in its stabilization programs and in managing the external
sector. Most estimates indicate that the economy should be able to grow at
about 6% p.a. in real terms over the next few years. The industrial sector is
expected to be one of the leading sectors, probably growing at a rate of 6-7%
per year. To achieve the above rates, substantial increases in investment
would be needed, particularly in the manufacturing sector, which is presently
working at a high capacity utilization level (para. 1.04). Achieving the
necessary investment levels in the manufacturing sector will depend on the
success of the government's stabilization program and the availability of
adequate term finance from domestic and external sources. The external market
for Colombia's manufactured products is also likely to play an important role
in the sector's growth, and would depend heavily on the government's future
exchange rate adjustment policy and on the manufacturers' promotion efforts to
find new markets.  Based on historical experience, an average manufactured
exports growth rate over the next few years of about 12% p.a. in real terms
may not be unrealistic under a reasonable exchange rate regime.



- 12 -
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Institutional Structure
2.01      Colombia has a relatively well-developed and diversified financial
sector comprised of the Central Bank (Banco de la Republica--BR), 29 each of
commercial banks and investment/development banks (financieras), 1/ and several
each of agricultural and mortgage banks and savings and loan corporations (10),
commercial finance companies (39), insurance companies (77), and mutual funds
(2), and two stock exchanges (Bogota and MIedellin). This structure of special-
ization has evolved as a result of government financial policies favoring the
institutional separation of financing functions.
2.02      Commercial banks dominate the institutional financial sector,
accounting in 1978 for about 42% of total credit, followed by the mortgage
banks and savings and loan corporations (27%), and the financieras (16%)
(Annex 4, T-16). Direct lending by banks is supplemented by rediscounting
facilities of BR funded in part out of the legal reserves of the banking
system. For industry, the most important of these are the Industrial Financing
Fund (FFI), which rediscounts loans made by commercial banks and financieras
to small- and medium-size industrial firms (those with total assets of up to
Col$ 60 million), the Private Investment Fund (FIP), which mainly finances
firms larger than those covered by the FFI, and PROEXPO (para. 1.11).
Financial Sector Policies and Evolution
2.03      Despite a relatively sophisticated institutional system in the
financial sector, the high degree of government regulation and control and
other past policies have retarded its full development and limited its alloca-
tive efficiency. At least until recently (para. 2.08), the result has been
the evolution of a relatively rigid and compartmentalized credit system with
limited market determination of the terms and conditions of financial inter-
mediation. The financial sector has been subject to a complex system of
reserve requirements and forced investment regimes and low legal limits on
nominal interest rates with wide differentials in rates for the different
categories of borrowers and savers. The frequent changes in the regulations
governing the financial sector, including tax treatment of earnings from
savings instruments and interest rate policies, introduced substantial
uncertainty in the mobilization of resources by the various financial instru-
ments. This was exacerbated by unequal competition from public sector savings
instruments and instruments issued for monetary management, which offered the
advantages of tax exempt status and immediate liquidity (sometimes at guaranteed
prices), and whose yields and other characteristics have varied substantially
over time. The most notable among such instruments have been the indexed
instruments to finance urban construction (UPACs) that were introduced in 1972
with the feature of full monetary correction, the coffee savings certificates
(TACs) and bonds (since 1976), the tax certificates (CATs) and Certificates
of Exchange (issued by BR), which became the most attractive short-term instru-
nents towards the late 1970s, and most recently (since September 1979), BR's
certificates of participation (para. 2.06). Annex 4, T-17 presents a summary
1/   The financieras include 6 public sector development banks, the largest
of which is Instituto de Fomento Industrial (IFI) --- see para. 2.16.



- 13 -
of the evolution of the estimated effective yields for the various competing
instruments in the Colombian financial sector. The new instruments introduced
from time to time and their varying yields caused sharp swings in the amount
of resources captured through the various parts of the financial sector.
2.04      Financial policies for the development of the Colombian financial
sector and capital market in particular have been influenced strongly by the
recurrence of inflationary cycles, generated by, among other things, periodic
rapid swings in the price of coffee, the country's main export product. The
monetary authorities have used imaginative approaches to neutralize the infla-
tionary impact of these developments, in part at the expense of introducing
new elements of distortion into the financial market and credit system. In
general, as inflation increased, traditional deposit and lending instruments
of the banking sector were limited by low nominal interest rate ceilings,
which did not permit the necessary adjutments in order to offer positive yields
in real terms. Given the frequent changes in the available financial instru-
ments and their yields, and the lack of a premium on medium- and long-term
instruments, savings in recent years have been channeled almost exclusively to
the highly liquid short-term instruments. The most important specific financial
sector developments over the past six years are briefly discussed below.
2.05      Following tight government controls and regulation during the early
1970s, a major financial sector reform was carried out in 1974 to stimulate
savings, integrate the fragmented market and promote more efficient alloca-
tion of resources. A parallel fiscal reform was undertaken to make the tax
system more progressive and to strengthen the fiscal base. Interest rates
were permitted to rise in successive stages and differentials between rates
were narrowed (Annex 4, T-17). The degree of monetary correction and tax
exemption on value-indexed instruments was limited to bring yields in line
with competing securities. Forced investment requirements of financial
institutions were relaxed and new issues of public sector instruments no more
had tax exempt status nor immediate liquidity.  Through related measures, the
financieras were authorized (under Decree 399 of 1975) for the first time to
undertake short-term operations, permitting them to capture funds through the
issue of 90-day fixed-term Certificates of Deposit (CDs) 1/ and time deposits
and relending the proceeds over comparable periods for industrial production
and sales financing. The financial reforms had a positive impact on savings
mobilization by the financial system, especially by the financieras, and a
better balance was achieved between savings captured through competing instru-
ments. During 1975-76 savings channelled through the institutionalized financial
system increased at an average annual rate of about 17% p.a. in real terms, as
inflation rate dropped from 27% in 1974 to 18% in 1975 and 20% in 1976 (on a
December-December basis) and permitted positive interest rates in real terms
(Annex 4, T-24).
2.06      Financial policy measures taken to cope with the complex economic
situation created by the world recession, illegal exports receipts, and the
inflationary effects of the extraordinary rise in coffee prices and a major
drought in Colombia in 1976, brought the progress achieved by the financial
reform during 1974 and 1975 to a halt. To counter inflationary pressures
resulting from the large inflow of export earnings from coffee and the shortage
of basic food supplies, the monetary authorities imposed heavier reserve
requirements and stricter credit controls. In 1977 a marginal reserve
requirement of 100% was imposed on commercial bank demand deposits, which
1/   The financieras were also authorized later to issue longer term CDs.



- 14 -
remained in effect until very recently (para. 2.08). 1/ Concurrently, in an
attempt to avoid a slowdown of investment in key sectors, renewed emphasis was
placed on the system of selective credit allocation through BR's industrial
financing funds, the forced investment regime was partly restored through
certain provisions for the acquisition of agroindustrial and IFI bonds, and
interest rates were not permitted to rise with inflation. These measures
initiated a counter-reform of financial policies which was continued and
progressively widened during 1978 and 1979. Additional restrictive measures
included the institution of reserve requirements (initially of 15% and later
25%) on CDs issued by the financieras, the issue by BR of 90-day "certificates
of exchange" denominated in dollars for the purpose of "mopping up" the
liquidity originating from the external sector, and, starting in September
1979, massive issues of certificates of participation (akin to treasury bills
in the US) offering effective yields of up to 37% p.a., for maturities ranging
from 15 to 90 days. A withholding tax of 5%, which was instituted through Law
20 of April 1979 for income on interest earnings, had a further dampening
effect on resource mobilization by banks and financieras. Financial savings
virtually stagnated in real terms in 1977 when the inflation rate reached
29% (on a December-December basis), but recovered to a 17% real growth rate in
1978 as the inflation moderated to 18% (Annex 4, T-24 and T-25).
2.07      Constraints on resource mobilization by the traditional domestic finan-
cial system led to a reliance on external credit sources for a substantial
portion (30-40%) of the industrial financing needs, and to the development of
an increasingly large and flourishing extra-banking market, which is estimated
to have provided more than 20% of the total industrial credit in 1978 (Annex
4, T-18). By some unofficial banking sector estimates, the extra-banking
market may have grown to as much as one-quarter of the total financial system,
accounting for a like proportion of total industrial credit. In an effort to
improve the vigilance of the extra-banking operations, the Superintendency of
Banks, through Decree 1970 of 1979, brought under its supervision the institu-
tionalized segment of the extra-banking market which is comprised mainly of
"commercial finance companies" (companias de financiamiento comercial).  Under
the new rules these institutions are subject to a minimum debt/equity ratio of
10:1 (compared to 20:1 for financieras), and all new commercial finance
companies are required to have a share capital of at least Col$100 million. 2/
Recent Development and Prospects
2.08      At the end of January 1980, the Monetary Board put in effect a series
of major reforms to remove or relax a wide range of regulations governing the
operations of Colombian banks and financieras. Most importantly, it removed
ceilings on interest rates on bank and financiera CDs and on loans made with
funds raised through CDs. The Monetary Board also abolished the 100% marginal
reserve requirements on current account deposits as of January 31, 1980 and
substituted this by a gradual increase of the regular reserve requirements
1/   A marginal reserve requirement of 100% had been in effect earlier for
brief periods during 1972 and 1975.
2/   By year-end 1979, as many as 29 commercial finance companies were operating
in Colombia, the majority of which were established during or after 1977.
Between year-end 1975 and mid-1979, the total assets of the commercial
finance companies expanded from Col$4.1 billion to Col$11.9 billion, growing
at an annual rate of about 35%. About one-third of their lending is to
commerce, one-third to industry and construction and the remainder to other
sectors.



- 15 -
months from 45% to 50%. At the same time regular reserve requirements for the
financieras' CDs were reduced from 25% to 15%. All the reserves kept with BR
would in the future earn a return of 25%, up from 21% earlier. Finally, the
Monetary Board lifted the 3-5 year mandatory ceilings on the terms for external
financing contracted directly by the private sector for equipment purchases,
and delegated to the External Trade Council (Consejo Directivo de Comercio
Exterior) the authority to approve terms for each external financing operation
compatible with the investment's gestation period and cash flow projections.
Although it is still too early to analyze the full impact of the above series
of measures liberalizing the financial sector, they are undoubtedly very
encouraging, and can be expected to have a substantial positive impact on the
mobilization and allocation of resources by the financial system and on the
growth of the institutional financial sector. In particular, the flow of funds
out of the banking to the extra-banking sector should be reversed, as the lower-
ing of reserves requirement and freeing of interest rates will improve the terms
that banks can offer to savers. Also, these measures may permit the financieras,
over the medium-term, to gradually lengthen the maturities of savings instruments
and loans. Achievement of the full positive impact of the liberalizing
measures would depend in part on whether the Government can limit the possible
short run inflationary effect of the reforms and is able to sustain them in
the long run.
2.09      Through an earlier measure in mid-1979, the government created a
National Securities Commission with the objective of stimulating and regulating
the securities markets. Arrangements are currently under way to design the
charter of the Commission and initiate its operations. A more effective
operation of the security markets, if achieved by the Commission, could have
an important positive influence on the capitalization of industry as well as
resource mobilization in general in Colombia. 1/
Industrial Financing
2.10      Sources.  In recent years, the industrial sector has obtained
financing not only from the domestic commercial banks and financieras, but
also from specialized institutions such as the Caja Agraria and the institu-
tionalized and non-institutionalized extrabanking market. Between 30% and
40% of industrial financing has come from direct external borrowing, with
external suppliers' credits accounting for 0.5% to 1.0% of industrial financing.
During 1974-78, the volume of industrial credit expanded at an annual rate of
about 30% compared to an average rate of inflation of about 25%. The real
rate of growth was thus slightly below the 5.3% real growth rate of industrial
production, confirming the belief of industrialists, 2/ that the availability of
industrial credit has become progressively tighter. 37
2.11      During 1974-78 industrial investment as well as working capital
in Colombia was financed increasingly with borrowed funds. Debt financing
1/   An IFC (CCM) mission is currently visiting Colombia to discuss possible
Bank group assistance in the start-up phase of the Commission's operations.
2/   As reflected in the FEDESARROLLO quarterly opinion surveys, and field
interviews carried out in connection with the appraisal.
3/   The thrust of anti-inflationary monetary policy during this period has
been to reduce the overall rate of credit growth, particularly commer-
cial bank credit. Substantial financial resources were withdrawn from
the market through diverse types of forced savings (Agroindustrial and
IFI bonds and Exchange Certificates).



- 16 -
rose from about 37% of assets in 1965 to 58% in 1972 and ranged between 60%
and 65% from 1974 to 1978. Of the total debt financing in 1978, total credit
from banks and financieras using their own resources accounted for 27%,
developmental credit supported through special rediscounting mechanisms for
28%, external loans for 29% and other sources (including extrabanking credit)
for 15% (Annex 4, T-20). 1/
2.12      Equity financing.  Funds generated internally through retained
earnings and depreciation allowances, which in the 1960s were the major source
for financing manufacturing investment, have declined in importance, accounting
for only 32% of investment funds in 1978. With new stock issues providing
only about 10% of equity financing, retained earnings constituted the bulk
(90%). In view of the relatively high levels of inflation experienced during
the 1970s (averaging about 21% p.a. between 1971 and 1979), the tax system
was modified in April 1979 by Law 20 (Ley del Alivio Tributario), which per-
mits full annual inflation adjustments (equal to 100% of the cost of living
index) to the value of assets and earnings, in effect fully neutralizing the
impact of inflation on the taxable capital gains. This measure is expected
to help in increasing the contribution of retained earnings to investment
financing and strengthening the capital position of industrial firms.
2.13      Despite the operation of two stock exchanges in Colombia, new share
issues by industrial companies have been infrequent and have provided only a
small part (estimated at about 5% in 1978/79) of the financing for new
industrial investment. Between 1972 and 1975, the index of industrial stock
prices declined by about 2%, while consumer prices rose by 89%. However,
from 1975 to 1978, prices of industrial shares rose more rapidly, at an
average annual rate of 37%, compared to an average annual increase in consumer
prices of 23% (Annex 4, T-21), thus reactivating investor interest in the
stock markets.
2.14      Outside the stock market, the financieras have also made significant
equity investments in industrial corporations, in response to Resolution 65 of
1977 of the Monetary Board, requiring financieras to hold at least 10% of their
assets in the form of equity of productive enterprises (para. 3.23). The
total value of equity investments made by the financieras participating
in the Bank loan was about Col$1.9 billion at the end of 1979; the increments
in the value of the equity holdings of these financieras in 1978 and 1979
are estimated to be equal to as much as one-quarter to one-third of the total
value of shares of manufacturing enterprises transacted on the Bogota and
Medellin stock exchanges.
2.15      Banking system credit.  Total domestic banking credit to the indus-
trial sector grew at an average annual rate of 31% in nominal terms during
1974-78, or at about 6% annually in real terms (Annex 4, T-18), approximately
equalling the growth of GDP over that period. The proportion of total domestic
credit going to the industrial sector remained relatively constant in recent
years, at about 25% (Annex 4, T-16). Commercial banks channelled about 40% of
the credit outstanding to industry (including credit using their own resources
as well as developmental credit supported through BR's special rediscounting
mechanisms) and financieras, about 28%. However, 70% of the commercial bank
lending is short-term, mainly for working capital financing, whereas more than
two-thirds of financiera lending is in the form of medium- and long-term
loans, for the purpose of making fixed industrial investments. Overall, the
1/   Based on quarterly industrial surveys carried out by FEDESARROLLO.



- 17 -
financieras channel substantially greater amounts of medium- and long-term
funds to industry (higher by 50% or more during 1974-79) than commercial
banks. However, the average term of financiera lending outstanding to industry
shortened considerably in recent years. Given the high liquidity preference of
savers resulting from the prevailing conditions of high and varying inflation
and other financial sector uncertainties, almost all the resources mobilized
by the financieras in these years have been very short term (less than 180
days); in the absence of an adequate term transformation mechanism (para.
3.43) the financieras had to limit themselves to short term lending when using
deposit resources. As a result, long-term lending to industry by the finan-
cieras grew only at an average annual rate of 17% during 1974-78 (declining in
real terms), and medium-term lending at 46% p.a., while short-term lending
grew at more than 70% p.a. (Annex 4, T-22).
2.16      There are 29 financieras operating in Colombia, holding Col$ 65.6
billion in assets as of March 1979, including six public and 23 private insti-
tutions. Annex 4, T-19 includes a listing and the main characteristics of the
operating financieras as of year-end 1978. The principal public sector insti-
tutions engaged in general industrial lending are the Industrial Development
Institute (IFI), CF Popular and COFIAGRO. IFI is the largest financiera, holding
along 25.5% of total financiera assets. It is primarily a holding company and
financing agent for public sector industry, but also finances some large private
sector projects. Of the other two public financieras, CFP, with about 3% of
total financiera assets, concentrates on lending to small-scale enterprises with
assets of up to Col$35 million, 1/ and COFIAGRO (Corporacion Financiera de
Fomento Agropecuario y de Exportaciones), with about 1.3% total of financiera
assets, deals primarily with agroindustry. The public sector financieras
together have accounted for about 36% of total financiera assets and for about
23% of total financiera lending. 2/ The eight private financieras that have
participated in the previous Bank loan accounted for about 59% of total credit
of private financieras outstanding in mid-1979 and as much as 70% of their
long-term credit; most of the remaining private financieras concentrate on
short-term lending operations, and, except for Grancolombiana, are relatively
small and of recent origin.
2.17      Other sources.  Direct external borrowings (including suppliers'
credits) has provided 30%-40% of the industrial credit outstanding in recent
years. Between 1974 and 1977 direct foreign loans to the industrial sector
registered with the Central Bank expanded at an annual rate of 22.6%, which was
roughly equal to the rate of inflation during this period. External suppliers'
credits, providing between 0.5% and 1% of industrial credits during these years,
started from a small base and expanded more rapidly, growing at about 40% p.a.
Industrial corporations lacking access to banking system credit have had to
rely on the institutional or non-institutional extra-banking market to obtain
short-term credits at high interest rates. The extrabanking market was
dominated originally by the commercial finance companies, but commercial banks
and financieras have also expanded into extrabanking activities over the last
two years, through trust fund operations and sales of participation in their
loan portfolios.
1/   The Bank has supported small scale industry through CFP by means of two
loans in 1975 and 1977, and a third one was approved by the Board in
April 1980 (para. 3.01).
2/   Based on mid-1979 data.



- 18 -
2.18      Interest rates.  The cost of industrial credit varies according to
the source and terms of funds used. Until recently (para. 2.08), maximum
nominal interest rates had been established by the monetary authorities, but
financial intermediaries, through additional charges and collection of interest
in advance, were able to vary the cost of funds. 1/ As a result, effective
interest rates from private intermediaries vary between 35-40% p.a. on short-
term loans; for comparable loans the extrabanking market is charging about 40%
p.a. and more. The interest rates on short-term loans have increased about
4-8 percentage points in the last year as the Monetary Board has steadily
restricted lending growth. Intermediaries charge effective rates of 25-29%
p.a. for medium- and long-term loans using BR rediscounting facilities.
Term loans to small and medium scale industry using BR rediscounting facilities
have interest rates between 22% and 27% p.a. The comparable annual effective
interest rates on subloans under the regular lending component of the Bank's
Seventh DFC Loan are in the range 27-29% p.a., that is, close to the high end
of the rates under BR's rediscounting lines. Most rates on many of BR's
rediscounting lines have generally been positive in real terms, when smoothed
over a 1-2 year period. Onlending interest rates under the proposed loan
would be periodically reviewed and adjusted, as necessary, to ensure
positive real rates and general conformity with the rates in the financial
markets (para. 4.08).
2.19      Access to industrial credit.  Field interviews during appraisal
confirmed that almost all categories of industries have experienced an increas-
ingly serious problem in securing adequate financing. The problems are par-
ticularly acute in relation to working capital financing, as this is normally
financed from domestic sources. Within the financing regulations of the Monetary
Board which had been in effect until recently (that is, maximum terms of 3-5
years and 6 months, respectively, for equipment and raw material imports), the
largest industrial firms/groups have generally been able to obtain financing
from foreign commercial banks in adequate amounts and attractive terms (usually
at interest rates of up to 1% above LIBOR). Some of the medium-sized industrial
firms had access to the external markets, although only to a much more limited
degree and generally at interest rates of 2% or more above LIBOR. 2/
2.20      Industrial firms which export part of their production have adequate
access to the low cost credit of the export fund PROEXPO. Firms located out-
side the largest urban centers, where no large financiera is headquartered, and
the relatively small firms, appear to have considerably more difficulty in
obtaining term credits and financial services, because of the higher adminis-
trative costs and/or risks involved for the financieras. Given the very
tight credit situation, industrial enterprises other than those belonging to
the largest groups have often had to pay a variety of direct or indirect
charges to the banks, so as to hike up the effective interest rate above the
nominal rate ceilings fixed by the Monetary Board. In addition to the prepay-
1/   Effective interest rates can be 2-5 percentage points higher when prepayment
of interest charges (usually quarterly) is taken into account. All interest
rate estimates in this paragraph are effective rates, taking into account
interest prepayments but not compensating balances or other loan charges.
2/   It is in this category of firms that the financieras can play an especially
effective catalytic role by introducing such companies to the international
financial markets.



- 19 -
ment of interest charges and maintenance of compensatory balances, which are
common practices with most Colombian banks and financieras, enterprises
frequently have had to provide other benefits to the financial institutions,
including through letter of credit operations, artificially designed "bridge
loans" or arranged "arrearages" (all of which yield very high short-term
returns). Firms crowded out from banking system credit have had to pay even
higher effective interest rates, mostly upwards of 40% p.a., in the extrabank-
ing market. Lack of adequate financing has thus been the main obstacle for
the growth of many industrial firms..
Need for the Proposed Loan
2.21      Regaining a high rate of industrial growth will require the mainte-
nance of a high rate of investment in the expansion of productive capacity.
Based on recent investment levels, the present high plant capacity utilization
levels (para. 1.05), and the public investment program, the industrial sector
is estimated to require total financial resources exceeding Col$100 billion
(US$1.9-2.1 billion) over the period 1980-83 for new fixed investments and
associated working capital. The recent financial sector reforms, if sustained,
should help a healthy growth of financial savings and of available working cap-
ital financing, but longer-term credit from domestic sources is likely to
remain in short supply at least for the next 1-2 years in view of the time
needed for the impact of recent financial reforms to be fully reflected
in the capital market and for the achievement of greater economic stability.
As in the past, industry will have to rely partially on overseas sources, both
official and commercial, to finance fixed asset expansions on adequate terms.
The proposed Bank loan has been designed to meet the term financing needs of
investment projects likely to be financed by the participating financieras
after taking into account likely complementary resources (para. 4.02), and
would enable the financieras to provide 10-15% of industry's term financing
needs -- approximately the same proportion as they have financed in recent years.
Assurances have been obtained in connection with the proposed loan that adequate
amounts of domestic resources as well as financing from other external sources
(through 'cofinancing') would be mobilized by the financieras to complement the
Bank resources (paras. 3.41, 3.42 and 4.17).
III. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS
A.   Background
3.01      Bank DFC lending to Colombia started in 1966 with a first loan of
US$25 million to BR for onlending through five private financieras--CF
Colombiana in Bogota, CF Nacional in Medellin, CF del Valle in Cali, CF del
Norte in Barranquilla and CF de Caldas in Manizales. 1/ To date seven DFC
loans totalling US$342.5 million have been made to BR and the number of partici-
pating financieras has increased to eight. Although all these loans were
designed to assist efficient productive projects in general, the most recent
loans contained special features designed to ensure a wide distribution of Bank
funds, encourage lending to medium-size enterprises, and promote export genera-
tion, technology development and industrial pollution control. However, it
was also recognized that the nature of financiera operations--their lack of
an extensive network of branch offices, the detailed project appraisals, and
the relatively low margin on resources available to them--limited the assis-
tance they could provide to smaller firms. Therefore, the DFC loans were
1/   All five are also recipients of IFC equity investments.



- 20 -
complemented by two loans in 1975 and 1977, totalling US$20.5 million for
Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), a government-owned DFC which specializes
in financing small-scale enterprises. 1/
3.02      Under the first four DFC loans the Bank focused its efforts on
assisting the institutional development of the five participating financieras
and closely monitored their operations. While this approach was successful in
building these five older financieras into effective and mature term financing
institutions, it placed heavy demands on Bank manpower and virtually precluded
participation of the several other less experienced financieras. Institutional
arrangements were progressively modified, starting under the Fifth Loan made
in 1973, with the objective of developing within BR the capability to eventually
take over most of the Bank's supervision functions. Since 1973 Bank supervi-
sion efforts have been focused on strengthening the capability of BR's Depart-
ment of Development Credit (DDC) (see para. 3.03) to discharge increased respon-
sibilities in the areas of subproject review and supervision of financieras
newly participating in Bank operations. Direct contact has been maintained with
the five older financieras, but with attention centering on their overall
developmental impact and less on operational details. The modified arrangements
enabled two new financieras to participate starting under the Fifth Loan--CF
Occidente in Pereira and CF de Santander in Bucaramanga--and an additional
financiera-CF Aliadas of Medellin--under the Sixth and Seventh Loans on a lim-
ited basis. The process of delegating increased responsibilities to BR and
strengthening BR's capacity to discharge them would be continued under the
proposed loan (para. 3.06). This is in line with past OED reports which
concluded that the financieras had been an effective mechanism for allocating
and channeling resources to medium-size and larger enterprises, but suggested
that it might be more cost effective in the long run for the Bank to delegate
greater responsibilities to BR and thus permit increased Bank attention to
sectoral issues. The modified arrangements allow the Bank to concentrate more
on the broader issues of industrial policy and capital market development in
connection with the proposed loan.
3.03      As of February 29, 1980 approximately three-quarters of the US$100.0
million Seventh Loan (1598-CO) had been committed for subloans and equity
investments, and the loan is expected to be fully committed by mid-1980, about
six months ahead of appraisal estimates. Cumulative disbursements under the
Seventh Loan by the end of February 1980 were about US$23.0 million, or about
two months behind the disbursement schedule estimated at the time of appraisal
of that loan. About US$5.6 million of the US$80.0 million Sixth Loan (1223-CO)
was still uncommitted (and about US$10.0 million undisbursed) by that date,
mainly as a result of cancellations or modifications of previously approved
subprojects.
B.   Banco de la Republica
3.04      BR combines its central banking function with development banking
activities involving the administration of various official lines of term
credit, principally to industry and agriculture. All credit lines for
productive sector lending (except for agriculture), including Bank DFC loans,
are handled by DDC. Under the first four loans DDC's role was limited to
screening subprojects submitted by the financieras to ensure that scarce funds
were allocated to projects that were consistent with Colombia's overall
1/   A third loan of US$32.0 million to support small-scale industry was
approved by the Board in April 1980.



- 21 -
developmental priorities. The role has since been expanded to include respon-
sibility for the review and approval of subprojects, and the full supervision
of newly participating financieras. Over the past few years, BR's performance
with respect to subproject review has continued to develop satisfactorily.
There has been little turnover among project analysts, and the coverage of
technical, financial and economic aspects has improved with the help of
training programs carried out with Bank support. Most notably, BR analysts
are going beyond routine reviews of compiled information to take a more
critical look at project viability and discuss potential weaknesses with
sponsors as part of the review process. However, in its review of the appro-
priateness of onlending terms, DDC has increasingly tended to make excessive
reductions in the subloan term and grace period requested by the financieras.
Thus, under the Sixth Loan, 38% of subloans by amount had periods of 10 years
or more, compared to only 17% under the the Seventh Loan. During negotiations,
the Bank obtained understandings from BR that subloan terms and grace periods
for future subprojects would be based on conservative estimates of the cash
flow projections from the investments, taking into account probable impact of
inflation and uncertainties inherent in cash flow forecasts. These understand-
ings are incorporated into DDC's revised statement of policies and procedures
agreed with BR in connection with the implementation of the Bank financed DFC
projects (Annex 2). BR would also prepare and furnish to the Bank, by March
31, 1981, a program for further training of DDC staff as needed to strengthen
and expand its operations.
3.05      Subloan processing from submission to BR to receipt of disbursement
notification by the Bank has slowed, often taking six months or more, as a
result of staff constraints, administrative procedures, and, frequently,
excessive emphasis on details in reviewing subprojects. BR has acknowledged
the problem, and has indicated that it will implement various measures to cut
down project processing times, including increasing the number of analysts
devoted to the Bank-supported projects by 3 to 5 professionals, providing
training as needed to the junior analysts, and adopting a problem-oriented and
pragmatic approach in subproject review, which takes account of the characteris-
tics of the particular project. For example, projects involving new product
lines may need a closer review of the technology and market analysis than those
involving expansion of existing product lines by established firms. Similarly,
DDC should delegate most of the responsibility for project evaluation and
review to the financieras in the case of subprojects below their free limit
vis-a-vis BR. These understandings were confirmed during loan negotiations,
and reflected through appropriate revision in the operating policy statement
of DDC (Annex 2). The Bank would also work closely with BR on possible
measures to speed up disbursements to the final beneficiaries and to ensure
early notification to the borrowers when disbursements are made to third
parties on behalf of the borrowers.
3.06      BR's capability to supervise and provide assistance to the newly
participating financieras, after a slow start, has improved significantly over
the past year. In general, BR staff have performed adequate reviews of
the technical capabilities and financial position of the financieras, and
noted key changes required. On the other hand, the staff have not always
been diligent in ensuring the financieras' compliance with all Bank loan
covenants. At negotiations agreement was reached (this is reflected in the
revised operating policy statement of DDC) on expanding BR's supervision role
under the proposed loan to specifically include monitoring the compliance by
the participating financieras with all the financial covenants contained in



- 22 -
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements (including debt/equity, current assets and exp:sure
limitations). During supervision missions Bank staff members would continue
to accompany BR's staff on visits to new financieras in order to follow up on
their performance.
C.   The Participating Financieras
3.07      The following sections review jointly the characteristics, operations,
financial performance and economic impact, and resource needs of the group of
seven financieras which participated fully under the Seventh Loan, and of CF
Aliadas, which participated in the Sixth and Seventh Loans on a limited basis.
In addition, one or two more financieras are likely to participate in the
proposed loan on a limited basis, under conditions discussed in para. 3.46.
Background and Ownership
3.08      The Colombian financieras were established to provide longer term
debt and equity financing to private productive enterprises, principally
in the industrial sector. Colombiana, Nacional, Valle, Norte and Caldas
came into existence between 1959 and 1964. The former four are headquartered
in the four largest urban centers of Colombia. Occidente and Santander were
established in 1966 and 1967 respectively, and like Caldas, are located in
predominantly agricultural regions which they are helping to diversify by
developing industry. Aliadas, located in Medellin, was founded in 1975.
3.09      All eight financieras are predominantly Colombian owned.  Despite
a recent tendency towards concentration of ownership in some of the five
older financieras, their shares are relatively widely held among banks,
insurance companies, and industrial enterprises, except for Caldas, in which
the National Coffee Federation and related entities hold about 70% of equity.
IFC holds equity investments in each of the five older financieras, which were
made from 1961 to 1967 and now range from 2% of equity in Valle to 5% in
Norte. The shares of Occidente and Santander are more closely held. Occidente
has two main shareholder groups: the National Coffee Federation with about
49% of share capital, and a local businessman (39%). About 75% of Santander's
equity is owned by the Santo Domingo Group, a powerful industrial and financial
services conglomerate. Also, the Santo Domingo Group has recently increased
its holdings of Norte stock to 48% of Norte's paid-in capital, and is likely
to assume a majority position in 1980. The Bank, through its normal supervi-
sion, and IFC, which has a representative on Norte's board, are closely
following the effects of the Group's increasing participation in Norte.
Aliadas is owned by Inversiones Aliadas, a diversified holding company whose
largest investment is in distribution and sale of pharmaceuticals.
3.10      A review of the portfolios of the closely held financieras during
appraisal of the Sixth Loan showed a tendency for those financieras to give
preference to lending to members of their controlling groups. To correct this
undesirable trend, an exposure limitation was introduced with respect to each
financiera's loans and investments in any single group of related companies so
as to avoid excessive concentration of credit risks, limit "insider" transac-
tions, and enhance the development impact of each financiera through an adequate
dispersion of its lending and investment activities. This "exposure limit"
was set at 25% of the financieras' net worth (defined as paid-in capital,
retained earnings, reserves, and revaluation) for all outstanding loans,
investments, and contingent liabilities to any single company, and 50% of net
worth to any group of related companies. The impact of this limit had been



- 23 -
positive, particularly in containing the financieras' provision of financing
to their main owners and companies related to them. The treatment of revalua-
tions for the purpose of computing total exposure in any group of related
companies would be more clearly specified under the proposed loan and would
be required to be fully consistent with that proposed in connection with
debt/equity computations (para. 3.28). As part of its monitoring of the
financiera operations (para. 3.06), BR would ensure the financieras' com-
pliance with the exposure limits, through quarterly (or, if necessary, more
frequent) reviews of their financial statements.
Organization and Staff
3.11      The five older financieras and Santander have capable and experienced
management. Occidente, on the other hand, has experienced substantial turnover
at the senior management level and among its technical staff. Following a
recent change in shareholders, its president resigned and has been replaced by
the financiera's former financial vice president; other key staff have also
been appointed recently (Annex 4, T-29). Aliadas has a capable president,
but virtually no other managers with significant background and experience
in development banking. Occidente and Aliadas would strengthen their profes-
sional staff through recruitment and training as needed; these measures would
be included in their respective plans of action which would be prepared in
connection with the proposed loan to correct their institutional weaknesses
(paras. 3.35 and 3.49). Substantial progress by Aliadas in implementing its
plan of actions, including upgrading its middle-management and technical staff
would be a special condition of effectiveness for its participation under the
proposed loan (para. 5.02).
3.12      While the five older financieras and Santander have adequate staff
at the senior levels, Norte and Valle have both suffered from a considerable
turnover of the more junior analysts, due partly to their relatively low
salary levels (Annex 4, T-29). This situation has been brought to the
attention of these financieras, which have already initiated remedial steps.
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision
3.13      A continuing objective of the Bank has been to encourage the finan-
cieras make an important contribution to efficient resource allocation in the
country through sound project appraisal. Most project appraisals prepared by
the five older financieras and Santander are adequate, and their technical
evaluations have gained in depth and coverage. Marketing analysis has improved
but remains an area of relative weakness. Some deficiencies also remain in
appraisals of technology development and pollution control projects; appro-
priate understandings were reached at loan negotiations to correct them
(see paras. 3.21 and 3.22). Economic evaluation of projects has been strength-
ened substantially with the help of Bank-sponsored seminars to train BR and
financiera staff in this important aspect of project work. However, in some
cases, especially for related companies, the financieras have committed
themselves to financing the subprojects prior to undertaking adequate feasi-
bility studies. This aspect was discussed with the financieras during loan
negotiations and understandings were obtained on appropriate corrective actions
in subproject processing. As under the Sixth and Seventh Loans, economic rate
of return (ERR) calculations would be required under the proposed loan for all
projects seeking subloans in excess of US$250,000. Despite some improvements,
appraisals submitted by Occidente have not yet reached the depth and quality of



- 24 -
those prepared by the others; Aliadas has had little capability in the recent
past to appraise subprojects, but has initiated steps to upgrade in this area
prior to participating in the proposed loan (para. 3.49). It would be necessary
for BR to continue to review closely all Bank subprojects submitted by Occidente
and Aliadas under the proposed loan and to assist these financieras in upgrading
their appraisal proficiency.
3.14      The five older financieras and Santander have adequate supervision
and follow-up systems. Reliance on periodic reporting and informal supervision,
occasionally through participation of financiera staff on the boards of some
clients, is often justified as most clients are experienced, established firms.
Norte, with a portfolio containing a relatively large number of new firms and
firms located in a less developed region, faces more difficult supervision,
but in recent years has become reasonably effective in monitoring clients'
situations and reacting to possible problems. The majority of the financieras'
clients are visited at least once per year, with the visits programmed on the
basis of the risk exposure of the respective financieras--and the financial
and operating situations of their clients. The financieras generally give
priority to the supervision of Bank- and BR-financed projects, because of their
larger size and the discipline imposed by Bank and BR reporting requirements.
Improvement of supervision procedures of Occidente has been slower than expected,
due to staff constraints and the lower priority assigned to this activity. In
connection with the loan negotiations assurances were obtained from CF Occidente
that it would improve its supervision, procurement and disbursement procedures;
Occidente incorporated appropriate corrective measures in its plan of action
(para. 3.35). Aliadas would develop its supervision capability and procedures
as part of upgrading its appraisal capabilities (para. 3.49).
Operations and Impact
3.15      Lending operations.  The combined loan portfolio of the eight
financieras amounted to about Col$ 18.9 billion (almost US$440 million equiva-
lent) at the end of September 1979, having increased at a 29% compounded
annual rate since year-end 1975, or about 6-8% p.a. in real terms. 1/ The
short-term portfolio of the financieras (excluding the current portion of
term loans) has increased rapidly since early 1975, when they were authorized
by the Governemnt to offer higher interest rates than most other financial
intermediaries on short-term borrowings and lending operations to help finance
industrial working capital requirements. Thus, for the group of eight finan-
cieras, the percentage share of short-term loans (loans made with a maturity
not exceeding one year) rose from 9% of total loan portfolio at year-end 1975
to about 28% at September 1979. The shortening of the term structure of
assets and liabilities of the financieras in recent years mirrors developments
in the financial system as a whole, (para. 2.15) and also reflects the rela-
tively low level of industrial investment during that period (para. 1.04).
In connection with the proposed project, efforts would be made to enable the
financieras to increase the relative volume of medium and long-term financing
they can supply as investment activity recovers (paras. 3.41 to 3.43).
3.16      Sectoral and geographic distribution.  About three-quarters of the
outstanding loans of the participating financieras as of year-end 1979
were to manufacturing enterprises, and the rest to tourism, mining, and
1/   A continuing dynamic growth of their loan portfolios as well as their
total assets is projected for most of the participating financieras
over the next 3-4 years. See Annex 4, T-39.



- 25 -
service industries (Annex 4, T-26). The combined industrial loan portfolio
of the participating financieras accounts for about 15% of total industrial
credit from the banking system. The most important sub-sectors financed were
food and beverage industries (accounting for about 16% of the combined loan
portfolio), chemicals (12%), textiles (11%), paper and printing (7%) and metal
products (7%). 1/ Almost three-quarters of the financieras' loans by amount
were outstanding to enterprises located in the departments of Cundinamarca,
Antioquia and Valle, which include respectively three principal cities--Bogota,
Medellin and Cali--and their surrounding areas. This distribution, which is
more concentrated than industrial value added originating from these regions
(about 64%), is roughly the same as in 1974, indicating that there has been no
significant overall change in the proportion of financiera lending to the less
developed areas of the country. There has also been a steady decrease in the
proportion of Bank financing channelled to subprojects outside the departments
containing the three principal cities--from 34% under the Fifth Loan, to 31%
under the Sixth, and and 24% under the Seventh 2/--indicating that the local
currency denomination feature and differential margins to the financieras
incorporated in the latter two loans partly to help industrial decentralization
have had little success in encouraging lending in less developed areas; 3/ it
also appears that the financieras did not make strong efforts during this
period to promote projects in the decentralized areas. Under the proposed
loan, use of preferential interest rates and higher spreads to the interme-
diaries for decentralization projects would be discontinued. Nevertheless,
the financieras reiterated at negotiations their commitment to intensify their
efforts to promote industrial decentralization projects. In addition, the
preferential treatment of medium-size enterprises (para. 4.08) and the intro-
duction of a maximum size limit on eligible enterprise (para. 4.04) should
ensure a wider spreading of funds among regions, because many of the largest
enterprises are located around Colombia's three main urban centers and the
other regions tend to have a comparatively higher proportion of medium sized
and smaller enterprises.
3.17      Export generation.  About 37% of the financieras' combined loan port-
folio as of year-end 1979 went to exporting (at least 10% of output exported)
and tourism projects. Bank lending for export projects decreased from 54% of
1/   The distribution of Bank funds committed to date under the Sixth and
Seventh Loans has been similar, with the five largest recipient sub-
sectors being food products and beverages (25%), chemicals (18%), paper
and printing (10%), non-metallic minerals (9%) and textiles (9%).
2/   As Colombia's and the Bank's definition of industrial decentralization
subprojects includes less-industrialized areas in the major depart-
ments, these figures underestimate the actual decentralization impact
of Bank lending. Data regarding Sixth and Seventh Loans are based on
loan commitments as of February 29, 1980.
3/   Under the Sixth and Seventh Loans, the option to borrow in pesos was
limited to enterprises undertaking export-oriented or industrial decen-
tralization projects, and to medium-size and small enterprises.



- 26 -
the Sixth Loan to 29% of the Seventh Loan. Import substitution projects
accounted for 63% of portfolio, while projects involving non-tradables including
services accounted for 11%. Nevertheless, the financieras' export promotion
efforts under the Sixth and Seventh Loans appear to have had a significant
export impact. On the basis of subloan commitments made as of December 31,
1979, the totai export contribution of subprojects financed under the two
loans is projected to reach US$250 million per year when the subprojects are
fully operational; the bulk of this is, however, accounted for by projects
under the Sixth Loan. This volume of exports would be equivalent to more than
one-third of manufacturing exports of Colombia in 1978 in nominal terms. Most
of the projected exports are expected to be from chemicals (about US$100
million) and from processed food and beverages (US$110 million). Total export
earnings over the first five years of operation of the Bank-financed projects
(under the two loans) are expected to be, on the average, about twice the
investment costs of the respective projects.
3.18      Size of client companies and lending limits.  Features incorporated
in three previous Bank loans have encouraged the financieras to widen their
clientele and to devote more of their lending to medium size and smaller
companies. A lending limit of US$4 million per subproject was introduced
under the Fourth Loan in 1971, and under subsequent loans a cumulative lending
limit of the same amount was established for the total funds committed and
still oustanding from all Bank financiera loans per group of related companies.
The US$4 million cumulative limit of amounts committed and outstanding under
all Bank loans was later raised to US$8 million in the case of financing for
export and decentralization projects. 1/
3.19.     In order to stimulate lending to medium-size and smaller enterprises
under the Sixth and Seventh Loans companies with total assets below a specified
limit (Col$100 million under the Sixth and Col$150 million under the Seventh)
were offered the option to borrow in pesos. As a result, the percentage of
total lending channelled to enterprises with up to Col$150 million in assets
increased from 22% under the Fifth Loan to about 30% under the Sixth, but the
proportion dropped to 25% under the Seventh Loan (partly because the size
limit represented a lower value in real terms under the Seventh Loan). The
corresponding percentages of lending to enterprises with less than Col$ 300
million in assets were 63% and 44%, respectively, under the Sixth and Seventh
loans. In order to further encourage a wider distribution of lending, eligi-
bility for financing under the proposed loan would for the most part be
limited to industrial enterprises belonging to groups with total assets not
exceeding a specified maximum size (para. 4.04), and the option to borrow Bank
funds in pesos would mainly be available to enterprises with total assets of
up to Col$150 million (the same nominal limit as the Seventh Loan). Also, the
US$4 million limit on total commitments from the loan to any group of related
companies, as well as the US$4 million and US$8 million cumulative limits
(including prior loans) on total Bank funds outstanding per group (depending
on whether the financing is for an export or decentralization project) would
All be maintained under the proposed loan, implying a substantial reduction
(25% to 30%) of the lending limits in real terms (para. 4.05).
1/   Under the Seventh Loan the US$4 million limit on total commitments
from the loan per subproject was substituted by a more restrictive
US$4 million limit on total commitments of funds under that loan to
any single group of related companies. The loan agreement under the
Seventh Loan was also modified during the commitment period to exclude
and financing provided for industrial pollution control investments
from all the above cumulative limits.



- 27 -
3.20      Economic and employment impact.  The 1975 Special Study, 1/ which
carried out an in-depth ex post analysis of a sample of 29 subprojects from
the first four Bank DFC loans, found support for the economic merits of
investment projects financed by the Bank through the financieras. The average
economic rate of return for the sample of projects was 32%, which compares
favorably with the economic opportunity cost of capital in Colombia, estimated
at 11%. The average financial rate of return for the sample was 10%. The
estimated ex-ante economic rates of return for the larger subprojects (i.e.,
those involving more than US$250,000 equivalent of Bank financing, for which a
ERR calculation is required under past loans) financed to date under the
Seventh Loan have all been above 15%, which is satisfactory. Preliminary
estimates show the average cost per direct job created of about US$45,000
equivalent compared with US$28,000 (both in 1977 prices) under the Sixth Loan.
The higher capital intensity under the Seventh Loan is partly explained by
the drop in the share of export-oriented projects (para. 3.17), which generally
tend to be comparatively more labor intensive. It may also reflect the pre-
valence of modernization subprojects that often create few new jobs, and to
the increasing capital intensity of Colombian industry as excessive unemploy-
ment has decreased in recent years. Also, the above figures understate the
net impact on employment because neither the number of jobs preserved (rather
than generated) nor the expected indirect employment generation, are usually
included in the estimates. 2/ Subprojects under the proposed loan are expected
to be considerably less capital intensive in real terms than those under the
Seventh Loan, as a result of the expected lower average size of the client
enterprises (para. 3.19) and greater proportion of projects with substantial
export orientation.
3.21      Technology improvement.  With the encouragement of the Bank, the
financieras have begun to assist enterprises to undertake technology improve-
ment programs designed to raise production efficiency and to raise product
quality to international levels. The Sixth and Seventh Loans each included
US$5.0 million pilot component to finance technology improvement and pollution
control subprojects; of these, US$2.0 million and US$3.1 million, respectively,
had been approved as of March 31, 1980, including approximately US$0.5 million
for technology improvement under each loan. Seventeen technology improvement
projects were financed under the Sixth loan and five have been financed to date
under the Seventh. The technology improvement projects financed to date included
those in the basic metals, chemicals, cement and metallic products industries,
principally for laboratory and quality control equipment, although recent sub-
projects include technology transfer from foreign sources as well. The expe-
rience to date shows that some worthwhile contributions to the operations of
enterprises is likely be made by this component, but that stronger promotion
of the component is probably required on the part of the financieras in view
of the special nature of technology improvement investments. Funds would
continue to be provided under the proposed loan for technology improvement
programs at preferential terms, and an understanding was reached with BR and
the financieras during loan negotiations to increase promotional efforts for
this type of subproject (paras. 4.10 to 4.13).
1/   Colombia: Special Study -- Developmental Impact of Financiera-Assisted
Projects, IBRD Report No. 1037-CO of January 1976.
2/   The 1975/76 Special Study on Financiera-Assisted Projects indicated that
indirect employment at least equal to 50% of the employment generated
directly can be expected.



- 28 -
3.22      Pollution control and environmental impact. The Bank and BR have
asked the financieras to consider the environmental aspects of projects in
their appraisals. Due to the lack of official Colombian guidelines and
regulations regarding the permitted levels of industrial emissions and efflu-
ents, the financieras had found it difficult in the past to cover these
aspects adequately. Recently, however, on the basis of a code published in
1975 covering protection of the environment and renewable natural resources,
the Government took specific steps to solve the most pressing problems by
focusing on a limited number of polluted areas and polluting industries and
coordinating efforts of the various ministries involved. In order to complement
these measures, the technology financing component of the Sixth Loan was
broadened at the time of the mid-term review to include financing of pollution
control equipment. Due to the generally non-productive nature of pollution
control investments and in order to induce enterprises to undertake such
investments as soon as possible, at the request of the Government the Bank
funds were provided at a preferential interest rate in pesos. Under the
Seventh Loan, the Bank has approved 10 subloans for pollution control subproj-
ects for a total of US$2.6 million. 1/ Use of the preferential rate funds for
these purposes was initially restricted to a maximum subloan amount of US$500,000,
which proved to be too low and was raised to US$1 million though an amendment
to the Loan Agreement in February 1979. Only equipment to control pollution
from machinery installed prior to December 31, 1977 was eligible for financing
at preferential terms under the Seventh Loan, since an incentive was considered
necessary for correcting pollution from equipment already in place. The Bank
would continue providing funds at preferential terms under the proposed loan,
which would be available for financing investments for the control of pollution
caused by machinery and equipment installed at least one year prior to the
submission of such financing requests to the Bank; financing for other pollution
control investments would be provided only at the regular subloan terms and
interest rates (para. 4.10).
3.23      Promotion of new enterprises and equity investments.  The financieras
have concentrated their lending in existing firms, reflecting in part a con-
servative lending policy seeking to establish sound portfolios as well as the
rapid growth and great demand for funds by existing firms. As of September 1979
a satisfactory 21% of the financieras' combined loan portfolio went to new enter-
prises and to projects involving new product lines; 19% of the Sixth Loan and
15% of the Seventh Loan went to new enterprises (Annex 4, T-27 and T-28).
3.24      The financieras have also taken a cautious approach to equity invest-
ments due to the risks involved, the long gestation period particularly for
new enterprises, the relatively depressed yields on investments due to a
tax system which until recently did not distinguish sufficiently between
nominal and real profits, and the relative illiquidity of some such investments
given Colombia's thin stock market. Traditionally, the return from the
financieras' equity investments has been considerably lower than that on
lending operations. Mainly as a result of the requirements of Resolution 65
(para. 3.25), but helped in part by the pilot components of the Sixth and
Seventh Loans to finance at attractive terms and interest rates equity invest-
ments by the financieras (in connection with priority industrial decentraliza-
tion or export-generating projects), the financieras' combined equity portfolio
1/   Compared to 3 subloans for a total of about US$1.0 million under the
Sixth Loan.



- 29 -
(including revaluation) increased at a 41% p.a. nominal rate from year-end
1975 to September 1979. However, utilization of the equity investment compo-
nent of Bank loans has been constrained by the fact that many firms prefer to
use equity for working capital financing needs rather than in connection with
a specific investment project. 1/ Also, the generally lengthy processing time
for subprojects (para. 3.04), which can be covered by bridge loans in the case
of subloans, discourages equity investments with Bank funds. To date US$2.3
million of the original US$5.0 million equity investment component of the
Sixth Loan and US$2.6 million of the US$10.0 million component of the Seventh
Loan have been utilized. In most cases the financieras played important
promotional roles in projects involving their equity participations.
3.25      In order to address the problem of low capitalization levels of
industrial firms, the Monetary Board passed Resolution 65 in 1977, requiring
the financieras to hold at least 10% of their assets in shares of productive
enterprises; any shortfall from this percentage would have to be offset by the
purchase of FFI bonds, which until recently were bearing an interest rate of
21% (increased in February 1980 to 25%). While the financieras and the Bank
were initially concerned about the impact of the resolution on financiera
earnings and liquidity, the phased implementation of the resolution by BR and
the generally good performance of equities over the past few years (especially
during 1979) have had a positive impact on the financieras' earnings (para. 3.30).
After some initial shortfalls in the amount of equity investments, all the
financieras participating in the Bank loans have achieved, and are expected to
be able to maintain compliance with the resolution without undue difficulties.
The Bank would closely follow the experience on this and discuss with the Govern-
ment any emerging issues in this connection. Through Law 20 of 1979 (para. 2.12),
the Government also took steps to reduce capital gain tax liabilities on the
sale of fixed assets and equity investments (to compensate for inflation-related
gains), and to reduce the incidence of 'double-taxation' of dividends to share-
holders, thus making equity investments more attractive to investors. These
measures, together with the recent steps to liberalize financial markets
(para. 2.08) and the operation of the new Securities Commission (para. 2.09),
are expected to help improve substantially the performance of the financieras
under the equity investment component of the proposed loan.
3.26      Strategy papers.  The financieras were asked to prepare brief state-
ments outlining the strategies that they intended to adopt over the commitment
period of the Sixth and Seventh Loans to enhance the developmental impact of
their operations. In line with the objectives of those loans, the financieras'
statements focused mainly on steps to promote export and industrial decentrali-
zation projects, and to increase their support for medium-sized firms. The
financieras updated their respective strategy papers to incorporate under-
standings reached on their latest strategies regarding institutional improve-
ments, promotional activities, and investment goals and limitations, and
would gather data to monitor achievement of specific goals contained in the
1/   As under the Seventh Loan, the financieras would be able to obtain financing
corresponding to the foreign exchange component of the total cost of the
investment project being supported through an equity investment. This
should help overcome part of the above problem; the appropriate disburse-
ment procedures in this connection were clarified during loan negotiations,
in view of past ambiguities in the financieras' understanding of such
procedures.



- 30 -
statements. 1/ The strategy papers were discussed at loan negotiations and
their compliance will be followed up as part of Bank supervision.
Financial Position and Results
3.27      Financial structure.  Annex 4, T-30 through T-39 present the past
and projected financial statements and summary financial ratios of the eight
financieras which participated in the Seventh Loan. The composite debt/equity
ratio of these financieras (excluding Aliadas) fell from 5.8:1 at year-end
1977 to about 4:1 by year-end 1979, i.e., substantially below the limits
established by the Bank. In view of their generally low debt/equity ratios,
sound and adequately protected portfolios, projected increased earnings
capacity, and experienced management and staff, the financieras (except for
Norte) still have the capacity to assume an increased debt burden while
maintaining adequate debt-service ratios. All financieras have stayed within
their debt/equity limits, set under the Seventh Loan at 9:1 for Colombiana,
Valle, Nacional, Norte and Caldas, 7:1 for Occidente and Santander, and 6:1
for Aliadas. Also under the Seventh Loan, a current assets-to-equity limit
(of 4.5:1) was set for all the financieras to provide reasonable scope for
short-term operations while ensuring that their traditional long-term operations
did not suffer as a result. This limit was set at a relatively high level
since, for operational simplicity, the current portion of medium and long-term
loans and utilized letters of credit 2/ were included in the definition of
current assets. The limits would be maintained under the proposed loan, with
the exception that legal deposits and forced investment requirements in BR
instruments would be excluded from the current assets computation under the
proposed loan. In the case of CF Santander the debt/equity limit would be
raised to 9:1 (equalling that for the five older financieras), in recognition
of its financial soundness and the institutional maturity it has achieved.
The current assets-to-equity and overall debt/equity ratios of individual
financieras are shown below:
As of December 31, 1979 -
Financieras            Current Assets/Equity   Total Debt/Equity
Colombiana                      1.8                     3.4
Valle                           3.5                     5.7
Nacional                        1.7                     2.8
Caldas                          1.6                     3.7
Norte                           4.4                     8.2
Occidente 4/                    2.6                     4.3
Santander 4/                    3.1                     6.4
Aliadas 4/                      2.0                     2.4
1/   In connection with the latter, as well as to determine the performance
under Bank-financed subprojects, the Subproject Data System (SDS) being
implemented by the Bank for its DFC projects could be a useful monitor-
ing tool.
2/   Excluding letters of credit issued for equipment to be utilized for
Bank-financed subprojects.
3/   Includes revaluation of assets.
4/   Data as of September 30, 1979.



- 31 -
3.28      Thus, the existing debt/equity limitations offer the financieras,
with the exception of Norte, ample room for growth without the immediate
need for share capital increases. In the past the Bank had required the
financieras to value equity investments and fixed assets on the basis of their
historical cost or market value, whichever is lower; this tended to substan-
tially understate the value of some of the financieras' assets which had been
held for a considerable period of time (e.g., equity investments and office
buildings). Under the Seventh Loan the financieras were allowed to revalue
their fixed assets and equity investments for the purpose of determining their
debt/equity ratio. This practice would be continued under the proposed loan.
However, in consideration of the uncertainties associated with the substantial
revaluations of the equity portfolios held by the financieras, which in turn
cause revaluation of the financieras' own equity, the treatment of revaluation
under the proposed loan would be more closely specified in two ways. First,
all revaluations of shares traded in the stock exchanges would be based on a
conservative estimate of the average share price over the preceding year, and
revaluation of non-traded stock would be based on the certifications of the
Ministry of Finance (Administracion de Impuestos) issued at the end of the
preceding fiscal year. Second, the total amount of revaluation included in an
individual financiera's net worth calculation would be limited to 50% of its
paid-in capital, retained earnings and reserves, for the purpose of all
financial covenants under the proposed loan including debt/equity, current
assets and exposure limitations. BR would be expected to monitor the accuracy
of these revaluations as part of its increased supervisory functions (para.
3.06). These procedures have been reflected through appropriate revisions in
DDC's operating policy statement (Annex 2).
3.29      The liquidity position of the financieras tightened further as a
consequence of their expanding short-term operations and the scarcity of
long-term funds to finance their loans and equity investments. Nevertheless,
their current ratios are still acceptable, ranging from 1.0:1 to 1.2:1. Over-
all, the financial structure and liquidity of the participating financieras
are expected to develop satisfactorily over the commitment period of the
proposed loan (Annex 4, T-39).
3.30      Profitability.  The nominal after tax rates of return on equity of
the eight financieras over the past ten years are shown below:



- 32 -
AFTER-TAX RETURN ON EQUITY a/
(percentage)
Inflation
Colombiana  Valle  Nacional  Caldas   Norte   Occidente  Santander  Aliadas  Rate c/
1970     11.3     17.0    17.4      3.8     13.4       9.4       13.2           -     6.3
1971      9.1     14.9    17.5      0.2     14.7      10.1       14.6           -    14.7
1972     10.4     15.2    18.1      5.2 b/  12.7      16.6 b/    13.0           -    14.0
1973     13.6     17.6    19.4      3.4 b/  21.2      16.6        9.8           -    25.0
1974     25.9     19.2    17.9      9.7 b/  20.8      15.2       14.1           -    26.9
1975     25.6     23.6    23.6      4.8 b/  17.4      17.2       15.6        24.0    17.9
1976     26.9     22.5    24.8     10.3     16.9     20.6        13.6        16.0    25.9
1977     29.4     24.4    26.4     18.1     18.2      19.5       16.4        16.5    29.3
1978     26.7     24.6    29.3     19.8     17.0      19.3       16.6        21.3    17.8
1979 d/  28.0     25.2    62.4 e/  30.4 f/  21.6     20.1        14.2        21.0    29.8
a/   Excluding revaluations and unrealized capital gains.
b/   In the opinion of the external auditor, over-stated because of inadequate
provisions for portfolio losses.
c/   As reflected in the blue collar price index; calendar year basis.
d/   Unaudited figures.  In the case of Santander, Occidente, Aliadas, figures
are annualized on the basis of the data from the first three quarters of
1979.
e/   Includes an extraordinary capital gain of Col$ 247 million from the sale
of one large equity investment and Col$63.9 million dividends received
from another equity investments. If these items are excluded, the return
on equity would still be a reasonable 24%.
f/   Includes about Col$33.5 million received in dividends from an equity investment.
3.31      As shown in the above table, most of the financieras were earning
positive real rates of return on equity during periods of moderate inflation,
but lost much ground during years of high inflation, due to fixed loan margins
which became progressively lower in real terms, and a system of taxation which
did not distinguish adequately between real and nominal profits of financial
intermediaries which had few non-monetary assets. Changes were introduced in
1976 under the Sixth Loan to help increase the level of the financieras'
profitability by raising their debt/equity limits and permitting higher
lending margins of up to 4% in peso subloans. These measures appear to have
contributed at least partly to the improvements in profitability achieved in
1977 and, especially, in 1978, when the after-tax returns on equity of several
of the financieras substantially exceeded the inflation rate.
3.32      The financieras were able to maintain their profitability in several
instances only by significantly expanding the higher margin short-term lending
operations. During the preparation of the Seventh Loan, it became evident
that a continuation of these trends could seriously hamper the financieras'
ability and willingness to focus their efforts on longer term project financing.
Under the Seventh Loan, lending margins for subloans in pesos were therefore
set at 4% for decentralization projects and at 3% for all other projects. The
margins for dollar-denominated subloans were maintained at 2.75%. While it
was assumed that these measures would not have a significant impact on the
profitability of the larger financieras, the impact on the smaller and less



- 33 -
profitable ones, located outside the three principal cities, was expected
to be significant. In addition, as a result of government measures and
support through Bank loans to improve the capitalization of industry (para.
3.25), the financieras increased their equity portfolio appreciably and,
reflecting the recent dynamism of Colombia's industrial sector, have recorded
substantial capital appreciations from these equity investments. 1/ Overall,
these measures helped the financieras maintain or increase their profitability
in 1978-79, which should improve their ability to attract additional share
capital and accelerate growth.
3.33      Under the proposed loan, the margins for the financieras would be
2.75% for dollar-denominated subloans, and 3% for peso-denominated loans
available principally for medium-size and smaller enterprises (para. 4.13).
Thus, the margins to the financieras under the proposed loan on peso
denominated subloans will be lower than those under the Seventh Loan.
However, over the coming years, the financieras are expected to be able
to slightly increase the overall profitability of their lending operations,
as a result of expected increases in their gross margins (stemming from the
favorable effects of the recent financial sector reforms-see para. 2.08)
and slight reductions, on the average, in their administrative costs as
their operations grow (Annex 4, T-39). The profitability of the financieras'
equity portfolio, which was good in 1979, is subject to more variation,
however, depending to a large extent on the overall economic conditions.
3.34      Portfolio quality and reserves.  The five older financieras have
sound loan and equity portfolios overall (Annex 4, T-40). In the past Caldas
has faced difficulties related to poor portfolio quality and tight liquidity,
but substantial efforts by its management have resulted in significant
improvements in its operations. Nevertheless, Caldas still needs to reduce
its equity investments in some of the companies promoted by it, which tend to
require excessive management attention. During negotiations, Caldas confirmed,
through a letter, that it would continue to reduce its equity investments in
these companies.
3.35      As a result of a substantial turnover at the senior management level
and among Occidente's technical staff, liquidity problems and excessive uncov-
ered exposure in enterprises facing difficulties, the institution was required,
in connection with its participation under the Seventh Loan, to prepare and
implement a plan of action to resolve these problems. By mid-1979 Occidente
had satisfactorily carried out its plan of action. Nevertheless, some weak
areas still remain, including, in particular, large exposure in a single
problem enterprise (Ingenio Risaralda, a sugar refinery, 2/ in which Occidente's
total exposure represents about 20% of Occidente's equity), insufficient
reserves for possible losses (amounting to Col$8.0 million, or 14% of Occidente's
1/   Including revaluation of equity investments, the financieras' return on
equity would be as follows: Caldas (48.1%); Colombiana (74.2%), Valle
(62.0%); Nacional (85.8%); Norte (40.5%); Occidente (24.7%): Santander
(21.7%); and Aliadas (43.8%). However, with the exception of Nacional,
most of the capital gains have not yet been realized by the financieras,
and therefore have considerable uncertainties associated with them.
2/   As the sugar mill is considered of "regional interest," the chances of its
liquidation appear low, particularly since the powerful Federacion
Nacional de Cafeteros (Coffee Growers Federation) is involved, with 20%
of the equity.



- 34 -
uncovered exposure) and weak appraisal and supervision capabilities. In
connection with the proposed loan, Occidente updated its plan of action
(para 3.14) to include measures to correct the remaining weaknesses in its
portfolio. BR would be expected to closely supervise the progress in imple-
menting the plan of action.
3.36      Valle's loan and equity portfolio, which was very sound until 1977,
when only 2.7% of its portfolio was in arrears, deteriorated in 1978, when
6.3% of its portfolio was affected by arrears. Exposure in enterprises with
significant arrears or facing other difficulties amounted to 76% of Valle's
equity, of which about 29% was not covered by adequate loan securities. The
largest single exposure was in Siderurgica del Pacifico, which fell into finan-
cial difficulties, and in which Valle held an equity investment of Col$175
million (about 28% of Valley's own equity), i.e., slightly above the 25% limita-
tion under its policy statement. Valle's portfolio has since been improved;
in connection with the loan negotiations, Valle confirmed that it has reduced
its participation in the equity of Siderurgica del Pacifico in line with the
provisions of its policy statement. At the same time, Siderurgica's financial
position has improved significantly, particularly following a recent large
issue of new shares, which were quickly subscribed.
3.37      Colombiana, Nacional, Norte and Santander all have sound portfolios
and adequate reserves, with arrears and reschedulings remaining at low levels.
Aliadas has also maintained a sound loan and equity portfolio, but has exceeded
its exposure limitations. Aliadas's plan of action, which has been prepared
and submitted to the Bank in connection with the proposed loan (para. 3.49),
rcludes measures to achieve full compliance with the exposure limitations.
Resource Structure and Needs
3.38      Resource structure and domestic resource mobilization.  The combined
resource structure of the seven financieras participating fully under the
Seventh Loan is shown below:
---------Col$ million--------
December 1977-/ September 1979 -/
Amount     %    Amount    %_
IBRD                                     3,440    23      4,128    16
BR and other official sources            2,900    19      4,080    16
Foreign banks                            1,450    10      3,301    13
Bonds, CDs and time deposits             2,940    19      5,824    23
Other liabilities                        1,790    12      4,281    17
Equity                                   2,520    17      4,003    15
Total          15,040   100    25,617   10Q
a/   Based on unaudited figures.
Despite a gradual reduction in the percentage of funds provided by official
sources from 42% at year-end 1974 to 32% in September 1979, the financieras
continue to rely principally on the Bank, BR and other official credit lines



- 35 -
as the principal sources for their project financing funds. Resources from
foreign banks (other than those contracted as cofinancing under the Bank
loan) are used almost exclusively for short term import-export financing.
In spite of the competition from high yielding and liquid government instru-
ments, the financieras were successful in raising short-term funds in the
domestic market; the percentage of resources mobilized locally through debt
instruments increased from 20% at year-end 1977 to 23% by September 1979, when
they reached about Col$5.8 billion (about US$132 million), with most of the
gain occurring in 1978. Total equity increased substantially in nominal terms
during this period, through retained earnings and dividend reinvestment of
shareholders, but declined as a proportion of total resources from 17% to 15%.
The financieras have had to maintain high dividend pay-out ratios (at least 60%)
in order to qualify for tax exemption on their own dividend earnings and to
offer sufficiently attractive returns to their shareholders. The aimed amount
of net domestic resource mobilization under the Sixth Loan as well as the
interim target of Col$1.5 billion by December 31, 1979 under the Seventh Loan,
have been substantially met or exceeded, helped especially by the Monetary
Board's Resolution 399 of 1975 which allowed the financieras to issue certifi-
cates of deposit at the same (or better) terms and conditions as the commercial
banks (para. 2.05 and Annex 4, T-41).
3.39      In contrast to the substantial increase in the financieras' total
domestic resources, they continue to be unable to raise any medium- or long-
term resources in the domestic market, mainly as a result of the uncertainty
created by the high and fluctuating rate of inflation in recent years, the
lack of an adequate term structure of interest rates resulting in insufficient
yield on longer term instruments, and the competition from high yielding and
liquid government and government-supported securities. Frequent changes in
monetary policy and in the returns allowed, and other regulations affecting
the various savings instruments have created uncertainties and have accentuated
preference for the shortest term instruments. The difficulties in ensuring a
satisfactory expansion of the formal financial sector are further accentuated
by the existence of a large and flourishing extra banking market, which is
less regulated and can offer much more attractive yields to savers, especially
in view of the low tax collection rate on income from such operations.
Prospects for the financieras to raise significant amounts of resources via
medium-term bond issues continue to be dim under the present market conditions
(paras. 2.04 to 2.08).
3.40      Since September 1979, the special certificates of participation,
which the Government has been issuing (through BR) in order to reduce short-
term commercial credit and thus contain inflation, have been offering attrac-
tive yields of up to 37% to the savers (para. 2.06). Until the January 1980
liberalizing measures (para. 2.08), this made it very difficult for banks
and financieras to raise any new deposit resources, or even to avoid a net
outflow from their certificates of deposit and term deposit resources, since
the interest rates on these have been limited to a maximum of 23% in nominal
terms (translating generally to effective interest rates of 25-27%).
3.41      Domestic counterpart resources substantially in excess of those
required under the Seventh Loan would be called for during the commitment
period of the proposed Eighth Loan. As an interim target under the proposed
loan, participating financieras agreed during negotiations to mobilize together
total domestic resources of at least Col$3.0 billion during the first 18 months



- 36 -
following loan signing, which would represent a doubling of the corresponding
target in nominal terms for a comparable period under the Seventh Loan (and
a 58% increase over the amounts actually raised). Furthermore, as under the
Seventh Loan, each participating financiera would be expected to raise by the
end of the disbursement period domestic resources substantially equal to the
net Bank disbursements under the proposed and prior Bank loans to the financiera.
3.42      The Colombian authorities are in agreement with the need for adequate
domestic resource mobilization by the financieras, and appear willing to
implement the necessary policy measures, provided they do not conflict with
the currently high priority goal of containing inflation. The recent actions
by the Monetary Board towards liberalizing the financial sector controls
(para. 2.08) are very encouraging and should provide a basis for satisfactory
results in the future. During loan negotiations, the Government and BR agreed
to review and adjust, as necessary, the conditions and policies affecting the
mobilization of deposit resources, in order to assist the financieras in
achieving the above targets for domestic resource mobilization. The financieras
would be required to prepare, prior to effectiveness of the proposed loan, a
plan to achieve these targets, which, among other things, could be used as a
basis for policy discussions with the authorities on the question of resource
mobilization (para. 5.02).
3.43      The transformation of short-term domestic resources mobilized by the
financieras into medium-term loans to industry continues to be difficult, and
would require an imaginative approach, perhaps including the development of
new types of borrowing and/or lending instruments. The study sponsored by the
financieras (with Bank assistance), and carried out by FEDESARROLLO in connec-
tion with the Seventh Bank Loan focused on this problem, recommended a mechanism
to enable the use of part of the financieras' short-term resources for medium-term
financing of industrial projects to complement long-term resources provided by
the Bank and BR and through cofinancing. The mechanism would involve, inter
alia, the institution of a floating rate system under which the financieras
would lend funds at adjustable interest rates linked to the average cost of
raising resources domestically (that is, with a specified spread to be nego-
tiated by the financiera with the client enterprise--akin to the LIBOR system).
The feasibility and prospects for the implementation of such a mechanism
have improved considerably with the liberalization of interest rates, which
has recently been put in effect (para. 2.08). During loan negotiations the
Bank reiterated to the Colombian authorities its strong interest in the
possibility of BR establishing a term-transformation mechanism along these
lines, indicating that the Bank may be prepared to provide assistance if so
requested.
3.44      Cofinancing and utilization.  In connection with the Seventh Bank
Loan, the five older financieras agreed to make best efforts to raise US$20-30
million in "cofinancing" 1/ from external resources, as a means of introducing
the financieras to the international capital markets. These five financieras
1/   The term 'cofinancing' is used in this report in its broad sense, to
include parallel financing provided from other external sources to help
the financieras achieve their overall programs of term lending.



- 37 -
have had considerable success in raising these cofinancing resources in the
form of lines of credit from various foreign commercial banks. Contracts with
external banks providing for loans in excess of US$30 million have already been
signed by the five older financieras; contracts for additional lines of credit
from external banks are currently under discussion (Annex 4, T-42). In con-
nection with the understandings reached during negotiations of the Seventh
Loan, the Monetary Board has allowed the financieras participating in the
loan to borrow abroad for periods of up to 7 years (compared to the then
prevailing limit of 5 years). The interest rates on the foreign borrowings
contracted by the financieras appear quite attractive, ranging from 7/8-1%
over London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR) for subloans of up to three years
term, to 1-1/8 to 1-1/4% for seven year subloans. Progress by the financieras
in placing the contracted cofinancing resources with clients has been less
impressive, but still satisfactory. As of year-end 1979, about US$20 million
had been committed to client enterprises, only a small fraction of which had
yet been disbursed. Funds are being used principally to complement Bank
financing for specific subprojects.
3.45      The initial stage of introducing the financieras to the international
capital markets has thus been achieved, notwithstanding the fact that some of
the commercial banks providing such financing are shareholders (with relatively
small participations) and/or correspondent banks of one or more of the finan-
cieras. In view of this, it appears feasible for the financieras to obtain
much greater amounts of cofinancing in the future than has been obtained under
the Seventh Loan, provided the Bank's supportive role in this regard is con-
tinued (para. 4.17). Overall, it is expected that the domestic and external
resource mobilization would help the financieras achieve the target of doubling
their assets over the next 4-5 years, as reflected in their financial pro-
jections (Annex 4, T-39).
D.   Participation of Additional Financieras
3.46      Of the 23 private financieras currently operating in Colombia,
8 participated under the previous operation (para. 3.07). Although most of
the non-participants are relatively small institutions (Annex 4, T-19) with
predominantly short-term lending operations, some could become effective
development banks with appropriate support. However, the small financieras
are likely to find it difficult to meet immediately the same institutional
standards as the more mature institutions participating fully in the Bank
loans, e.g., with respect to project appraisal and supervision capability,
availability of experienced technical staff and financial soundness.
3.47      To address this problem, a two-stage system of participation
was adopted under the Sixth and Seventh Loans at the request of the
Government, under which additional financieras which have not been
appraised by the Bank prior to loan signing may be allowed to participate
on a limited basis, i.e., utilize up to a specified limit of loan funds
per financiera, 1/ on presenting adequate project appraisals confirming
the soundness of their projects. However, mainly as a result of a
relatively low debt/equity limit set for such financieras, the attraction
of profitable short-term operations, and the relatively small allocation of
Bank funds, only one financiera, Aliadas, participated thus far on a limited
basis. Financieras participating on a limited basis under the proposed loan
would be able to utilize up to US$2.0 million of Bank funds and would be
1/   The limit of loan funds per financiera was US$750,000 under the Sixth
Loan and US$2.0 million under the Seventh.



- 38 -
allowed an overall debt/equity limitation of up to 6:1 depending on the respec-
tive recommendation of BR. They would be able to utilize Bank funds only for
the lending components, up to a maximum of US$500,000 per subloan. A favorable
recommendation by BR, based on an appraisal of the financiera by DDC, would be
a precondition for participation on a limited basis, which would have to be
subsequently authorized by the Bank. Other specific requirements would be:
(a)  Adequate organization, procedures, and technical capacity for
project appraisal and supervision, as required for undertaking
medium- and long-term financing of investment projects;
(b)  A sound investment and lending policy;
(c)  A current assets/equity ratio not exceeding 4.5:1;
(d)  Compliance with laws, decrees and other provisions regulating
financiera operations, to the satisfaction of the Superintendency
of Banks;
(e)  Minimum equity of Col$100 million;
(f)  In operation for a minimum period of one year;
(g)  Total exposure in any firm not exceeding 25% of the financiera's
own equity, and in any single group of related companies not exceed-
ing 50% of equity (para. 3.28); and total equity investments not
exceeding the financiera's own equity;
(h)  Adoption of and adherence to a satisfactory policy statement and
employment of satisfactory external auditors; and
(i)  Agreement to cooperate fully with BR regarding the provision of
regular reporting information covering the financiera's continued
eligibility under these criteria and the supervision of Bank-
financed projects.
3.48      Upon the commitment of a substantial portion (at least 70%) of the
initial US$2.0 million allocation of Bank funds to a financiera participating
on a limited basis, BR would, at the request of the financiera, undertake a
full appraisal to determine whether the financiera should (i) be allowed to
participate fully under the proposed loan, (ii) continue limited participation
with another US$2.0 million allocation under the proposed loan, or (iii) not
be allowed to participate further. BR's recommendations in this respect would
be referred to the Bank for final review and agreement. Continued limited
participation would be recommended in cases where the financiera has strengthened
its financial position and improved development lending capabilities, but has
clearly not achieved the level of the other participating institutions. Partici-
pation on a limited basis for a minimum of two years, which was a feature of
the Sixth and Seventh Loans, would no longer be required.
3.49      Aliadas and at least one additional financiera, CF Union, are
likely to participate under the proposed loan on a limited basis; another one
or two financieras may also qualify during the course of the commitment of
the loan. Although Aliadas attained a sound financial position under the
prior Bank loans, it has yet to develop an adequate middle-management and
in-house technical capability (para. 3.11). Aliadas stated to the appraisal
mission its intention to upgrade its technical capability, to improve project
evaluation and supervision through the recruitment of new staff and through



- 39 -
training programs as needed (para. 3.13), and to reduce its exposure in enter-
prises belonging to its own group and in other large groups to a level below
maximum exposure limitations under the proposed loan (para. 3.28). A specific
plan of action has been prepared by Aliadas and was discussed and finalized at
loan negotiations. Aliadas has already taken the initial steps towards implement-
ing the plan of action, including the hiring of two new professional staff to
strengthen its project appraisal and supervision capability. Aliadas would be
required to make substantial progress towards implementing the plan of action
and meet all the financial covenants specified under the proposed loan prior
to the effectiveness of the loan (and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) for Aliadas.
Union, which has been in existence since February 1978, is relatively small (total
assets of Col$274.7 million and net worth of Col$87.0 million as of September 30,
1979), but has a competent and motivated staff, and is willing to develop the
required appraisal and supervision capability. It appears financially sound
and should be able to comply with the financial covenants (including exposure
limitations) under the proposed loan. Located in Bogota, Colombia's most
industrialized area, Union would likely focus on lending to newer, medium-size
companies and thus complement Colombiana's focus on the larger, more established
firms in the area. BR plans to work closely with Aliadas and Union to guide
their preparation for participation under the proposed loan.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
4.01      The proposed DFC project would be the eighth Bank operation with BR
and the private financieras for industrial development in Colombia. The
project's main objectives would be to:
(a)  finance efficient industrial (including tourism and mining)
projects, building on the accomplishments of the Bank's
previous operations with the financieras;
(b)  support projects consistent with the government's goals of
export promotion, industrial decentralization, improved
capitalization of industry, support to medium-sized and
smaller enterprises, containment of industrial pollution
and upgrading and/or adaptation of local or foreign technology;
(c)  help to continue the development of the financieras as sound,
effective and predominantly medium- and long-term lending
institutions through measures to maintain or improve their
profitability, portfolio quality, and capacity to mobilize
additional share capital;
(d)  encourage and assist the financieras in their domestic
resource mobilization efforts, and thus facilitate increases
in the availability of domestic funds for productive projects;
(e)  continue and expand the financieras' access to and utilization
of complementary resources from the international capital
markets through cofinancing; and
(f)  further strengthen BR's capability to supervise participating
financieras and to review subprojects.



- 40 -
The project would also constitute a good basis for the Bank's industrial
and financial sector discussions with the Colombian authorities.
The Proposed Bank Loan and Components
4.02      Based on the prospects and trends in the general eco,.omic environ-
ment, the demand for industrial investment, the project pipelines of the
financieras, the projected financing gap over the next 3-year period, and
the financieras' processing and indebtedness capacity, a Bank loan of US$150
million is proposed to support the project. The proposed loan would be
made to BR for onlending to the eight financieras which participated under
the Seventh Loan, and to additional financieras which could meet the conditions
for participation during the loan commitment period (para. 3.47). The loan
would be available to finance the foreign exchange costs of productive private
sector projects, including manufacturing, mining and tourism. Up to 85% of
the amount of the loan would be for financing regular subloans, 10% would be
allocated for financing the financieras' equity investments in small or
medium-size enterprises or those undertaking export or decentralization
projects, and 5% would be for technology development and pollution control
subloans. These allocations may be modified by the Bank, if necessary, during
the commitment period of the loan. The proposed Bank loan is expected to meet
25-30% of the financieras' total resource needs, and about one half of their
medium- and long-term resource needs during the commitment period of the loan.
The remaining needs would have to be met by resources made available by BR
through its other rediscounting mechanisms and by domestic and foreign resources
to be raised by the financieras in connection with the proposed loan.
4.03      Since the longest applicable terms for subloans and equity investments
are 15 years, including maximum grace periods of 3-5 years (paras. 4.07 and
4.09), and subloans and equity investments are expected to be committed over a
period of 2-1/2 - 3 years, the proposed loan would be amortized over a 17-year
period, including 4 years of grace (the maximum terms for Colombia). BR would
assume, for a fee, the foreign exchange risk between the basket of currencies
disbursed by the Bank, and the currency in which its own onlending is denomi-
nated (that is, pesos or US dollars -- see para. 4.13). 1/ In view of the
administrative complexities associated with the large number (nearly 300) of
subloans and investments expected, as well as with a view to facilitate
the smoothing of the foreign exchange risk being assumed under the proposed
loan by BR on a larger number of subloans and investments, the proposed loan
would be repaid according to a fixed 17-year amortization schedule with
equal repayments of principal. The Government of Colombia and BR specifically
requested this arrangement which would result in some roll-over of Bank funds
by BR. BR has agreed that such rolled-over funds would be used specifically
for medium- and long-term lending for small- and medium-sized enterprises
1/   On the basis of a detailed study commissioned by BR, BR estimated that it
has suffered foreign exchange losses exceeding US$35 million equivalent on
funds channeled to date by it to the financieras under the previous Bank
loans; BR estimates that the potential foreign exchange losses over the
full repayment period of the Bank loans could be substantially higher.



- 41 -
(those with total assets not exceeding Col$150 million) through FFI and FIP, 1/
both of which are expected to experience substantial additional capital needs
over the coming years.
Eligible Enterprises and Lending Limits
4.04      In order to support the Government's intention to check the concen-
tration of economic activity in the hands of a few large industrial groups, 2/
eligibility for financing under the proposed loan would be limited to single
firms or firms belonging to groups of related enterprises whose total assets
do not exceed Col$1.5 billion as of December 31, 1979, or the date of their
first balance sheet in case of enterprises established after December 31, 1979.
The only exception made to the above maximum assets limit would be for pollu-
tion control projects, and for technology development projects involving
product or process research and development; an exception in these cases is
justified in view of their non-productive or high-risk nature and the ex-
pected large social benefits associated with them. The maximum size limit
would also ensure that Bank resources are channeled mainly to enterprises
that do not have easy access to alternative external financial sources. An
enterprise would be considered to be related to a group when it owns or
effectively controls the voting stock of another firm, or itself is owned or
effectively controlled by another firm.
4.05      As under the Seventh Loan, in order to ensure the distribution of
industrial credit over a satisfactory number of recipients, a cumulative limit
of US$4.0 million on the total financing to a single group of related enter-
prises would be applicable. In addition, no group of related enterprises may
obtain more than US$4 million in the aggregate of funds committed and still
outstanding from the proposed and all past Bank DFC loans, with the exception
of financing for investments in export or decentralization projects in whose
case the aggregate limit would be US$8 million. Financing for technology
development and pollution control would be limited to US$500,000 and US$1.0
million, respectively, per enterprise, but would be excluded in the calculation
of the above cumulative limits. Finally, not more than US$2.0 million may be
utilized for equity investments by the financieras per group of related enter-
prises out of the proceeds of the loan and in the aggregate for Bank financiera
lending. The above financing limits represent a reduction of 25-30% in real
terms from the corresponding individual and cumulative limits under the Seventh
Loan, and should help to achieve a significantly wider distribution of Bank funds.
4.06      For the purpose of determining the cumulative lending limits,
decentralization projects would be defined as in the previous loans, as those
located outside Bogota, Medellin, Cali, and their areas of influence. Export
projects would be defined as those having at least 25% exportable production
and generating net foreign exchange earnings within their first 5 years of
1/   Or an alternative mechanism satisfactory to the Bank.
2/   In many of the industrial subsectors, the largest five industrial groups
control more than half of the total activity in the subsector. Further-
more, there are several "super conglomerates," that is, large industrial-
cum-financial groupings which are often able to exert an oligopolistic
power in the market. According to a 1975 study conducted by Superinten-
dencia de Sociedades, 24 large conglomerates identified received about
35% of the total banking credit in Colombia. (See Conglomerados y
Sociedades en Colombia published by Superintendencia de Sociedades.)



- 42 -
production after taking into account the imported raw materials cost, external
payments (e.g., royalties) and the foreign exchange component of the initial
investment, to be determined on an ex-ante basis. As in the past, BR would
be expected to closely follow up on compliance with minimum export projections.
If the export projections are not met, and BR is not satisfied that the
shortfall from the target is attributable to unforeseen events, BR would
consider appropriate courses of action.
Onlending Terms and Interest Rates
4.07      Regular subloans.  Maximum subloan terms under the regular lending
component would be 15 years, including a grace period not exceeding 3 years.
With the exception of export and decentralization projects, for which subloans
would be limited to a total amount of US$7.5 million, regular subloans to
firms belonging to industrial groups having total assets of more than Col$150
million 1/ would be denominated in US dollars and would bear an interest rate
of 15% to the final borrowers. Using the currently applicable Bank interest
rate (8.25%) and allowing for margins of 0.75% for BR to cover administrative
costs and 2.75% for the intermediaries (para. 4.13), this would imply a risk
premium of 3.25% to BR for assuming the foreign exchange risk between the
basket of currencies disbursed by the Bank and US dollars. The US dollar on-
lending interest rates would be reviewed periodically by BR, at its own initi-
ative or at the initiative of the Bank, and may be adjusted, subject to the
Bank's agreement, to take account of fluctuations in borrowing costs in
international capital markets and domestic credit demand.
4.08      Small and medium-sized industry, defined as firms belonging to indus-
trial groups with total assets not exceeding Col$150 million 1/ (about US$3.3
million equivalent at the current exchange rate) would be offered the option
of choosing between dollar-denominated subloans as above and peso-denominated
subloans bearing a fixed nominal interest rate, to be set initially at 27%. 2/
The total amount of such peso-denominated lending would, however, be limited
to a maximum of 20% of the proposed loan (US$30 million), 3/ in order to limit
BR's potential foreign exchange losses. The option of peso-denominated
subloans to small and medium-sized industrial enterprises is justified in view
of their comparatively lower level of sophistication, the predominant orienta-
tion of their operations towards the domestic market and their limited experi-
ence in administering interest rate systems involving foreign exchange risk.
In order to provide an additional incentive to promote export and industrial
decentralization projects, a small portion of the proposed loan (US$7.5
million i.e., 5% of the total loan amount) would also be available for making
peso-denominated subloans (under the regular lending component) for exports,
1/   As of December 31, 1979 or the date of the first balance sheet if the
enterprise is established after December 31, 1979.
2/   Taking into account prepayment of interest, which is customarily required
by Colombian banks and financieras on their peso loans, this would be
equivalent to effective rates of interest falling generally in the range
29-31% p.a., depending on the frequency of prepaid interest charges.
3/   This amount corresponds to a conservative estimate of the expected
lending to small- and medium-size industry, and may be modified, if
necessary, upon mutual agreement between the Bank and BR.



- 43 -
and decentralization projects of enterprises larger in size than Col$150 million
in assets, subject to the limitation, however, that the total peso-denominated
lending per qualifying export or decentralization project cannot exceed
US$250,000 equivalent. The proposed 27% initial interest rate on peso-denomi-
nated subloans is based on current projections of likely inflation rates and
market interest rates over the next few years, with a view to ensuring minimum
real rates of interest of 2% to the final borrowers over the commitment period
of the proposed loan. BR, in consultation with the Government, would review
the interest rates for peso-denominated subloans once every six months, and
adjust them, if necessary, with a 'view to ensure that such rates would be
positive in real terms. The rate so established would be promptly (within
eight days) notified to the Bank. The Bank would have 30 days to inform BR of
any disagreement on its part with the new rate. Should the Bank disagree with
the new rate, the Government, the Bank and the Borrower would review the
matter and agree upon a mutually acceptable rate within sixty days. In case
an agreement is not reached within this period, the Bank would have the right
to stop authorizing further commitments for regular peso-denominated subloans
until a satisfactory agreement is reached.
4.09      Equity investment financing.  Up to 10% of the proposed loan would be
available to the financieras to make minority equity investments in enterprises
undertaking projects involving substantial export generation or decentralization
projects, and in enterprises with total assets below Col$250 million (about
US$5.5 million equivalent) as of December 31, 1979 (or the date of the first
balance sheet if the enterprise is established after December 31, 1979),
undertaking investment projects. These funds would be available to financieras
in pesos at an interest rate of 24% p.a. Depending on the enterprise's and
project's characteristics, the financieras would have to repay Bank funds used
for equity investment over a period not exceeding 15 years, including a grace
period of up to 5 years.
4.10      Technology development and pollution control subloans.  Up to 5% of
the proposed loan (US$7.5 million) would be available to finance technology
development (or improvement) and industrial pollution control subloans, which
would be denominated in pesos and would bear a preferential interest rate of
24% p.a. to the final beneficiaries.
4.11      Technology development/improvement subloans would have maximum terms of
5 years including up to 2 years of grace period. Under technology upgrading the
intermediaries would be able to finance: (a) research and development programs
carried out in-house or subcontracted to an outside research institute aimed
at improving product designs, production techniques or exploring alternative
raw materials; (b) training of technical staff overseas; (c) hiring foreign
technicians or consultants for technology adaptation or quality control programs;
(d) lump-sum payments to purchase rights to new production processes; (e) pur-
chase of industrial quality control and laboratory test equipment; and (f) travel
costs abroad to study productive processes and/or to select technologies. 1/
The financieras' appraisals of technology development subprojects would cover,
among other things, current sources of technology and their costs, a description
1/   Pre-investment studies not specifically oriented towards technology
development and the purchase and installation cost of production equip-
ment would not normally be eligible for financing under the technology
component.



- 44 -
of the technological adjustments needs, the objectives and scope of the
proposed technology development program, expected results and benefits,
and repayment capacity of firms. In view of some past ambiguities in the
financieras' understanding of the eligibility and appraisal requirements of
technology development subprojects, a detailed list of the items to be included
in such appraisals has been discussed and agreed upon with BR during loan
negotiations (see Annex 3).
4.12      Subloans for pollution control would have maximum terms of 10 years
including up to 2 years of grace. They would be restricted to financing of
investments for controlling pollution from equipment installed at least one
year prior to the sumbission of the financing request to the Bank. Pollution
control equipment for other new or expansion projects may be financed under
the loan only as regular subloans. The financieras' appraisals of pollution
control subprojects would include, among other things a full description of
the firm's pollution problem, a detailed analysis and justification of the
equipment and/or technical assistance required to meet government standards
for controlling the type of pollution involved, and an analysis of the re-
payment capacity of the firm (Annex 3). Understandings to this effect were
reached during loan negotiations, as in the case of technology development
projects.
Margins to the Intermediaries
4.13      The financieras would have a margin of 2.75% for dollar-denominated
subloans. The margin for the financieras would be 3% p.a. on all peso-
denominated subloans (for small and medium-sized enterprises, technology
development and pollution control and up to US$250,000 for individual subloans
for export and decentralization subloans sponsored by the larger enterprises
referred to in para. 4.08). 1/ The differential between the onlending rates
and the Bank loan's interest rate, would be BR's fee for (i) assuming the
exchange risk between the currency onlent and the currencies disbursed by the
Bank, and (ii) compensating for the administrative costs of the program.
Participation in the Loan
4.14      The seven financieras which participated fully in the Seventh Loan
and Aliadas would be eligible for participation in the proposed loan, subject
to restrictions of an institutional nature such as debt/equity and exposure
1/   During loan negotiations, the financieras expressed to the Bank
their commitment to make special efforts to look for and promote
investment projects involving industrial decentralization, exports
generation, and technology development and pollution control. Such
efforts are expected to include, among other things, the publication
and distribution of appropriate promotional pamphlets describing the
financing and other facilities available (e.g., assistance in technology
development, advice on methods of achieving conformity with the govern-
ment's pollution standards, etc.), and the expected benefits to the
industrial enterprises. (See also paras. 1.28 and 1.32.)



- 45 -
limitations (para. 3.27) and the special condition of effectiveness specified
for Aliadas (para. 5.02). Additional private financieras which could meet
the minimum conditions for participation in the Bank loan would be allowed
to participate on a limited basis, following the conditions described in
para. 3.46. The participation of any additional financiera, on a limited
basis, would be approved by the Bank following BR's appraisal and recommenda-
tions.
Approval Limits
4.15      BR's limit for regular subloans as well as for technology develop-
ment and pollution control subloans not requiring prior Bank approval would
be: US$2.0 million (up from US$1.5 million under the two previous loans)
for projects prepared and presented by the five older financieras and, starting
with the proposed loan, CF Santander; US$650,000 for those from CF Occidente
(up from US$500,000 under the previous two Bank loans); and US$250,000 for
those from CF Aliadas and any newly participating financieras. Subprojects
requiring subloans below US$650,000 submitted by the five older financieras
and Santander would be approved by BR based on the evaluation of the finan-
cieras and would be subject only to a limited review of their economic priority
by BR. Subprojects above US$650,000 from the five older financieras and
Santander and all those submitted by other financieras would require BR's
normal review and approval. In addition, Bank approval would be required for
the first two subprojects submitted by Aliadas and each newly participating
financiera. Finally, all loans to the financieras for the purpose of making
equity investments exceeding US$500,000 would require prior Bank approval.
These limits are comparable, in real terms, to those under the Sixth and
Seventh Loans.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.16      Procurement for subprojects would conform with standard practice for
DFC loans, and would be identical to those under the Seventh Loan. The
financieras would require final borrowers to obtain quotat'ions from a reason-
able sample of qualified suppliers for major pieces of equipment. BR would also
monitor closely the procurement of items to be financed under the Bank loan
in order to ensure that the items are reasonably priced and appropriate for
their intended purpose. The loan proceeds would be disbursed for: (a) 100%
of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment; (b) 100% of foreign
expenditures (c.i.f.) on imported equipment purchased off-the-shelf, or 60% of
the expenditures for such goods where the c.i.f. cost cannot be ascertained;
(c) 35% of the ex-factory cost of locally produced equipment, and of construc-
tion and civil works expenditures; and (d) 75% of expenditures for technical
assistance, technology transfer and overseas training under technology develop-
ment subprojects. The above percentages reflect average foreign exchange costs
determined mainly from a review of past Bank DFC operations in Colombia and are
in line with comparable figures elsewhere. As is customary under the Bank's
DFC-type loans, only expenditures made no more than 90 days prior to the date
of receipt by the Bank of the corresponding financing requests would be
eligible for reimbursement under the proposed loan.



- 46 -
Cofinancing 1/
4.17      After taking into account the recent IDB US$35 million loan and
the uncommitted resources under the Seventh Loan, a net demand for external
sources in the order of US$210 million is projected over the commitment
period of the proposed loan. 2/ Thus, in addition to the proposed US$150
million loan amount, external funds of US$60 million would be needed from
other sources. To fill this need, the financieras would be expected to obtain
no less than US$60 million in cofinancing in connection with the proposed
loan, following arrangements similar to those under the Seventh Loan (para.
3.44). This would be equivalent to 40% of the proposed Bank loan amount,
compared to the 20-30% aimed at in connection with the Seventh Loan (and about
30% actually achieved). Given the significantly higher cost of peso and US
dollar funds to final borrowers under the proposed loan and the higher propor-
tion of dollar-denominated lending in comparison to the previous Bank loans,
commitment of cofinancing funds under the proposed loan is likely to require
greater efforts on the part of the financieras. The proposed target is
therefore considered relatively ambitious, and its achievement would depend on
the general financial market conditions as well as on the special efforts of
the financieras in this connection. The progress achieved in raising and
utilizing the cofinancing resources would therefore be examined in detail as
part of the mid-term review (para. 4.18). If the progress proves unsatisfac-
tory, BR would take such steps as may be appropriate.
Review of the Loan Conditions
4.18      At any time after one year after signing of the loan agreement or
after commitment of 40% of the loan (including all components), whichever
occurs earlier, a mid-term review would be carried out, upon the Bank's
request, by the Bank, BR and the financieras. It would include a review of
the performance of the financieras in the mobilization of domestic resources
and in raising and utilizing cofinancing resources, their performance in regard
to the promotion of the special components, and any other relevant issues.
BR would take any corrective actions that may be indicated as a result of the
review for ensuring a satisfactory achievement of the above objectives.
Benefits and Risks
4.19      Benefits.  The proposed project would contribute directly as well
as indirectly to filling a major gap in the term financing available for under-
taking investment projects in the Colombian industrial sector. By supporting
efficient industrial projects, it would help to fill a critical gap in the
available financing for expanding the sector's productive capacity, which has
in recent years become the most important factor restricting industrial sector
growth. It is projected that the proposed loan would finance nearly 300 subproj-
ects involving total investment costs of about US$485 million in a wide range
of industries. Based on past experience, the subprojects to be financed under
1/   Used in its broad sense, as explained in connection with para. 3.44.
2/   After taking into account the likely reduction in the project pipelines
of the participating financieras as a result of the proposed ceiling on
the size of the eligible enterprises (para. 4.04) and the higher cost/
risks to the final beneficiaries under the proposed loan (para. 4.07).



- 47 -
the proposed loan are expected to have a significant emloyment impact, generat-
ing between 11,000 and 12,000 additional direct jobs at an investment cost per
job of about US$39,000 to US$45,000 in 1980 prices. In addition, substantial
indirect employment equal to about 50% of the direct employment generation
is also expected. 1/ The proposed loan is expected to contribute to industrial
decentralization, with more than 40% of the funds going to projects located
outside the three main industrial centers and their areas of influence. A
substantial portion of the loan (about 60% in number and 30-40% in amount),
is expected to be utilized by small and medium-size enterprises with total
assets below Col$150 million. The-projects that would be financed under the
proposed loan are expected to generate net foreign exchange earnings of about
US$900 million during their first five years of operation. Most subprojects
are expected to have an economic rate of return (ERR) in the range of 15-40%. 2/
The proposed loan would also help strengthen the capital structure of
enterprises undertaking priority projects, help upgrade the competitiveness
of firms through technology improvement programs, and help lessen pollution
from existing industrial plants and equipment.
4.20      The proposed loan is expected to have a significant positive impact
on the institutional development of BR's DDC, and of the participating
financieras (particularly the relatively new ones), contributing to the
financieras' continued development as effective term-lending institutions.
It would encourage and assist the financieras' domestic resource mobilization
efforts, which should result in additional funds for Colombia's productive
sector. It would also contribute to the financieras' efforts in raising
complementary external resources, and thus help the financieras reduce their
dependence on official sources of finance and increase their experience in the
international capital markets.
4.21      Risks.  Given the relatively mature stage of development of most of
the participating financieras and of BR's Department of Development Credit,
the proposed project does not involve unusual risks regarding the attainment
of its major objectives. An acceleration of the country's inflation rate or
other adverse financial market conditions might prevent the financieras from
mobilizing the expected amounts of domestic resources set under the project,
and might also limit their success in placing the various loan components and
cofinancing. However, the proposed mid-term review of the loan conditions,
which would enable the Bank to make any necessary adjustments in the loan
features, and the continuing sectoral discussions between the Bank and the
Colombian authorities should help to contain this risk to a moderate level.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations, agreements were obtained, or understandings
reached:
1/   Based on the findings of the 1975/76 Special Study on Financiera -
Assisted Projects (para. 3.20).
2/   An economic rate of return would be calculated for all subprojects
requiring Bank financing of US$250,000 or more, as part of the financieras'
appraisal (para. 3.13).



- 48 -
(a) with the Government and BR on:
(i)  loan size and allocation among the various loan components
(para. 4.02);
(ii)  maximum size limit for eligible enterprises (para. 4.04);
(iii) onlending interest rates, terms and conditions of the
proposed loan, margins for BR and the financieras, and the
cumulative limits on peso-denominated regular subloans
(paras. 4.05 to 4.13);
(iv)  arrangements to review the appropriateness of interest rates
on dollar-denominated and on peso-denominated subloans
(para. 4.07 and 4.08);
(v)  availability of the required domestic resources (para. 4.02);
(vi)  conditions for limited and full participation of additional
financieras (paras. 3.47 and 4.14);
(vii) loan amortization schedule (para. 4.03);
(viii)  procurement and disbursement procedures (paras. 4.16 and 3.24);
and
(ix)  arrangements for cofinancing (para. 4.17).
(b)  With BR on:
(i)  measures to strengthen DDC and to upgrade BR's subproject review
procedures (para. 3.13) and supervision of the financieras
(paras. 3.04 to 3.06); and
(ii)  adoption of a revised policy statement incorporating the above
(para. 3.04).
(c)  With BR and the financieras on:
(i)  the financial covenants including debt/equity, current assets/
equity and exposure limitations (paras. 3.27 and 3.28), and
procedures for treatment of revaluation of assets (para. 3.28);
(ii)  targets for domestic resources mobilization (para. 3.41)
and for raising and utilization of cofinancing (para. 4.17);
(iii) mid-term review of the progress on domestic resource mobil-
ization, raising and utilization of cofinancing and any
other relevant matters (para. 4.18);
(iv)  free limits for BR and the financieras (para. 4.15);
(v)  measures to improve the performance under the special compo-
nents for equity investments, technology development and
industrial pollution control (para. 4.13), and in regard to
export generation and industrial decentralization (para. 3.16);



- 49 -
(vi) plans of action of CF Occidente and CF Aliadas (paras. 3.14,
3.35, and 3.49) and specific institutional improvements to
be undertaken by CF Caldas (para. 3.34); and
(vii) updated strategy papers of the financieras (para. 3.26).
5.02      Preparation and submission to the Bank by the financieras of a
satisfactory plan to achieve the domestic resource mobilization targets
(para. 3.42) would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
In addition, substantial progress towards the implementation of the plan of
action of CF Aliadas (para. 3.49) would be a special condition of effectiveness
of the loan (and the corresponding Subsidiary Loan Agreement) for CF Aliadas.
5.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$150.0 million with a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace on
conditions outlined in Chapter IV.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and               Estimated Disbursements         Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter Ending                     During the Quarter               at End of Quarter
(US$ '000)                      (US$ '000)
FY81
September 30, 1980
December 31, 1980                       2,000                            2,000
March 31, 1981                          6,000                            8,000
June 30, 1981                           6,000                           14,000
FY82
September 30, 1981                      8,000                           22,000
December 31, 1981                       8,000                           30,000
March 31, 1982                         12,000                           42,000
June 30, 1982                          12,000                           54,000
FY83
September 30, 1982                     12,000                           66,000
December 31, 1982                      12,000                           78,000
March 31, 1983  a/                     12,000                           90,000
June 30, 1983                          14,000                          104,000
FY84
September 30, 1983                    14,000                           118,000
December 31, 1983                      12,000                          130,000
March 31, 1984                         10,000                          140,000
June 30, 1984                          4,000                           144,000
FY85
September 30, 1984                      3,000                          147,000
December 31, 1984 b/                   3,000                           150,000
a! Estimated end date for submission of subloans.
b/ Closing date.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
Banco de la Republica - Department of Development Credit
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures
(Draft, April, 1980)
This statement lays down the policies and procedures that Banco
de la Republica (BR) will follow through the Department Credit (DDC) in
discharging its responsibilities under the Eighth DFC Loan (the Loan) of
the World Bank (the Bank).
I.   Utilization of Funds
(a) The funds shall be used, in accordance with the terms of the
relevant Loan and Subsidiary Loan Agreements, to finance the
establishment or expansion (including technological upgrading
and pollution control) of economically productive enterprises
that are effectively controlled by the private sector.
(b) The economic activities that may receive financing shall include
sanufacturing industry, tourirs, mining, and agroindustry;   special
attention shall-be given to projects involving industrial decentralizstion,
exports generation, pollution control and technology development9 and
to projects of madt-urrized and mallar enterpria e.
(c) The proceeds of the loan shall be used only to finance the
import content, as established in the Loan Agreement, of
specific projects that are technically, financially, and
ecopomically sound.
(d) Only the following types of expenditures, or such other
expenditures as may be agreed by the Bank, would be
eligible for financing as technology improvement subloans;
(i) Research and development programs subcontracted to
national or overseas technical research institutes
or equivalent agencies, or carried out in cooperation
with overseas collaborators.
(ii) Training of Colombian technicians abroad for periods
of up to one year, when not included as part of a
normal licensing arrangement.
(iii) Hiring of foreign technicians or consultants to work
with a firm for up to one year.
(iv) Establishment of a laboratory and/or purchase of
equipment and instruments for quality control,
materials testing or product research.
(v) Lump sum payments to purchase outright, and without
restriction, the rights to utilize some new production
process or to produce some new product patented by a
foreign concern.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(e) Pollution control subloans at a preferential rate would be
restricted to controlling pollution caused by equipment
already installed at least one year prior to the reLeipt
of the financing application by the Bank. Pollution control
equipment for new or expansion projects may be financed only
under standard subloan terms.
(f) Equity investments of the financieras in enterprises under-
taking export or decentralization projects, and in enterprises
with total assets below Col$250 million as of December 31, 1979,
or the date of their first balance sheet in case of enterprises
established after December 31, 1979, which are undertaking
investment projects would be eligible for financing under the
Loan.
II. Requirements for Participating of Financieras
The seven financieras that participated without quantitative loan amount
restrictions under the Seventh Loan are qualified to participate in the Seventh
Loan on the same basis. Aliadas, and such other financieras as the Board of
Directors of BR may authorize with the consent of the Bank, would be allowed to
participate with loan amount limitations if they meet the conditions stated in
Part (A) below, or without loan amount limitations, if they meet the conditions
established in Part (B).
A. Limited Participation
In order to participate under the Loan through standard subloans, pollution
control subloans and technology development subloans (i.e., excluding equity
investments) not exceeding US$500,000 per project, and subject to an aggregate
maximum of US$2,000,000 per financiera, a financiera would have to meet the
following conditions:
(a) Adequate organization, procedures and technical capacity for
project appraisal and supervision, as required for undertaking
medium and long-term financing of investment projects.
(b) A sound investment and lending policy.
(c) A debt/equity ratio not greater than the limitation established
by BR (but not to exceed 6:1) based on a review of the
financiera's loan and equity portfolio and overall financial
condition. 1/
(d) A current assets/equity ratio not exceeding 4.5:1. 1/
1/ In the computation of the financiera's total equity, total revaluations of up to
50% of the value of the financiera's net worth (excluding revaluations) may be
included. Revaluation of equity investments not listed on a stock exchange would
be based on the latest certification by Administracion de Thuestos Nacionales
of the Ministry of Finance; revaluation of equity investments listed on a stock
exchange would be based on a conservative estimate of the average share price during
the preceding calendar year.



- 53 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 3
(e) Compliance with laws, decrees, and other provisions
regulating financiera operations, to the satisfaction of
the Superintendency of Banks.
(f)  Minimum equity of Col$100 million.
(g) In operation for a minimum period of one year.
(h) Total exposure in any firm not exceeding 25% of the financiera's
own equity, in any single group of related companies not exceeding
50% of equity, and total equity investments not exceeding the
financiera's own equity after taking into account revaluations
of both the financieravs own equity and of the equity investments
held by the financiera, subject to the criteria set forth in the
footnote for sections rIA (c) and IIA (d) above.
(i) Adoption of and adherence to a satisfactory policy statement
and employment of satisfactory external auditors.
(j) Agreement to cooperate fully with BR regarding provision of
regular reporting information covering the financiera's continued
eligibility under the above criteria and the supervision of Bank-
financed projects.
B. Full Participation
In order to qualify for full participation, a financiera would normally
be. required to have previously participated satisfactorily on a limited basis, and
would have to comply with all the conditions stipulated in II(A) above, except in
that a minimum debt/equity ratio may be increased, at the discretion of both BR and
the Bank to a higher limit, of up to 9:1.  In general, as a
prerequisite for participating fully, the financiera would have to demonstrate that
the institution has reached a level of maturity comparable to that of the other
fully participating financieras, in regard to the development of its technical
staff, project evaluation and supervision capability, lending and investment
policies and organization. Financieras would be qualified for full participation
under the Loan by BR on the basis of a full appraisal, subject to the approval of
the Bank.
III. Supervision of Financieras
The Bank would continue to supervise the activities of the five original
participating financieras, with increasing collaboration from BR. BR would also
continue to have the principal responsibility for supervising Financieras Santander,
Occidente, Aliadas and any other financiera which may qualify for limited parti-
cipation in the future. For the purpose of supervising the financieras, BR will
maintain a full-time supervision unit within DDC, provide adequate training for
the staff of the supervision policies and procedures, including the following:
(a) It shall monitor, on a continuing basis, the compliance by
the financieras of their various obligations and financial
covenants under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements
(including, inter alia, the lending limits, exposure
limitations and maximum debt and current assets limits) and



- 54 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 4
notify the financieras if there is a need to take corrective
action. It shall also monitor the institutional development
of the financieras, including the maintenance of an adequate
organization and technical capability, and progress in
achieving the objectives set forth in the strategy papers and/or
plans of action of the respective financieras.
(b) For the purpose of achieving the above, BR shall receive and
review periodic (at least quarterly) reports from each of the
financieras, showing, inter alia, their financial statements
and exposure in their largest client groups and in their own
group.
(c) BR shall require satisfactory external auditing for all
participating financieras.
CdO It shall visit at least once every six months each financiera
for which it has the principal supervision responsibility.
(e) It may examine the financiera books and any document it con-
siders advisable.
(f) It shall monitor the loan and investment decision-making
process of the new financieras, particularly for those operations
that involve their large shareholders.
(g) It would conform to other requirements set forth in the
manual on supervision of the financieras.
DDC would, as appropriate, grant technical assistance to any of
the financieras under its supervision.
IV. Subproject Review
The participating financieras shall be exclusively responsible for the
preparation and appraisal of subprojects. BR will review the subprojects they
submit, and the Board of BR reserves the right to approve only those subprojects
that are economically sound and are in accordance with the development priorities
of the National Government. To this end, BR will require the financieras to
submit evidence of the economic merit of all subprojects involving Bank financing
in the equivalent of more than US$250,000 (excluding pollution control subprojects).
Such evidence will include a calculation of the internal economic rate of return
of the subproject, using a methodology based on "border prices" and agreed by
the Bank. In the case of subprojects involving a lesser amount of Bank financing
financieras will be required to furnish a summary statement describing the basis
on which the economic merit of the subproject was determined. In addition, BR
will require financieras to include in their appraisals of subprojects a summary
assessment of the likely environmental impact of such subproject taking into
account the National Code for the Protection of the Environment and Renewable
National Resources and regulations governing industrial emissions and effluents
promulgated in pursuance to this code. The procedures that BR will use in
reviewing subproject appraisals submitted by the financieras will vary, depending
on the size and nature of the subproject as outlined below.



- 55 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 5
The terms and grace periods of subloans shall be determined by BR on
the basis of conservative estimates of the cash flow projections of the res-
pective projects, after taking account of the likely impact of inflation on
the project costs and working capital needs.
In the case of technology development and pollution control projects,
the attached checklists will be used for project appraisal purposes (see Annex 3).
Standard Subloans for Investment Projects
Subprojects requiring subloans of up to US$650,000 submitted by the
five original financieras (Caldas, Colombiana, Nacional, Norte and Valle) and
Santander shall be approved by BR on the basis of the financiera's appraisal,
and would be subject only to a limited review by DDC covering economic priority,
completeness of information and documentation provided, and appropriateness of
subloan terms.  Subprojects requiring more than US$650,000 in Bank funds and
all those submitted by other financieras would require DDC's more detailed
review to check the adequacy of the financiera's evaluation and to review the
economic, financial and other important aspects of the subproject. BR's limit
for standard subloans not requiring prior Bank approval shall be US$2.0 million
in the case of subprojects submitted by the five original financieras and
Santander, US$650,000 for those from Occidente, and US$250,000 for those from
Aliadas and any newly participating financiera.   In addition, prior Bank
approval would be required for the first two subprojects submitted by each newly
participating financiera.
Equity Investment Financing
All subprojects under this category of the Loan, which may only be
submitted by fully participating financieras, would be reviewed in detail
by the DDC. BR's limit for such subprojects not requiring prior Bank
approval shall be US$500,000.
Technology Development and Pollution Control Subloans
BR's limit for technology development and pollution control subloans not
requiring prior Bank approval would be the same as that for standard subloans.
Subprojects requiring not more than US$50,000 in Bank funds and presented by
the five original financieras would be approved by BR on the basis of financiera
evaluations, with the role of the DDC limited to checking that all required
information and documentation have been provided. Subprojects requiring more
than US$50,000 would require a more detailed review from the DDC which would, as
appropriate, seek further technical advice on the more complex proposals. All
technology and pollution control subloan proposals submitted by other fully
participating financieras would be reviewed in detail by the DDC in accordance with
guidelines acceptable to the Bank.  BR will encourage and Aaaiat the financiera3'
efforts to promote technology improvement subprojects.
V. Subproject Supervision
Each financiera would be responsible to BR for seeing that the funds
of each subloan are properly utilized andrChat the borrowing eaterprise uses
the items financed for the purposes indicated in the respective loan appli-



ANNEX 2
- 56 -                            Page 6
cacian.  Towards this end BR may require the financieras to submit progress
.-oits, specifically to determine if subproject implementation is proceeding
iT accordance with the investment plan submitted. When deemed necessary,
C-'-resentatives of BR may visit enterprises, accompanied by representatives of
-he financieras concerned, in order to monitor the progress of specific
subprojects.
VIM  Disbursements, Accounting and Auditin&
The procedure to be followed and documents required for authorizing
disbursement of the approved subloans shall be the same as those utilized for
previous DFC loans extended to BR by the Bank. The accounting procedures to
be used for this line of credit shall be similar to those currently in use
and operations shall be audited by the Audit Office of BR as agreed with the
Bank on previous occasions.
VII. Staff
BR will take all the necessary steps to ensure that the staffing
of the DDC remains both capable and sufficient in numbers to fulfill the
obligations arising from this line of credit.            -
VIII. Amendments and Clarifications
Amendments to this policy statement may be made upon agreement
between BR and the Bank. In addition, the procedures to be used by BR in
dealing with any subloans or investments of a type not previously subject
to agreements between the Bank and BR will be determined or clarified through
an exchange of letters.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
COLOOMBIA: EIGHTh DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COTMPANTF.S PPnJFT
Checklists for the Evaluation of Technology Development and
Pollution Control Subprojects
A. Technology Development Subprojects
1.  Background and ocnership of the firm, types of products and
activities carried out b) tihe firm.
2.  Organization, managem;ent and staffing of the firm, commeting on
the qualifications and experience of the managerial and other
key staff.
3. Currcnt sources of technology and their cost; reason for looking
into possible changes in technology.
4. Objectives and scope of the proposed. technology improvement
program; the nature, technical details, timetable and the costs of
the program.
5.  E:pected results and benefits to be achieved by the project, in-
eluding an analysis of the incremental economic or financial impact.
6.  Justification of the equipment being acquired and the sources of
procurement on the basis of quality and price comparisons with
alternatives.
7. An analysis of the past and projected financial condition of the
firt demonstratin- creditworthiness and financial viability and
profitability.



- 58 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. Pollution Control Subprojects
1.  Background and o.rnership of the firm,' types of products and activities
carried out by the firm.
2.  Organization, managc:aent and staffing of the firm, co,.rnmenting on the
qualifications and experiencc of the managerial and otller key staff.
3.  An analysis of the past and projected financial condition of the
firm,a demon trat-.n  creditworihiness and financial viability/
profitability.
4.  Bacl;ground of the pollutior problea facing the company; the source,
type and the degIree of pollution being generated by the company; a
comparison of the pollutant concentrations with that specified by the
federal or local regulations, if any, for the concerned type of
pollution; fines being paid or that would nave to be paid (if any) if
regulations are not complied w.ith.
5. Objectives and scope of the proposed pollution control project; a
technical description of the equipmient proposed to be acquired;
reductions expected to be achieved in the levels of pollution and their
consistency wiith the pr-revailing, emission/disch-iroe standards.
6.  A brief economic analysis of the proposed project, including a
demonstratio;n that the project would be an economical way of aclhieving
the desired level of pollution control--for examnple, an analysis to
shot, that the proposed miethod for reducir.n the pollution levels would.
approxivrate the least cost solution; the incremaental financial and
economic impact of the project, includi:ig the effects of any expected
chanlges in production or product quality and employm,ent, and any identifiable
benefitL; and costs accruing to tlle societly.
7.  Justification of the equipment beingl acquired and the sources of procurement
on the basis of capacity, quality and price comparisons with alternatives.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
SUPPLEMENTARY TABLES






COLOMBIA: ElGhTh DEVELOPMENT FI7NNCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-1    G.ross Do-stic Product By Ortign at Factor Cost
(Constant 1970 Prices)
1970                 1971                    1972                   1973                    1974                     1975                    1976                       1977                     1978
Million $   7.   Millier            '1   millio..   A%      %   Million 5 At        7.   Million $  *7       7.  HMillioc    A %    %    Million.           7. %    millier 5 A,       7.  Million 5   7%         %
Agriculture, Pishiog, H.otclg
and Furnacry              34,244.8   78.6   34,887.6   1.9  27.5  37,784.8  8.3   27.6  39,157.4  3.6   26.6   41,516.9  6.0   26.5   44,066.4  6.1   27.0   44,905.0   1.9  26.4   46,039.3  2.5   25.8  50,173.2   9.0    26.0
Miniug                          2,528.0    2.1    2,550.8   0.9   2.0  2,379.9 - 6.7    1.8   2,591.7  8.9    1.8    2,403.8  _7.3    1.5    2,240.7_ 6.8    1.4    2,145.9  - 4.2   1.3    2,063.8  .3.8    1.1   2,016.3  -2.3                1.0
aanufscturtng Industry         20,976.7   17.5   22,778.8   8.6  18.0  24,933.4  9.5   18.3  27,828.2  11.6   18.9   29,657.2  6.6   18.9   30,030.7  1.3   18.4   32,037.7   6.7  18.8   33,386.8  4.2   18.7  36,224.7   8.5    18.8
Construction                    6,530.0    5.5    6,859.6   5.0   5.4  6,993.9  2.0    5.1   7,839.2  12.1    5.3    8,042.4  3.9    5.2    7,795.9  _4.3    4.8    6,686.2  -14.2   3.9    7,069.8  5.7    4.0   7,508.1   6.2                 3.9
Cuarco                         16,415.9   13.7   17,450.1   6.3  13.8  189615.6  6.7   13.6  20,224.4  8.6   13.7   23,225.8  5.0   13.5   21,504.8  1.3   13.2   22,867.3   6.3  13.4   24,131.4  5.5   13.5  26,399.7   9.4    13.7
Tra..p-rt and Cunicsioa        8,881.1    7.4    9,537.9   7,4   7.5 J1,377.2  8.8    7.6  11,367.5  9.5    7.7   12,946.5  13.9    8.3   14,085.3  8.8    8.6   15,076.1   7.0   8.9   16,183.7  7.3    9.1  17,559.3   8.5                   9.1
Eloctricity, Gas and Wat-r      1,787.9    1.5    1,960.0   9.6   1.6  2,226.7  13.6    1.6   2,473.3 11.1    1.7    2,615.1  5.7    1.7    2,753.4  5.3    1.7    3,067.7  11.4   1.8    3,138.4  2.3    1.8   3,373.8   7.5                   1.8
banking, InsuranceR *e.l Estat-
sod Other                  4,344.3    3.6    4,980.8  14.7   3.9  5,605.0  12.5    4.1   6,003.0  7.1    4.1    7,006.0  16.7    4.5    7,983.0  13.9    4.9    8,830.9  10.6   5.2    9,563.1  8.3    5.4  10,327.3   8.0                 5.4
Housing RBntais                 6,735.0    5.6    7,179.5   6.6   5.7  7,630.8  6.3    5.6   8,007.9  4.9    5.4    8,573.7  7.1    5.5    9,233.7  7.7    5.6    9,725.3   5.3   5.7   10,291.1  5.8    5.8  11,177.2   8.6                    5.8
P.rso.. 1 S-ruic-s             9,069.7    7.6    9,677.4   6.7   7.6  10,439.2  7.9    7.6  11,155.7  6.9    7.6   11,845.0  6.2    7.5   12,516.2  5.7    7.6   13,513.8   8.0   7.9   14,565.9  7.8    8.2  15,479.8   6.3                    8.0
Guvetn--nt 8ernicen             8,283.5    6.9    8.h59.3   7.0   7.0  9.757.0  10.1    7.1  10.529.7  7.9    7.2   10.775.1  2.3    6.9   11,189.1  3.8    6.8   11,370.6   1.6   6.7   11,786.3  3.7    6.6  12,493.5   6.0                   6.5
TOTAL            119,796.9  100.0  126,721.8   5.8  100.0 136,743.5  7.9  100.0 147,178.0   7.6  100.0  156,707.5  6.5  100.0  163,399.2  4.3  100.0  170,226.5   4.2  100.0  178,219.6  4.7  100.0  192,672.9   8.1   100.0
of istinoto.
Sourc-:  aanc. do 1a Rrpulbli. aud 18RD   tis,tos.
Ja-u-ry 1980



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-2: Unemployment in Urban Centers -
March                                                 September
1974 2/   1975        1976       1977       1978         1974       1975       1976        1977       1978
Barranquilla         19.3       n.a.       12.3       10.6        8.2         16.2       14.7        10.7        8.3        6.9
Bogota               11.1       11.3        9.4        8.9        9.0         10.0        8.3         8.8        7.2        6.7
Cali                 12.1      n.a.        13.8       11.5       10.6         12.5       10.9        12.6        7.9        9.1
Medellin             13.4       n.a.       13.9       12.7       12.7         12.9        14.1       13.3       13.7       12.4
Bucaramanga         n.a.        n.a.        9.0        8.2        6.8         n.a.       n.a.         8.0        6.4        6.5
Manizales           n.a.        n.a.       12.5       12.5        8.8         n.a.       n.a.        11.5       11.4        6.0
Pasto               n.a.        n.a.        7.0       10.8       11.9         n.a.       n.a.         9.9        9.8       10.0
Average        13.7       11.3       11.1       10.2         9.2         12.9       48.0       10.4        9.4         8.2
1/ Data for earlier years are not available for most urban centers other than Bogota. The unemployment rates in
Bogota metropolitan area in September/October were 11.2% in 1968, 8.9% in 1969, 8.4% in 1971 and 6.6% in 1972.
2/ Figures for 1974 are based on June and October data.
Source: ANDI and DANE, Boletin Mensual de Estadistica
LCPI2
February 1980
T19



_62                                  ANNEX 4
T-3
COLOMBIA - EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-3: Wage and Salaries in the Manufacturing Sector
(% Change)
1975           1976           1977           1978
Nominal Wage and Salaries
White Collar                   19.4           20.0           22.9            24.4
Blue Collar                    21.1           22.8           27.2           30.4
Real Wage and Salaries
White Collar                  - 2.4          - 0.3          - 0.6             4.1
Blue Collar                   - 2.2            2.4          - 5.6           11.1
Source: CEPAL
LCPI2
January 1980



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-4:     Effective Exchange Rate for Exports
Domestic           World               Nominal            Real Exchange               CAT Average            Adjusted
Prices 2/         Prices 3/       Exchange Rate 4/           Rate            Percentage of Exports 5/  Exchange Rate 6/
(A)               (B)                  (C)               (D =   C                      (E)            -F= D(l + E)]
1970          100.0            100.0                18.45                 18.45                      10.9                  20.46
1971          110.8            107.0                19.94                  19.26                     10.9                  21.36
1972          125.4            118.0                21.87                 20.58                       9.7                  22.58
1973          152.8            134.0                23.64                 20.73                      11.1                  23.03
1974          191.4            148.0                26.06                 20.14                      11.0                  22.36
1975          237.0            167.0                30.93                 21.81                       7.2                  23.38
1976          284.1            172.0                34.70                 20.99                       4.4                  21.91      1
1977          383.0            187.0                36.78                  17.95                      3.7                  18.61      >
1978         448.5             216.1                39.10                 18.85                       2.9                  19.40
1979 1/       557.9            236.9                43.50                 18.49                       6.0                  19.60
1/ Estimates.
2/ Blue collar consumer price index annual average.
3/ Price Index of GDP at Market Prices OECD total, World Bank.
4/ Average buying exchange rate certificate. Banco de la Repuiblica.
5/ From "Estrategia Econ6mica y Financiera" April 1979.
6/ Does not include the effect of credit subsidies from PROEXPO, which could add 1-4% to the effective subsidy,
depending on the terms of PROEXPO financing and the difference between PROEXPO's and market interest rates for the
particular type of financing.  The avpraze effect of the PROEXPO subsidy is estimated to have increased from about
1% in 1974 to 2-3% in 1978/79.
Source:  Banco de la Republica and IBRD.
LCPI2
January 1980



COLOf48IA: EIGHdTf DEVEIOFPNT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-5: xeport. of MHnuf-ct-red *nd Other Prodocts (f.o.b.) 1/
Average Gro-th        Average Growth
1.seI   illions of US D11-r                                                                                                             Rate                   Rate_____
186            1968            1969           1970           1971            1972           1973            1974           1975            1976            1977           1978            1967-74                1974-78
Manufactured Products
Food                              18.4           26.3            35.0           33.4            45.3           79.5           94.8           136.8          178.7           113.6             89.1         148.2              33.5                     2.1
Bevereges                          -               -              -              0.1             0.2            0.3             0.1            0.2             0.1            0.1              0.2           0.2               -
Tobaro                             -               -              -              -               -              0.3             0.2            0.3             0.1            -                0.4           3.6               -
Textiles                           6,5            8.5            11.6           12.2            18.3           30.4            51.3           84.5            62.1           87.3             80.1          88.1              44.5                     1.1
Ger,oetist, Clothieg               0.5            0.6             1.0            1.1             1.7            5.8            20.4           56.1            31.7           42.4             56.4          80.0              97.0                     9.3
Leether & its Produts             2.7            4.1             4.6            6.4             7.3           15.6            26.7           25.0           22.5            27.8             38.4          46.9              37.7                    17.0
Wood Prodocts & Furniture          3.4            4.3             6.2            4.6             5.0            8.0            19.8           29.7             7.7           13.4             14.7           17.4             36.0                  - 13.0
Paper & Priontig                   9.2           11.8             7.3            3.6            4.4            10.1           10.4            14.1           16.3            35.1             52.6          53.5               6.3                    39.3
Cheitcal Products                  8.3           14.0            15.4           14.9            20.3           27.6            46.3           87.4            70.1           62.7             59.2          69.2              40.0                  -  5.5
Noe-set  lIIc MiOCexl.             6.2             7.8            8.2            8,6             8.9           11.9            15.7           26.2            26.0           40.7             39.2          66.2              22.6                    26.0
Mstal-oech-oi..l                   6.2            6.6             9.1            9.8            22.1           21.6            37.9           60.5            54.4           66.8            100.3         113.1              38.5                    16.9     t
H.od.r.fte                         0.1             -              -              -               -              0.1             0.1            0.2             0.2            0.5              0.4           0.5              10.4                    26.0
Other MLnsf-ctored Predocta        0.3            0.3             0.4            0.8             4.3            3.3             4.6            7.7             8.2            5.2              8.7          11.9              58.0                    11.5
Sob-total           61.8            84,5           98.8            95.6          137.8           214.5          328.3           528.7          478.1          495.6            539.7          698.7              35.8                     7.2
Other Produc-t
Coffee                          332.4           351.4           343.9          466.7          395.4          429.6           596.9          622.3           671.b          968.1            0.0.           n.e.                9.4                   0.0.
Other                           115.7           122.4           164.          173.4           156.8          221.9           252.1          265.9           315.3          281.5                                              12.6
Sob-total           448.1           473.8           508.7          640.1          552.2           651.5          849.0           888.2          987.1        1,749.6          1,911.5        9,516.7              1n.3                   '9.5
TOTAL EXPORTS              q90.9           558.3           607.5         735.7           690.0          866.0         1,177.3        1,416.9         1.465.2        1,745.2          2,443.2       3,215.4               15.7                   22.7
1/ The bhiec source is DANE, which uses cu. tos clearance data, except for 1978 for ohich export regitrati-o  data from  INCOMEX ix presented.  The exports data in thi. table are eotracted from  a publication of PROEXPO, which
m-de sever- l edj-t etts to the DANE det. in order to  -rrive s to cot sisteet series that takbes eccoux  of changes over the  years 10 the  -ey particular itemh are classified-  The data differ trea thoe  in Anax   I of the
President'. Report b ..e.  of different data  ear.ea  and eo,araga. l.a aae Amoaz 4, T-15 fer   diffarast categeri.-donof aport. dat  fnr.iabs by D4A1  .nd the footnote to pare. 1.14 for refereene to  eltersati-
data xossen..
Sourne:  I'CGeral *1 .aturs of Colobia5, PRO11O, 1979.
LCP12/Jaeeary 1980



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
T- 6
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-6: Manufacturing Sector Average Growth Rates in Real Terms
Average Annual Grosth Rate (Z)           Elasticity of
Value                          Employment to
Investment (A)    Added (B)   Employment (C)  Value Added C4B)
(gross-
1953-63                      n.a.             7.4            3.5                 0.47
1964-68                      4.1 a/          5.3             1.6                 0.30
1969-74                     14.7             8.3 c/          8.3                 1.00
1975-77                      6.1 b/          4.0 cl          2.3                 0.58
1978                                         8.5 cl-         4.2                 0.49
a/ From 1960 to 1968.
b/ From 1974 to 1976
c/ Estimate of the growth rate of GDP contribution.
Source: DANE, Banco de la Rep'ublica and FEDESARROLLO.
LCPI2
January 1980



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-7:    Capacity Utilization in the Manufacturing Sector
(Percentages)
isic                                                                                                              1978         1979
Code                                         1972      1973      1974      1975     1976      1977      1978   1st Qiarter  Ist Quarter
31   Food, Beverages & Tobacco              78.6      86.8      79.5     80.2      76.3      87.9      86.0       83.6         86.1
32   Textiles, Garments & Leather           85.3      91.4      75.6     76.1      88.4      93.2      94.0       91.9         88.8
33   Wood & Wood Products                   71.2      96.8      53.5     49.2      69.3      63.8      71.2       67.3         54.2
34   Paper, Printing & Paper Products    96.3         80.4      87.6     76.5      83.4      85.7      88.1       85.4         86.5
35   Chemical, Petroleum Products & Coal 92.1         81.2      63.3     68.2      85.8      91.6      93.6       95.0         92.9
36   Non-metallic Minerals                  83.8      98.2      92.8     72.7      90.6      89.0      89.1       89.8         90.4
37   Basic Metal Products                   94.4      92.9      92.8     81.3      78.5      69.1      82.3       63.0         57.4
38   Machinery & Transport Equipment        66.6      67.0      70.4     56.6      49.5      55.3      55.8
All Subsectors                 86.1      84.3      75.4      72.8     77.6      86.5      86.4       86.2         84.9   '
e     ~     ~~________ _  ________            ___________
Source: "Coyuntura Econ6mica" edited by FEDESARROLLO, various issues. Based on a sample survey of large-scale industries.
LCPI2
January  ORn{
>.1



_ 67 -
ANNaX 4
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT                                      T- 8
T-8: Manuf-cturing Sector Structure by r-o-uct Category
C Percen to e S 
Code                                                  Number of Enterpries                            Employment                                 Valoe Added
1968       1974-75        1976-77           1968       1974-75        1976-77           1968       1974-75        1976-77
31      Food, Beverages & Tobacco            30.2          21.2           21.0           21.1          19.0           18.8           32.9          28.9           28.5
Food                             26.8         18.5           18.4            14.7         13.7           13.3            14.8          14.1          14.2
Beverages                         2.0          2.0            2.0             5.3          4.5            4.7            13.7         12.0           11.2
Tobacco                           1.4          0.7            0.6             1.1          0.8            0.8             4.4           2.8           3.1
32      Textiles. Garments & Leather         23.1          22.0          22.9            27.7          28.8          29.1            19.2          17.4           18.7
Te-tiles                          4.1          7.5            7.5           16.1          16.8           16.1            13.7         13.4           14.1
Garments, clothing               16.5          9.8           10.6           10.1           8.6            9.4             4.4           2.7           3.2
Leather & products                2.5          1.5            1.6            1.5           1.6            1.7             1.1          0.8            0.8
Footwear                           S/          3.2            3.2            a/            1.8            1.9             a/           0.5            0.6
33      Wdood and It. Products                7.4           7.6           6.7            3.9            3.4           3.1             1.0           1.3            1.4
Wood and Wood Products            3.8          4.1            3.5            2.1            1.8           1.6             0.5          0.8            0.9
Furniture                         3.6          3.5            3.2            1.8           1.6            1.5             0.5          0.5            0.5
34       Paper and Its Products, Printing    5.4            7.4           7.4            6.3            6.3           6.2             5.4           6.0           6.4
Paper & paper products            1.0          2.3            2.3            2.1           2.5            2.4             2.7          3.3            3.9
Printing                          4.4          5.1            5.1           4.2            3.8            3.8             2.7          2.7            2.5
35       Chemical Industry.  Petroleum  Ref.  5.5          10.4          10.4           10.9           13.0          12.9           19.6           22.0          22.3
Chemical products                4.7           1.6            1.5           8.0            2.4            2.4           13.1           6.2            5.0
Other chemical products           b/           4.4            4.4           b/             5.2            5.1           b/             7.1            6.6
Petroleum refinery                c/           0.2            0.2           c/             0.9            0.9           c/             4.6            6.6
Coal & patroleum                  0.2          0.3            0.2           0.7            0.1            0.1           3.8            0.1            0.3
Rubber & its products            0.6           1.2            1.2           2.2            1.9            1.7           2.7            2.1            2.1
Plastic products                  d/           2.7            2.9           d/             2.5            2.7           d/             1.9            1.7
36      .Non-tetallic Minerals and C.2lss    8.9            7.0           6.8            8.4           6.7            6.8            5.5           5.4            4.8
Non-eetallic minerals             !/           0.6            0.7           el             1.1            1.2           e/             0.5            0.5
Glass                             e/           0.8            0.8           el             1.4            1.5           el             1.1            1.1
Other non-meatallic minerals     8.9           5.6            5.3           8.4            4.2            4.1           5.5            3.8            3.2
37       Basic Metal Industries              0.3          1.2            1.5            1.6           3.5            3.6            2.2           3.4            3.5
Iron and steel industry          0.3           0.7           0.9            1.6            2.9           3.0            2.2            2.9           2.8
Ron-ferrous  setals                f/          0.5            0.6            f/            0.6            0.6            f/            0.5            0.7
38      Metal Products. Machinery           16.2         20.5           20.7           16.7          17.5           17.7           10.9          14.7           13.4
Metal products                   6.4           9.4            9.1           7.1            6.6            6.4           4.9            4.5           4.0
Mon-electric machinery           2.3           4.7           4.5            2.0            3.5            3.4           1.1            2.4            2.3
Electric mschinery               2.2           2.2           2.8            3.1            2.9           3.1            2.7            2.6           2.7
Transport eq-ipment              5.3           3.3           3.4            4.5            4.0           4.3            2.2            4.9           4.1
Other equipmsent                  d/           0.9           0.9             d/            0.5           0.5             d/            0.3           0.3
39      Other Industries                     3.0          2.7            2.6           3.4            1.8            1.8           3.3            y.9            1.0
TOTAL                     100.0         100.0         100.0          100.0         100.0          100.0          100.0         100.0          100.0
a/ Classified under garment clothing.
h/ Classified under chemical products.
c/ Classified under coal and petroleum product.
i/ Classified under other industries.
e/ Classified under other non-metallic minerals.
fT Classified under iron and steel industry.
Source: DANE and AliDI
LCPI2
January 1980



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-9: Size Structure of Manufacturing Enterprises by Number of Employees 1/
(1977)
Number of
Establishments          Employment             Wages & Salaries             Gross Production
Number of Employees       Number      %          Number       %          Value            %          Value          %%
(Col$ million)               (Col$ million)
From  10 to  24           2,482      42.0       39,471         8.3      1,341.0           4.6       16,554.5         4.6
From  25 to  99           2,426     41.0       117,936        24.6      4,885.6          16.9       68,236.0        19.1
From 100 to 199             516       8.7       73,373        15.3      4,139.3          14.3       52,064.9        14.6
200 or more           490       8.3       247,980       51.8      18,593.5         64.2      220,318.8         61.7
TOTAL          5,914    100.0        478,760      100.0      28,959.4        100.0      357,174.2       100.0
1/  Data based on enterprises with 10 or more employees.                                                                         a
Source: DANE, 1977 annual sector survey.
LCPI2
January 1980
I4S



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-10:   Financial Structure of Manufacturing  nterpninen  by Anent Sine  nod Activity  in 1976.77
(Perceocse gn)
31                        32                          33                        34                            35                              36                     37                        36
Activity                 Food,  -eregns          Tootil-s, Ganenet         Wand & Wand P-nd.ccc          Papn-. Prin-icg              Chmical lsnisiy                    Nun-metallic           Manic Mtnal             Natal product-,
=IC                           & Tobacco             A Lncher Productn         Includino3 Furniture          & Ppor Produc-t         Coal & Petroleum  Producrn                Indutrty               InduMtry           Machinery & Fquipment                 Frnta
Annecs Size                       _            1976          1977       1976             1977     1976              1977        1976          1977         1976             1977             1976         1977      1976        1977          1976            1977                1976         1977
Up to 20 million P.0
Linhiitries                                48            52         64               61       61                61          62            64          55                55               65           69                                  57              59                  59           6
Trade Credit                             9            10        15               16        17                14          27            29          11 19                              13          1i                                   19              it                 17            17
Ion  to Financiol I nalicuttoct        T21           22         29               27         6                 7          19            16          12                13               25           25                                  19              13                 1901
(Short-term)              ( 9~ ~ ~~) (10          (16)            (191      5)               16)          (12)            6)          7 )             (  )               9)         (i(11)                                      (11)              (1,0)                  (0)
(Loog-cenot 3             ~~~~(12)     (I2)       (12)             <N)       (1)              11)          (79           (10)        (5)               (25)             (16)         (16)                                   6)           (2)                (9)           (79
Othr  i/                                19            20        21               18        38              40            16            19          25                23               27           34                                  19              2E                 20            23
Eoitcy                                      52           48         36               39       39               39           38            36          45                45               35           31                                   43             41                  41           40
Capital                                 40            31        18               16        24               23           21            17          2                 28               21           16                                  28              26                 25            23
Retimed Eacoiogn   &  Rer-oes           12            17        18               23        15              16            17            19          21                17               14           13                                  15              15                 16            17
Fro- 20 Illiot ti 100 million ossot
Llahillijie                                 57           56         69               72       79               99           65            69          63                64               76           76        6           72             64             63                  69           72
Tredr CredIt                           15           12         19               16         8              12           17             20          17                17              16            14       16          17             17              17                 16           16
Doe t  FIo.uclel Iotucns               29           32         30               35        57              70           27             27          21                23              38            35       22          23             28              26                 32            34
Dueltorc-Fin n)                   (17)         (21)       (12)             (17)     (47)             (56)         (14)           (11)        (14)              (16)            (19)         (16)      (23)        (112)          (199            (7)                (19)         (21)
(Long-temt)                       (12)         (11)       (18)             (18)      (10)            (14)         (13)           (16)        ( 9)              ( 7)             (19)         (17)     (14)        (12)           ( 99            ( 9)               (13)          13)             S
othe 1/                               13           14         20               19        14              17           21             22          23                24              24            27       30           32            19              20                 20            22
Equity                                      43           42         31               i8       21                1           35            31           37                36              22           24        32          29             36             37                  32           26
Capital                                23           20         17               16       24               27           18             15          17                15               10           11       23          21             16              iN                 19            i8
Rectined Eroings & Rtnnrrv-            20           22         14               12      - 3              -26           17             16          20                21              12            13        9            7            18              19                 13            10
Nore then 100 million pe-ot
Liabil: Ced                                 63           63         66               66       60               64           56            57          68                69               53           57        58          57              5              73                 62           64
Trade Credit                            13            13         13              12        10              13            14            15          16                EN                3            5        21          17            20              20                  14           14
D.e to Ftn.n.lal Instuciont             28            27        33               34        34              36            24            21          32                32               25           25        21          27            32              31                 28            30
(Short-team)                       (17)         (16)       (20)             (22)      (22)            (26)          (10)          ( 9)        (19)              (19)             (12)         (15)     (16)        (18)           (22)            (23)               (17)          (19)
(Long-tore)                        (11)         (11)       (13)             (12)     (12)             (10)         (14)           (12)        (13)              (13)            (13)          (10)     ( 5)        ( 9)           (10)            ( 8)               (11)          (11)
Ocher U/                                22            23         20              22        16               15           18            21          20                19               23           27        16          13            23              22                 20            20
Equity                                      37           37         34              32        40                            44            43          32                31               47           43        4           43            25              27                  39           36
Capital                                 11            11         15              13         5                5           11            11          14                12               10            8        13          13             6               8                 El            10
R.etalnd  Earninge & Maccroe            26            26        19               19        35              31           33             32          18                19               37           35       29          30             17              19                 27            26
1/ Inlodne  litbilities due to  -ockers sod employees-,on-pid tents, and ocher.
Sunrn     Supsrintendrncia dn Socieddes., a temple of 456 finaneiel stesgeots.
Innuary 1980



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-11: Protection in the Manufacturing Industry as of December 1976 1/
Colombia                             AEMC
'SIC
Code            Industrial Activity                        Nominal        Effective            Nominal        Effective
31     Food, Beverages & Tobacco                            32.8            78.5               30.9            82.8
32     Textiles, Garments & Leather Products                59.6           115.7               42.5            79.2
33     Wood and Wood Products (furniture)                   42.9            89.0               37.3            78.9
34     Paper, Printing and Paper Products                   32.5            47.1               29.3            38.7
35     Chemical Industry, Coal & Petroleum Products         21.6            29.9               24.1            32.2
36     Non-Metallic Minerals                                37.0            54.9               29.1            43.5
37     Basic Metal Industry                                 21.0            30.9               22.0            40.8
38     Metal Products, Machinery & Equipment                31.5            50.5               33.1            35.9
39     Other Industries                                     39.0            53.9               34.6            47.5
I
1/ Effective protection does not include import restrictions other than tariffs (December 1976).
2/ Arancel Externo Minimo Comun (Common Minimum External Tariff) of the Andean Group.
Source: Departamento de Planeacion Nacional
LCPI2
January IQOQI
zI.A



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-12:    Geographic Distribution of Industrial Activity
(Percentages)
Areas 1/                  Establishments                    Employment                      Value Added
1967     1975     1977         1967     1975      1977          1967     1975      1977
Antioquia (Medellin)         16.5     18.6      18.6        25.2      24.5     24.8          23.3     21.1      23.2
Atlantico (Barranquilla)      6.7      7.6       7.1         8.1       7.7      8.0           8.2      7.7       6.7
Bogota, D.E.                 22.2     32.9      33.4        26.9      28.3     29.1          22.7     26.0      23.7
Bolivar (Cartagena)           2.2      2.1       1.7         1.6       2.1      1.8           3.6      4.8       5.7
Boyaca                        2.0      0.8       1.0         1.6       2.4      2.4           2.5      2.6       2.5
Caldas (Manizales)            2.9      2.4       2.4         1.9       2.0      2.1           1.7      2.1       1.6
Cauca                         1.2      0.8       0.5         0.7       1.3      0.9           0.8      1.0       0.6
Cesar                         0.4      0.3       0.3         0.1       0.3      0.3           0.4      0.3       0.3
C6rdoba                       0.8      0.4       0.3         0.2       0.2      0.3           0.1      0.1       0.1
Cundinamarca                  4.4      2.6       2.5         4.6       4.3      4.1           4.4      4.3       4.2
Choco                         0.1      0.1        -           -         -        -             -        -         -
Huila                         1.3      0.5       0.5         0.3       0.3      0.3           0.4      0.4       3.3
La Guajira                    0.2      0.1       0.1          -        0.1       -             -        -         -
Magdalena                     1.0      0.4       0.4         0.4       0.4      0.3           0.6      0.3       0.4
Meta                          1.1      0.4       0.5         0.2       0.2      0.2           0.4      0.3       0.4
Narifio                       3.0      1.1       0.6         1.1       0.7      0.3           0.6      0.4       0.3                a
Norte de Santander            2.9      2.2       2.1         0.9       0.7      0.7           0.9      0.8       0.8
Quindio                       1.4      1.0       1.2         0.6       0.5      0.4           0.8      0.6       0.3
Risaralda                     2.4      3.3       3.5         2.2       2.9      3.1           2.0      2.2       2.2
Santander (Bucaramanga)       8.6      6.6      7.3          4.1      3.9       3.9           5.4      5.3       5.4
Sucre                         0.5      0.2      0.2          0.1      0.1       0.1            -       0.2       0.1
Tolima                        3.0      1.6       1.6         1.0      0.9       0.9           1.1      1.0       1.0
Valle de Cauca (Cali)        14.7     13.9      14.1        17.2      16.2     16.0          20.0     18.5      17.2
Rest of the Country           0.5      0.1      0.1          1.0       -         -            0.1       -         -
Total    100.0    100.0    100.0        100.0    100.0    100.0          100.0    100.0    100.')
1/ Main urban industrial areas in parentheses.
--'I
Source: DANE
LCPI2
Januarv l9Rn



COLOMBIA EICHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-13: GeoRraphic Concentration of the 500 Largest Enterprises 1/
Sector                  Water, gas,        Transport,                                                                 Agriculture,                            TOTAL
Electricity -       Storage &                      Coimmerca &   Mining &                      Livestock  &
Location                      Waste Disposal   Communication  Manufacturing         Finance    Quarry       Construction      Fisheries           Services       Number        %
Aubalema (Tolima)                      _                                                                                               2                _             2         0.4
Armenia                                -                 1              -                -                                                -  -          -             1         0.2
Barranquilla                           2                 3             12                6           1.             1                                  -            26           5.2
Bogota                                 3                 3            109               83          16             17                  6              10           247         49.4
Bucaramanga                            I                 1              5                3           -              -                  -                1            11         2.2
Buga (Valle)                           _                 -              1                -           -              -                                  -              1         0.2
Cali                                   2                 -             27               16           -              3                  3                1            52        10.4
Caloto (Valle)                         -                 -              I                _     -                    -                  -               -              1         0.2
Cartagena                              2                 1              5                -           -              -                  3                1            12         2.4
Cucuta                                 1                 -              1                -           -              -                  -                -             2         0.4
Dorada (Caldas)                                          -              _                1                                            -               -              1         0.2
Envigado (Antioquia)                   -                 -              4                -           _-                                                -             4          0.8
Fundacion (Magdalena)                  -                 -              -                1           -              -                  _               _              1         0.2
Guacari (Valle)                                                         1                -           -              -                  -                -             1         0.2
Girardot (Cundinaxnarca)               -                 -              -                1 1         -              -                  -               _              1         0.2
Itagui (Antioquia)                     _-                               4                -                                                                           4          0.8
Manizales                              1                 -              6                -           -              -                  1                -             8         1.6
Medellin                               3                 3             51                2           3              2                  1                2            86        17.2
Monteri-                               I                 -              -                1           -              -                  -               -              2         0.4
Palmiro (Valle)                        -                 _              5                -           -              _                  _               _              5         1.0
Pasto                                  1                 -              -                -           -              -                  -                              1         0.2
Pereira                                -                 -              4                -           -              -                                  -             4          0.8
Popayan                                -                 -              1                -           -              -                  -               -              1         0.2
Riohacha                                                 1              -                -           -              -                  _                              1         0.2
Riohacha (Antioquia)                   -                 _              2                -           -              -                                                2          0.4
San, Andres                            1                 1              -                -           -              -                  -                             2          0.4
Santa Marta                            1                 -              -                -           -              -                  -               -             1          0.2
Segovia (Antioquia)                    -                 _              _                -           1              -                  _               _             1          0.2
Sincelejo                              1                                I 1              -           -              -                  _               _             2          0 4
Soacha (Cundinamarca)                  -                 -              1                -           -              -                  _                              1         0.2
Sopo (Cundinamarca)                    -                 _-                              -           -              -                  1               _             1          0.2
Tota (Boyaca)                          -                 -              1                -           -              -                  -               -             1          0.2
Tulua (Valle)                          -                 -              1                -           -              -                  -               -             1          0.2
Tunja                                  1                 -              1                2           -              -                  1               -             5          1.0
Valle Dupar                            -                 -              -                1           -              -                  -               -             1          0.2
Valle Cencio                           -                 -              I                -           -              -                  -               -             1          0.2
Yumbo (Valle)                          -                 -              5                -           -              -                  -               -             5          1.0
Zorzal (Valle)                         -                 -              1                -           -              -                  -               -             1          0.2
TOTAL                    21                14            251              136          21             23                 19               15           500       100.0
1/  By gross assets.  Based on data on members of the chambers of commerce of Colombis  (CONFECAMARAS).
Source CONFECAMARAS.
LCPI2
January 1980                                                                                                                                                                        I
-z



z                                 ~~~~~~~~~- 73 -
4                                                                                         ANNEX 4
.0 4rC C 2                  0._^    n       1   0Z0 r   0.1
A _
    1  041            o Ci  .0           .0 l
-             O         l  .   .       i _       0o  1 
. fX  l  01   04 a   110 Nl00                     0   0M_ _ 
0 1      3                               .0 0lr-> o         i7 
I 0141                                00         0  N0  n r        
C.~ ~ ~     .0       o10 g        1 0         01      0    0       0        
0                01  01  4 r       1 0          01e    S    4 04  |.  G.|
1 ~ 1 
I~~~~~~~~                                          ~       I 
C~ ~ ~              C8     * 1   1 1t            v    o o,   Cl 



COLOYEIA:  E7GNT6 DEVELOP'dENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T715   iXports Structure by Degree of Processing
(Values at E.o.b.(
1970                         1971                         1972                       1973                        1974                          1975                      1976                        1977 1/                     1979 */
75$ million    %             019 millioc       7.         00$Um8llion      7.         00$ million       7%        010  lllico                  00$USS  million %  USS         million $% U8 2         VS  milli-                  US7  million %
ion-Traditio..l Products                    196           26.6            225         32.6            372          43.0            518         44.0            679         47.9             689         47.0          703          40.3            942        36 8          1 062         33.1
Banjo Prod-cra                         117           15.9            120         17.4            181          20.9            184         15.6            262          16.5            366          25.0         294          16.8            388         15.1            437         13.6
Semi-mtnufatctured Products             42            5.7             30           7 2             79          9.1            125         10.6            188          13.3            142           9.7         188          1 .8            199          7.8            221          6.9
jlaoofannurmd Products                  37            5.0             55          8.0            112          13.0            209         17.9            229          16.1            181          12.3          221         12.7            355         13.9            404         12.6
Truditino.a  Prod-cts                       540           73.4           465          67.4            494          57.0           659          56.0            738         52.1             776         53.0        1.042          59.7          1.618        63.2          2.151         66.9
Basic Pr-ducta                         526           71.5            441         63.9            461          53.2            624         53 0            628          44.3            672          45.9         967          55.4          1,503         58.7          2,012         62.6
semi-Fanufoctured Products  -  -  1 ~ ~ ~ I  0.1         1           0.1              2           0.1            1          0.1.            10          8.4            -
h'nnlfaoturrd Producrt                   14           1.9             24           3.5            33           3.8             34           2.9           109           7.7            102           7.0           74          4.2            105          4.1            19           4.3
TOTAL                     736         100.                                                                                                                                              .0  6 1745              12560                      10.            3  213        100.0
A/ Some discrepancy enist.  in the data for ]977 and 1979 in this teble end the  -eporta dart  furnished by PRO!MPO. (An-e 4, T-51, e-dy  -sa reenit nf es-groupings of certain -                        esi-eannfactured product categorier
--crecly carriO  not by PAUiXPO.  sin  can louftnotes to pra.  1.14 and to A.nem 4, T-5 fur more details no  olternati-s data snorte.
source   D          tNt (cusuncaclsarance)dat  for 1970-76 and rICOEE  eWgort r-g1nta-ti-n  data for 1977-789
LCPJ  y
J--uay 1980



_ 75 -
COL(MBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT                          ANNEX 4
T-16
T-16:  Total Tnst!tuttonal Credit Outstanding by Source, Term and Sector
(Year-end figures, Col$ billion)
1974                 1975                  1976                  1977                 1978
By Source                      Amount       %        Amount        %       Amount       %         AoMunt      %        Amount       %
Comercial Banks                 29.5       41.7        38.1       42.8       48.7       43.9      70.0       45.0       85.4       42.4
Financieras                      9.5       13.4        12.4       13.9       17.3       15.6       25.4       16.3      33.1       16.4
Savings & Loan Corp.            10.3       14.6        14.2       16.0       19.4       17.5      27.6        17.7      41.6       20.6
Mortgage Banks                  10.7       15.1        10.8       12.1       10.3        9.3       10.5        6.8       12.6       6.2
Agricultural & Social
Savings Banks                  8.8       12.4        10.7       12.0       12.7       11.4      17.6       11.3       22.0       11.0
Commercial Finance
Companies                      2.0        2.8         2.8        3.2        2.6        2.3       4.5        2.9        6.9        3.4
TOTAL                   70.8     100.0        89.0      100.0      111.0      100.0      155.6      100.0      201.6     100.0
By Term 1/
Short-tarm                       33.8      47.8        44.7       50.2       57.3       51.7      79.2       50.9       98.2       48.7
Medium-term                      11.4      16.1        13.2       14.8       15.2       13.7       28.0       18.0      38.1       18.9
Long-ternm                       25.5      36.1        31.1       35.0       38.4       34.6      48.5       31.1       65.3       32.4
70.8    100.0        89.0      100.0      111.0      100.0      155,6      100,0      201,6     100,0
Dy Settr
Agriculture & Livestock          14.5      20.3        17.4       19,7       22,1       19,9      31,6       2e,3       38,3       19,0
Industry                                                                    27.7       25.0       39.0       25.1       50.4       25.1
Construction                 )   28.8      40.5      ) 36.8    ) 41.8       32.6       29.4       41.4       26.6       58.8       29.2
Minnig                       )           )           )         )              1.2        1.1       1.4        0.9        2.0        1.0
Commerce                          5.9       8.2         8.6        9.8       12.1      10.9       15.2        9.8       18.8        9.3
Transportation                    0.3       0.4         0.4        0.4        0.5       0.5        0.6        0.4        0.7        0.4
Public Services                   2.4       3.4         2.9        3.3        3.3       2.9        9.0        5.8       10.8        5.4
Others                           19.1      27.1        23.0      25.0       11.5       10.3       17.3       11.1       21.8       10.6
TOTAL                   70.8    100.0        89.0       100.0      111.0      100.0      155.6     100.0      201.6      100.0
1/ Short-term up to one year, medium-term 1-5 years, long-term over five years,
Source: Revista del Banco de la Repuiblica; Banca y Finanzas, September 1979 (published by Asociacion Bancaria) and
Superintendencia Bancaria.
LCPI2
February 1980



- 76 -                                         ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-17: Estimated Effective Yields on Financial Instruments, 1974-79
Maturity
Period       1974       1975       1976      1977       1978      1979
1.  Savings Accounts - Commercial Banks 1/        None         12.6      17.0       19.3      19.3       19.3      19.3
2. Certificates of Deposit
(a) Commercial Banks 2/                   90 days       26.2       25.6      25.6       25.6      23.9       26.7
(b) Financieras 2/                        90 days                  26.8      27.4       27.4      27.4       26.7
3. Savines & Loan Corporations
(a) Ordinary Savings Accounts 3/           None          -          -        19.0       19.0      19.0       19.0
(b) UPAC Savings Accounts 4/               None         26.3       24.5      22.7       22.7       -         25.0
(c) UPAC Certificates of Deposit 5/       6 months      27.4       25.7      23.9       23.9                 26.1
(d) UPAC Certificates of Deposit 5/       1 year                                                             27.3
4. Central Mortgage Bank Bonds
(a) Cedulas Confiables 6/                 1 year         -         23.2      23.2       23.2      23.2       23.2
(b) Cedulas Solidas 6/ *                 20 years       15.4       15.5      15.5       15.5      15.5       15.1
5. Government Securities
(a) Tax Certificates 7/ (CAT)             30 days       20.9       36.1      16.5       16.5      49.5       40.4
(b)  "               7/   "              60 days        15.6       29.4      18.5       13.4      26.2       38.9
(c)      "           7/                  90 days        13.8       18.6      17.1       17.1      26.5       33.2
(d)      "           7/                 120 days        17.0       21.2      20.0       20.0      27.3       29.4
(e)          "       7/   "             150 days        20.5       20.5      22.1       22.1      27.1       28.8
(f) Development Bonds - Class j-1978*  5 years           -          -         -          -         -         20.8
(g)              "         "   B- 1970* 10 years        17.2       17.4      17.6       17.6      18.0       19.9
6.  Coffee Savings Certificate (TAC)             3 years        -         -         25.6      25.6       26.9      37.4
7.  Coffee Bonds 8/                              5 years       20.7      20.7       22.0      22.0       24.3      24.3
8.  Financieras Bonds 9/                         8 years       19.7      19.7       19.7      19.7       19.7      19.7
9.  Central Bank Securities
(a) Convertibles into Certificates
of Exchange 10/                  6 & 12 months    22.3        22.3      17.2       11.5                 23.6
(b) Certificates of Exchange 11/           4 months                                     37.0                 26.5
(c) Agroindustrial Certificates            3 months                                                          28.5
(d)     "                "                 6 months                                                          29.0
(e) Participation Certificates 12/        15 days                                                            28.2
30 days                                                           30.6
60 days                                                           34.0
90 days                           22.1                            36.0
I/ Interest naid quarterly.
2/ Interest prepaid quarterly.
3/ Interest paid daily
4/ Includes maximum inflation adjustment of 19% (since 1974) with interest paid on minimum quarterly balance.
5/ Includes maximum inflation adjustment of 19%.
6/ Sold at a discount with interest paid quarterly.
7/ Effective yield when sold on stock exchange at maturity for 99% (since 1974).
8/ Sold at a discount of 9.1% with interest paid monthly.
9/ Sold at a discount of 8.5% with interest paid monthly.
10/ Interest paid on dollar value. Includes 8% devaluation.
11/ Created in April 1977 as a mechanism of forced savings for earners of foreign exchange.
12/ Effective yield varies with changes in discount price,
* Tax exempt instruments.
LCPI2
January 1980



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-18: Industrial Credit Outstanding by Source, 1974-78
(Year-end figures, Col$ million)
1974               1975              1976                1977               1978 *
Amount     %       Amount      %      Amount      %       Amount      %       Amount      x
Commercial Banks               8,250      22.7   10,260      23.9   13,963       24.3   20,377      25.8   30,383       29.7
Financieras                    5,131      14.1    7,210      16.8    9,960       17.3   14.591      18.5   19,450       19.0
Caja Agraria                     342       0.9      421       1.0       625       1.1      866       1.1    1.180        1.2
Direct External Borrowing   15,082        41.5   17,001      39.6   21,465       37.3   27,658      35.0   30,000       29.3
External Suppliers Credits       166       0.5       343      0.8       556       1.0      452       0.6       500       0.5
Extra-banking Credits          7,395      20.3    7,723      17.9   10,913       19.0   15,080      19.0   20,800       20.3
TOTAL              36,366    100.0   42,958    100.0   57,482    100.0   79,024    100.0  102,313    100.0
-J
-I
* Projections based on partial information for the year.
Source: R. Junguito, "Financiamiento de la Industria Manufacturera en los Anios Ochenta: Aspectos
Crediticios y Tributarios", in: Asociaci5n Bancaria de Colombia, El Sector Financiera en los Anios
Ochenta, Bogota, Colombia, October 1979.
LCPI2
January 1980                                                                                                                M



- 78 -                                 ANNEX 4
T-19
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-19: List and Characteristics of Financieras in Operation
(as of Year-end 1978)
Date of       Paid-in Capital    Liabilities/
Name                                Establishment        and Reserves    Equity(Ratio)2/
(Col$ million) 1/
Instituto de Fomento Industrial
(IFI) (Public)                                  1940          1,874.3             12.6
Corporaci6n Financiera Colombiana                June  1959            468.8              4.9
Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional                  June  1959            380.0              4.6
Corporaci6n Financiera de Caldas            September  1961            237.4              3.9
Corporaci6n Financiera del Valle              October  1961            362.4              5.9
Corporaci6n Financiera del Norte             November  1963            165.5              4.3
Corporaci6n Financiera de Fomento
Agropecuario (COFIAGRO) (Public)    February  1966              169.0              1.4
Corporaci6n Financiera de Occidente              July  1966            160.3              4.4
Corporaci6n Financiera Grancolombiana          August  1966            425.2             20.8
Corporaci6n Financiera de Santander          February  1967            150.9              3.9
Corporaci6n Financiera Popular (Public)       October  1967            494.0              0.7
Corporaci6n Nacional de Turismo
(CORTURISMO) (Public)                 October  1968             545.2              0.3
Corporaci6n Financiera Internacional
(CORFIN)                                  May  1970              61.1              6.7
Corporaci6n Financiera de Oriente              August  1970             63.8              4.2
Corporacion Financiera Suramericana              June  1971             89.6              7.9
Corporaci6n Financiera del' Tolima               July  1971             61.3              5.8
Corporaci6n Financiera del Transporte
(Public)                                 July  1971             707.5              0.3
Corporacion Financiera de los Andes             April  1974             68.6             20.2
Corporacion Financiera Aliadas                 August  1974            153.2              5.8
Corporaci6n Financiera (COFINATURA)           October  1974            115.1              4.9
Corporaci6n Financiera de Cundinamarca
(Public)                                April  1975              95.2              1.7
Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
Industrial y Agrario (INDUFINANCIERA)   June  1975               28.2              7.8
Corporaci6n Financiera Agroindustrial         October  1975             51.1              3.2
Corporaci6n Financiera de Las Americas        October  1976             50.6              3.2
Corporaci6n Financiera Antioquefia
(CORFIANTIOQUIA)                     February  1978             100.0             4.6
Corporaci6n Financiera Uni6n (CORFIUNION)  February  1978               74.3              2.3
Corporaci6n Financiera La Sabana                 July  1978            100.0              1.5
Corporaci6n Financiera Progreso              November  1978            105.0              0.4
Corporaci6n Financiera de Boyaca             December  1978             n.a.              n.a.
1/ These figures are not directly comparable to the net worth figures of the participating
financieras in Annex 4, T-30 to T-37,because the latter figures include retained earnings.
2/ Liabilities do not include contingent liabilities and equity does not include revaluations
of equity portfolios.
LCPI2
January 1980



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-20: Distribution of the Sources of Funds for Industrial Development, 1974-78
(% of total)
1974            1975             19761/           1977              197B
Equity
Stock Issues                     2.6              4.9              1.8              4.9              4.9
Reinvested Earnings             34.6             30.1             41.3             33.5             31.6
Subtotal                 37.2             35.0             43.1             38.4             36.5
Debt Financing
Banks & financieras
(from own resources)            8.5             15.0             17.8             18.4             17.1
Development Credit              34.0             21.7             13.8             13.2             17.9
Bond Issues                      0.0              0.3              0.0              0.0              0.0
External Credit                 12.0             20.4             16.9             21.8             18.1
Extrabanking Credit              0.7              1.9              1.6           )  8.2           ) 10.4
Other Sources                    7.5              5.7              6.7           )
Subtotal                62.7             65.0             56.8             61.6             63.5
TOTAL                100.0            100.0            100.0            100.0            100.0
1! 'Rased on data from first half of the veer.
Source: FEDESARROLLO, Industrial Survey                                                                                     <|
LCPI2                                                                                                                          >
January 1980



-80 -                                           ANNEX 4
T-21
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-21:  Indices  of Activitv  on Colombia's  Stock vxchanges
Indices of Activity on 1rgota Stock Exchange
(1970O100O
AVERAGE
SHARES                          BONDS        OTHER            TOTAL            QUOTATION
Financial              Industries
Number                 Number
Value                   Value       Value         Value           Value        Total    Industries
1972       70.8       52.7       68.9         54.6         82.2         274.1           107,8         72.5        73.8
1973     109.7        95.4       98.3         92.3       166.8          356.7           159.0         78.0        83.4
1974     138.5       113.9      107.9         89.1        331.3         516.9            237.8        77.6        81.6
1975     126.3        78.8       98.9         72.2       185.5          445.8            178.6        68.2        72.5
1976     192.7       118.1       98.8         93.6       358.0         1028.4           357.1         84.0        94.1
1977     209.8       176.2      136.8        175.5       520.1         1163.5           463.2        118.4       140.1
1978     320.1    604.7         186.2        460.4        339.1        1272.4           660.0        175.0    185.9
Indices of Activity on Medellirg Stock Exchange
(1970-100)
AVERAGE
SHARES                         8ONDS         OTHER           TOTAL            QUOTATION
Financial             Industries
Number                Number
Value                  Value        Value        Value           Value        Total    Industries
1972      68.4        53.0       69.6         59.5       122.7         263.1           110.1         76.1        76.1
1973     114.1        99.4       94.4         89.9       198.3         355.9           164.0         83.0       84.2
1974     180.5       124.2      113.2         93.3       420.4         528.6           247.2         84.1        83.6
1975     130.7        90.2      100.0          76.0      268.9         449.9           188.5         70.7       68.6
1976     213.4       130.4      101.7         99.0        377.7        978.1           328.0         88.2       90.8
1977     246.5       208.5      134.6        182.3       500.6        1093.5           422.0        121.5      134.3
_  1978      291.0       649.4    210.3          493.8       431.7        1853.6          853.5        197.1       206.9
Source: Revista del Banco de la Repuiblica, June 1979
LCPI2
January 1980



COLOMBIA - EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COIMPANIES PROJECT
T-22: Term Structure of Financiera Loans Outstanding, 1974-78
(Col$ million)
1974                 1975                  1976                  1977                  1978
Amount      %        Amount      %         Amount      %         Amount      %         Amount      %
Short-term         962      10.1      1,752      14.1       3,770      21.8       6,768      26.6       9,154      28.5
(up to 1 year)
Medium-term      2,434      25.8       3,578     28.9       5,271      30.5       8,842      34.8      10,934      34.1
(1-5 years)
Lone-term        6,055      64.1       7,057     57.0       8,258      47.7       9,818      38.6      11,982      37.4
(more t1an S vears          _             _
TOTAL       9,452    100.0      12,387    100.0       17,299    100.0       25,428    100.0       32,070    100.0
Source: Superintendencia Bancaria y Asociaci6n Bancaria. Data refer to the aggregates of all Colombian financieras
(including private as well as public).
LCPI2
January IQRn
d >



- 82 -                       ANNEX 4
T-23
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-23:   Sources of Funds for Financieras, 1973-78
(In percentages)
1973      1974       1975       1976       1977     1978
Certificates of Deposit  (CD's)         2.4       2.4        5.0       21.8       30.1      36.4
Bonds                                  13.3      10.9        7.4        5.0        4.1       1.9
Other                                   4.4       6.3       10.2        7.9        6.8      4.6
Total Private Domestic Funds       20.1       19.6       22.6       34.7       41.0     42.9
-                    _                       =        _
External Private Borrowing    10.2         13.4       12.8       12.3      11.6      12.5
Banco de la Republica                    .4         .6       1.0         .7         .5       2.4
Fondos Financieras                     18.6      18.4       16.0      14.5        13.0     13.0
International Development Credits
(World Bank, etc.)                   24.2       22.2       21.6      16.6        14.1     10.3
Other Official sources                   .2        .7        1.2       1.6         1.3       1.0
Total Development Credit           43.4       41.9       39.8      33.4       29.0      26.7
Total Other Sources                 4.5        5.2        5.1       2.6         4.3      4.1
Paid-in Capital                        12.6       9.4        9.4       7.8         6.7      6.0
Reserves and Retained Earnings         9.2       10.5       10.3       9.2         7.5      7.8
Total Equity                       21.8       19.9       19.7      17.0        14.1     13.8
Source: Superintendencia Bancaria. Data refer to aggregate for all Colombian financieras.
LCPI2
January 1980



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-24: Net Financial Savings, 1971-79
(Col$ million )
Savings Deposits          Term Deposits                                             Cedulas
Commercial       Caja      Commercial                   Savings and       Financiera (Mortgae  %velopment                                Coffee
Banks       Agraria        Banks    Financieras. Loan Associations  Bonds             Bank)    Bonds         CAT      PAS    TAC       Bonds          TOTAL
1971                2,167         1,981         104           58              -                180        4,163        577        712                                      9,941
1972                3,216         2,615          63           81              -                319        4,331        829        868                                     12,822
1973               4,468          3,506          63          169            4,597              445        4,026    1,928          987                                     20,186
1974               5,594          4,029      2,681           229            8,279              443        4,019    2,891        1,867                                     30,131
1975               7,369          4,920      5,240           655           13,599              441        3,650    2,629          949                                    39,452
1976              10,342          6,575      9,223         3,662           20,591              476        3,562    3,106          620       518  1,154       1,217        61,046
1977  December   15,163           9,015    12,790          8,761           24,500              522        3,618    2,859          514       -     3,324      2,093       83,335
1978  January    15,030           9,173    13,966          8,713           28,931              554        3,723    2,797          545       -     3,785      2,553       89,770
February   15,486           9,164     14,758        8,736           31,351               546        3,692    2,782          514      -     3,605      2,417        93,051
March       16,024          9,507     15,481        9,306           33,784               509        3,653    2,731          484      -     3,642       2,754       97,875
April       16,708          9,369    16,437        10,187           35,895              452         3,656    2,697         534       -     3,617      2,734       102,236
May         17,217          9,350    17,365        10,972           37,117               451        3,650    2,688          553      _     3,592       1,963      104,918 1
June        18,516          9,898    17,325        11,253           37,859              444         3,642    2,638         625       -    4,067       2,415       108,682 r
July        18,712          9,849    16,952        12,422           39,054              428         3,677    2,594         663       -     4,085      2,423       110,859
August      18,844          9,965    16,946        13,283           41,248               516        3,697    2,568          688      _     3,192      2,854       113,801
September  20,267          10,599    17,422        13,776           41,903              531         3,362    2,466         683       _     3,949      3,091       117,864
October    21,539          10,708    17,164        14,560           41,792              549         3,674    2,416          730      -     3,647      3,620       120,399
November   21,595          10,674    16,948        14,130           40,590               541        3,687    2,385          712      _     3,626      3,436       118,324
December   22,678          10,975    16,170        14,800           34,955              635         3,634    2,386          728      -     3,350      3,716       114,027
1979  January    24,552            n.a.     16,700        15,751           41,199              681        3,129    2,308          812      -     2,919       3,739        -
February   24,844            n.a.     16,448       16,019           42,347              738         3,064    2,281         843       _     2,816      3,887         -
March       27,093           n.a.     15,962       15,922           43,890            1,091         2,939    2,254          854      -     2,879      4,123         -
April       25,167           n.a.     15,572       15,542           45,681              904                   2,197        909       -     2,820      3,804         -
May         26,034           n.a.     14,878       14,911           45,488              835                   2,199        896       -     2,765      3,486         -
June        25,877           n.a.     14,549       14,487           57,530            1,039        4,545    2,147          956       _     2,717      3,287         -
Source: Banco de la Repuiblica.
LCPI2
January 1980
a-r'
4x



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-25; Indicators of Banking System Activity
(Col$ million)
October  31,  1979                              October  31,  1978
Variation  (%)                                   Variation  (M)
First 10 months          Past                    First 10 months          Past
TOTAL       of 1979         12-month Period      TOTAL        of 1978         12-month Period
Money Base                               115,399        14.2                33.2           86,653          16.1               n.a.
Money Supply M1                          154,062        14.2                27.2          121,130          17.0              30.2
Money Supply M 2                         272,499        22.2                26.9          214,715         28.9               33.9
Demand Deposits                          113,968        40.4                26.4           90,200         43.9               28.4
Savings Deposits                          41,968        24.1                33.6           31,258         29.7               39.3
Certificates of Deposit-Banks             14,577       (10.3)              (15.1)          17,162         34.5               30.7
Certificates of Deposit-Financieras a/
T)ecree 2369/60                         7,156       (10.3)              ( 1.4)           7,259         72.1               n.a.
Decree 399/75                           6,063       (11.1)              (11.9)           6,880         47.3               n.a.
Subtotal                          13,219       (10.7)               ( 6.5)          14,139         59.1              n.a.
Trust Accounts                             4,167        27.9                24.3            3,352         61.8               7.4       1
Value Indexed Instruments & Deposits
Accounts                              40,812        93.5                 59.2           25,635         63.2              35.1
Certificates                           12,872       50.8                 29.6            9,930         50.4              39.4
Other Deposits                         4,253       (19.7)               (31.9)           6,248        248.0             147.0
Subtotal                          57,937        65.9                38.6            41,813         73.4             46.1
Loans & Discounts of Central Bank         12,249         1.6                 5.9           11,572         95.3              28.8
a/ Figures of October 26, 1979 and October 21, 1978.
Source: Asociacion Bancaria de Colombia
LCPI2                                                                                                                                4
January 1980



I-H                                                              H                                   C-
H          U                       k                             H
V    OOOOOOOOOOOO9H   on    oooooo.-rHh
I                       I            01.4       H HOOCH'
H -                  OHOCH H HC'HOCH  'HOHHO  HI
0000    C-HHHHOHOHHH -   0       HH'H  'H H        0H0.-H Hg
.'HOC                  CC    OHCCO    0        0   H      H                  000000 H.
CHOHO HOC HCHHHH             I                 K                                HOHO
jo                                   F
HOOHH....0000   -.        ---H'C
HO           C.OHH    C.... 0000  C0     0   H       oH    0000000
C       -. H       HHbHHHH HCOH.C          H       HOOCH             H.'                  H'''
CC     CCH CHHOC.HH        -   'HlH   OHO        HOHOO        OH        C  H a
HOHOC    H     HHIHHH.HC  OH    OH
OH         C HOOCH HO            OH         -000'* '                                       CC
'OH  0  0          H."HCHCS   H H 0- C'           000HOH.HOIH- OOH  H H   0         0  'H
C     H                H       C CC             C- 70000O         0 0   C-            0 0       0 C
C          -   0 H    o    H    -      0                    C       0
H                    oC     H                            oC
H            CC         C    H      000   C H H H C OH  H          H     C  H C H H C H HHC
C        0          C OCH     HH     0                   H
H        H          H         H      H                   C-       C
C              H'    00  H C            H          C-        H H    H                             H
H    I         H     'HOC               H                     H     H                    H         H
C                            H                0                   H         -
H               H     H                 H          H          H     '0                   C         C
H     H                                       C                          H         H
C               0     0                            H
0 H         H               H H  H    H H   H             HHHOO   H    H H H H  0
o  H H C-H H   H 0'  00 OH H' 000    000000  CO OH'HHHC- 0000000  OH  H  0 OHoOCH   H
C  OOOHHOOO  HO 0000000H  HOCHCO  H 000000  "0 OHHHHHHOCCOO   0 OH  H ' OHOHHHH   H    HOC-HO 'C  H
O  0 0          C'              OH  H    H H   10          -      0 HO  0    OH -0  H             C-H     0
0  C-0'OCCC- HOO ' HHHHC-.H    C-C-CHHO  "0 HHCHOH CHHHHHO  H HO  H  H OHOOHO   H ' - H H-H-H  OH 'H
O HHHHHHO  OHOH0H0H HO.H0H  H H-HO--   HO OOHHOHHCHHHC-   H HO  H  H OHOOHO   H    HOHOHO           C.
C- -    H   H               HH  C-  oH 0  SC-  H    H-HO   C-  H.HC-H0HHHHO  C-                   0  C
H H  .-HC-HHH 00000  .-.- 00000   HOC C-HOOCH HOC-H  HO1HHC-OOOOOOH         C-.HC-H.HHHHO HO
00000  0 OHH      rHOOHHOHHHCHO   o 00  H  OH0HCOHH  0''0'OOHOC-.-. H C
HHH CHOHO  HOHOHOHO H 000-H  0 0000CC   SHCOHOHHHOH HHC   H oH  H000HCoC- H  0    0 00000  H OH
O      -   0                 00        H H       H    HHHH                  H .-o  0        Hoo.-
O 0 HOHOOHO  H0'OHC-O 000.0HC-C-0  0 000000  CO 0 OC-CC-000000  0 OH  0 '000 HOCO  0 ''*0' HOOHO  OH
00000000   0 H HOHOHO', 00000    00CC-OH  110 HC-HOOHHOHOH   H 00  0  HOO 0000  0    0
HO          0      H  H      H-  0   HHOH              HHHH   000   0    HHH   H              'HO  C
H 0O0,    OH.oHCHHH  H-H C-H  C0OH0H    o'''                H OH  00000000   H         000000  C
00          HC-0O.HH   C-OH   OHO 00000   OHH.-0000CH0 0  C-
OH          H      H  H      HO       HOCH  110        Co-Coo  o  a  o    ooo   o             oC-
O 00HI00H00HIOO00HHH.HH0HHO   0  00000  "0 ' 'C 'OHOOCHO   0 '0   0  0000000   0
H 0 OH 0  CO   H 0000CC   H  0  OHOOOO 0 0  OHOOC H 0 C- 00 0
Co               0  0   H         -   H         H    H  0
0 H H       H      C-H000000HOOOo   H                             -            H
H 00 0 CC H    0
H H HO 00    000000000 HO          oOOH0   0        HOOCH'   oHoO        0000000
O C-' oH, OH  C C-OH' HOHOHH00000  C- ' HOOHO  IC   0000000   000   HHOHC-H00000H 0000000  H OH
0 0 00 00 0 000 00000000000 0 00000 II'....Coo
H          110               0    -  0     -      H
H       H H     - H  0   - Ho H  "0      HO 0 0  0  H   0      H H   C-    C   H HO
0 HOH00000  0 ' 0 0 0 H 0  CO ' ' .  o'O000H   H H .0  0  0 0 H 0 0 0 0  0000000 0 00 C- H
0000  00  OHHH0 ooooooooooL.        000o   NO       HOH.C-H'Co - 0 00  0  0000000
0                     H   -                              CC' 0 0 0   H H H H 0               C0
O 0 00      0000 00 00 00000   0000000   110H O0HOo.-OoOC-       00  o 00000000    H' HO H HOOCH  0
00000.0    OCo OH H H 000000000   000000 0                                           I
O   H       0         0      0 0  0  HOC   'H                  -      H
F                                                                      CO
OOCHC-,0l  C- OHHOCH00000 0000  0000000   0           oC-o  0  .0  0      0000  0          000
.0000000 000 H 0 0 0 o 0 H 0 C 0 0 0 0 H 0 0'
000  0 000000
0 0000 0   0 OHOOH000HOOHO0   'HOHOCHO   -                     0  -  H                            0    Ho
000  HOC-OH    0 -O  0   000000   0       000000
00000' H' 0 00000C000000000 000000.......ooC
..     0 H H 000 o 0  0 0 HOC-HO 00 H
0 0000 OoHO0000COO-HOoC-oo   0000000   IIOH0000C-000000   0 00  000000000   0
ii         CC .* 00 000000000   0 C-.  0...C0000, 000  0 0 000000-0  HO
0 00001 0'  000000000 OOooOH   0 0-0000  50  H    HHOO    0  H  0    HOHOHO                 000
L  0          HHOC-0000000   H H   0 00000000
0 0 0 0 H H   OCCOOHO- 0 0 0 0 C 0 0  0  0 0 0
II            I                                                                               0
OH  0100000000000                                                           oHOo000H H H
Or                      00                                        II
0                                                                                               '0
H OHC-H0 OH HO 0000 0H00000 0 0 -0000.00
00         70.0>000001                   000000H00H::H   HOOOOCC-OOHHO0O  77001:0;
H                   -      0                                                             0000
0-00.000  000000 0 0000000                                                              HOC-HO
lb        OHIHO   00110       HOOC   10          00
000H0   H C-Ho                          110 00000000000    0  0  H . oH00000     0000000H0H   H
0            10
H OOHoH 0000 HOHOHO 00000 0 HOOHO.0
0 0 H 0 0 0 00000 0   o  o  0  0 0 0 0 0 0 0  0 OOHIHOHHH 0 H
0 0  H 0000-  I#OVH
OHO 0 000000000 000000 H 0 0 0 0 0 -0 0 H 0 0 0 000000 #0 0000.000 00000000000 '0000
-O C- 0000 OOOooo 010 'H 0000000 0 000-000000 I OH HO
o 0000 0 0 000000 00 H 00 00 OH 0.0..I H OH
HOOC 0000000 o a OH - 0000000 0 0000000000 000
0                      0                   S 0-00000K                                     II
000 Ho  [0                        0 Ho   00H.0HH 00000    o ''H      00w-s'0U    ooHo-00o00  0
110 0000.000000    00      I                 -00000
2 COC4
AHt[                                           -    H



-             -                                            C            CC
aoooaoaao0.0.00CoaoOoaO              000fl0 00
--Co Oaaannno'00n 0                          000000.0  oooaoa-a-ooo oo<aoa 0          000
woOaoa0..Oo  00   000  -, -0"            -'C0a - F
0.0C   00  00000        0OaC0           0.
CCCCCaaa-                                                no          aoaoa-
naaaanacCanaCCnnC'        --  - an       a asaCoa-Ca                                   
CaCao-  C -100    a
0-000CC- CCC   000          000                          0.    0           0 0 a  0'   00'
a-CCCCCC          000           Cp                        -    0                   a   o.Co
aC-               '-nO      COO-                               a          a a 0         000
aCC       ' '0' oa-                        0                                    a       0,0  C
0   00            0a-o'     aOO            '             0    0                0      O'00
0C               O;0        0.0.                         0    -           -
0                  C'              V                      0    0          0            0  0
0                                  I                     0     0          0            000.    a
0    -          -             *00 0
F                                           F                                                   .01  a
'0    a - --                '0     an      a-                             a      --   '0 an  -
o     - aaa-0-000nana a   an-ona-    a   an  -   ,,,,,  a'-, - a -aann    C Ca-a-
a    a- aa-a--na-a-'00''0     C0 C-CC    aoan  a                   --'0    Cna-0-0a -   a Ca       0
o     nao-'-                C      '00          --                         a   - --   a a-n a
7-                          a no  aCo    a Can  - aa                  - - - a a-a-a-na   a an-a-   0'  7
C a-C '000a-    Ca-lana-               a--    aaa-aaaa   a Ca a            0
-             CC
a     a    --               a       a-nC    a-  -a     -            an    a   - aa   a no' -
-     a aa-'0ooaaO a-n      a-n   a'0C                0-                   aaaa oo-n   aao  a
a-   aaaoC    CIa-no-Can              - C'.'' a-C '''        a-n'' --4'--n--aoCa   - COC    '00
0'   '0-Jnaana-oana a'0  0' a-n a&O'0    a a-a-a  a'0               a-n    aa-aaa'0a   0- 0-a- a    0-CO
o    n - a-                 a      an                              0'-          -    o-a -
CI   '-'                    a a-  a         a C0''0  0C  ''''' an  - -a-anna    C             -a-
a     a- 0'0-a-O-a'0a-a-aano   Ca-anna      b  --a   a-a            a-a       a-0a-n   a an  a
- na-oC,-oCa-aaana.'a   a  - - na-n           a           -       a     -a-n  a   na-l'a
F   a'0n0'n                           Ca-a-    a                   a   a--.  aaa- a a   a a-a-                   H
a          a-           a   a      an       a                        0'            -   a aa- o-  1'  0
- z'?    a    a-a-a- 'aa  CCC C na--n,-' - a -   C CCn
C      -Ca-    a    anaana-aa-n-aaa    na-ann    Ca-a'-'
a                                    0      a                                           nn          -   a-
--'   Cn-a-aCaaaa-          C      aa-    C    a    -                '0       0-an    Ca a '0
n'0nao-'0CCa- Cana.-an         a-CC    a-    a no-         a--a-  a-   a-a-n on    a--a         fl0
a- - -aa-C '00-ona-ano' C'0 a a a-a a a--a'-a.na--.ooa,-o an- -C-a-n a- a a-a- a aOOO
C OCCCCCCCCCCCCCC C aCe CaCao CC COCa CC CCC C C C CC C 0-CO
F   3aan.-oao.'aaan 00CC    C  -  000           a    CaCan  CC'a CaCC-na.o-0    a on  a   C                        F
0 a-a-CaaaC-J a- a-na-nan   a    -an      C    nna- na  aa  ana-  a-a   anana    C C- '0
a-            a-  a                    -C         -a-a-   aa-.-       a-
0              n   na--'-   -,--- an- - -   'aCa-
n  a'0a-aa--naon-'nCa-a0CoI               a   a-n   na            an   a Co-n--n aa   a aana                -
Ca  -                       C               C   -C                 -C         -C CC   C
0n.nnnaa0-00aCn CCC   C                     a   00'' -  'C'''' aa 'a-Ca-naa    C '0-a-C   0'
ana'000a-0 Ca-n-'0aa--n    C                Ca-a-   a-n    -        on   CCa-0' Ca-n   C na0a-         C
a         -C                  -C            -C
C       C      a
O                                                                                 a-j-'aa   a
a-            a-  -a                   an           aa-a   a   ao-
a a-0aaanCa-aCCn-           n               n   Ca   a-C            a-Cnn-ana-a
CnCa-anaannoaa-Cn CC   C                    C   on  -a-n- -Co'' na' 'a-Ca-a'0a'0    a n-an
anaa-C'0na'0Cnanna-no-   C                  a   aa-  -n            a-   an-an  a-na-   C   '0on   0000       o
C                C-a
C   a      a-a              C               C   -C                 -C          - 00'   C   a-a
a a- 0a-nananana- CCC-   C                  C  - no- - na--a-C - aCC  C'0'0   C Cna-   0'
a a a0'aan'0 a-a-no-nan     C               C   Ca-  -a-            an   aaa-a- a-a-a-   C n-o'0'0
o nana- 0C0'CCCnao-O                   a-  a- --                 a       a a-           nan
C -0 a - aaaanoaa-a-n-a-   nn-nn       n  '    a- a 'Ia-It - a-  - 0 ' a - a a     a   na-n
C          aa               a               a                                 a a       a   a-n         a
F   Co-aa-nnanna-nCaa'-   C   C .DOC    a    C nan                   a-  ooo  -on  - a-   a   ---n  0'
a   ao-CaCOCaCa-CCa-   C   a Cnn    a              a-On    a-a-aCnCa-a-a    a   a-na                  0.
a      aaana0-a             C       a-a-    C    a                   a        nna    C-an    a-Co
a-Caaa-aCa-aC Can-n   a-          00     a-    a aan  - ' a    a -a   a'-n  a- a   a-
a-a-CaCao a-a-a-anOn-On   a- - a Can    a- - a-- na-a    a - - '-a- an - - C-On a a   a   a-a-C
- - - -0--CO
a   a-a-ann CanCanaaan    a   '0 ann    a-  a- ana-    a   nn  CC   a-an  a- a-   a   a-an
I  -                                     -
'a              C      a       a                                 a a a   a   a-na   a
'C  -ona aa-aa-naa-.on-a   C  'C  0'        a    a--an-- -         a a-a-  a-n  n -   C  'na-a
-0  pOa-a-CnCCaCnC aC-n    C   0                    no-n     a    a-n-a-an   a-   C F a-Ca
-  ,-            a-     a-n     Ia-  a-C                           -.    a  a-  a-     0
a- a-Can--   C  -n  a Ca    a   no- - a-      -     a-a- -n    a-aC-   C  -an-   a-
CC  Ca-Ca-a-n CCCC0'na0C    C   a  -a-a   a- a-a-a  aa   C a-    a COCC-aa-Cnan   C [ a--
C          aaa              C      a-n         -C                                 -    a
-C      C    '0         0'
a   a-nna-aCCCa-Ca-aan   a  -n  naa-    C Ca-C   C    CC   - - a-CC- naC C-0-C   C  *Cn    -
CCa-aa-aa-CCCC na-naC    C   0' a-na-    C a-C a-a--a-               nOa0'CCCCCC    C   C
a       n  a-                                       a   a      a-  <
-C            -         -      C-CC0
a-  aa-Ca    --                        an-a    Ca   C  Ca               CCC
a ann a-a a a- a-- a-nan a-a-CC a- an COO -
a CnCOaCCO-CCC a-Ca-an C 'a C Ca- a-an - an - 'a- a' - C Ca--a-a-a-a-a-On C a-a- aCO
--> CL ---
C   CCOCCCCCCCCCCCC    C   C CCC    - C CCC   CC   C C    CCC  COCCCCC a-                   an    0-CO
F - - 
aa-aaCCCnCnaaCCa   C  - a a                      a-a-   n-j     on  na-a-a-a-a-n7 aa  L  0   an  a  -  0'  F



GOILOOiIA: 001200 IEOE.-P98-  FINANE'       9058  PROJECT                                             r.s26.
io1;Anyi   f Fi-amin-  Lao   orfolio, -s of Qoprob-t 30, 19 79
CY  do O-idonte                          CF do Santad-r                            CF do Aliadan                   Grad Total
Noob-o      7      ooooA t     7        Nomber      A. O.oon t          '       Nob-r        3     A-oot        7          Nmb-r    %.        Amooot      7.
(Coil)                                 (Cel                                     Col(Cl
A.  By Mono A-ono
GolS E.G milllimo and bnIon                   54      21.6       24.0    2.3          10      29.3      21.4      3.9        231      60.0       102.2    20.8          2302    41.0       922.2    5.9
Coi$ 1.0-  5.0 nillino                       121      48.4      334.0   31.7         138      21.9    338.6    42.4          193      33.3      436.9    49.8           1961    39.  05,248.2   33.9
C.l) 5.0- 10.0 ,ollioo                        33      21.2      418.4   39.7          36      13.3    227.0    28.4            17      3.3       127.7    14.6           312    02.0   3,590.4   23.2
Col1l10,  - 20.0 allUi-                       22       0.8      276.5   26.3          12       4.3    154.4    19.4             7       1.3      106.3    12.1           232      4.0   3,209.6   30.7
Co1$20.0 -30.0 oillloo                         .       .          -       -            2       0.7      46.4      0.0           1      0.1        23.5      2.7           52      1.0   1,160.0    3.1
Co1$30.0   40.0 millioa..-.-                                                                                                                                              22      0.5      462.2    3.0
Go1$40.0 -50.0 milli-m                                                                                                                                                     8                         0.2  324.2    2.1
Gml030.0 - 60.0 mlllioo  -  -  -  -         -       -         -        -             -      -           -        -              3      3.1      173.0     1.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0.   13.0 1.
Cn1i680  - 70.0 mlllio--                               -          -       -            -       -                                                                           3      3.1      124.5    1.8
Cn1)70.0 - illion nod abmo                                                -            ---                                                                                 4      0.1      318.5     2.1
Tota                                   25       o 10              To152    10o  266    100.0    292.0   100.0           352    120.0       826.7   100.0         5 116   12W    3.8.8 16.
B. B, Term
Loa  thao  -n  y-na                          100      40.0      200.7   28.4          77      28.9    264.6    33.2          419      73.0       603.9    89.0         1,36    27.3   45,311.8   23.3
5-2 y_a_                                    86      34.4      273.0   26.0           32      12.0      32.6      4.1         18       3.3       63.1       7.4          884    17.2   2,182.7   14.1
2     5-3y-ar                                52     20.:8     276.8   266.3          38      14.3      916    11.3           93      16.8      130.9    15.0            887    17.3   7,330.4   15.1
5-8yarn -2                                           48        236 193              15       3.       385.6    48.3          79       3.4       63.7       7.536                1.      3,240.0   20.9
0  - 10 year                                  .       .          -       -            14      3.2      23.5       2.9          2       0.4        3.1      0.4.         664    10.0    2,209.1   14.3
10-13 ot-r                                                       -       --                   -          -       --                    -          -        -            201      4.3      900.9    5.8
13  -  5yns-                                           -          -       -            -       -         -1                            0.2        0.02    0.51           37        0       279.6    1.8
iSnodebmo.  -     -          -       -            -                 -        -             -                           -             10      0.1        20.3    8.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -.3 0.
Tnta1                                  230      a;200 1059 100                 266    1100    7.0  0U  120.             552    100.0       8376.7   150.0        rm    p01-10 48.815.
C.B  1- .nnr.a  lte
Col$                                         204     81.6       073.8   83.0         263       98.6   778.3    97.6          466      84.3      738.0    94.2          4,670    91.2  14,890.9    96.3
085 (fiond and flmaina                        46     18.4       179.1   17.0           3        1.2    19.0       2.5         86      33.       13.        13-.8         448      8.8      660.2      2.9
TOTAL                                250   _100.0   1,052.9  103.            266      100.    2 97.81  100.0         502    100.0       8176.7   1300 I           1    100.0 -  19.4 42.-8   50-0.
D.  BYPnic  Sine
Gobj 0.0   Olli-n mod Rei1s                    9       3.6       L2.4    0.2                                                 326      5S.0       134.7    15.4                           2434.2    2.9
Gol1  1.0 -   .0 m  iir                       21       8.4       32.8    3.1                   .190                                   35.9      424.4    54.1                            250302   16.5
C,,, 3.0 -  80 mt,llloo                       11       4.4       42.3    4.0                                                  21       3.8      100.9    17.2                            2,093.1   13.5
Cr1510.0-25.0 million                         42    .4.6         58.6   05.6                   .          .7                           1.3      116.7    13.3                            3,223.2   20.8
Cnl525.i   50 .0 million                      10       4.5      104.8   10.0                           N .A.                   -       -           -        -                            1,969.9   12.7
Cr1550.0 -75.0milIl-                           4       1.6       6.3.6    6.0                                                                                                              5  . -957.8    6.2
Col)75.0 -100.0 millio                                 0.4        2.8    0.3--                                                         -           -        -09.                                     39
Grl$oliO.0-l38.l million                       2       0.0       13.0    1.3                                                   -                                                            261.91 27
CrlOISO.90.200.0 million-                              -         -        --                                                           -                                                    6.        .
Co1$2800.0400.0 million                        1        .4       25.E7    2.4                            .-                            -           -        -971.6    6.3
Cei0.   illino and a6o,,                 4       8.4       30.9    2.9                                                   -       -           .                                       496.3    3.2
UN 1ortd                                             71.7      675 3   64.2                                                                                                                            6
T.t.1                                                         -i ~~T859    80  6-6    100.9    79-7.8   100.0-  ~ 52 10.   877      100a
E.  By 5'mdont Tone
Goumrg-rn                                76     30.4      412.9   30.2          122      40.9    362.3    45.4          193      10.7       217.0    24.6         1,4378    20.9  '.561.9    29.5
Coo.. a  dorhlns                             45       10.0      151.9   14.4          46      07.3      73.3      9.2        136      24.8       232.7    26.5           796    14.4  2:181.2    14.1
lotn-ndimtn 0oodn                             96     39.2       271.8   25.0          72      27.1    277.6    34.0          104      18.8       152.6    17.4         1,567    30.65,657,0          36.5
Capital  ods26                                        10.4      170.5   16.2           7       2.6      10.8      2.4          33      10.0       53.6      8.1          567    11.1   1,983.0       12.0
leonimen  (inn. toorian)          ~ ~~~~~5 2.0       46,0    4.4          19,      7.1      63.7      8.5           9       1.6       29.3      3.4           538    10.5      883,2      5.7
othot--                                                                      -  -         -                                   145      26.3      191.2    21.8           23        .5     2L          1.4
Total                                250    100.0     U 1029:  100.          268    102.0    9790    100.O0           352    600.0       028.7    ML 105.      WTI    11W 013.482,          100.0
F.    So E-noie Ao ~ioto
Food end bno- gen                             24       0.6      131.8   12.5          53      19.      004.3    23.8          43       8.4        75.0      8.0          594    11.6  2,431.9    15.7
Inmtilen                         ~~~      ~~~~     ~~~~~~21  8.4  121.7   11,6  33  124     92.6    18.6           435       .         20       9250                   14 1795           1.
Apae  co d intor16                                     8.4       94.2    8.9           -       -         -        -            20      4.2        35.1      4.           163      5.2      360.7      3.6
Woo-d pr_dot                                   2       0.8-       8.      8.8          2       0.8       0.1      -             6       1.1        64       0.7:           49     1.0      289.3      1.5
Feenen  Pri, jog                         17       6.8       48.6    4.6           13       4.9      15.3      1.9         27       4.461               3.             3        . 1   1,1113       7.2
loatiror goodo                  4       ~~~~      ~~~~~ ~~~ ~          ~~1.8  11.7    1.1  6  2.2  3.1  0.4     28       3.1       42.2      4.95                   1.       45.        .
Robber goAds                                   7       28        80.1    3,7           3       1.0      12.       1.6          30       .1        53.9      6.           538      02      399.3       2.6
Gloemlealo22                                           .8.       97.9    8.9          40      15.0    140.1    17.6            38      6.9        93.3    10.6     ~     541    10.2   1.809,4       11.7
Nom-mtallin nin-ol                             0       3.6       28.3    2.3           9       3.4      36.6      4.6           2      0.4         05       0.8           152     3.0      882.9      5.7
OenireotalIndnon                               3       8.2       23.4    2.2           -       -         -                      9      3.4        14.5      1.9          188      3.2      368.1      2.4
Heto1 poodomin  wner  eahiney)                29      11.6       77.4     7.4         22       8.2      49.0      6.2          12       2.2        6.7      0.8           348     68  1,2.             .6
iNn--lntrie nahi-ym,                                   0.4        4.6    0.4           -       -         -        .                      -                  -              33     0.7      177,4      :2.
Ilneontoal narbienry  12  4.8    69.6     6.6          -       -         -        -             1      0.2         6.6      o.a           69      1.2      266.8      1.7~~~~~1  1  6.6 11 .   1.2 66  1
Transport nqaip,oaen  -  -        -       -            -       -         -        -             3      0.5         1.6      8.2           53      1.0       12.6      0.1~~~~~~~~~~30.5 1.6 0.1    1. 17.  0.
OThnrapaoiton,11Iot                            6        .          .       .                 ,..,      ..2         .           0        1.8       13.7      1.6          163      3. 2    476.0       3.1
1060t01Cl                          .12      69.2    .7808.   74.1           185      69.3    055.0    69.6          309      56.0      478.4    54.6          3,457    67811.601,2          74.9
To..ion                                        2       0.8        3.6    0.4           -  -         -         -                 -      -           -        -             33      0.6       90.3      0.6
SCaleg                                         .       -          -       -           t0       3.0      32.7      6.6           2      0.4         0.7      0.02         216      2.3      464.2      3.8
pinSIing                                                                                                                                                                   46    5. 0       16.       8.1
GCnnonacien                                   14       5.6       73.1    6.9          21       2.9      45.4      0.7         43       8.2        68 .4    Z7.0          20       4.       65.        42
T,medo                                        57      22.8      145.9   13.9           -       -         --                  131      23.7      224.1    25.6            376      7.3     858.8       5.6
Snrol-  indostrlen                             3       1.2       42.4    4.0           -       -         -        -            9       1.6        3o.4      3.0           28      0.6      1908.      1.2
Other                                          0       0.4        7.1    8.7          ii      18.8    144.7    18.1           58      10.1        74.6      0.3          098    12.6  1,608.2    10.4
TOTAL                               25F0.01,8.    108.6                     266    102.0    79 7. 8   180.0         052    10O.8       076.7   150.0          5 118   loo 5 10 4_82.8    10. 0
17Neben nf deoloomeot ProJeot  only.



COLOMBIIA:  EIG8TR DEVEL.OPMENT FINANCE0 02004N01   P14.34CC                                       T- 26
T-26:  Analysis of Fil.an.lora L.an Potoisa f iSpt-nh- 30, 1979                                             P.. 
CFdo O-oidont                          CF Is  oortodor                          CF ds Aliodan                               Grad Total
lN-b-r      'C       aoot                Nonb-or             ...ooot       O No.b-r    7.            Aso-o       51        .omb-r         '     o,ot
C.  By Osatinatin  of 9t.tpt of t's Prni-t
Morn than 50%t on-porn    or ols               2       48        39. 1     3.          12       4.5      40.821 23                       3.6       49.9 9) .7            374        7.3   2.465.1      15.9
10 - 30 7  frootpot e9otd  r                  2         .2      186 170                82      30.9    319.1l    38. 9   7          7 -                                              .
Inpoot sabstitotton  (los  than 19%                                                                                                                                                           70       68
npor'tod)                                  211      86.0      834.7   79.3          172     64.7    444.9    33.7              5      0.9         9.9      1.1      2,681        12      ,70.-6.
Othro          -       -           -       -            -       -         .        -           52~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~ ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 9,55  816.9    93.2  1.636  32.3  1   _5.6 .
TOTAL                               250    110.1    1 0352.9  110.1          266    _2f.       790.8   100.0         352    100.0        87.       0.           11       l1.01.o2             1.
_                                                                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W M  -d-1    -o
Astioqaia                                     01      20.4      222.3   21.1           27      10.2    169.5    12.6          443       80.2      698.6    79.8       1,302       29.3   4, 281.8    27.7
(of whir),.. ot-lisod)
Arlootto                                       3       1.2       15.9    1.9            8       3.0      43.8      9.9           2       8.4        2.0      0.7        42)        8.3   1,149.7        7.4
Iali in   h ...-t-  i- d                                                                                 -        -             7       1.3        9.8      0.6        114        9.2      489.5       3.2
B.,ar                                          -                                                                                                    --3                             .        141.3      0.9
Calda-                                         2       0.8        2.4    0.2            -                                                           .        -          41         8          96.35      .
C....  ~              ~                    -           . -                      -                                                       -        -40                   08        194.4      1.3
Cordoha      -       -          -       -                                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--     3 0.3  32.0  0.2
Condisso                                     123      49.2      5172.   49.1           83      31.2    329.1    41.2            79      14.3      133.7    17.3       1,100       21.5   3.918,4    33.0
(of whir), ...rtall-d)
11 Coon              -      -           -       -            -                 ~ ~ ~           ~     ~ ~~~~~            ~~~~      ~~~ ~       ~    ~~~~~~~~-  -  1  0.2  2.0  C.?  9  0.2  50.3  0.3
Eloaira                                                0.         8.      11            -- -                                     -       -          -                     3        0ia        91.6      0.6
folio          -                  -       -            -       -          -        -            1~~~~~             ~~~~     ~~~~         ~ ~ ~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0.2  0.3  C.,  4  3.1  12.5  0.08
HiotsfntA     dlCs   rs-                               -          -       --                                                             -          -        .17                   0.2        88.0      0.6
lIgdlaa                                         -           -                                                                                -         .-                    32        40.3      0.3
M.gtO.                                         -       -           -       --                                                            -          -6                             02         14.0      0.09
Norton  -          -       -            -       -         -        -             -       -          -        -                      -          3.0      0.02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,  00
Qotodlo                                        3I. 10                      1.                                                            0.7        1.7      f.1          4        0.1        13.0     0.08
RIsAsaIds                                     62      34.8      345.86  23.:4           7       2.6      15.6      1.7           6      0.0         5.9      0.4        111        3.0      703.9      4.
sonrando-                                      1       0.4         3.4    1.3         103.0   38.8    161.6    20.3              3       0.4        0.6      0.1        193        3.       472.1       3.0
intro  -                -    -                                                                           -         -          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 0.3    09.0   0.4
S.150                                          -       -           -       --                             -        --                               -3                                         6.0     0.04
yalls   (of whirls ra-talid)                   4       1.6       33.8    3.2           35      13.1    141.7    17.0             8       1.4        5.4      0.6     3,072        21.0   3, 043. 9    19.1
Oth-r-                                                                                  3       1.1       7.5    _0.9            2       04         3.0    __. 3         14                  47.0       0.5
TOTA20L080                                          05     180-0          266     18.        9.        000         52      180        07.       0.                     O    13~ 482.8 100
100=_                                                                      0.118       100.0 _  _ 0_______-0    11
New                            4       1.6      ~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~62.7    5.9                                13       7.7        15.0      1.8                           638.6      4.3
foisting -Working CaPital 1-larr9oa80so9.                                                                                                                                                577. 37.
only-                 f  .   - .      190      76.0      565.2   53.7             N.A.                               s37         93        86.       9.2074,7 .                                37.3
l      -iPno)    t56                           20.4      425.0   40.4                                                                                                             3608.2       23.9
-Oth-r                             _-    --                               -                                                                           363.                           0.
70701                               250    100.0  lt.2052.   108.0           266    100.8    797.6   100.0           552    100.0        87.    100                              4_52,f  )&L.Q
UP to Cot)  1.0 nillios                                           -        -           1        4.5       4.3      0.5           6       1.1        0.0      0.2         206      4.0        88.7      0.6
CoI    20 -3.8 nillion                 1      0,6        -0.6    0.1          13       5.6        7.4     0.9           8       1.4        4.7      0:           07      1.7        66.        .
fol   4.- 70niSo                                         -         -           Cl       4.5      73.3      7.9         32        9.4       32.2      3.7         .91      37       173.9       1.1
Cc   4 00 -71.0 million               -20     16.1       46.6    4.4           37      13.9      63.2      7.9          59      10.7       69.6      7.9         340     6.7        79           1
Call 16.0   300  nIilon.               16        9.2       59.       36         25       9.4      60.9      7.6          74      134        984    10.            7827    67.                   4.6
Col3.   -  00ntis                19      10.9       61.6    5.6          7        9.4      04,0      9.4          01      14.7       941       07          3"       7.2       6641       4.
CotS 51.0 - 70.8 million   )    12  6.9  76.3  7.3     16       6.8      4~~~~~                                                ~          ~~0.0 58 4  .  69. 79  31    2  771.  5.0
C.cl) 76.0 -10.0 0410                             .         14      81           4       15       3.        43           3         .         97       9767                            3.         .
Cl2l0-0 .0  illn              28      1.        10.       98           41      54       174       18.55        724.9              14 1      199          38    144      2667         1.
C.,$401.  -600.0 nillios               1 9       9.        666      6.3         17       4.9      43.        9.8        43        80       170       1.            74              ,7.           .
Coll6Ol.0 -800.0 0111100  5  9     ~    ~~3.  389      37            3       11       3.         .024.                           85      1.           7 :71,219.3                  4.9
Co176801.O00O.0l olit-                            .         28       .           4       33       5.         7.8          2       0.4I73.932.9                    19       20     2 792.4       5.1
Col8l,80l.0 - 1,280.0 dillon  3  5.  0.6  5,5    0.1    48       5.8      38.7~~~1  64            5      0.9        70.7      0.9        346      6.     1288          83
Cl), 2100 - siLlios ao 2aoo          1        6.9      179.9   17.2           35      13.2      47.0      5.          3          .          .        .          7         3     2257         1.
C.  allnra.d                           78        1                  7284944-8                                                                        19-         1389     37       12,266      1.
C I$2     40.0i_i_ 2                                            180.08        41      8.         978     100          52    160.48767710.0                   3118    00.        15.4838   10.0
28 180.       6.6                  -2                   9      -           45       -2         -0.       2-2        34       7       1  1.
10012~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                        6.                     .        5
Jaory38.$61    60                                        .4      3           7                              a      4.                   4            .5     1.             8 



_ 89                                                        ANNEX 4
COLOMPIA: EIGHTH DOVELOPtIENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT                               T-27
Page 1
T-27:  Analysis of Total Subloan Approvals Under the Seven DFC Loans
(As of Year-end 1979)
Number                   Percentage                    Amount                        Percentage
(01$ '000)
By Financiera
Corporacion Financiers Aliades                            4                         0.6                            623                        0.2
Cprporacion Financiera de Caldas                         58                         8.6                        13,952                         4.5
Corporacion Financiera Colombiana                       141                        21.0                        45,394                        14.7
Corporacion Financiera Nacional                         148                        22.0                        t3,120                        13.9
Corporacion Financiera del Norte                         81                        12.0                         25,976                        8.4
Corporacion Financiera de Occidente                      16                         2.4                          7,077                        2.3
Corporacion Financiera de Santander                      28                         4.2                        15,133                         4.9
Corporacion Financiera del Valle                        113                        16.8                        t0,825                        13.2
Consortium of Corporaciones Financieras                  84                       12.4                        117,317                        37.9
TOTAL                        673                       100.0                       3C9.417                       100.0
By Loan Amount
US$  100,000 and below                                  200                        29.7                         11,963                         3,9
US$  100,001 -   200,000                                227                       138.9                         19,470                         6.3
US$  200,001 -   300,000                                94                        14.3                          23,189                         7.5
US$  300,001 -   400,000                                 44                        6.5                          :5,239                         4.9
US$  400,001 -   500,000                                 46                         6.8                         21,104                         6.8
US2  500,001 -   600,000                                16                          2.4                          8,986                         2.9
US$  600,001 -   700,000                                 17                         2.5                         10,278                         3.3
US$  700,001 -   800,000                                15                          2.2                         11,706                         3.8
Us$  800,000 -   900,000                                11                          1.6                         9,127                          2.9
US$  900,0013 - 1,000,000                               21                         3.1                         20,220                          6.5
US$1,000,001 - 2,003,000                                54                         8.0                          74,555                       24.1
Vore than   US$2,000,000                                 28                         4.3                         83,580                        27.1
TOTAL                       673                       100.0                        309,417                       100.0
By Tern m
3 years                                                   4                        1.6                             '..                         0.4
4 years                                                  11                         1.6                            990                         0.3
5 years                                                 90                        13.4                         17,718                          5.7
6years                                                   73                       10.8                          21,852                         7.1
7years                                                  80                        11.9                         38,360                        12.4
8years                                                 131                        19.5                          99,764                        19.3
5 years                                                   4                        0.6                           2,528                         0.8
0C years                                                 172                       25.6                         102,445                        33.1
11 years                                                   a                        0.7                           2,010                         0.6
12 years                                                  43                         6.4                         26,895                         8.7
13 years                                                   3                        0.4                           1,600                         0.5
14 years                                                   3                        0.4                           2,217                         0.7
1f years                                                  54                         8.1                         32,889                        10.8
TOTAL                        673                       100.0                        309,417                       100.0
By Grace Period
No grace period                                           62                         9.2                         13,873                          4.5
0.5 year                                                  27                         4.0                          6,811                          2.2
1   year                                                 176                        26.2                         43,584                         14.1
1,5 years                                                 43                         6.4                         34,963                          4.8
2   years                                                281                        41.8                        155,438                         50.2
2.5 years                                                 13                         1.9                         11,193                          3.6
3   years                                                 61                         9.1                         53,823                         17.4
4   years                                                  6                         0.9                          6,453                          2.1
5   years                                                  4                         0.5                          3,279                          1.1
TOTAL                      6873                       lO0.0                        309,417                        100.0



- 90 -
- 90 -                                    ~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA: EIGHTR DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
Page 2
T-27: Analysis of Total Subloan Auprovals Under the Seven DFC Loans
(As of Year-end 1979)
N-nber                   tPrcenta_c                    Amou,nt                      Percentage
(1-$, '000)
By Interest Rate
10 -3/4%  a/                                       10                          1.5                      15,945                            5.2
11 -3/4%  al                                        3                          0.4                         584                            0.2
12.0X                                               - 2.31                                              10,036                            3.2
12 -1/47.                                           1                          0.1                         600                            0.2
12 -1/27.                                           3                         0.4                          156                            0.1
13.07.                                              1                         0.4                          133                            0.0
13 -1/2%                                            8                         1.2                        2,641                            0.9
14.0%                                               1                         0.1                          293                            0.1
14 -1/2%                                           52                          7.7                      20,843                            6.7
17.0%                                               1                         0.1                        1,600                            0.5
18.0%                                             139                         20.7                      39,459                           12.8
19.0%                                              72                        10.7                       40,146                           13.0
20.0%                                              67                        10.0                       42,303                           13.7
22.0%                                               1                         0.1                          639                            0.2
25.07.                                            276                        41.3                       129,983                          42.0
2.6.0%                                             13                          1.9                        4,056                           1.2
TOTAL                  673                       100.0                     309,417                          100.0
By Economic Activity
Tobacco                                              4                         0.6                       5,208                            1.7
Food and Beverages                                108                         16.0                      58,780                           19.0
Textiles                                          127                         19.1                      61,357                           19.8
Apparel and Footwear                                31                         4.6                        7,829                           2.5
Wood Products                                       10                         1.4                       6,647                            2.2
Paper and Printing                                  58                         8.6                      32,985                           10.7
Leather Goods                                        7                         1.0                         936                            0.3
Rubber Goods                                        16                         2.4                      11,792                            3.8
Chemicals                                           91                        13.7                      40,552                           13.1
Petrochemicals and Carbon Products                   8                         1.2                        1,476                           0.5
Non-metallic Minerals                               68                        10.1                      40,879                           13.2
Basic Metal Industries                              25                         3.7                       6,020                            1.9
Metal  Products (except Machinery)                  40                         5.9                        7,852                           2.5
Non-Electric Machinery                               8                         1.2                       2,389                            0.8
Electric Machinery                                  16                         2.4                       5 828                            1.9
Transportation Equipment                             9                         1.3                        2,828                           0.9
Other Manufacturing                                 16                         2.4                       2,888                         0_ 9
Subtotal               641                        95.7                     997,027                           96.0
Tourism                                              6                         0.9                        3,039                           0.9
Mining                                              11                         1.5                        3,550                            1.2
Construction                                         9                         1.3                        3,315                            1.1
Agriculture                                         4                         70.6                       2,486                            0,8
TOTAL                  673                       100,0                     309,417                          100,0
By Geograi7hical Location
Antioquia                                          200                        29.9                      85,011                           27.5
Atlantico                                           63                         9.4                      32,278                           10.4
Bolivar                                             26                         3.9                      16,663                            5.4
Boyaca                                               2                         0.3                          114                           0.0
Caldas                                              37                         5.5                       10,801                            3.5
Cauca                                               12                         1.8                        7,447                           2.4
Cesar                                                3                         0.4                          991                           0.3
Cordoba                                              1                         0.1                           43                           0.0
Cundinamarca                                       165                        24.6                       70,433                          22.8
Guajira                                              2                         0.3                       2,239                            0.7
Huila                                                1                         0.1                          340                           0.1
Magdalena                                            1                         0.1                           97                           0.0
Meta                                                 1                         0.1                          630                           0.2
Narino                                               1                         0.1                           82                           0.0
Norte de Santander                                   3                         0.4                          780                           0.3
Risaralda                                           12                         1.8                        6,749                            2.2
Santander                                           13                         1.9                       5,152                            1.7
Tolima                                               -                         0.1                        1,497                           0.5
Valle                                              126                        18.8                      67,598                           21.8
San Andres                                           3                         0,4                          472                           0.2
TOTAL                  673                       100.0                     309,417                          100.0
By Asset Size of Client (Col$)
Up to  Col$   3.0 million                           21                         3.1                        2,223                           0.7
Col$  3.0 -   7.0 million                           45                         6.7                        6,233                            2.0
Col$  7.0 -  11.0 million                           43                         6.4                        5,585                            1.8
Col$ 11.0 -  15.0 million                           22                          3.3                       3,615                            1.2
Col$ 15.0 -  20.0 million                           35                         5.2                        5,226                            1.7
Col$ 20.0 -  40.0 million                           91                        13.5                       19,592                            6.3
Col$ 40.0 -  60.0 million                           69                        10.3                       20,042                            6.5
Col$ 60.0 -  80.0 million                           48                          7.1                      20,508                            6.6
Col$ 80.0 - 100.0 million                           30                         4.5                       11,978                            3.9
Col$100.0 - 300.0 million                          167                        24.8                      96,000                           31.0
Col$300.0 - 500.0 million                           49                          7.3                     40,439                           13.1
C.1$500.0 - 700.0 million                           21                         3.1                       31,949                          10.3
More than Col$700.0 million                         32                          4.7                      46,027                          114.9
673                       100.0                     309,417
TOTAL
a/ Dollar interest rates.



000000 O>40000f    CO00O1
- 04 H 00000>         F'                I   - .- -
HI
I                      00000000 OHIC
K-,         I.                  4'  -  0 0 - H H H H H
>7  HH000    H    - H HHOH    H
H [H
H    OHH  >7  H0HHHOO  H H
00   HHH    H         OOHHO    000               HOO0OH
O 0  H HOHHO  0                  9
0  -       H        4'>               j  , -   '  '  ,   ,  44    00
F
I  -             H    -
I                                >00
0        00          0                 K" ' '''0*''4' 0
9
K o. ,,,                    0 *,o,,,,'o,,  0   ' ,oo, .
oO H        -                 -   0       -   -                      9
[..-HH       '.
O        [OHO                                H      -                   K''
000         0                 0   0       H   H        HO
00  0       0000         HO     I  S
K >
H -         0  oOt' -           HOHO   HHOHOO
V1
H      000000                ',..   .-,,0000'
H.,                     ,   *,,,,o, o,.,Io,Co,,,,,, oooL  , . Co               H
0           0                   .              0
-   0  H        0  H H 0 0            - 0 0 0   0' 4 '  ''OH -
- 000000, 0H000oH 0           0 0 0 0 0 0 0         0000 000000000>
O    0 0            00000                      [0
0 00000. 00,000000           0 HOHOHO             H H 0 0 0 000000000
00oH;oH    HHOOHHooo[oo  OOOHWWo>LIHOOooOoO'.ooo
H 0 HoOHO           0 0 0 0 0            0 0 0 0 000000 0 0 0
0 0 00000  HO 00000..          0000000              . 000000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 H 0 0 00  0 H 0 0   0      0 000-Ho              0 0 o 0 0 000000000
0 0 o 0 0 0 0 .0 0 000 0 0 0   OHoHoHo               0 0 0
HO*00H400           0 .000000            0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0
0 0 H 0 0 0 0  0 000000 0      4.OHOHOO              0000 000000000 0
'0  0 0 0           00000                  00000000
0      0 000*00H0            0 0 0 0. 0 44 0       0 0 0 0 000.-4.4004.4 0
0 0  0 0 0            000.-.-                  00oo  000
0      0 0oooHHo           0 0 0 H 0 .4 0        0 0 0 0 000000 0 0
0      0 0 0 00000            0 0000 0              - 0 0 0 0 0
0   0 0  0  0 0 H     0 0 0 0 0 0           0 0 0 0   0  000
0      0 00 H 0000            0000000   000000000000  000004, 000
0      000o00 H H             o 0 H H H 0           0000 0I...>>4.4H00 0
0      00000000               0000000               0000-> [00000000
0 H  0 0 0            0 000                       0  0 000
4 011410        0 '.   0 .0 0 0 0000         00000 00 '                      .'00 000
0      44 0  00000            0000000               0000 0 04,0 00000



T-28,  On   u   o               -ol -reAprrd 1rOo- 4o2,-  -223-04 ~and12-C
CREPTT CDIOrl'NT0                                           1?0327 NE2     IN 92000 13C0W0rT                 TICCWOWOGY 111P308V8187   POLWTI  CI  STJLOL Cl8IONllT            __________--    02
tour 1223-CO          ~          oo1596-CC                       tou123-C                        Loan 1520-CO                      22012-0La  139-2                                                   Loa  12~23-Cote,  50C
Oo03er    0    Aroorn    3    Number    0    8,rrorr    1.    Narber    2   alr.oozr.0   0,   8031cr    0   rot    0  Number   7.   koorooor    0    Ounoberl  boot    0,    arbor    0.7   boom-  0 A.      boN-b-er.O.AeNi-e
020-2201                               20b112% 021       N211b-                                          2100I                            A220,,n'2o20222                                                                                      C2l
Tab.on                                       1     0.5       122   0.1       1     1.1       520   0.6                                                                                                                                                   0.5       102    o.o      0I      2.0 2C.
Prod end Oroeresco              37~~~~~~ ~~~ 22.    2,92 :2.     18    2,0   16,93   0.        ----                                                                        -         -       --                      -         -       7    27.9   22,727   26.2        18    102  01,933  24,0
T-orlle                                     22    02.1    2,721 26          1     111    561 86                   ---- 3    14.3                                                                  90   5.0       1    14.      1.0      04       1       3.     509        ,        0    2.       ,2       .
Appare   -d Oro-oo                          11     62      270 36            3     33        382   0.4                                                                                                                    1                      ,3     2,228    3.4        3      3 0.    38     06
Oue  a,  olom                           19    124    9,9. 413.1           7     7ar   b,862   9.2                                           1                                 4.2       253  12.7        1    14.3        05   1.4      20      22 2.44   12,7             9       .[   6.387   8.4
2.eenhooloodo                    2~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~ 1.6  42  20.6 - ---                                           ----                                                         -        --                      -         -    5       1.4       422    0,35                     
robOenpood,                      ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~6 33 b00 .0       2     19         27 0.                                                                                                                                               .      420       10              22       32     3,
COemloets   ,                   ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~26    14.3   17.202   15  16    17.    12.923  26.9  1    33.3    1, 612  72. 2       2   120.2    1.701 120.3         5    23.8       426  216.                        -       -       5      35     2,0        7        2     1.    2181,
P-boooO-lollebOOrbOOp-oo-ooO                 1     2,5       391 0,5         2     2.'7'2    313 0.3                                                                                                    1                                       25        321    3,3        1      .        1      ,
"I-aollooOrroe0                               5,5    3,418 4.6         01    03.8   20.231  13.3         2    266.2      629  29.8       -       -        -                2      9.0,     427  22.61       3    71.4       240  47.2       14     b.0    4.263      o.2     20      7.2  22,899  16.8
OrOneu  Ird .tle                        7     3.8    1,583   21         1     1,1    1,414   2.2 .           ..                      ..                       .6    28.5                    5    04--                                       1      63      2,0401     ,               .      ,1 2.1 '.
200   rca(--oploa-h-neYl           13      8,     2,204   3.2        0     0.7    0,122   3.9 -           -       -           -           -        -       -       -          9,o       043   2.1               .        -       -       17     0.1.2              .               .      ,314   3.2j
Oor-eleoooloaarl.roorry        2    ~~~~       ~~~            ~~~~1.  70    1.    .  5  .          ....1                                                                  4.8       40   2.2                                        3      1,4       93     12-a.                     3      .
blrrurlo rorbleory          3     2,7    2,224   0.6        2     2,2    2,170   3.3 -           -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -           -4    1.224                                                      .2      2      2,0   2.03       ,
Sru,rooll,ooolo.nr2                                          1. 96   0.3 -- -              -        -           -        ----                                                               ---2                                                        1,        10     22,3               a .
Ct60-oO2- 0o00C4                                   2. 2      303   2.5      0      1.1       172   0.3     .        .......                                                                                                                              .         8      .                ,       7      .
00020                             164   95.3   73.374  97.0        82    91,2   58,221  69.9          3 120,2    2,219 122.0          2   102,2    1,211 120.0        20    052    019  97.4            1    000       .732.2          97     35.1   77,5502 32.2        91 21,9   1,68   00.41
3 1.6      412   0.6       2      2.     2,300   3.5     -         --           -            -            -         -         --                           --                            -            14        492    2.2        2     2.2   2,382    3,4
0000022                          9~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ 0.5    1,00  ~1.8  6  .4    214   3,1 -            ----                                                          1     4.8        32   2.6        .      -        -       -       4      2.0    1,11      1,4       4      4.1   2,014   2.8
t0012,o,02100         3     1.0       632   2.6      2      2.2    2263   3.5       -        -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -        -     o       o.~~~~~~    o~o,    p,g    2     2.2   2,528353.3
121242.             183   102,2   75 0~~~~~~~~~~~34 1CO,0    90   122.0   65.280 002.2  3   622.2    2.279 1200         2 00.00-z io-    0.211 122.2     21   102.2    1.971100.2  ~ 7 102.2 ~1723 102_2   72                   0....Z3,p1                  00.          0Oo   2.
062009022                       ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~46    26.3   13,1  22.4  06    09.   100,766  24.0:1                                 1    52.2    1,210  92.6        12    47.6    1,2 74  3,          142.0         1,351  76.2    56    280.   24.732    17,8         30    9.30,217  26,2
18     99    9,7351  12.8        6     67    7,52    21.52                                                                                9.5      18    9.         1    24.3        9      .       2      92     991       24        7      71    7631
3,304  3,006  2    00.7  019  29.8-3                                                                                                         2.4    4,063    5.1        4     4.1   3,698    3.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 4  5.  4 .    368 5 
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ 1           40         6      . -  -  1                                      2. -O5     65    0.1       -      -       -
49 3,0272  4.2      3       3.        060   1.2.                                                                               40         52 27           1    143        258  14.5    10        9      305       294            .41. 1  9263  1.4
0     2.7    1,667   2.2        2     2,2       623   1,        ......                                                                                                                               ,0222                   .              20       625.
2o.edlooe,roa                   ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~48    26.3   72,254  29,6  32    33.6   23,336  36.7  -       .        .                    52.2       210  03.4        5    23.0       522  25.0        1    24.0       149   Z'S    3i    25.6   22,762   22 5.    34    '4 3  24,200  85.5
G.eIon1                                            2,5       03     .8       ..1    33.3    1,622  70,1.2                                                                                                                                        2              2.23
blOb                                                     1~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1. 1  342   0,5--                                                                                                           -
lsagdoleo,.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~                                                                                                                                                                            342  2.
0000                                                    1     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1  630   2.2--                                                                                                                                                               3o
burIno -----------                                                                                                                                                                                                     638   0.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
N.-  6do So--od-o                            0211             80 2.----.2                                                                                                                                                                                        o
5     2.7      1265   30-----232,-.4    2,645    3-
S.rol-der                                    2     11        12 22           3      .3      ,071   3.2.2                                                                                                                                               1.2       182    0.2       3      30    2713.0
0001.0                           43    20.9   18,223  23.9 1~~~~~4~    21    12.2    9,715  14.9.2                                                                          9.5        20   1.3       1    14.3        25 14    412    22.2   18.12                                 9740043
2eo4o,2,n.  2  1,0   102   0.2  1      1,1      360   0,5        -             ---------                                                                                                                  1.2       222    22         1     lo       930   0.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1100  197  1040_O
22060                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~183   120,2   9504 02.1 3    100,0   05.260 100,2      3    -00,     2.279 100.0       2     D100.   1.:211:12.         21    0,0      1912.0            7   1000    12 .12  0    21 120.2 7,202028,O..,.202.
00.  22 Aoroo OOo.o of 021,006 02010071 54  00                                                                                                                                                              1..      1.'   000                           41~0,
OproColSO.O.00000on              ~~~~~~         ~~~~4 2,2  513   0,2  2  1.1      340   0.51                                                                               4.          0    ,         -      -2.4                                    a0      07        1              368   0.5
C O3210                                      a     4,4    1,12 1.m                 4.4    1228   10                1                                                               4.2        32 0.          1    14I2050                   9     43       1,1229                                   33
Co107.0-11.2                    ~~~    ~~~~      ~~~~~11  6.2  933   1.3  9 3,3   389......                                                                                                  --39                                                      5     1                 0      51   2.8
000961,2-12,3                  10     2,7~~~~~~~~~~~~~4     2,579   1,7  2  2.2  337 0. 2.-1                                                                                                                                             77      1,79      0         2       2       32 3.
0o0990,2.102.2                    7 3,0 2.761 3~~~~~~.7'4 4.4 1,547 2,-3.  ,6                                                                                                                                                                                                        .1.
0019300.0520.0 020                      5.       .11,                   2.9 4,686534-                                                                                      23.0      531  16.6        2    1.         30192    130         72792             01      1      1.    3001.
2020500.0.720,0  '                7~~~~~~~~~2   13.8    2,63  22.9  4   4.4    6,336    0,.3    14.                                                                                  41    09         -                             0      0.      290    12.2        4,    4.1 0,733       8.
Oar    9..l   01.815  21.1  21    Oa.2~~~~1  3,2 649     2    .62        6192.           -    100      1000.29                  5,        .0   94,         1    1.8,7   1,    2                 13 0 0 0.                  2,    00,0  20.190  85.1
orpono                  2    02,3 42,83604.0           33     27.0   1,424  2.0           1    3.3    1,60        7     2 . 2         -     .-              2    5,3        20033.2          1     6.6        34 4,1   10       07.7   4,'4  0    141       12    1,3 .2 ,oo   29.
CoN,,,                          113~~~~~~~~~~~~~4   60.2   36,6812 60. 46   72. 6,296  20,0              66.7       622  23.8           100,0    1,211 122,0        14     6.2       ,8303            2    2,        ,0    52 23           1: 3.0            00       2      12'0707,
C   s1ooMlt.                         113..        10,0 73004 100.2 97       120 6,20102                  3 12,          ,1 200           2 00 11,221 290.00              7100    00.      ,7   2,                0.       ,7  103,       I20    111.    240670  124.' '    4      10,   6,4120
:99~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                       -- 4                                     -         j      33             7,                                               -                                   43       2      .     1



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-29: Evolution of Financiera Staff During 1979
Staff Evolution During the Period
Status as of Year Beginning           Entry                    Resignation            Status as of September 30, 1979
Professional       Other        Professional    Other       Professional   Other         Professional    Other
Caldas               28             45                8             8             4            9                 32          44
Colombiana           33            122              13              8             8            5                 38         125
Nacional            n.a.           n.a.             n.a.          n.a.           n.a.        n.a.                27          57
Norte               n.a.           n.a.             n.a.          n.a.           n.a.        n.a.                50          59
Valle                42             79                5             3             1            1                 46          81
Occidente            21             28               6              5             6           16                 21          39
Santander           n.a.           n.a.            n.a.          n.a.            n.a.        n.a.                22          38
Aliadas             n.a.           n.a.             n.a.          n.a.           n.a.        n.a.                41          31
LCPI1
January, 1980



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT                            T-30
T-30: Financial Statements of CF Caldas
Audited Accounts, as of December 31
(in Co1$ million )                                                         1975         1976         1977          1978        1979
CUnadited)
Balance Sheet
ASSETS
Cash, Receivables and other Short-term Assets                           38.8         50.8        105.1         168.0         270.0
Export-import financing                                                 63.2         42.5         15.3          32.9          76.7
Loans due within one year                                              166.1        256.2        431.7         658.9         570.5
Current  Assets                                                    268.1         349.4        552.1        859.8         917.2
Loans due after one year (net)                                         493.6        571.7        752.0         910.9       1,036.1
Equity Investments                                                     132.5        154.8        160.6         219.4         303.2
Fixed and other assets (net)                                            41.4      -__.2         3_6.7           62.2          40.8
Total Assets                                                       935.6      1.126.1       1.501.4      2.052.3       2,297.3
LIABILITIES and EQUITY
Time Deposits                                                           25.7        101.3        152.4         445.7         443.4
Loans Payable (current)                                               )
Due to Banks                                                          )215.0   )   229.8    )  263.9    )  345.1             463.3
Accounts Payable and other Short-Term Liabilities                     )_        )             ))
Current Liabilities                                                240.7         331.1        416.3        790.8         906.7
Bonds payable 1/                                                        65.2         62.9         75.8          47.6          54.9
BR                                                                      75.0         94.2        110.4         182.3         252.3
IBRD                                                                   330.6        392.9        467.4         501.7         527.1
Other Liabilities                                                       57.2         48.4        159.8         228.4         154.6
Medium- and Long-term Liabilities                                      528.0       T598.         8T1.4         960.0         988.9
Share capital paid-in                                                 146.0         151.6        192.0        192.0          217.0
Retained Earnings                                                       35.2         48.0         79.7         109.5         184.7 4/
Less underprovision for expected portfolio losses 21                   (14.3)        (3.0)                      _-
Netweoth                                                                            196.6        271.7         301-5         40i.7
Total Liabilities and Equity                      9i       5                      _12.1        1,12.1T      2 052.         2.297.3
cettingent Liabilities                          T4                  .                                        J95 3. L.g      198.5
Ratios
Equity investments as % of total assets                                 14.2         13.7         10.7          10.7          13.2
Current Ratio                                                            1.12         1.1           1.3          1.1           1.0
Total Liabilities/Equity                                                 5.1          5.0           4.9          6.0           3.7 6/
Reserves and Retained earnings as X of total port. 3/                    4.1          4.7           5.9          6.0           9.3
Equity Portfolio as X of networth                                       79.4         78.7         59.1          72.8          75.5
Percentage increase in total assets                                     30.3         20.3         33.3          36.7          11.9
Current Assets/ Networth                                                 1.6          1.8           2.0          2.9           1.6 6/
INCOME STATEMENT
Total Income                                                           142.0        189.5        262.9         370.3         532.5 5/
Financial expenses                                                      95.5        135.8        173.3         250.8         351.3
Gross Spread                                                            46.5         53.7         89.6         119.5         181 2
Administrative Expenses                                                 17.2         22.8         31.1          42.7          57.4
Provision for losses                                                    21.1         10.2           1.7          -
Taxes                                                                    0.9          1.9         14.4          20.1          16.8
Net profit                                                               7.3         18.7         42.4          56.7         107.0
Dividends                                                                5.8         12.6         26.9          40.5          74.2
Ratios 4/
Gross  spread as X of ATA                                                5.6          5.2           6.8          6.7           8.3
Administrative  costs as % of ATA                                        2.1          2.2           2.4          2.4           2.6
Net Profit as % of ATA                                                   0.9          1.8           3.2          3.2           4.9
Net profit as X of average networth                                      4.8         10.3          18.1         19.8          30.4
Dividends as % of year-end share capital                                 5.8         12.6         14.0          21,1          34.2
Dividend pay-out ratio (X)                                              79.4         67.4         63.4          71.4          69.3
1/  Excluding bonds issued to BR.
2/ Recommended by external auditors over the provision set aside by CFCA.
3/ Without deducting provisions for bad debts.
4/ Excluding revaluation of assets estimated at Col$159.6 million.
Si Including about Col$33.5 million received as dividends from investment in Petroleos Nacionales.
6/ Includes revaluation of assets.
LCP12
April 1980



-95                                                    ANNEX 4
T-31
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-31: Financial Statements of CF Colombiana
Audited Accounts, as of December 31
(in  ColS million 7                                                     1975         1976         1977         1978         1979
(Unaudited)
Balance Sheet
Assets
Cash, receivables and other short-term assets                    140.2        159.7        238.5        429.1         538.7
Export-import financing                                          370.2        417.1        595.6        499.9         963.8
Loans due within one year                                        517.2        747.5      1,192.9      1,840.2       1,423.2
Current Assets                                               1,027.6     1,324.3      2,027.0      2,769.2       2,927,7
Loans due after one year (net)                                 1,127.9      1,192.0     1,409.1      1,683.6        2,131.1
Equity investments                                               175.4        184.6        275.6       430.3          629.5
Fixed and other assets (not)                                      29.5         26.4         28.5         29.5         187.6
Total Assets                                                 2,360.4     2,727.3      3,740.2      4,912.6
Liabilities and Equity
Time deposits                                                     81.8        259.9        541.1     1,352.1          704.8
Loans payable (current)                                          328.5        341.0        394.6        555.0         191.2
Bonds payable                                                      -            -           64.1         57.3           4.3
Due to Banks (foreign)                                           242.7        288.9        396.0        329.5         535.7
Accounts payable and other short-term liabilities                163.0        168.2        268.2        331.7       1,099.0
Current Liabilities                                            816.30    1,058.0      1,664.0      2,625.6        2,535.0
Bonds payable                                                    227.4        226.4        215.6       132.7          238.7
BR 1/                                                            337.8        357.0  )                 537.0          764.3
IBRD                                                             560.2        612.1  )  1,225.8        859.3        1,009.2
Other liabilities                                                 13.2         16.0         17.7        21.1          378.7
Medium and long term liabilities                               1,138.6      1,211.4      1,459.1     1,550.1        2,390.9
Share capital paid-in                                            172.6        172.6       198.4        228.3          273.2 2/
Retained earnings and reserves                                   233.2        285.3        418.7       508.6          676.8 -
Netr  rth                                                        405.8        457.9        617.1        736.9         950.0
Total liabilities and equity                                   2            2 7         3                           5,875.9
Contingent liabilities                                           6b7          2700                      540.3         660.0 3/
Ratios
Equity investments as 2 of total assets                            7.4          6.8          7.4          8.8          10.7
Current ratio                                                      1.3          1.3          1.2          1.1           1.2
Total Liabilities/Equity                                           5.2          5.4          5.7          6.4           3.4 5/
Reserves and retained earnings as % of total portfolio            10.6         11.2         12.1        11.4           13.1
Equity portfolio as % of networth                                 43.2         40.3         44.7        58.4           66.3
Percentage increase in total assets                               13.7         15.5         37.1        31.3           20.7
Current assets/Networth                                            2.5          2.9          3.3          3.8           1.8 5/
Income Statement
Total income                                                     411.0        464.7        704.1        919.7       1,233.4-4/
Financial expenses                                               240.6        275.2        437.0       622.1          845.3
Gross spread                                                     170.4        189.5        267.1        297.6         388.1
Administrative expenses                                           36.2         45.4         61.2         75.2          98.7
Provision for losses                                               -            -             -           -
Taxes                                                             37.2         27.9         47.9         41.6          59.0
Net Profit                                                        97.0        116.2        158.0        180.8         230.4
Dividends                                                         60.1         74.6        107.2        123.3         170.5
Ratios 2/
Gross spread as Z of ATA                                           7.7          7.4          8.3          6.9            7.2
Administrative costs as % of ATA                                   1.6          1.8          1.9          1.7            1.8
Net profit as % of ATA                                             4.4          4.6          4.9          4.2            4.3
Net profit as % of average networth                               25.6         26.9         29.4         26.7           28.0
Dividends as % of year end share capital                          34.8         43.2         54.0         54.0           62.4
Dividend pay out ratio (2)                                        62.0         64.2         67.8         68.2           74.0
1/ Includes other official entities.
2/ zxciuuea reviluaioa of .iaLts estimated at Col687.7 million.
4/ Iticludes about Col$75.0 million dividends received from equity investment in Petroleos Nacionales.
5/ Includes revaluation of assets.
LCPI2
April 1980



96 -                                             ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-32:  Financial Statements of CF Nacional
Audited Accounts, as of December 31
(in Col$ million )1975                                                             1976        1977         1978         1979
(UJnaudited)
Balance Sheet
Assets
Cash, receivables and other short-term assets                 58.8        77.3         42.4       321.8         442.7
Export-import financing                                      136.0       103.6        378.5       452.0       1,918.1
Loans due within one year                                    346.6       593.4        577.4       811.3      _
Current Assets                                           541.4       774.3        998.3     1.585.1      2,360.8
Loans due after  one year (net)                              756.6       859.9      1,126.9     1,922.0      1,617.6
Equity Investments                                           159.7       175.7        247.7       364.1        588.4
Fixed and other assets (net)                                  15.8        12.3        101.2       397.3        275.2
Total Assets                                             473S  =         .2    2,454.1      4,268.5      4,842.0
Liability and Equity
Time Deposits                                                 22.1       140.2        220.3       638.5
Loans payable (current)                                      184.0       290.5        308.3       105.6        1,813.6
Lu oans  nk                                                  133.8        93.8        176.7       576.4
Accounts payable and other short-term liabilities             63.4        81.5        212.6         52.0       535.0
Current liabilities                                          403.3       606.0        917.9     1,372.5      2,348.6
Bonds payable                                                 99.0       126.6        151.1       120.7
BR I /                                                       121.6       142.7        233.9       614.0
IBRD                                                         475.4       548.4        654.4       699.4
Other  liabilities                                             3.--0       3.9         48.5       512.8    _
Medium and long term liabilities                             699.0       821.6      1,087.9     1,946.9      1,560.1
Share capital paid-in                                        169.6       169.6        184.4       220.3        341.0
Retained earnings and reserves                               201.5       224.9        279.9       728.8 2/    592.3 3/
Net worth                                                    371.1       394.5        468.3       949.1        933.3
Total liabilities and equity                               T7!:sM                -:T7MI         4.L   5  =4, L2.0
Contingent liabilities                                       169.7       164.4        115.6
Ratios
Equity investments as 2 of total assets                       10.8         9.6         10.0         9.1         12.2
Current ratio                                                  1.3         1.3          1.1          1.2         1.0
Total Liabilities/Equity                                       3.4         4.0          4.5          4.8         2.8 5/
Reserves and retained earnings as % of total portf.           14.4        13.0         12.0         13.2        14.4
Equity portfolio as X of net worth                            43.0        45.0         52.9        57.8         63.0
Annual growth of total assets                                 12.2        23.7         35.8         61.9        20.8
Current Assets/Net Worth                                       1.5         2.0          2.1         2.3          1.7 5/
Income Statement
Total income                                                 268.0       329.7        444.5       660.8      1,256.0 Al
Financial expenses                                           144.3       187.7        265. 2      416.9        618.6
Gross spread                                                  443        142.0        179.3       243.9        6T1.6
Administrative expenses                                       17.4        22.1         31.4        40.4         60.5
Provisions for losses                                          --                       -           -            0.7
Taxes                                                         23.0        24.8         33.9        53.1         70.4
Net profit                                                    83.3        95.1        114.0       150.4        505.8
Dividends                                                     67.7        71.2        102.2       119.0        120.7
Ratios X
Gross spread as % of ATA                                       8.8         8.6          8.3          7.5        14.4
Administrative costs as % of ATA                               1.2         1.3          1.5          1.2         1.4
Net profit as X of ATA                                         6.0         5.8          5.3          4.6        11.4
Net profit as E of average networth                           23.6        24.8         26.4         26.0        62.4
Dividends as X of year end share capital                      39.9        41,2         54,2         54.0        35.4
Dividend pay out ratio (%)                                    81.3        74.9         89.6         79_1        23.8
1/  Includes other official entities.
2/  Includes revaluation of assets estimated at Col$261.4 million.
3/  Excludes revaluation of assets estimated at Col$450.9 million.
4/  Includes profit realized  from sale of investment in Manuelita (Col$247.0 million)and dividends received from investment
in Petroleo Nacionales (Col$63.9 million).
5/ Includes revaluation of assets.
LCfP2
April 1980



- 97 -                                               ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT                           T-33
r-33: Financial Statements of CF Del Norte
I/
,Audited Accounts, as of December 31  -
(in Col$ million )                                                     1975         1976         1977         1978          1979
(Unaudited)               (Unsudited)
Balance Sheets
ASSETS
Cash, receivables  and other short-term assets                     63.2         67.6         45.5        49,3            373.1
Export-import financing                                            86.1        148.5        165.3       291.2            674.0
Loans due within one year                                         269.6        264.8        434.8        570.4           706.9
Current Assets                                               428.9        480,9        645.6        910.9         1,754.0
Loans due after one year (net)                                    489.7        535.6        564.1       919.0            248.7
Equity Investments (Costs)                                         82.9         92.1        141.8       21.0.3            98.4
Fixed and/other  assets (net)                                      11.0          9.2         54.4         11.3
Total  Assets                                              1,012.5      1,117.8      1,405.9      2,051.          3,134.5
LIABILITY  and EQUITY
Time Deposits                                                      46.0         82.7        109.1       254.0
Loans Payable (current)                                           192.5  )    273 0         222.8       288.3
Due to Banks                                                      101.6  )                  221.0        326.1
Accounts  payable and other short-term liabilities                 66.4         61.6         42.7         34.3
Current Liabilities                                               406.5       417.3        595.6         902,7         1,745.3
Bonds  Fayable                                                     26.0         31.1         26.0        15.3      3
BR                                                                104.0         95.4        85.6        230.3
IBRD                                                             329.5        397.9        434.4        563.4
Other Liabilities                                                   3.4         73.5         63.8        116.8    )
Medium- and long-term liabilities                                 462.9        597.6       609.8         925.8         1,075.2
Share capital paid in                                              85.7        97.5        114.4        124.4            174.4
Retained earnings and  reserves                                    57.4         66.4        86.1         98.6            139.6 2/
Networth                                                          143.1        163.9        200.5       223.0            314.0
Total liabilities S equity                                      MLL          LIZ5A      1LHOLI2       2e9.Z0.55   L      !11
Contingent Liabilities                                             44.0       205.1        131.7        283.8            443.7
Ratios
Equity investments/Total Assets (%)                                 8.2          8.2        10.1         10.3               7.9
Current Ratio                                                       1.1          1.1          1.1          1.0             1.0
Total Liabilities/Equity                                            6.4          7.4          6.7         9.5              8.2 3/
Reserves and retained earnings as 2 of total portf.                 6.1          6.4          6.6         5.2              5.2
Equity Portfolio as X of networth                                  57.9         56.2        70.7         94.3             79.1
Annual Growth of Total Assets (X)                                  32,8         16.4         25.8        46.7              52.8
Current Assets/Equity                                               3.0          2.9          3.2          4.1             4.4 3/
INCOME STATEMENT
Interest Received                                                145.0        172.9        212.8        259.1            434.9
Commissions Received                                                9.9          7.3        13.5         21.8              42.8
Dividends on Equity Investment                                      6.9          3.9          7.2        10.0              62.0
Other Income                                                        0.3          6.2         10.9          7.2              4.3
Total Income                                                 162.1        190.3        244.4        328.1            544.0
Financial Costs                                                   103.9        129.5       169.3        244.1            423.0
Gross Spread                                                       58.2         60.8         75.1        84.0             121.0
Salaries and Wages                                                 11.2         13.2        16.1         20.7             23,0
Other Administrative Costs                                          9.6'        11.2         11.9         15.9             15.0
Profits before provisions                                          37.4         36.4         47.1        47.4              83.0
Provision for Losses                                                1.3          0.1          -            -
Other Expenses
Taxes                                                              12.4         10.4         14.0         11.3              7.4
Net Profits                                                   23.7         25.9         33.1         36.1            5=
------     ..... -   __
Dividends                                                     16.5         18.7         24.7         26.9             37.6
Ratios  (in percentages)  2/
(ATA = average total assets)
Total Income as % of ATA                                           18.3         17.9         19.4         18.9             22.4
Financial Cost as % of ATA                                         11.7         12.2         13.4        14.1              16.3
Gross Spread as  % of ATA                                           6.6          5.7          6.0          4.8              4.7
Salaries & Wages as % of ATA                                        1.3          1.2          1.3          1.2              0.9
Total Administration Costs as % ATA                                 2.3          2.3          2.2          2.1              1.5
Net Profit as % of ATA                                              2.7          2.4          2.6          2.1              2.2
Net Profit as % of Average Equity                                  17.4         16.9         18.2         17.0             21.6
Dividends as  % of Average share capital                           19.7         20.4         23.3         22.5             25.2
Dividend Pay-out Ratio ( %)                                        69.6         72.2         74.6         74.3             64.8
Dividends Received as % Net Profits                                29.1         15.1         21.7         27.7             n,.a.
Dividends Received after Taxes as % of eweroge E4ity                4,9          2.4          3.8          4.5             ..a.
Dividends  Received  as % of Total Rev.                             4.3          2,0           ,                           n.a.
1/ 1975 figures taken from previous supervision  report (       aI's Annual Status Report, May 16), 1977 figures from auditor's
report and preliminary 1977 figures from Norte'8 Balance Shest as of Ssptmber 30, 1977.
2/ Excludes revaluation of assets estimated at Col4IO.9 million.
3/ Includes revaluation of assets.
LCPI2
April 1980



- 98 -                                               ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA: EIIHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT                               T-34
T-34: Financial Statements of CP del Valle
Audited Accounts, as of December 31
(in Col$ million                                                            1975         1976          1977          1978          1979
(Unaudited)
Balance Sheet
Assets
Cash, receivables and other short-term assets                        67.7          91.1        136.8         267.3            408.7
Export-import financing                                             434.8         525.4        709.5       1,109.4          1,281.7
Loans  due within one year                                          631.2         570.9      1,103.5       1,098.4          1,504.4
Current Assets                                               1,133.7       1,187,4      1.949.8       2.475.1          3,194.8
Loans due after one year (net)                                      812.0      1,250.5       1,152.2       1,998.8          1,696.4
Equity investments (at cost)                                         76.3         109.0        173.4         253.4            556.4
Fixed and other assets (net)                                         16.1          14.9         24.1          12.4             20.5
Total Assets                                                 2,038.1       2,561.8      3.299.5       4,739.7          5,468.1
Liabilities and Equity
Time deposits                                                        83.9         202.8        458.3         762.3            374.1
Loans payable (current)                                             317.6         358.1        429.7         673.1            692.8
Due to Banks                                                        382.5         462.2        621.9       1,008.2            994.7
Accounts payable and other short-term liabilities                   105.9         128.7        140.6         243.7          1.247.7
Current Liabilities                                            889.9       1,151.8      1.650.5       2,687.3          2,909.3
Bonds payable                                                       123.9        101.1         123.2         144.1            207.4
BR and other liabilities                                            519.5         703.3    )1,473.6       1,284.5           2,358.6
IBRD                                                                440.9        327.0    )                  760.9
Less current maturities                                            (293.6)       (356.6)      (429.7)       (673.1)          (692.6)
Medium and long-term liabilities                                    790.7         974.8      1.167.1       1.516.4          1,873.1
Share capital paid-in                                               170.0        200.0         200.0         200.0            240.0
Retained earnings and reserves                                      187.5         235.2        281.9         336.0            445.6 1/
Netwvv,th                                                           357I          435Z         0L1           53LQ             685.6
Total Liabilities and Equity                                      2,038.1      2,561.8       3,299.5       4,739.7           5,468.1
Contingent liabilities                        lTb.                             --T7TZT       -E277        -nrv                W7T   2/
Ratios
Equity investments as Z of total assets                               3.7           4.3          5.3           5.3              10.2
Current ratio                                                         1.3           1.0          1.2           0.9               1.1
Total liabilities/equity                                              4.7           5.3          6.5           8.3               5.7 2/
Reserves and retained earnings as % of total portfolio                9.6           9.6          9.0           7.5               8.8
Equity portfolio as X of networth                                    21.3          25.0         36.0          47.3              81.2
Percentage increase in total assets                                  23.6          25.7         28.8          43.6              76.4
Current assets/networth                                               3.2           2.7          4.0           4.6               3.5 21
Income Statement
Total income                                                        357.1        439.3         583.2         774.9           1,025.9
Financial expenses                                                  201.2        259.9         371.5         528.9             719.9
Gross spread                                                        155.9        179.4         211.7    Z-       O                 U
Administrative expenses                                              29.9          36.7         49,1          64.9              88.0
Provision for losses                                                -            -             -             -                  19.6
Taxes                                                               46.0           53.8         50.6          56.1              44.4
Net profit                                                           80.0          89.0        112.0         125.0             154.0
Dividends                                                            64.8          68.7         72.0          92.2             103.7
Ratios! 
Gross spread as % of ATA                                              8.5           7.8          7.2           6.1'              6.0
Administrative cost as % of ATA                                       1.6           1.6          1.7           1.6               1.7
Net profit as 1 of ATA                                                4.3           3.9          3.8           3.1               3.0
Net profit as % of average equity                                    23.6          22.5         24.4          24.6              25.2
Dividends as % of year-end share capital                             38.1          34.4         36.0          46.1              43.2
Dividend pay-out ratio (%)                                           81.0          77.0         64.3          73.8              67.3
1/ Excludes revaluation of assets estimated at Col$229.7 million.
2/ Includes revaluation of assets.
LCPI2
April 1980



- 99 -                                           ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT                        T-35
T-35: Financial Statements of CF Santander
Audited Accounts  as of December 31                                                                                      Sept. 30,
(in Col$ million )                                                    1975         1976         1977         1978         1979
(Unaudited)                (Unaudited)
Balance Sheet
Assets
Cash, receivables and other short-term assets                  17.4         31.4         35.9        145.6        220.8
Export-import financing                                        18.9         54.3         98.6        106.9        106.2
Loans due within one year                                     109.2        188.0        258.9        335.5        369.2
Current Assets                                         145.5        273.7        393.4        558.0        696.2
Loans due after one year (net)                                 74.4        119.1        236.8        495.4        616.0
Equity  Investments (at cost)                                  12.8         27.3         29.6         90.8        127.0
Fixed and other assets (net)                                    4.5          4.0          5.8         29.7         61.6
Total Assets                                              237.2        424.1       665.6      1,203.4      1,500.8
Liabilities and Equity
Time deposits                                                  19.4         99.4        127.8        237.3        292.4
Loans payable (current)                                        62.0         64.9         57.1        102.2        153.1
Due to Banks                                                    8.3         48.5        145.1        129.6         90.5
Accounts payable and other short-term liabilities              17.3         22.4         34.3         78.5        171.8
Current Liabilities                                       107.0       235.2        364.3        547.6        707.8
Bonds payable                                                   4.1          2.9          2.3          1.7         0.6
BR                                                             26.1         32.8         61.4        115.1       137.8
IBRD                                                           22.7         40.3         89.7       186.9        238.6
Other liabilities                                              13.9          6.4         10.5        173.7        188.3
Medium- and long-term liabilities                          66.8         82.4        163.9       477.0        565.3
Share capital paid-in                                          42.6         79.8        100.8        130.3       149.1
Retained earnings and reserves                                 20.8         26.8         36.5         48.6         78.6 i!
Networth                                                   63.4        106.6        137.3        178.9       227.7
Total Liabilities and Equity                                  237.2        424.1        665.6     1.203.9      1,500.8
Contingent Liabilities                                         13.9         97.7         81.0         77.3       102.9
Ratios
Equity investments/Total Assets (%)                             5.4          6.4          4.4          7.5          8.5
Current ratio                                                   1.4          1.2          1.1          1.1          1.0
Total liabilities/equity                                        3.0          3.9          4.4          5.7         6.1
Reserves and retained earnings as % of total portf.             9.2          5.6          5.8          4.8          6.6
Equity portfolio as Z of networth                              20.2         25.6         21.5         5O,8        64.0
Annual growth of total assets                                  97.0         78.8         56.9         80.9         32.0
Current assets/Networth                                         2.3          2.6          2.9          3.3          3.1
Income Statement
Total income                                                   36.5         64.0        109.8       183.5        221.5
Financial expenses                                             17.2         36.6         64.8        134.2       170.7
Gross Spread                                               19.3         27.4        45.0         59.3         $0.8
Administrative expenses                                         6.5          8.7         12.5         17.2         17.6
Provision for losses                                            -             .1          -            0.3          -
Taxes                                                           3.8          7.0         12.5         15.6         11.6
Net Profit                                                      9.0         11.6         20.0         26.2         21.6
Dividends                                                       5.5         10.3         14.1         15.0         n.a.
Ratios 2/
Gross spread as % of ATA                                       10.8          8.3          8.3          6.3          5.0
Administrative costs as F of ATA                                3.6          2.6          2.3          1.8          1.8
Net profit as % of ATA                                          5.0          3.5          3.7          2.8          2.1
Net profit as F of average networth                            15.6         13.6         16.4         16.6        14.2
Dividends as Z  of year end share capital                      12.9         12.9         14.0         11,5         n.a.
Dividend pay out ratio (F)                                     61.1         88.8         70.5         57.3         n.a.
1/  Including revaluation of assets (rol$ 27.9
2/ Annualized 1979 ratios.   Revaluation not icluded.
LCPI 2
December, 1979



- 100 -                                               ANNEX 4
T-16
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-36: Financial Statements of CF de Occidente
Audited Accounts, as of December 31                                   1975        1976         1977         1978    Sept. 30,
(in Col$ million )                                                                                                    1979
(Unaudited) _
Balance Sheet
Assets
Cash, receivables and other short-term assets                   25.8         35.9         48.4        66.6         93.5
Short-term investments                                           1.3         17.1          9.6        84.3         87.5
Export-Import Financing                                         51.3         74.1         46.6        71.2         82.9
Loans  due  within one year                                    170.8        370.0        500.4       537.8        438.6
Current Assets                                             249.2        497.1       605.0        759.9        702.5
Loans due after  one  year,  net (of which                     154.3        163.3        291.8       501.4        531.4
deducted provisions)                                            (0.3)        (2.6)        (3.9)       (6.6)        (8.6)
Equity investments, at cost                                     42.0         45.7        71.1        101.4        123.0
(of which deducted provisions)                                   -            -          (0.4)        (1.0)        (1.5)
Fixed and other  assets, net                                     7.2         13.0         29.4        17.1         77.7
Total Assets                                               452.7        719.1       993.0      1,372.2      1,424.5
Liabilities and Equity
Time  deposits                                                   9.5        103.0        348.6       417.5        340.8
Other deposits                                                  70.8        183.0          -           -            -
Loans payable (current) and due to Banks                       111.1        122.8        147.6       207.2        212.7
Bonds payable within one year                                   21.9         18.9         12.9        13.0          7.8
Other sltort-term liabilities                                   30.0         43.9         44.1        58.3         79.5
Total Current Liabilities                                  243.3        471.6       553.2        696.0        640.8
Bonds payable after one year                                    13.9         13.5         15.5        23.4         40.4
BR                                                              82.5         69.7       112.4        197.2        280.5
IBRD                                                            26.1         65.2        95.6        152.8        155.0
Other liabilities                                               14.8         15.8         92.8       110.2         38.4
Total medium and long term liabilities                     137.3        164.2       316.3        483.6        514.3
Share Capital Paid-in                                           50.8         55.2         75.2       100.2         M8.8
Retained  earnings and reserves                                 21.3         28.1         48.3        92.4        170.6 1,
Total Equity (Networth)                                     72.1         83.3       123.5        192.6        269.4
Total Liabilities and Equity                               452.7        719.1       993.0        372.2      1424.5
Contingent liabilities                                         46.2         62.5        37.9         64.7         52.9
Ratios
Equity investments/total assets (2)                              9.3          6.4          7.2         7.4          8.6
Current ratio                                                    1.0          1.0         1.1          1.1          1.1
Total liabilities/equity                                         5.3          8.4          7.3         6.5          4.3
Reserves and retained earnings  as % of total portfolio          5.1          4.2          5.3         7.6         14.5
Equity portfolio/networth                                       58.3         54.9        57.6         52.6         45.6
Annual  growth of total assets (Z)                              31.9         58.8         38.1        38.2          3.8
Current  assets/networth                                         3.5          6.0         4.9          3.9          2.6
Income Statement
Total Income                                                       70.4        125.3        187.9       260.2        241.4
Financial Expenses                                                 44.1         87.7        137.8       186.3        161.4
Gross Spread                                                26.3         40.2        50.1         73.9         80.0
Administrative Expenses                                             8.2         11.0         14.5        20.2         20.9
Provisions for Losses                                               0.8          2.8          2.3         3.3          2.5
Gross Profits                                               17.     3   23.8         33.3         50.4         56.6
Taxes                                                        5.2          7.8        13.1         19.9     _21_.7
Net  Profit                                                 12.1         16.0        20.2         30.5         34.9
Dividends                                                    8.1          9.1         0.0          0.0          0.0
Ratios I/
Income as % of average total assets (ATA)                        17.7         21.3         21.9        22.0         23.0
Spread as 2 of ATA                                                6.6          6.4          5.9         6.2          7.6
Adm. Expenses as % of ATA                                         2.1          1.9          1.7         1.7          2.0
Net Profit as 2 of ATA                                            3.0          3.7          2.4         2.6          3.3
Net Profit as % of average equity                                17.2         20.6         19.5        19.3         20.1
Dividends as  % of year-end share capital                        15.9         16.5          0.0         0.0          0.0
Dividend pay-out ratio (%)                                       66.9         56.9          0.0         0.0          0.0
1/  Including revaluation of assets (Col$42.2)
2/ Annualized 1979 ratios.
LCPI2
December 1980



- 101 -                                           ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT                          1-37
T-37: Financial Statements of CF Aliadas
Unaudited accounts                          Sept. 30,
as of December 31
(All amounts in Col$ million)                                             1975         1976         1977         1978         1979
(Audited)  (Unaudited)
Balance Sheet
ASSETS
Cash receivables and other short-term assets                          5.5         16.2         54.9        199.9        306.9
Export-import financing                                              20.6         32.2         50.6        191.0        151.0
Loans due within one year                                            46.0        114.0        296.0        599.8        547.2
Current Assets                                                  72.1        162.4        401.5        990.7      1,005.1
Loans due after one year (net)                                        7.4         33.5        214.2        138.0        134.5
Equity investments (at cost)                                          5.3          6.0         48.9        116.2        164.6
Fixed and other assets (net)                                          3.8          6.7         17.0        178.9        342.8 2/
Total Assets                                                  AM*         Z2JEH                   1ANJA       1AileZg
Liabilities and Equity
Time Deposits                                                         1.6         84.8        265.4        668.7        734.7
Loans Payable (current)                                              27.0         30.4         94.9        190.0         10.3
Due to banks                                                         18.5         27.4         45.2         40.5        234.0
Accounts payable and other short-term  liabilities                    1.2          5.4         19.6         38.0         68.0
Current  Liabilities                                            48.3        148.0        425.1        937.2      1.050.0
Bonds payable
BR                                                                    -            1.9         21.0        100.7         38.0
IBRD                                                                  -            -            -            -            5.4
Other liabilities                                                     -            -           75.3         64.0         70.8
Medium- and long-term liabilities                                     -            1.9         96.3        164.7        114.2
Share capital                                                        35.2         50.0        140.0        150.0        150.0
Retained earnings and reserves                                        5.1          8.7         20.2        171.9        342.8 2/
Networth                                                             40.3         58.7        160.2        321.9        492.8
Total liabilities and equity                                         88.6        208.6        681.5      1,423.8      1,657.0
Ratios
Equity  investments as % of total assets                              6.0          2.9          7.2          8.2         10.0
Current ratio                                                         1.5          1.1          0.9          1.0          1.0
Total debt/equity                                                     1.2          2.6          3.3          3.4           2.4
Equity portfolio as %of networth                                     13.0         10.0         38.0         60.1         28.8 3/
Annual growth of total assets                                         -           35.0         26.7        108.8         21.3
Current assets/networth                                               1.8          2.8          2.5           3.1          2.0
Income Statement
Total income                                                         10.1         31.8         92.4        237.8        248.0
Financial  expense                                                    2.3         16.2         57.6        159.2        180.3
Gross  Spread                                                    7.8         15.6         34.8         78.6         67.7
Administrative expenses                                               2.3          4.0          8.9         24.2         24.0
Provision for losses                                                  -            -            -            -            -
Taxes                                                                   .7         3.7          7.9         16.9         13.6
Net Profit                                                            4.8          7.9         18.0         37.5         30.1
Dividends                                                              -           6.6         n.a.         32.4
Ratios -/ ' 3/
Gross spread as  % of average total assets (ATA)                     17.6          10.5         7.8          7.9           6.8
Administrative  costs as Z of ATA                                     5.2          2.7          2.0          2.4           2.1
Net profit as  Z of ATA                                              10.8          5.3          4.0          3.7           2.6
Net profit as Z of average equity                                    24.0         16.0         16.5         21.3          21.0
Dividends  as Z of year end  share  capital                           0.0         13.2          -           21.6           -
Dividend pay-out ratio                                                0.0         82.5          -
1/ Annualized 1979 ratios.
2/ Include revaluation of Col$129.4 million in 1978 and Col$303.1 million in 1979.
3,1 Revaluation not included.
LCPI2
December, 1979



COLOMBIA - EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-38: Selected Financial Ratios of the Financieras
(as of December 31, 1979) 1/
CALDAS    COLOMBIANA    NACIONAL   NORTE   VALLE   OCCIDENTE   SANTANDER  ALIADAS
Current Assets/Equity 2/                         1.6         1.8           1.7      4.4       3.5       2.6          3.1        2.0
Equity Investments as % of Total Assets         13.2        10.7         12.2       7.9      10.2       8.6          8.5       10.0
Total Liabilities/Equity 2/                      3.7         3.4           3.7      8.2       5.7       4.3          6.4        2.4
Current Ratio                                    1.0         1.15          1.0      1.0       1.1       1.1          1.0        1.0
Annual Asset Growth Rate (%)                    11.9        20.7          20.8     52.8      15.4       3.8         32.0       21.3
Gross Spread as % of ATA 3/ 4/                   8.3         7.2          14.4      4.7       6.0       7.6          5.0        6.8
Administrative Costs as % of ATA 4/              2.6         1.8           1.4      1.5       1.7       2.0          1.8        2.1
Net Profit as % of ATA 4/                        4.9         4.3          11.4      2.2       3.0       3.3          2.1        2.6
Net Profit as % of Average Equity 4/            30.4        28.0          62.4     21.6      25.2      20.1         14.2       21.0
1/ As of September 30, 1979 for Occidente, Santander and Aliadas.
2/ Including revaluation of assets.
3/ Average total assets.
4/ Estimated equivalent for 12 months for Occidente, Santarnder and Aliadas.
Note: Except where indicated, revaluation of assets has been excluded.
LCPI2
April 1980.
X0 M



C0LIA18A: EIGHTH DEVILOFPKLrT F1INHCE COHPANIXS PROJECT
T-39: Fin.cal.1 Ratio Pro-eJtitne, 1980.84
CALDAS                             COLO8IANA                            NACIONAL                                   NORTE                                      VALLE
80    S1      82     83      84     80      81      82     83      84     80      81     82      83      84     80       81       82       83      84      80       81       82       83      84
Fin-nci.l Structure
Cur-e-t ....eL/quity                                     3.7   3.9    3.9    3.9    4.0        4.2    4.3    4.1    4.1    4.1    1.9    2.2    2.2    2.4    2.4    3.4            3.3      3.3      3.3     3.3   4.3      4.3      4.5      4.5      4.6
Current ratio (liquidity)                                1.2   1.2    1.1    1.1    1.2        1.2    1.3    1.3    1.4    1.3    1I.    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.2    1.2            1.2      1.2      1.2     1.2   1.3      1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2
Total debt/equity                                        6.7   7.6    8.3    8.5    9.0        7.1    7.6    7.9    8.3    8.1    5.0    6.0    5.8    6.4    6.6    8.5            8.4     8.3      8.2      8.1   8.6      8.7      8.7      8.8      9.7
Equity portfolio/fi-nncier-  equity (%)                 31.0  35.0   39.0   38.0   38.0    84.3   82.2   85.3   98.6   84.3   57.2   66.6   65.3   71.7   72.0   48.0    60.0    52.0    50.0    50.0  64.0    63.0    65.0    62.0    62.0
Fina-cial Perfo-ance and Pr-fit.bility
Grone tinunctl f- ar-  ia n8  2 of a..etn 1/             6.5   6.3    5.8    5.8    5,7        5.7    5.6    5.7    5.8    5.8    5.8    5.5    5.3    5.0    5.2    2.9            3.0      3.1      3.1     3.1   3.0      5.8      5.2      5.3      6.0
AdWi.ietratLive cot. 2/ an 7. of astern                  2.6   2.4    2.3    2.3    2.3         1.3    1.3    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.1    1.4    1.6           1.4      1.3      1.3      1.1   1.4      1.5     1.5      1.6      2.0
Taenan *t% of  sennte                                    1.0   1.1    0.9    0.9    0.8        1.2    1.3    1.3    1.4    1.5    1.1    1.0    1.0    0.8    1.0    0.8            0.9      0.9      0.9     1.0   1.0       1.1     8.1      1.1      1.0
Nat incoe aa 7. of anneta                                2.8   2.8    2.5    2.6    2.4        3. 1    31    3.1    3.2    3.3    5.4    5.0    4.8    4.8    4.6    1.7            1.8      1.8      1.9     2.0   2.5      25.      2.5      2.5      3.0
Net itoune/av.r.a.  equity (7)                          20.1  22.6   22.9   24.2   22.9    24.0   26.0   27.4   29.5   29.9   23.6   25.5   25.7   24.6   24.6   14.8    17.1    17.0    17.2    17.5  25.2    28.4    29.8    31.9    34.0
Dividend./year-e-d thare capital (7.)                   21.7  26.3   28.4   32.1   32.0    52.4   53.2   54.8   54.3   58.3   56.3   68.1   68.6   76.2   76.0   22.8    22.8    22.8    22.8    21.5  54.0    76.0    78.0    90.0   103.0
Dividend pay-.ut ratio  (7.)                            65.0  65.0   65.0   65.0   65.0    73.5   70.5   7009   66.9   70.7   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   8S.1    86.5    90.1    86.6    05.0  70.0    70.0    78.0    71.0    68.0
Annual Growth 8Rte.
Tct.l1 ..et growth (7)                                  33.5  30.4   23,2   20.1   15.4    25.0   20.0   19.0   21.0   20.0   27.8   26.7   26.6   71.2   20.0   34.1    29.5    24.3    14.5    14.0  27.2    25.2    25.0    23.0    22.0                               -
ircee ictoue growth (.)                                 15.3  30.1   24.5   21.1   18.4    20.8   20.2   22.7   25.0   24.0   32.0   19.6   19.2   11.5   12.0   38.0    35.9    26.9    19.6    18.0  30.5    27,8    24.8    24.9    22.0
arttnone g-rwth (7.                                     18.5  29.3   16.5   22.6    9,3       19.7   21.6   20.9   24.0   21.0   32.3   21.1   21.0   14.0   14.1   34.1    43.1    27.3    21.4    25.2  29.3    26.0    25.0    26.0    20.0
Portfolio growth 3/ (7)                                 63.0  39.0   32,0   21.0   15.0    29.3   13.4   21.2   27.2   10.6   30.8   29.2   25.8   23.0   23.2   36.4    31.0    25.2    14.9    13.5  35.7    30.8    29.0    23.7    23.0
Aver-g  Growth Rtee (1980 - 19864
Totui nc..t growth (%)                                                17.3                                   15.7                                                                           25.4                                     18.6
Grout incoue growth (%.                                               19.2                                   58.0                                                                           30.0                                     19.8
Net tocone growth (%.                                                 15.1                                   17.1                                                                           31.1                                     I8.9
Portfolio grovth (7.                                                  20.0                                   14.2                                                                           26.6                                     20.0
Debt. n rvico
Debt-serviceocrnge 4/                                   1.0   1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0        1.1    1.2    1.0    0.9    1.0                                                                                      1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2     1.2
1/ Average totul aneoto.
2/  Including provieio..  for portfolio Ioa...
3/ Medi  - aud l=ng-tens portfolio
4/ on repay-eot of prircipal .nd iteree-t (after tI...u
5/ Nct av-ilable.
ICY12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Z
Janne0 17988



COLOMBIA: -EIGHTH DEVELOPM4ENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-39: Financial Ratio Projections, 1980-84
OCCrETNTP                            SANTANDER                            ALIADAS
80    81     82      83     84      80     81      82     83      84     80      81      82     83      84
Financial Structure
Current assets/equity                                    4.0   3.9    3.9   3.7       3.3   3.1    3.0    2.9    2.9    2.8    2.8    3.3    3.5    3.8    3.7
Current ratio (liquidity)                                1.1   1.1    1.1   1.1       1.1   1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0        1.0    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1
Total debt/equity                                        5.2   5.2    5.3   5.2       6.0   6.0    6.5    7.0    7.5    8.0    3.6    4.0    4.5    5.0    5.0
Equity portfolio/financiera equity (%)                  57.8  57.2   55.9  57.5    60.0  70.0   75.0   80.0   85.0   90.0    3.0    3.3    3.8    4.2    4.1
Financial Performance and Profitability
Gross financial margin as % of assets 1/                 7.0   7.1    7.3   7.2       7.0   5.0    5.2    5.8    6.0    6.0    6.5    6.8    7.0    7.0    7.0
Administrative costs 2/ as % of assets                    1.9   2.1    2.4   2.0      2.4   2.0    1.8    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.6
Taxes as % of assets                                     2.0   2.0    1.9   1.8       1.5  33.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Net income as % of assets                                 3.0   2.9    2.9   2.7      2.3   2.3    2.4    2.4    2.6    2.8    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.5    2.4
Net income/average equity (%)                           20.0  18.1   17.9  16.6    16.3  16.0   18.0   20.0   23.0   23.0   10.0   12.0   13.0   14.0   14.1
Dividends/year-end share capital (%)                     0.0  10.0   20.0   0.0    20.0  12.0   13.0   15.0   17.0   17.0   21.8   21.2   21.1   21.0   22.0
Annual Growth Rates
Total asset growth (7)                                  15.2  14.5   15.0  16.4    16.3  25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   20.1   20.0   19.5   18.5   18.7
Gross income growth (7.)                                13.3  13.0   13.3   7.0    13.1  25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   22.9   22.0   21.2   20.2   21.0
Net income growth (%)                                   13.1  13.0   13.3   7.0    13.0  30.0   28.0   28.0   25.0   25.0   24.4   21.3   20.0   20.3   20.5    1
Portfolio growth 3/ (7)                                 11.7  16.0   18.2  26.2    26.0  25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   23.6   23.4   21.7   20.1   20.2 ~
Average Growth Rates (1980 - 1984)
Total asset growth (%)                                                15.5                  25.0          25.0                                   19.5
Gross income growth (%)                                               11.9                  25.0          25.0                                   21.6
Net income growth (7)                                                 11.9                  28.0          28.0                                   21.5
Portfolio growth (Eo)                                                 19.6                  25.0          25.0                                  22.2
Debt-service
Debt-service coverage 4/                                 1.2   1.2    1.2   1.2       1.2    -       -
1/  Average total assets.
2/  Including provisions for portfolio losses.
3/  Medium- and long-term portfolio.
4/  On repayment of principal and interest (after taxes).                                                                                                                )
5/  Not available.
LCPI2
January, 1980



COLOMBIA EIGHTII DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
-4    Financier-  Arrears Positlon as of Septenb-r '^  '970
(CotS nillion )
Bet.een 3 and 6 months                                         B.eisnas  6 and 12 .onths                                          Over 12 months                            Lo.n-  Re-cheduled 1/1 - 9/130/79
Aount           As 7. of      Portfolio       As L af          Aonunt          As 7. of     Portfolio         As % nf         Amount          As .   of     Portfolio        As . of                               As 7. of
in            Total        Affeoted          Total            in             Total        Affected          Total             in            Total        Affected          Total                                  Torta
Arrears 1/    Portfolio        By Arrears     Portfalio        Arr.ars 1/    Portfolio        By Arre-rs    Portfolio         Arrears 1/    Portfolio        By Arresrs      Portfolio        Ns,      Atount    Portfolio
Caldas                    4.3             0.3            24.8            1.5             4.6             0.3            6.2             0.3             0.5              -             1.1             0.1            2         66.6         4.0
Clo-biana                11.5             0.3            12.1            0.3            14.8             0.3           20.5             0.5             1.0              -             3.0               -            -          -             -
N-ionlal                   -               -               -              -             39.1             1.1           41.9             1.2              -               -              -               -             _          _             _
Note                      2.8             0.1             6.7            0.3             3.6             0.2           31.2             1.4            1P.7             0.6           46.4             2.0
VoIle                     6.8             0.2           138.5            3.4            14.3             0.4           61.1             1.6            34.0             0.8           54.8             1.3            _         _             _
Occidente                 5.0             0.5            13.3            1.3            24.7             2.3          53.4              5.1            10.5             1.0            7.3             0.7            7         37.3          3.5
Stsstnder                 3.6             0.3             8.5            0.8             3.5             0.3            4.9             0.5             1.9             0.2            2.3             0.2            1          5.0          0.5
Aliadas                   MA               NA             9.0            0.1              -               -              -               -               -               -              -                -            -
Union                                       ---                                                           ----
1/   Includes principal a.d interest.
LCPI2
Jonasry 1980



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-41: Mobilization of Domestic Resources by the Financieras
July 1978 - September 1979
(Col$ million )
CALDAS   COLOMBIANA   NACIONAL   NORTE   VALLE   OCCIDENTE   SANTANDER   ALIADAS              TOTAL
Certificates of Deposit    196.4        425.4        190.8   275.6   (24.1)    (17.9)          44.3       127.2          1,217.7
Bonds                       (15.6)      (43.0)       (29.2)     8.9     51.6     ( 6.2)        ( 1.0)       -               (34.5)
Reserves                     22.6        73.7        234.5    18.3      75.5      31.4           6.7        3.8             466.5
Paid-in Capital              25.0        45.0           -      50.9     39.0      11.1          37.4        -               208.4
Retained Earnings            15.2        20.1        (24.5)   19.0      30.8      14.4           6.4        1.4              82.8
TOTAL                   243.6       521.2       371.6   372.7   172.8         32.8          93.8      132.4          1,940.9
LCPI2
January, 1980
x



COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
T-42; Cofinancing Performance by Financieras
(As of December 31, 1979)
(US$ millton )
Contracts                    Additional Cofinancina              Amount
Financieras             Signed                         Under Discussion               Committed
Caldas 1/                    4.0                               2.0                           1.2
Colombiana 1/               10.0                              25.0                          11.0 2/
Nacional                     4.0                               4.0                           1.3
Norte 1/                     6.0                               2.0                           2.0
Valle                        6.0                               8.0                           4.2
Occidente                     -
Santander                     -
Aliadas
TOTAL              30.0                               41.0                         19.7
1/ January, 1980, data.
2/ Including US$1.3 million about to be committed.
LCPI2
January 1980
4-



- 108 -
ANNEX 5
COLOMBIA: EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1.  Banca y Finanzas, Asociacion Bancaria de Colombia, Bogota, 1978, 1979.
2.  Revista del Banco de la Republica, Banco de la Republica, Various Monthly
Issues, 1978-79.
3.  Revista Superintendencia Bancaria, Superitendencia Bancaria, Bogota, 1978, 1979
4.  Manual del Mercado Bursatil, Bolsa de Bogota, S.A., Bogota, 1978, 1979
5. Sintesis Economica, Semanario de Economia Colombiana e Internacional, Bogota,
Various Issues, 1977-79.
6.  Coyuntura Economica, FEDESARROLLO, Bogota, Various Issues, 1977-79.
7. Boletin Mensual de Estadistica, DANE, October 1979.
8. Annual Reports of the eight participating financieras, 1978.
9. Texts of various Resolutions of the Junta Monetaria during 1977-79.
10. Sistemas para Financiar los Prestamos a Largo Plazo de las Corporaciones
Financieras, FEDESARROLLO, 1978.
11. Politica Economica Externa de Colombia, 1978, Edited by Eduardo Wiesner,
Published by Asociacion Bancaria de Colombia.
12. 'El Financiamiento de la Industria Manufacturera en Colombia',Consultant's Report
by Jose Vallejo, December 1979.
13. 'Evaluacion de Las LUneas de Credito del Banco Mundial Canalizadas a traves del
Banco de la Repiublica con destino a las Corporaciones Financieras'
14. Report prepared for Banco de la Republica by Roberto Jungito, September 1979.






IBRD-3638R I
|   78   76!   74'    72                      7;e           \0CT0              OER1976
A IT l  A  N  r  /  C               O  C  F A  N                                                                SOUTH AMERICA
/  CORDOB     )                    '; is\ / D  ERe
801?gert  -..>0  GDAEN   ee         \         ,                              .
, 9    V  t     / CollDO9j    $ ( ~~~~~~~~NORTE                                    t VE     E Z  U E  L A               
CORDOBA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4 t'-.VruC                           *
00
CU         AN   TJ4  N D '        AR Ac   U "  . C_A
2          0  0BOG0t4                      -  - _
%     >        '          e   ~~~~~~~~   g                                     /~O             I C H A D A/ 
4  V A L LE       rL I M A' 
'cd,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
C A c) C Ac gPH U  LAgN                                                                    GUIA  N A
C A,,V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                         UES(1
\       ;                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~C A Q U E T A                                  _         
M Ap Y                                        A 0           
0  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
-27    COLOMBIA
Elevotltns above 1400 meltrs
DeprorTfnent lntlednca Comrs3ri1 boundariPes                      p   E   RU
=     MMain rivers
_. nlernanlio4l Bndarie-                                                                    /
_4          >~~~~ 50   100  150 
4  I   4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
KILf iETElerPlS
,~~~~~~~~ ,,                .        ;8i



