Document of                  FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-27 50a-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON. A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN
EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
May 5, 1980
'Tis document has a restrieted didributon and may be iwed by recipiets only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not ohenrwise be disclosd without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar Year 1979           April 1, 1980
Currency Unit = Peso - Col$              Col$
US$1          = Col$42.59                45.64
Col$1         = US$0.0235                0.0219
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AID   -  A?ency for International Development
CF    -  Corporacion Financiera
DDC   -  Department of Development Credit of Banco de la Republica
DFC   -  Development Finance Company
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
IDB   -  Inter-American Development Bank
IFC   -  International Finance Corporation
OED   -  Operations Evaluation Department
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Banco de la Republica
Guarantor:             Republic of Colombia
Beneficiaries:         Private Development Finance Companies
Amount:                US$150 million equivalent
Terms:                 Interest at &.25% per annum.  Repayment in 17 years,
including 4 years of grace.
Onlending Terms: 1/                                                      Maximum Te s
--------- Interest (%)-------------          (Years) -
Dollar Funds         Peso Funds        Maturity  Grace 3/
To Sub-            To Sub-
To DFC   borrower  To DFC  borrower 4/
Sub-loans                 12.25        15       24        27            15       3
Equity Investments          -                   24   not applic.        15       5
Technology Development      -                   21        24             5       2
Pollution Control           -                   21        24            10       2
Project
Description:         Development of private industry through contribution of
foreign exchange for loan and equity financing by
Development Finance Companies of investment projects,
including technology development and pollution control,
in manufacturing, mining and tourism.
1/   Banco de la Republica would assume the foreign exchange risk on peso
funds; it would assume the cross-currency risk on dollar funds for a fee
of 3.25% per annum payable by the subborrowers.
2/   Repayment terms are identical for the DFCs and the sub-borrowers, except
in the case of equity investments.
3/   Included in maturity.
4/   Nominal rates; as interest is collected quarterly in advance, the effec-
tive interest rate would be between 4 and 5 percentage points higher.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The entities involved in the project have been carrying
out industrial credit programs, as the one proposed, for
several years with very satisfactory results. Conse-
quently, no unusual risks are anticipated in attaining
the objectives of the project.
Estimated
Disbursements:                       FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85
------US$ Millions---------
Annual           14     40    50    40       6
Cumulative       14     54   104   144   150
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 2885b-CO of April 29, 1980



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO DE LA REPUJBLICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN
EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco de la Republica for the equivalent of US$150 million, the proceeds of
which would be onlent to private development finance companies (DFCs) for the
development of private industry. The loan would have a term of 17 years, includ-
ing 4 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum. It would be repaid in
equal installments of principal.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report on Colombia (2535-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June 1979. A small updating mission visited Colombia
in mid-December and this section on the economy reflects its major findings.
Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        Colombia has made substantial progress over the past two decades in
the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy scattered
among several isolated, but largely self-contained, regions to a more inte-
grated, urban industrial economy. The productive base of the economy has been
widened and diversified, and a modern sector relying heavily on imported
inputs has developed. The country's external sector has been strengthened by
the rapid growth of non-traditional exports. Fluctuations in domestic economic
conditions resulting from unpredictable shifts in world coffee prices, while
still considerable, have become more manageable.
4.        Following several years of erratic economic growth and high unemploy-
ment, the Colombian authorities introduced in 1967 a dramatic change in devel-
opment policy, shifting emphasis from a protectionist policy of import substi-
tution to measures designed to expand and diversify exports. With only minor
modifications, this export promotion strategy remained in effect until the
mid-1970s. These policies were successful in expanding non-coffee exports,
thereby alleviating the foreign exhcange constraint to growth and making
possible a higher level of investment. As a consequence, real GDP growth
accelerated to an average 6.5% p.a. between 1968 and 1974, well above the
historic average, and non-coffee merchandise exports rose nearly threefold.
5.        Despite these advances, the economy showed signs of deteriorating
by late 1974. This was largely the result of slower growth in the industrial
economies, an inelastic tax system and imported inflation which led to a
weakening of the public finances and balance of payments and an acceleration
1/   This section is unchanged from that included in the President's Report
for Bogota Power Distribution Project (Report No. 2676-CO).



- 2 -
in domestic inflation. In addition, the country was faced with a pending loss
of self-sufficiency in petroleum, its primary energy source. These develop-
ments prompted the authorities to introduce a stabilization program, accom-
panied by basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary and trade systems aimed at
restoring the basis for accelerated long-term growth. Concurrently, petroleum
pricing policy was modified to improve incentives for oil exploration and
development and policies were initiated to reduce the subsidy on local consump-
tion of petroleum products. These reforms were successful in improving the
public finances and reducing inflation in 1975, but initially caused economic
growth to slow (from 6.0% in 1974 to 3.8% in 1975) as the economy adjusted to
the changing domestic and international circumstances.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        During the three years 1976-78 the Colombian economy was subject to
severe inflationary pressures which caused the Government to focus economic
policy on short term stabilization rather than on long term development issues.
The origin of these pressures was the exceptionally high world coffee price
prevailing during this period which caused Colombia's export earnings from
coffee to increase to US$1.8 billion and US$2.1 billion in 1977 and 1978,
respectively (from an average US$725 million in 1974-75), producing an unpre-
cedented rise in incomes and internal demand. The supply of consumer goods,
particularly of basic foodstuffs which was adversely affected by drought
conditions in most of the country, lagged behind the growth in demand and
inflation accelerated to the unprecedented rate of 44% in the twelve months
ending June 1977, from 26% the preceding year. The authorities responded
rapidly by introducing a broad range of fiscal, monetary and trade policies
designed to gain control over the explosive increase in prices. As a conse-
quence of these measures and of a favorable second semester harvest, inflation
declined sharply throughout most of the following 18 months, with the annual
inflation rate leveling off at 29% in 1977 and falling to 18% in 1978.
7.        Because of the lack of dynamism in world markets and modest increases
in domestic investment, the Colombian economy expanded only moderately in 1976
and 1977, with real GDP growing by 4.6% and 4.8%, respectively, in those two
years. In 1978, however, real GDP rose by an estimated 8.5% in response to
continued strong growth in aggregate demand, supported by expanded private
investment financed increasingly through a rapidly growing extra bank market
and by favorable agricultural conditions. Since growth was concentrated in
the relatively labor intensive sectors of the economy--personal services,
trade, transport and communications, and small-scale manufacturing and agri-
culture--unemployment declined sharply during this period. In 1978, unemploy-
ment in the four major cities averaged about 8% of the labor force, compared
with an average of about 12% a few years earlier. Both the balance of payments
and the public finances generated large current surpluses in the 1976-78
period. Largely as a result of increased coffee export receipts, Colombia's
net official international reserves had risen from US$573 million at the end
of 1975 to US$2.5 billion by the end of 1978, equivalent to about nine months
imports of goods and non-factor services. This increase in reserves occurred
despite nearly 12% p.a. real growth in imports and slow growth in manufactured
exports. Curbs on public investment and higher revenues from the coffee tax
and from earnings on international reserves made possible unprecedented
overall surpluses in the public finances.



8.        Despite continuation of the stabilization policies in effect since
early 1977, inflationary pressures increased somewhat in 1979. A mild frost
in Brazil's coffee areas caused world coffee prices to rise early in the
year, resulting in an acceleration in reserve accumulation and in aggregate
demand growth. Widening interest rate differentials favoring Colombia and
real appreciation of the peso, generated short-term capital inflows, which,
together with delays in import payments, led to further reserve increases.
Receipts from illegal exports provided an additional source of funds for the
already overly liquid economy. In all, net official reserves rose by approxi-
mately US$1.6 billion for the year, reaching the equivalent of 11 months
imports at year end.  About mid-year the authorities issued a new series of
short term securities carrying highly competitive interest rates in an effort
to absorb some of the excess liquidity existing in the formal and informal
credit markets.  This issue, which represents a significant break with past
open market operations that were not interest-competitive and forced onto
financial institution portfolios, was successful in attracting funds equivalent
to 5.4% of the monetary base by year end, helping to reduce money supply growth
(M2) in the formal market from 30% in 1978 to 24% in 1979. Nevertheless, large
wage increases and higher energy costs, together with rapid growth in domestic
demand, pushed inflation up to 30% for the year. Economic growth was strong
again in 1979, with real GDP rising by an estimated 5.5%, and unemployment
remained low. Inflation has slowed thus far in 1980 (on an annual basis the
increase in the cost of living was 24.9% through March), and the Government
is committed to reducing further the rate of inflation in coming months.
Distribution and Welfare
9.        The steady gains in per capita income, together with rapid rural/
urban migration and expanded employment opportunities for women over the past
quarter century caused a dramatic drop in the crude birth rate. The achieve-
ment of lower birth rates was facilitated by expanded family planning programs.
Consequently, Colombia's population growth rate declined sharply, from over
3% in the late 1950s, to about 2.8% in the early 1970s and to an estimated
2.1% at present. Although 66% of the population lives in urban centers,
there are now 22 cities with populations exceeding 100,000 persons. Some of
the major cities have serious transportation, housing and urban congestion
problems, however, and large numbers of persons live under poor conditions.
10.       Available evidence suggests that the welfare of all income groups
in Colombia has increased significantly since the 1950s and that the propor-
tion of the population living in absolute poverty has declined. These gains
were in part a consequence of reasonably good economic growth and of efforts
to raise welfare through investment in health, education, low income housing,
water and sewerage, and other social services. Existing data on income dis-
tribution trends present a less clear picture. It is probable that some
improvement occurred in income distribution between 1950 and the mid-1960s
as a result of a strong shift of the labor force from rural areas to higher
productivity jobs in urban industry and services and of relative wage gains
for urban unskilled workers. Accelerated inflation through the early and mid-
1970s caused real wages to increase less rapidly than returns to non-labor
factors of production. While the trends in income distribution during
this period are unclear, it seems unlikely that any significant improvement
occurred. Since 1977, however, rural wages have risen in real terms and



-4-
unemployment has declined notably, supporting the presumption of some
distributional improvement.
Development Strategy of the Current Administration
11.       The development strategy of the present Government is essentially
unchanged from that of the previous administration, with the most significant
variation being a greater emphasis on expanding economic and social infrastruc-
ture. The key elements of this strategy are the promotion of non-coffee
exports and investment, supported by measures to increase allocative and
productive efficiency. Factor (particularly capital) and product markets are
to be freed from unnecessary controls in order to increase efficiency and
lower costs, and tariff and non-tariff barriers to imports are to be reduced
to provide greater competition to domestic industry. These steps, along with
periodic exchange rate adjustments as required by relative cost differences,
tax rebates and favorable access to credit, are expected to provide the
stimulus for rapid growth in non-coffee exports and in private investment.
Public investment is to be accelerated, with particular stress on improving
and extending the transportation network and on resolving the country's rapidly
growing energy problem. Investments in transportation are expected to lower
freight costs substantially and those in telecommunications to facilitate
economic activity as well as to minimize the unnecessary use of transport;
both are aimed at integrating regional growth centers into a natipnal market.
Complementary measures to encourage industry to locate outside the four major
metropolitan areas have been introduced.
12.       Raising investment and productivity in agriculture and industry are
important objectives of the Government's plans to expand growth and employment.
Substantial increases in credit are being provided to agriculture. Extension
programs are to be expanded to cover larger numbers of small and medium scale
farms and widened to include farm management and broader dissemination of crop
research. Innovative programs such as the integrated rural development (DRI)
and nutrition (PAN) projects financed by the Bank are expected to receive
continued high priority. Low income rural areas are to be helped through
rural electrification, health and education programs and through an expanded
feeder roads program. Industry, which is experiencing high capacity utiliza-
tion ratios because of lagging investment in recent years, is expected to
benefit from improved functioning of domestic capital markets, as controls
are eliminated from these markets, and from increased incentives for exports
as the real effective exchange rate recovers to pre-1976 levels. This, plus
increased competition from imports as tariff and non-tariff barriers are
lowered, should provide the stimulus for greater industrial investment and
bring about more rapid technological change.
13.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly growing
deficit which is expected to reach significant proportions in the mid-1980s
in the absence of an aggressive energy development program. High priority is
being given to the development of additional energy resources in order to
avoid the constraint on growth that large scale shortages of energy would
entail. The strategy adopted is designed to reduce the country's dependence
on petroleum as an energy source by developing substitutes. Major projects



- 5 -
are being executed and others prepared to expand hydroelectric power genera-
tion, and incentives are being given to private foreign companies for accel-
erated exploration and development of the country's petroleum, coal and
natural gas po'ential. Exports of coal and natural gas are expected to offset
a large portion of the petroleum imports projected for the mid to late 1980s.
Higher energy prices are expected to slow the growth in energy demand. W'hile
the total investment cost of future energy development is still being deter-
mined, preliminary estimates indicate that the required investment could run
as high as US$8.0 billion in 1979 prices over the next decade. Even under the
most optimistic assumptions regarding development of energy resources, however,
Colombia will continue to rely heavily on energy imports until the mid-1980s
when exports of coal and natural gas begin to reduce the nation's net energy
deficit.
14.       With Colombia's long term growth prospects enhanced by the increased
availability of foreign exchange and with inflation expected to moderate, the
authorities are beginning to focus policies on a number of issues that need to
be addressed if the country is to achieve its full growth potential and poverty
is to be alleviated at a more rapid pace. These issues include the reduced
competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets brought about in recent
years by the relatively high domestic inflation uncompensated by foreign
exchange adjustments, and the slow modernization and lowered efficiency of
domestic industry resulting from low investment levels and limited foreign
competition. Public investment has not increased significantly in the past
few years and domestic resource mobilization is still insufficient, particu-
larly in comparison to the expansion required in public investment. While
income distribution and welfare trends appear favorable, substantial efforts
will have to be made to reduce the widespread poverty still existing in the
country.
15.       Economic policy is presently in a period of transition as the
authorities attempt to combine stabilization and growth measures so as to arrest
inflation while still permitting the economy to expand. Some advances have
already been made in dismantling the existing stabilization program and in bring-
ing about conditions favorable to increased investment and growth. For example,
the 100% marginal reserve requirement imposed on commercial banks has been
rescinded and the Government has taken a more active role in the capital market
through open market operations. The transition process, however, has been
moving slowly in certain respects and the Government recognizes the importance
of acting quickly in finding appropriate solutions to these potential constraints
to growth. Exchange rate adjustments are expected once again to become a tool
of development, rather than a component of stabilization policy, and further
measures to stimulate private investment and encourage technological change are
proposed. As inflationary pressures continue to recede, controls on interest
rates and credit, which have already been relaxed somewhat, are expected to be
further reduced as are tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. Such measures,
once fully effective, could be expected to produce a sizeable jump in private
investment and in economic efficiency. Delays in carrying out economic and
social infrastructure investments could adversely affect growth of the pro-
ductive sectors and reduce economic welfare. Thus public investment is to be
accelerated at the maximum consistent with continued progress toward economic
stability. The Government is particularly concerned with the slow growth of
energy sector investment (with the exception of investment in hydropower).



- 6 -
Although some progress has been achieved as capital outlays by foreign oil
companies have risen as a result of more profitable wellhead prices and the
growth in demand for petroleum products has been slowed by higher retail prices,
the Government intends to advance development of the country's other energy
resources, i.e., coal and natural gas.
16.       Since in the absence of corrective measures both the current account
of the balance of payments and public sector savings are expected to weaken
over the next few years, mobilization of domestic resources to support the
strong expansion required in public investment is likely to be a critical
issue in carrying out the Government's strategy. The authorities are already
moving ahead on this issue, having taken measures to improve tax administration
and enforcement and to generate resources through large real increases in
charges for public services. Additional tax measures will probably be needed,
however. Capital market improvements, including realistic interest rates on
savings deposits, are expected to stimulate private savings. These efforts are
being complemented by measures to encourage the production of basic foodstuffs--
which weigh heavily in the consumer market basket--as a means of reducing infla-
tionary pressures and moderating inflationary expectations, which should have a
further favorable effect on savings.
17.       Given the country's strong resource base and with continued sound
economic management, Colombia is expected to achieve annual real GDP growth
averaging about 6% during the 1980-85 period. However, because of the expected
decline in coffee prices and with accelerating oil imports and the high import
content of future investment, the current account of the balance of payments
is expected to be in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Colombia is
expected, therefore, to continue to be a large net importer of capital for
some time to come. Even assuming that the Colombian authorities permit a
drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent of three months' imports
in the years immediately ahead, gross external capital requirements are
projected at US$10 billion between 1980 and 1985, or an annual average of
about US$1.7 billion. An increasing proportion of this capital inflow is
expected to be provided by foreign commercial and financial sources.
18.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency amounted
to an estimated US$4.4 billion at the end of 1978, equivalent to about 18% of
GDP, of which US$2.8 billion was disbursed and outstanding. The Bank/IDA share
of this external debt was 26.5% in 1978. Because of the expected decline in
commitments from bilateral sources and corresponding recent acceleration in Bank
lending, this share is expected to exceed 30% in the early 1980s, before falling
to about 27% by 1985. Although the public debt service ratio fell in recent years
as export growth accelerated, this ratio is expected to increase from 10% in 1978
to about 15% in 1985. The World Bank's share in public debt service is expected
to rise to 26% in 1985 from 24% in 1978. Balance of payments prospects beyond
the early 1980s will depend heavily on the timely development of domestic energy
sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-based export-
oriented projects currently under preparation. Given the expected continuation
of sound economic and financial management and timely execution of the country's
energy program, Colombia is considered creditworthy for the required external
borrowing on conventional terms.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
19.       The proposed loan, the 87th to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,582.6 million (net of
cancellations). Of this amount, US$1,803.9 million was held by the Bank on
December 31, 1979; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways
in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements have been completed on 49 loans and the
IDA credit. During 1972-77, disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent
per year, then declined slightly to US$74 million in 1978 and increased
sharply to US$135 million equivalent in 1979. The improving performance of
social sector institutions in the execution of Bank-financed programs, the
gradual containment of inflationary pressures, which should allow for relaxa-
tion of fiscal restraint, and the recent Bank lending for infrastructure
projects, all point to higher levels of disbursements in the future. As of
December 31, 1979, IFC had made investments and underwriting commitments of
US$53.9 million in 24 enterprises and held US$16.7 million. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of
December 31, 1979. The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the
34 ongoing projects.
20.       In response to the priority objectives established by successive
Governments (self-sustained economic growth, increased employment and improved
income distribution) since 1966, Bank lending to Colombia has become increas-
ingly diversified and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs
and activities which emphasized social as well as economic benefits. Twelve
of the fourteen loans for industry have been made since then, eleven of the
thirteen agricultural loans, all three loans for education, one loan for a
a nautrition project, two loans for urban development projects and all nine
loans for water supply and sewerage. During the same period only fourteen
loans in the power and transport sectors were made, while before 1966 twenty-
two out of a total of twenty-five loans were made to these sectors.
21.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY79 consisted of two loans each for
water supply/sewerage and power, and one each for urban development, aviation
development and agricultural credit, totalling US$311.5 million equivalent.
In addition to the loan proposed in this report, the FY80 program includes the
recently approved loans for a nickel project, power distribution, telecommuni-
cations and small-scale industry, as well as proposed loans for vocational
training, power generation, and secondary oil recovery and exploration. Work
is also under way on projects for land settlement, agro-industries, railways,
ports, feeder and rural roads, further mining development, power (including
village electrification), irrigation, agricultural credit, water supply and
sewerage, urban development and environmental improvement, for possible
consideration by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
22.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy, which is attuned to the requirements of the era that
began with the 1973 price rise of internationally traded petroleum. To help
Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a sizeable part of the proposed
lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist the development
of coal mines and petroleum, which hold potential in helping Colombia meet



- 8 -
part of its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. Bank involvement
in the energy sector would help mobilize additional external financing as
some of the projects would require co-financing. Other future loans would
finance agriculture and industry (including agro-industry) to assist the
Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment,
and to strengthen and diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives
would be the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastructure. In this
context, the Bank is assisting the Government in preparing a rural and feeder
roads project to integrate the more backward areas of the country into the
modern economy. Other loans under preparation for ports and railroads are
aimed at helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-traditional exports
and the imported inputs on which the modern sector of its economy relies for
expansion. Lending for telecommunications would assist the Government in its
efforts to integrate cities and towns into the national economy and reduce
the large amount of congestion in existing networks. Finally, a relatively
large number of loans are being prepared in support of the Government's
efforts to help the iowest 50% of the Colombian population. Lending for
urban development and slum improvement, rural electrification, land settlement,
water supply and sewerage, irrigation and environmental improvement projects
is principally designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
23.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and bilateral sources provided about 75% of gross disburse-
ments to the public sector from external sources in the 1961-72 period, their
share has decreased since then to approximately 50% for the 1975-77 period
and it is expected that during the period 1979-83 this share will decline
further to about 38% of external capital requirements. Like the Bank, IDB has
given increased emphasis to social projects and has financed projects in low
cost housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university educa-
tion, water supply, rural electrification, and land erosion control. In the
future, it proposes to assist Colombia to develop sources of domestic energy
and to expand the activity of the productive sectors to help generate increased
employment. USAID has supported programs in education, urban development and
small farm development, but is phasing out its aid program in Colombia over the
the next few years with about US$10 million remaining to be disbursed on
previous loans. The Governments of the Federal Republic of Germany and the
Netherlands have also provided concessional financing for social and regional
integration projects.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN COLOMBIA
Industrial Growth, Structure and Exports
24.       Manufacturing industry, which contributes about one-fifth to
Colombia's GDP, is a leading growth sector. Between 1970 and 1978, manufac-
turing output grew on average by 7.1% per annum, consistently outpacing the
growth of overall GDP. During the same period, exports of manufactured goods
increased seven-fold in current US dollars from US$96 million to US$699
million. 1/ The share of manufacturing industry in total exports rose steeply
1/   The figures differ from those in Annex I primarily because of the
inclusion of goods produced by food processing industries.



from 13% to 37% in the early 70's, subsequently receding to 22% in 1977 and
1978 which were years of exceptionally high international coffee prices.
In the ten years preceding 1978, employment in the manufacturing industry
expanded from about 700,000 to about 1.2 million. This impressive growth of
the industria' sector was made possible by adequate natural resources, human
skills available at a reasonable cost, entrepreneurial initiative and appro-
priate Government policies.
25.       The five largest branches of Colombian industry are textiles, food
products and beverages, chemicals, paper products, and non-metallic minerals,
which together account for nearly 70% of value added in manufacturing. In
the past ten years, the most rapid growth has taken place in metal products
and machinery, oil products, and cement. In some of these branches of industry,
Colombia has achieved a substantial degree of import independence.
26.       Industrialization gained impetus after World War II, with the aim of
import substitution. By 1967, local industry supplied the internal market
with most consumer goods, about two-thirds of intermediate products and about
one-half of capital goods. From then on, the Government adopted a policy of
promoting industrial exports, with a view to reducing the country's dependence
on coffee exports. A key element of this policy was the introduction of frequent
exchange rate adjustments by virtue of which the pace of peso depreciation
more than offset differences between internal and external price increases.
27.       Spurred by this policy, investment in industry rose sharply.
Between 1968 and 1974, value added in manufacturing rose in real terms at
8.3% per annum. Except for the products of some long established industries
which remained highly protected, manufactured goods demonstrated their compe-
titive advantage at home and abroad. In 1975, however, industry suffered
from the international recession and the estimated capacity utilization
dropped to 73% compared with 84% in 1973. Exports were further affected by a
sharp reduction in fiscal incentives prompted by budgetary considerations.
The Government tried to offset the latter measure by expanding credit to
exporters on more favorable terms and by accelerating exchange rate adjust-
ments. In late 1976, however, the Government had to reverse its policy to
counteract growing inflationary pressures, arising from the accumulation of
foreign exchange reserves because of the coffee boom.
28.       The spillover effect of the high coffee prices brought about a
sharp rise in aggregate demand, fostering a rapid recovery in industrial
production. It is estimated that by 1977 industry operated at 86% of capacity.
Manufactured exports, however, recovered more slowly because many products
were diverted to the domestic market and lagging exchange rate adjustments
did not compensate for the relatively rapid rise in domestic prices. In
line with the improving fiscal situation, the Government raised tax rebates
and made them commensurate to the value added, and again used credit as an
export promotion tool, while continuing to depreciate the peso slowly for
reasons of price stability. These measures encouraged export activity, with
exports growing rapidly in 1978 and 1979. The Government continues to be
committed to export expansion and diversification. Recently, the authorities
have resumed adjustments of the foreign exchange rate and propose to continue
doing so to encourage non-coffee exports.



- 10 -
29.       With the forecast continued improvement in incomes, the resumption
of rapid growth in manufactured exports, and the high degree of plant utiliza-
tion in the industrial sector, sustained industrial growth can only be made
possible through plant expansion and increased supply of raw materials. The
Government recognizes this and plans to increase the availability of credit
to industry. The proposed project would support the Government in this effort
and would provide much needed long-term financing for industrial investment
(see para 43).
Decentralization Policy
30.       Because of Colombia's difficult topography, several regional markets
have evolved within the country. Consequently, industrial activity is more
decentralized than elsewhere in Latin America. Nevertheless, about 80% of
industrial establishments, output and employment are concentrated around the
capital, Bogota, and in four departments: Antioquia, Valle, Atlantico and
Santander. About 60% of manufactured goods is produced in 8% of the indus-
trial establishments, which employ 200 or more workers each. The rapid growth
of the largest cities has raised problems of congestion, and strained the
capacity of urban infrastructure and public services. Moreover, serious water
pollution problems now exist in the Bogota River and Medellin River basins.
The Bank is supporting Government efforts to reduce pollution of the Bogota
River.
31.       The first Government policy measures to limit or reduce this concen-
tration of industrial activity were implemented through special labor and wage
legislation, enacted in 1967 to entice industrial enterprises to secondary
centers. In 1975, the Government launched a more comprehensive decentraliza-
tion policy. Direct foreign investment was prohibited in Bogota, Medellin
(capital of Antioquia) and Cali (capital of the Valle Department); official
development credits on favorable terms were offered to firms establishing
themselves in the smaller agglomerations; steps were taken to improve the
infrastructure in secondary centers and measures to set up industrial parks
decided upon. Since the degree of industrial concentration has not changed
significantly, the Government is intensifying its efforts to speed up decen-
tralization by providing additional infrastructure in the less developed
regions. It is also expanding incentives to stimulate supply of credit to
industries outside the major centers. To support these efforts, the proposed
loan includes special features to encourage industrial decentralization (see
para 54).
Employment in Industry
32.       Industrial employment expanded rapidly at 8.3% per annum between
1968 and 1974; the expansion slowed down to an annual average of 2.3% in the
mid-70's but rebound to 4.2% in 1978. By the middle of that year, 1.2 million
people were employed in industry, representing 23.5% of total urban employment.
By 1979, unemployment in the four major cities amounted to about 8% of the
labor force compared to an average of 12% in the early 70's. This speaks well
of the Government's efforts to increase employment, particularly in view of
the rapid population growth, registered in the 60's, and the country's urbani-
zation. In the industrial sector, most of the new employment opportuni-
ties were in the labor intensive activities, such as textiles, apparel, metal
working and mechanical engineering, which were in the forefront of the export
drive.



- 11 -
33.       Compared to many other Latin American countries, industrial wages
in Colombia are fairly low. After stagnating, or even receding somewhat, for
several years in the early and mid-70's, real wages rose in 1978 owing to
lower inflation. While some comparative advantage in labor cost may have been
lost thereby, Colombian industry has remained competitive in the Latin American
sphere where it sells the bulk of its industrial exports.
Colombia's Financial System
34.       Colombia has a relatively well developed financial system consisting
of a variety of specialized entities, including commercial banks, agricultural
and mortgage banks, savings and loan corporations, public and private develop-
ment finance companies (DFCs), commercial finance companies, and mutual funds.
In 19/8, comnercial banks accounted for about 42% of total institutional credit,
savings and loan corporations for about 21%, and public and private DFCs for
over 16%. in lending to industry, the commercial banks and the DFCs supplement
their resources by rediscounting loans with the Industrial Financing Fund and
the Private Investment Fund operated by Banco de la Republica.
35.       The allocation of financial resources within the Colombian economy
has been strongly influenced by Government policies. For many years prior
to 1974, the financial system was subject to complex reserve requirements
and compulsory investment regulations. Different interest rate ceilings
were imposed on different transactions, and the right to issue tax-exempt
or indexed debt instruments was granted to one or another category of insti-
tutions. This caused sharp swings in the amount of resources channelled
through the various types of institutions. Agriculture, housing and the
public sector were generally favored to the disadvantage of industry and
commerce.
36.       In 1974, a reform of the financial system was launched.  The extent
of controls was reduced and interest rates were permitted to rise gradually
and becomle positive in real terms.  Interest rate differentials were narrowed,
and tax exemption and monetary correction features were restricted to bring
yields of competing instruments into a better balance. In the following year,
the :DFCs were authorized to engage in short-term operations, accept time
deposits and issue 90-day certificates of deposit with relatively high interest
rates, and relend the proceeds to meet working capital needs of industry.
37.       Domestic inflationary pressures prompted the Government in early
1977 to raise reserve requirements and tighten credit controls. Interest
rates were not permitted to rise with inflation and selective credit allocation
was again used. To mop up excess liquidity originating in the external
sector, Banco de la Republica intervened, requiring exporters to accept 90-day
"exchange certificates" denominated in US dollars for their export earnings.
In September 1979, it went further and issued 15-90 day "certificates of
participation" with yields of up to 37% p.a., causing savers to withdraw
funds from banks and DFCs, which paid much lower interest rates.
38.       By the end of January 1980, the Government removed or relaxed a wide
range of regulations affecting the operation of the financial system. The
100% marginal reserve requirements were removed, and interest rate ceilings



- 12 -
were lifted for certificates of deposit and for onlending the proceeds.
Moreover, mandatory limits on the final maturity of external loans financing
industrial equipment purchases were abolished. As inflation continues to slow
down, the Government expects to loosen monetary controls even further.
Industrial Finance
39.       In the past two decades, Colombian industry had to rely increasingly
on borrowed resources to finance fixed assets and working capital. Equity
financing declined steadily. The low real return on industrial shares traded
on the Bogota and Medellin stock exchanges provided no incentive to float new
share issues; only since 1976 have share quotations risen more rapidly than
consumer prices. Funds generated internally through retained earnings and
depreciation allowances, which in the 60's were the major source for finan-
cing investment, declined steadily in importance, accounting in 1978 for
roughly one-third of capital expenditure. Retained earnings have shrunk,
owing to the tendency of many companies to pay out a high proportion of
profits as dividends to attract shareholders and to qualify for tax exemption
of dividend earnings. As to depreciation allowances, they were until recently
based on historical costs and did not reflect rapidly rising replacement
values. Only in April 1979 did a tax relief law provide for inflation adjust-
ments by permitting annual revaluation of fixed assets; its enactment should
strengthen the financial position of the industrial sector and raise the
contribution of internally generated funds to industrial finance.
40.       Debt financing of industrial investment and working capital increased
from about 37% in 1965 to a range of 60% to 65% between 1974 and 1978. In the
past few years, credit to the industrial sector was made available to the
extent of 25-30% by the commercial banks, extending mainly short-term credit
for working capital, to the extent of 17-19% by public and private DFCs,
lending mainly at medium- and long-term for plant and equipment, and to the
extent of 18-20% by the extra-bank market; the remaining 30-40% of credit
requirements were met by direct borrowing abroad. Between 1974 and 1978, the
volume of industrial credit expanded more slowly in real terms than industrial
output; recently, the lack of adequate financing appears to have hampered the
growth of manufacturing production.
41.       The cost of industrial credit varies according to source.  Most
nominal interest rate ceilings are still determined by the monetary authorities
but financial institutions raise the effective cost of borrowing by 2-6
percentage points through additional charges and collection of interest in
advance. At present, effective interest rates on short-term commercial bank
lending range from 35% to 40% per annum. On medium- and long-term loans,
financial intermediaries charge effective interest rates of 25-29% annually.
Term loans to small- and medium-scale industry, using rediscount facilities of
Banco de la Republica, carry interest rates of 22-27%. The DFCs charge
effective interest rates of 27-29% per annum for long-term loans in pesos and
up to 40% for short-term working capital loans. At present and projected
inflation, these interest rates are positive in real terms (see para 8).



- 13 -
42.       While the continuing objective of the DFCs is to finance industrial
fixed assets, the maturities of their loans have shortened considerably during
the period 1974-78. Loans for more than five years dropped from 64% to 37% of
the loan portfolio and short-term credit expanded at a very rapid rate. In
the late 60's and the early 70's, the DFCs were able to mobilize substantial
local resources by way of floating longer term bonds; but since 1975 the bulk
of domestic savings attracted by them took the form of 90-day certificates of
deposit. With access to official development credit becoming more difficult,
the DFCs had to look abroad to an increasing extent for funds appropriate for
long-term lending to, and equity investment in, manufacturing industry.
Investment Outlook
43.       After a decline in the mid-70's, investment in manufacturing picked
up in 1978; capacity utilization is running high and inventories have receded
to normal levels. The industrial sector is expected to grow at a rate of 6%
to 7% per annum during the 1980-85 period, if no foreign exchange constraint
arises, and if the Government continues the policy of peso depreciation to
safeguard existing export markets and help find new ones. Thus, substantial
investment in plant, equipment and permanent working capital will be required
over the next few years. The achievement of the necessary investment levels
will depend upon the availability of adequate long- and medium-term finance,
domestic and external. Gross external capital requirements of the economy
are put at about US$1.7 billion per annum in the years immediately ahead (see
para 17) and a sizable proportion of this amount will be needed to meet the
demands of the industrial sector. It is estimated that to provide their tradi-
tional share of long-term financing needs of the industrial sector, the DFCs
expected to participate in the proposed project would require external loans
of the order of US$300 million over the next 2-1/2 to 3 years (this amount
being net of the recently signed US$35 million IDB loan and the uncommitted
balance of US$10.3 million on April 25, 1980 of the Bank's seventh DFC loan).
Assuming direct borrowing in the international market by the largest companies,
in accordance with the newly adopted policy of the Government (see para 52)
and cofinancing of the order of US$60 million, the gap of about US$150 million
would be filled by the proposed loan.
Bank Role in the Sector
44.       The Bank made its first loan for industrial development in Colombia
in 1963 to help Acerias Paz del Rio to carry out a steel mill project. Between
May 1966 and July 1978, the Bank made seven loans totalling US$342.5 million
to Banco de la Republica to be onlent by the DFCs for industrial investment.
These loans were characterized by rapid commitment and smooth disbursement,
evidencing both strong demand and efficient utilization. Meanwhile, in 1972,
the Bank granted to Colombia a US$60 million development program and export
expansion loan, part of which was allocated for onlending to agricultural and
industrial enterprises. In 1975, 1977, and again in the Spring of 1980, the
Bank made available a total of US$52.5 million to Banco de la Republica for
Corporacion Financiera Popular to finance small privately owned industries.
In 1978, the Bank assisted with US$15 million the Cartagena Industrial Export
Processing Project, which aimed at promoting manufactured exports and foster-
ing employment in one of the very poor regions of the country. Finally, last



- 14 -
year, a loan of US$80 million was made for the exploitation of the Cerro
Matoso nickel laterite deposit, with the aim of increasing and diversifying
Colombia's exports.
45.       Through these operations, the Bank has contributed to the expansion
of Colombia's industrial sector. However, industrial growth was not the only
objective of Bank lending. The Bank has given support to the Government's
efforts to promote and diversify exports, to strengthen the financial inter-
mediaries specialized in long-term industrial lending, and to spread the
benefits of industrialization throughout the country. In so doing, it has
aimed increasingly at stimulating the establishment of medium-size and small
industrial enterprises in the depressed regions of Colombia and at creating
new employment opportunities for the poorer segments of the population. The
OED's reports of October 1974 and October 1977 on the first four DFC loans
concluded that the DFCs had been successful in allocating and channelling
resources to medium-size and larger enterprises, but suggested that it could
be more cost effective for the Bank in the long run to delegate more respon-
sibility to Banco de la Republica and pay more attention to sector issues.
Beginning with the fifth project, this comment has been taken into account.
More recently, the Bank has been promoting mobilization of domestic and external
resources to finance--pari passu with its loans--industrial plant, equipment
and permanent working capital.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
46.       The proposed loan would be the eighth made for industrial development
in Colombia, with private DFCs acting as intermediaries. It would raise the
Bank's total lending of this type to Colombia to US$492.5 million equivalent.
As in the case of the past seven loans, Banco de la Republica, the central
bank, would be the Borrower and, similar to the last three operations, the
proposed loan would enhance the responsibilities of Banco de la Republica and
widen the distribution of loan proceeds among industrial enterprises and geo-
graphic regions.
47.       The first of the DFC loans dates back to 1966.  Its beneficiaries
were the five DFCs established between 1959 and 1964: CF Colombiana in
Bogota, CF Nacional in Medellin, CF de Caldas in Manizales, CF del Valle in
Cali and CF del Norte in Barranquilla. The IFC holds equity in each of them.
Under this and the three subsequent loans, the Bank monitored closely the
operations of the participating DFCs, including their project appraisal and
supervision.
48.       Starting with the fifth loan of 1973, the functions of reviewing
project appraisals, approving the subloans and supervising the operations of
the newly participating DFCs have been increasingly delegated to Banco de la
Republica, and the institution building effort shifted gradually from the
DFCs to Banco de la Republica Department of Development Credit (DDC). Under



- 15 -
the sixth and seventh loans, the number of beneficiaries increased to eight.
Export 1/ and decentralization 2/ projects, and projects sponsored by small
and medium-size enterprises, were designated for preferential treatment.
Steps were taken to strengthen the capital structure of selective industrial
firms by permitting DFCs to invest in equity part of the loan proceeds.
Moreover, incentives were introduced to improve the technology of production
processes and to control industrial pollution.
49.       An analysis of subloans approved up to September 30, 1979 in the
context of the seven DFC loans shows that about 20% each of the total amount
benefitted the textile, and food and beverage industries; about 13% each
was absorbed by chemicals and non-metallic minerals; and nearly 11% went-for
paper and printing. According to the size of the enterprise, 31% of the
total amount was lent to 400 firms with assets up to Col$ 100 million (about
US$2.2 million equivalent); 44% to 216 firms with assets of Col$ 100-500
million (US$2.2 million to US$11 million); and 25% to 53 companies whose
assets exceeded Col$ 500 million (US$11 million). Preliminary estimates of
the employment effects of the sixth and seventh loans put the average cost per
direct job created at, respectively, US$28,000 and US$45,000 at 1977 prices;
however, these figures usually ignore the indirect job generation, often equal
to 50% of the direct one. A study of the economic return of a sample of 29
Bank-assisted projects, made in 1975, showed an average rate of 32%, comparing
favorably with the opportunity cost of capital in Colombia (see para 75).
50.       Preliminary discussions on the proposed loan began in Colombia in
December 1978 and continued in May 1979. In November 1979, the Bank dispatched
an appraisal mission. Negotiations took place in Washington in April 1980,
with a delegation, comprising representatives of the Government, Banco de la
Republica and the participating DFCs. A Staff Appraisal Report is being
circulated to the Executive Directors separately.
Objectives and Special Features
51.       The proposed loan of US$150 million is designed to:  first, help
finance industrial projects (including tourism and mining) consistent with
the Government's aims of export promotion, industrial decentralization,
support to medium-size enterprises, better capitalization of industry, improved
technology and containment of industrial pollution; second, further strengthen
the capacity of Banco de la Republica to review projects and exercise super-
vision over the activities of the participating DFCs; and, third, shore up
the DFCs as sound and effective long- and medium-term lending institutions,
capable of securing additional share capital and mobilizing adequate domestic
and external resources to finance industrial investment.
1/   Export projects are defined as having at least 25% exportable production
and generating net foreign exchange earnings within five years of start-
ing operations.
2/   Decentralization projects are those located outside of Bogota, Medellin
and Cali, and their zones of influence.



- 16 -
52.        Certain special features would be introduced for the first time
under the proposed loan. First, large individual enterprises, or enterprises
belonging to groups of related companies, whose assets exceed Col$ 1.5 billion
(equivalent to about US$33 million), would have to turn to the international
market and would no longer be eligible to borrow the loan proceeds, except
for pollution control and research and development projects (Section 3.01(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement). Second, to meet the desire of Banco de la
Republica to reduce its substantial foreign exchange losses on the Bank's DFC
loans, 1/ the aggregate amount of regular subloans denominated in pesos would
be limited to 25% of the loan amount, mainly for small and medium-size enter-
prises (Section 3.06(c)(1) and (f) of the draft Loan Agreement). Moreover, to
restrict the cross-currency risk on dollar-denominated subloans, a risk premium
of 3.25% would be incorporated into the interest rate charged by Banco de
la Republica to the DFCs and passed on to the subborrowers (see para 58).
Third, to further help satisfy the rapidly growing demand for medium-term
capital by medium-size and small enterprises, Banco de la Republica would be
permitted to use any subloan repayments, that might be in excess of the fixed
amortization installments of the proposed loan, for lending to small scale
industry (Section 2.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Components and Onlending Terms
53.        The proposed project would have three components:  85% of the loan
amount would be used by the DFCs to make regular subloans, 10% to invest in
equity, and 5% to finance subloans for technology development and pollution
control. It is expected that about 300 subloans and equity investments would
be made under the project.
54.        In accordance with the objectives of the proposed loan, preferential
treatment would be granted to medium-size and small industries, and--to some
extent--to export and decentralization projects. These industries and projects
tend to be relatively labor-intensive. Medium-size and small enterprises
(defined as those belonging to groups with total assets not exceeding Col$ 150
million or about US$3.3 million equivalent) would qualify for peso-denominated
subloans up to an aggregate amount equal to 20% of the loan. The larger enter-
prises would have to assume an obligation in dollars; they would not only bear
the peso/dollar exchange risk but would pay a premium to Banco de la Republica
for assuming the cross-currency risk. An exception would be made for export
and decentralization projects sponsored by the larger enterprises: for these
projects, a limited amount of peso-denominated funds, blended with dollar
funds, could be made available subject to a ceiling of 5% of the proposed loan.
During the negotiations, the participating DFCs have undertaken to seek and
promote export and decentralization projects. The progress of these promo-
tional efforts would be reviewed after a year from the date of the Loan
Agreement or after 40% of the loan has been committed, whichever occurs
earlier (Section 3.04(b)(x) of the draft Loan Agreement).
1/   Banco de la Republica has prepared a report, demonstrating the high cost
of the foreign exchange risk assumed by it.



- 17 -
55.       In line with the approach adopted since the fourth DFC loan, the
proposed project would encourage an ever wider distribution of loan proceeds.
No single group of related enterprises would be permitted to borrow more
than US$4 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan; there would further
be a ceiling of US$4 million on the aggregate amount outstanding to any single
group under the proposed loan and all the previous loans, with the exception
of borrowing for export or decentralization projects, where the ceiling
would be raised to US$8 million.
56.       To promote technology development and pollution control, subloans
for this purpose would be denominated in pesos and would--moreover--benefit
frDm a preferential interest rate of 24%. Financing for technology upgrading
would be limited to US$500,000 per enterprise. Subloans for pollution control
would not exceed US$1 million per enterprise and would be restricted to
checking pollution from equipment installed at least one year before the
project has been presented to the Bank. The amounts available to individual
enterprises for technology development and pollution control would not be
included in the computation of the cumulative borrowing limits mentioned in
the preceding paragraph. The DFCs have undertaken to deploy promotional
efforts to familiarize their clients with the merits of these novel projects.
57.       Funds for investment in equity would be made available to the
participating DFCs by Banco de la Republica in pesos. In acquiring minority
shareholdings, the DFCs would be limited to enterprises with total assets
below Col$ 250 million (about US$5.5 million), and those larger enterprises
which undertake export or decentralization projects. The DFCs would not
utilize for equity investment more than US$2 million per group of related
enterprises, taking into account outstanding loan proceeds invested in the
past.
58.       The onlending terms under the proposed loan would be as follows:
Maximum Terms
-----------Interest (%-------------          (Years)      1/
Dollar Funds         Peso Funds        Maturity  Grace 2/
To Sub-            To Sub-
To DFC   borrower  To DFC  borrower 3/
Sub-loans                 12.25        15       24        27            15       3
Equity Investments          -                   24   not applic.        15       5
Technology Development      -                   21        24             5       2
Pollution Control                               21        24            10       2
1/   Repayment terms are identical for the DFCs and the sub-borrowers, except
in the case of equity investments.
2/   Included in maturity.
3/   Nominal rates; as interest is collected quarterly in advance, the effec-
tive interest rate would be between 4 and 5 percentage points higher.



- 18 -
The 15% interest rate, payable by the sub-borrower for dollar-denominated
loan proceeds, assumes a Bank lending rate of 8.25% and would allow for 0.75%
to cover administrative costs of Banco de la Republica and for an interest
spread of 2.75% to the DFCs; the balance of 3.25% would meet part of possible
losses of Banco de la Republica arising from the appreciation, in terms of the
US dollar, of the currencies disbursed by the Bank. This interest rate would
be reviewed periodically by Banco de la Republica, on its initiative or that
of the Bank, and might be adjusted, subject to agreement by the Bank (Section
3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Peso subloans would bear a nominal interest rate initially set at
27%; the effective interest rate would be higher since interest is collected
quarterly in advance. The proposed 27% nominal interest rate on peso denomi-
nated subloans takes into account current projections of likely inflation
rates and market interest rates, with a view to ensuring positive interest
rates in real terms over the commitment period. This is also consistent with
the objective of Banco de la Republica, as stated in the supplemental letter.
Banco de la Republica has agreed to determine at six-monthly intervals, in
consultation with the Government, the nominal interest rate applicable to
subloans denominated in pesos and would inform the Bank promptly of the rate
so determined. Should the Bank disagree with the new rate, the Government,
the Bank and Banco de la Republica would review the matter within sixty days.
In the event of the parties failing to agree, the Bank may refuse to authorize
or approve subloans bearing the new rate and presented to it after the end of
the sixty-day period (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       Under the proposed loan, the limit for subloans not requiring the
Bank's prior approval (the "free limit") would be as follows: (i) US$2
million equivalent for projects presented by the original five DFCs and CF
de Santander; (ii) US$650,000 for projects appraised by CF de Occidente; and
(iii) US$250,000 for projects submitted by CF Aliadas and any new beneficiary;
however, the Borrower would seek the Bank's prior approval for the first two
projects submitted by CF Aliadas and any newly participating DFC. For all
projects involving equity investment, the free limit for loans to the DFCs
would be US$500,000.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.        Procurement would conform with standard practice for DFC loans.  The
DFCs would require their clients to obtain quotations from a reasonable sample
of qualified suppliers for major items of equipment.  Banco de la Republica
monitors closely the purchases made under its loans, in order to ensure that
the items are reasonably priced and appropriate for their intended purpose.
62.       The loan proceeds would be disbursed for:  (i) 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported goods; (ii) the CIF cost of imported goods purchased
off-the-shelf, or 60% of expenditures for such goods whenever the CIF cost
cannot be ascertained; (iii) 35% of ex-factory price of locally produced
equipment, and of construction and civil works expenditures; and (iv) 75%
of expenditure on technical assistance, technology transfer and overseas
training under technology development subloans. The above percentages reflect



- 19 -
foreign exchange costs determined mainly by a review of past DFC loans to
Colombia and are in line with comparable figures elsewhere. The proposed loan
is expected to be disbursed by December 31, 1984.
The 'Role of the Borrower
63.       The proficiency of DDC in supervising and assisting the participating
DFCs has improved significantly during the past 18 months, and its project
review performance continues to be satisfactory. The Borrower is taking steps
to monitor more diligently the compliance of the DFCs with the provisions of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Under the proposed loan, DDC procedures for
project review and DFC supervision would be strengthened further, and training
programs for DDC staff would be implemented, as needed.
The Participating DFCs
64.       Eight DFCs would participate in the proposed loan from the start:
five are the original participants of 1966; the others are CF de Occidente
of Pereira and CF de Santander of Bucaramanga, which were full participants
in the sixth and seventh DFC loans, and CF Aliadas of Medellin, which partici-
pated in these loans on a limited basis. At least one additional DFC, CF Union
of Bogota, is likely to join on a limited basis for the first time in the
course of the commitment period.
65.       A distinction between full and limited participation was first
adopted under the sixth DFC operation to allow the DFCs which may not be able
to meet immediately the rigorous criteria of full participation, to utilize
a limited amount of the Bank's loan proceeds. Under the proposed loan, this
amount would be US$2 million per DFC and would be available to the DFCs which
had been in operation for one year or more, have a capital of at least Col$ 100
million and a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 6:1, would agree with Banco de
la Republica on a suitable plan of action to strengthen their staff, project
appraisal and supervision capacity, and would retain qualified external
auditors. As the technical and financial capacity of a DFC develops, the
Bank may qualify it for full participation in the course of the commitment
period (Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       The nine prospective participants (including CF Union) are predomi-
nantly Colombian owned. The shares of CF Colombiana, CF Nacional, and CF del
Valle are relatively widely held. The National Coffee Federation holds about
70% of the share capital of CF de Caldas and about 49% of that of CF de
Occidente. The industrial and financial Santo Domingo group owns 75% of the
shares of CF de Santander and has recently increased its share holdings of
CF del Norte to 48%. CF Aliadas is controlled by Inversiones Aliadas, a
diversified holding company. To check the tendency of some of the DFCs to
give preference to lending to member companies of their controlling group,
the Bank limited under its seventh loan the financial exposure in any group
of related enterprises to 50% of the equity of each DFC. This limitation
would be continued under the proposed loan; it complements the 25% exposure
limit in any single enterprise, contained in the policy statements of all
participating DFCs.



- 20 -
67.       The original five DFCs and CF de Santander have capable and expe-
rienced management, and adequate senior staff. On the other hand, CF de
Occidente has been affected by a substantial turnover at management and
technical levels, and CF Aliadas lacks experience in development banking at
the middle management level. To correct their weaknesses, these two DFCs
would carry out "plans of action" agreed at the time of loan negotiations.
Substantial progress in carrying out its "Plan of Action" would be required
for CF Aliadas to participate, initially on a limited basis, in the proposed
loan.
68.       In order to contribute to the most efficient resource allocation,
the Bank has consistently encouraged the DFCs to improve their project ap-
praisal. Beginning with the sixth loan, economic rate of return calcula-
tions have been required for all projects assisted with subloans exceeding
US$250,000 equivalent. At present, most appraisals prepared by the original
five DFCs and CF de Santander are thorough and soundly based; only marketing
analysis, though improved, remains relatively weaker. Economic evaluation of
projects has been substantially upgraded. Appraisals prepared by CF de
Occidente are of lesser quality, and CF Aliadas' capacity to appraise projects
is still inadequate; the Borrower continues to review in detail the projects
presented by these two DFCs. The proficiency with which the individual DFCs
carry out their supervision of projects corresponds closely to their capacity
to appraise them.
69.       As of September 30, 1979, the combined resources of the seven
beneficiaries of the seventh DFC loan (excluding CF Aliadas) amounted to
Col$ 25.6 billion (US$561 million equivalent). Contributing to this total
were equity, official funds from Banco de la Republica and other sources,
private funds mobilized in the domestic market, Bank loan proceeds and private
foreign credits. At the same date, the eight DFCs participating in the
Bank's seventh loan held loan portfolios totalling almost US$440 million
equivalent. This amount represented about 15% of credit extended to industry
by the financial system (excluding extra-bank lending). In real terms,
the combined portfolio had increased at the rate of 3-4% per annum since the
end of 1975. Short-term loans had grown fastest and accounted for 28% of
the total. The equity portfolios of the participating DFCs expanded fairly
rapidly in the past two years, as a result of compliance with a 1977 resolution
of the Monetary Board, requiring the DFCs to hold at least 10% of their assets
in shares of new or reorganized companies, the availability of funds for
equity investment in the context of the sixth and seventh DFC loans, and a
much improved performance of industrial shares.
70.       The loan and equity portfolios of CF Colombiana, CF Nacional, CF del
Norte, CF del Valle and CF de Santander are sound and adequately protected,
with arrears remaining at acceptable levels. The other three DFCs are taking
steps to reduce their exposure in some companies, which either does not
conform to exposure limits or calls for excessive management attention.
71.       Between December 1977 and December 1979, the composite debt/equity
ratio of the seven participating DFCs (excluding CF Aliadas) declined from
5.8:1 to 4:1. All DFCs stayed within their debt/equity limits, set under the
Bank's seventh loan at 9:1 for the original five DFCs, at 7:1 for CF de
Occidente and CF de Santander, and at 6:1 for CF Aliadas. The same ratios



- 21 -
would be maintained under the proposed loan, with the exception of CF ue
Santander for which the debt/equity ratio would be raised to 9:1, in recogni-
tion of financial soundness and institutional maturity. These ratios would
provide adequate margins for growth without the immediate need for share
capital increases, except in the case of CF del Norte. A uniform current
assets/equity ratio of 4.5:1 was introduced under the seventh loan, to pro-
vide a reasonable scope for short-term operations while ensuring that the
DFCs remain principally long- and medium-term lending institutions. This
ratio would be continued under the proposed loan; among the participating
DFCs, only CF del Norte has drawn close to it.
72.       While in the early 70's the DFCs were making reasonable profits,
they lost ground to inflation in the subsequent period. Under the sixth and
seventh DFC loans, the Bank tried to bolster their profitability by raising
debt/equity limits and permitting a higher interest rate spread on subloans
denominated in pesos. Over the last 18-24 months, the financial results of
the DFCs have been helped by the relatively favorable performance of their
equity investments. The overall profitability of the DFCs is expected to
evolve satisfactorily over the commitment period of the proposed loan.
Mobilization of Local and External Resources
73.       In line with the conditions of the Bank's sixth and seventh loans,
each DFC participating in the proposed loan would commit itself in a Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement with Banco de la Republica to make all reasonable efforts
to raise locally through debt instruments, share capital and retained earn-
ings, on an annual basis, resources equivalent to the net Bank loan proceeds
(including proceeds of prior loans) disbursed by it (Section 3.04(b)(ix)A of
the draft Loan Agreement). An interim target for the mobilization of local
funds by all participating DFCs during the eighteen months following the date
of the Loan Agreement would be set at Col$ 3 billion (Section 3.04(b)(ix)B
of the draft Loan Agreement). In nominal terms, this amount would be double
the Col$ 1.5 million target for a comparable period under the seventh DFC loan
of 1978 and would represent an increase of 58% over a much larger amount of
Col$ 1.9 billion actually raised by the DFCs. The Government has agreed to
make all reasonable efforts to enable the DFCs to comply with these contractual
provisions (Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The progress
made by the DFCs in raising domestic resources, and the manner in which they
are used for medium- and long-term lending to industry, would be reviewed and
analyzed by the Government, the Bank and Banco de la Republica after a year
from the date of the Loan Agreement, or after 40% of the loan has been
committed, whichever occurs earlier.
74.       In connection with the Bank's seventh loan, the original five
DFCs agreed to make best efforts to raise in the international market
US$20-30 million. To date, the five DFCs have signed contracts with foreign
commercial banks for an aggregate amount of over US$30 million, with maturi-
ties of up to seven years. Additional lines of credit are currently being
discussed. Thus, the objective of introducing the Colombian DFCs to the
international capital market has been achieved, notwithstanding the fact
that some of the lenders were shareholders and/or correspondent banks of
one or more of the DFCs. In the context of the proposed loan, the DFCs



- 22 -
would aim at borrowing privately overseas not less than US$60 million equiv-
alent (Section 3.04(b)(ix)(C) of the draft Loan Agreement) from a larger
number of banking institutions and, possibly, with longer maturities as
recently authorized by the Monetary Board (see para 38). 1/ The progress made
in raising external resources, and their terms, would be reviewed by the
participating DFCs with the Government, the Bank and Banco de la Republica at
the time of the review of the results of the domestic resource mobilization
(see para 73).
Benefits and Risks of the Project
75.       The proposed loan is expected to help finance nearly 300 projects,
involving a capital investment of about US$485 million in a wide range of
industries. It would expand industrial production capacity, which has
lately become a salient factor holding back the sector's growth. Based
on past experience, these projects would generate between 11,000 and 12,000
direct jobs at an investment cost per job of US$39,000 to US$45,000; in
addition, there might be an indirect employment impact of about 50%. It
is expected that most of the projects would have an economic rate of return
in the range of 15% - 40%. During the first five years of their operation,
the projects assisted by the proposed loan are expected to generate export
earnings of about US$900 million. Moreover, the proposed loan should bring
about institutional improvements in the work of the DDC and help the DFCs to
increase their resources and expand their operations.
76.       The proposed project, as designed, does not involve unusual risks
in attaining its major objectives. If the rate of inflation were to accel-
erate, the arrangements for a review and adjustment of interest rates on
peso subloans should act as a safeguard for maintaining a positive interest
rate in real terms and ensuring efficient resource allocation. The expe-
rience of the participating DFCs in meeting resource mobilization targets
under the Bank's sixth and seventh loans has been encouraging and--given
appropriate Government policies--should be repeated during the commitment
period of the proposed loan.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco de la Republica,
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank,
a letter from the Borrower concerning its interest rate policy, and the report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
1/   Banco de la Republica borrowed US$35 million from the IDB on February 1,
1980. The objectives of this loan are similar to those of the Bank's
DFC loans; its proceeds will be channelled through the private DFCs
and the Government-owned Industrial Development Institute.



- 23 -
78.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. An additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be
that the participating DFCs prepare and present to the Bank a satisfactory
plan to achieve the domestic resource mobilization targets (see para 73).
79.       After the conditions of effectiveness regarding the Borrower and the
Guarantor are fulfilled, the Loan Agreement would become effective with
respect to each DFC upon fulfillment of the conditions affecting such DFC,
independently of the status of the conditions affecting the participation of
the remaining DFCs. The Loan Agreement would, however, become effective in
respect of CF Aliadas only after it has demonstrated that it has made substan-
tial progress in the execution of its "plan of action" (see para 67).
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 5 , 1980



-24-                                      ANEX_I
Page 1 of 5
COLOMBIA - SUCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREET
LAND AREA (THOUSAND Sq. 101.)            COLOMBIA                  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyjEAGES
LANFD AREA (SHOUSAND SQ. KH.)- LT RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL           1138.9                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGCUR
AGRICULTURAL     225.6                                MOST RECENT     SZOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /a
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                 240.0       38C.0    870.0           1124.4    1097.7       1942.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(URLOGRAMS or COAL EQUIVALENT)    491.0        606.0    685.0            943.1      730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     15.8        21.3      24.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 48.2        59.8      65.5            59.3       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      38.0
STATIONARY POPULATtON (MILLIONS)                        55.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.0        19.0      22.0            23.5       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     71.0        93.0     109.0            80.5      140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.0        46.8      38.0            40.9       41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.        _               51.0         50.5      59.0            54.4       55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         2.7       3.0             3.9        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TMTAL                              3.1         3.0       2.1             2.4        2.4         1.7
URBAN                              6.OLj       5.2       3.9             3.7        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0         36.0      30.0            32.8       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     14.0        11.0       8.0             8.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         3.2       1.8             2.4        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       115.4    263.8
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..      48.6            17.7       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.0        99.0     107.0            99.4      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   94.0        92.0      94.0 /k        107.0      105.3       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        51.0      45.5 E          60.4       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0        29.0      36.8 /k         28.3       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     17.0        13.0       9.0             6.7        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   53.0         58.5      62.0            63.6       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..          ..      98.0/j          76.1       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        63.0      64.0            63.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                               ..          ..      73.0            79.5       75.7        85.1
RtRAL                               ..          ..      46.0            38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        47.0      48.0            58.8       46.0        70.1
URBAN                               ..        75.0      73.0            77.8       46.0        88.3
RURAL                               ..         8.0      13.0            24.5       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2400.0      2170.0   1820.0           1841.9    2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3740.0      2040.0        ..           933.7     1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            580.0       510.0    530.0            563.4      453.4       197.6
URBAN                               ..          ..    320.0            279.4      253.1       260.2
RURAL                               ..          ..   9670.0           1140.9    2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        23.0      25.0            25.7       22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         6.0               5        .0        5.3         4.7
URBAN                               ..         ..         5J            4.8        5.2         4.4
RURAL                               ..         ..        5.9LI           5.3        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         ..        1.8/            1.3        1.9         1.1
UR8OA                               ..          ..       1. 6t           1.3        1.6         1.2
RURAL                               ..          ..       24              1.5        2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            47.0/f         ..      58.1/1          54.3       50.0        66.0
URBAN                            83.07?         ..      87.5/           80.1       71.7        85.1
RURAL                             8.07          .       13.27]          14.2       17.3



ANNEX I
-25-                                        Page 2 of 5
C01LOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREET
COLOMBIA                  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AnRAGES
COLOM3IA              - | _OST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SANE     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME      INCOME
1960 /b     1970 !b ESTIMATE /b      REGION Ic  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                77.0       100.0     106.0            107.3      102.5       101.7
MALE                 77.0        96.0     103.0            109.1      103.6       110.0
PEKALE               77.0       102.0     109.0           107.4       97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0        23.0      35.0            40.5        33.5        51.2
KALE                 13.0        23.0      35.0            40.4        38.4        56.4
FEMALE               11.0        22.0      35.0            39.0        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  31.0/h      21.0      17.0             18.5       11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           38.0        38.0      30.0             37.1       35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                         11.0        17.0      19.0             17.9       22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       63.0        73.0      81.0             77.4       64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0        11.0      16.5            29.1        13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       139.0       105.0     119.0            172.1      122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0        38.0      51.0            67.9        38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 56.0                  69.0            76.1        40.0        78.5
CINEHA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..       6.8              4.2        3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     5100.0/f   6200.0    6700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  18.9        24.6      24.6            21.5        25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             51.4        37.9      31.0            30.2        43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY \PERCENT)                19.2        21.0      23.o            23.8        21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.6        29.7      29.7            30.9        33.5        33.8
MALE                                49.8        44.9      44.7            47.3        48.0        51.3
FEMALE                              11.6        14.6      14.6             13.3       16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.7/f       1.7       1.6              1.5        1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIEUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOKE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2/f,i   31.9/i       ..            23.7        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7/f,i    60.1/i      ..            58.7        5Z.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.1/f i     3.5/i      ..              2.9        3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.87f.     io.i7?      ..             9.9        12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     214.0           265.6       270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     197.0           185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    267.0            396.3       282.5       550.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    122.0            308.1       248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      34.0            35.2        20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            46.6        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caricbean;  Id  Intermediate Middle Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);
T- Upper Middle Inceo. (11136-2500 par capita. 1976): /f  1964;  LA  1951-64; /h  Includes
teacher-training at the third level;  /t  Economically active population; LI  1973. /k  National
data. not strictly ctMparable with prevtous years.  Recent tAO data show 102.0. 52.0 and 26.0,
respectively for these three measures.-
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita Is for 1978.
RIvlsed October 1979



-26-                                                     ANN-EX I
Page 3 of 5
DOTXIUM 0?' SOCIAL MDICATDORS
Note.:  Alhuhth    a, -o ro  froc  -oooa  general.iy judged the mast sthoritttive  and reliable. it should also ha noted that thu may not be Intern.-
thoall  coparblePeouneof  ue  ao  of otendaruize  deliio    n   ocpts used by riiffternt -ontrine In c-11eting the dnta.. The 1tat  are, manetbelees,
useiti to doo-ibr order  of- usn-.-de, Ituaetrende, sod cbarantertce certain major dt~fftn.e   eec                          otis
The adluoted group ..er-gee for enoh IndiCator are pcpulatinn-aigbted geo0etric mesas, eatludi.g the e~trtea Ialues of tbe Indicator sand the mast popUlated
country in each group.  D-e to lao of date, grop ..verages of ai., indicators for Capital Surplus. Oil hspcrnc-  and of indicators of Access to Water sad ihcreta
Dieponal, Housing, moose Diotributlun ani Pote-ty for other country groupe  r  pop4latton-cigited geomet-oa   -n  cithout .eliusom  of the extrem   values sad
the noe  populted ooutry    -ic   to         vrag  of ocutrisaso   h                       ddao eptendnt  00 .arlbailit  ofdat,eand is not uniform. osto  mast be eXerised
in rlatIg avrage  of  ne Idiontor o. soother.  Theseaeae*emni   seu   sse                       mtoso   enntedvlesee  IOmparng the values of .se
ind.ioator at a time smog the ooota- nod -efter2noj-Du..
LARD AREA  (tho-and sqO.k.                                                                   A.ro-c to REorete Di-spsl 'prtet of poonilatlon) - total ,urbn, and  ,urs-il
Total - Total surfa..earea  -opiirion   laud area sat ios-d naters-                          Sigher of,potpietotal, urban, out  -nsalserved by eacretadis_Posal an
~flZultral -    tetrvo   otaoo   g cturlarauedtmortl                                    peontageoftc "r;oPet I_populations. teret Isposal may lotldeId
orpermnetly forl oropo, tooton    narht cud ditoten gao-dens or to                       the  -1llrtloo  -nu dopesal, oitS or cithout tretment, of bu~men  -oreta
II  e fl-o                                                                                 and  _nte-oter by -ter-bore cystomo or the use of pit priviec  and eoiia
MN  PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP5 per capJto etoaeat ourrent market pros-,                            i_opulatIo.pr.y.     in-  ouainurdd  ynme   fpgiagpyiin
o-loulated by ac-  ov-ersw iontion as World Neo  Atlas  1976-78 bee.Sisf                     quull fiad fro  a-dital  ohooL at  niveroity i1-si.
960, 1970, and  919?8 data.                                                                      P      .nnaisoc    ues   Peao      Pontios divided by obrof preotiotog sale
ENOIhITCDNSINDtPN  PE. CAPITA - Annul oooeunption of   -ertlil entergy                    ant resle graduate nurses, p-stival nuse, end  -so:t-snt cuses
calan   lIgnte, petroleux, natural go out hydro-, u-oe-  and ge0-                    Poclto  prhsia  bedi - ta.-  urban. sod rural -Population  (total  urbis
tPesa  eletoroit.  to 7.oilogr-an  of oval equivalent per Capita; 1960,                 no  durl  uiied by theIr respttio   numbr of hospital beds  oilable  in
190   d  g1 date.                                                                      puiis and pr ivate  gesra  end epeuulioed bostpital and rehabilitatio n oecters.
1970, and 19                                                          Ous~~~~~~~~~~~H.pitale are establinhuets Permanently staffed by at least one physitian.
PtPtTATION Anv:v,r VTAL bTATITICS                                                              Etabliohanuta providng psin-lpally  -tutdial vaeare not onolded.  uRa1
Total PtoQotieot.t-Pear  nollioto   -As of July 1; i960, 1970, sad                hospit1as, lo--vr, include health and medical o-nters nut permanently etafred
1977 oan                                                                                    y a  hysicoan (but by o -rtal-     . nanltant, nurse adnife, etc.) shio  offer
Irho   Populotlos.  pereent of total) - Patio of -urban to total papuhatlyn;                 Inptient acoodatlon  ana pr-ide a limited range of medical fazllitio.,
different definitlono  of urban   -ean say  ffeot e..parability of data                 Adninsi..e per uH-oitl Ned - Totalfnuber of au.ission  to or di-tnegen  from
nongoutoe     90  1970, sod 1975 into.                                               ho.pit-lo  divided by the numbar ofbDan.
in.t    earV20      Curso  popuLati-o  prajeoniocs ar  bae  on. dEUSiLNG
T~39EiiC~~Ianoc  by age ad  -n  and ttmr mertality and fertility                  Average Sioc of Hou-r.lS  norso  Per bo-ehld  -. ntatl.  rban, and rurl 
rates..Poeto   peomtern for  -trality rates  .amprase of three                          A houshold o..nseto of a group of inivdul  na share livin%g quarters ned
Oeotl  -uualg life  -opectanoy at lirmb  looreaing uith ctoutryla                        theor cain neals - A bu-der to  lodger any or say nut bn  -oued to the
per opt  boeIne,nd feoale liXs eapot-ny etailiznig at                                   hau..ecold for otatlatital purposes.
77.5 ye..ta -  The poanteo- too fertility rate also har  three le.-ls                 Average nubero         on r P...    romPotl  uba.n   rual -Avrge number
usonog de-lice io fertIlity anordiog no incoe leve  and past                            ofPeroaprrom,              l  ubn n  ruraloouied cnetloa ... nedllinge,
f:22ly olanhing  prnnn Eaho nountry is then assigned one of the.e                        respeotirely.  Duollingn enclude oco-permaxent atruatnen  Mnd  noccpied pro
tine  noetinmton.  of  -Wtaity nod fertility trends for proleutiun                    Acoesa no  ltrotti-ty  pe.rcent of Scalling,) -gtota,  u~rban. and rual-   oo
purvuocs -                                                        oen~~~~~~"tionual d-ellings noth elettoicity In  iin  uatr   as -peroetago
it-otlonno    ;o-lolnI tataln-y population  there is to g-oth                              totul, urhb,  nd rurl dovlltuga ..eep-otvely.
cione the birth rate  neqa  to tto  death rae   o   ia   h   g
toruotue  etito o-otan-  Thia Is nohi-vd  -cly after fertility rates                EDUJCATION
de_oLon to tie recp ea-to  -eov  of unit cn veprodution race, ohms                    Adu-ton Eno1lneot Patton
e_ch generain    ftsom-  replanr- itself nostly   Th. stati.onry popo-                   Po,mry ohoo  - ~.totl, tae        dn femle -         tGos  tvta, sale an female eart-
lotin  nie em  anhmated on ohs bacoso f the projected dharecteeiatboinn-falae  at tie prias-y levl.a  percentages of r-opeotiv  prmay
of theIpopulation     tthe pear 4000, and the rote of deoline af fertility                 aebool-ege  pupalati-o;  -cmally oInlu.de  cbhiidren aged h-il year  but
moo no replnoenent Level.                                           a~~~~~djuated fordifferen t lengthc of poiea-y eduontins; for onottien sith
fear otati-ono   Fpoutioc Is ova-bad - The year ahen stationary populatlo                    uiera  aduation  en        -letmy eaced 100 p.--et tttov  som  puplse
aice has neen re-hed,                                                                      ar  bln  rab    the offioinl oct001 age.
Pputos. DeotySoudr                                                                               'ohol-totl, sal  nod female - Cuapstedaaio;onar
Per 00. kan.   K Ilt-yeno popolanton fop   nao  ioee  (ISV hmotsri nf                        eoaine irat Leat four year  of approvd prinayIooroio
total nnp-oidne. genera  o.tolonl, ort-har training Inut-utJ.oo   inc papJAs
Per no. ho. ugri-oltrni land -  onfted as above for agitultural land                         uually ofbI2 to 17 Year  o   ge; -orrepootenteouaoar   oe
voly -                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ecluded.
i.,.t.   R   troture   cocoon: - Crildrec (0-li year), .orkisg-ege                   Po-ti-nlatrllset  peroect of a-ndtai) - Vocational Ina.tititioo t- id
rlyZUhi9Y)Liriiet     7s65pearo  ant ...ev) as percentages of aid-year                  tobhno-n, ldutr          o   tter pr.grmm    h4th operant i-dep-esn tnly ore
po-oltio-;  196.170, nt977 mm                                                                 enteooocnnyicotitattoa 
Population G-tth Pate  oeen:-total1 - Annua  grtth r-te  nf total al-                        Pui-dohe o-    Ipiay   n   eotr Rd%                  Tortal ntudnntn  -tOtll.  in
yea.  ouain   o   93oJ   -r-,nu17-7                                                          proooy an              I'onso,-eel  diivd b   utr   fthr  in tIenom
Poultin -oth Pate. onoveo    - unio   - Annual growth -an-  vf urha                      oponding i-teln 
ponilati.no  for 1951-Il 1907.nd 1970-5                                                    Autliterary rote   coC-Jratodl                          hrtoodndoio:s
rut  Birth Raen  'par th-us&nd) - Anonal1 lIve bltbo  per thousand of nit-                    0per--ntgo of tota  nonlt popuIstioc aged 15 yeao and ovr.
year poputlntn; 19,0, 1970  and 1977 data.
Crude Death Pate 'per th-oaad( - Annual tenths per thouand of ni-er                      CDNPIIP4rTiN
Poplaio;196, 197C, end P977 data.                                                        Po...nger Cart (Per thounan  oPfnio,,-Ia--eger  -ar  vnpota-  rotor coon
Gross perducti-n Patea-Averge  -omOe  of d.aghtern    omno oil-b.- haseating lens than eightpeon                                             - ooudns 1u-neo, hoarne  nod tilitary
In her r norma   rerductive periodIf one rperoence  Pree.e.t age-ve e
epenfic fertIlIty ratno;_oual  fiv-year aveages ending In 1960,                         Radio Petei-er   per  hou-an  p-luti.n) - All types of' reorueiro for roii.
1970, and 175.                                                                            tro-oot  to genera  publit per thouand of population; ..ooloden  -io..ensr
Fenily PlnIng-                  I-,por !nun   otoooaeods) - Annua nuber of                  rIteier  o  vatIen  ant in year  cha oegictrati-n of r-nic ottoaei
ocepoor  o f bir~tb-ootrol devote  unuer a-pinen of national family                        effect; into  for  -reet pyarn ny tot he vomporobla si-v  -oot  -tole-
planoin  poogran.                                                                          ninli habmollon--n
Family PlnIn-J   - Cocos (perce..t of an,rjet  Povo   -.Pe.ntago of sarried                CV  eneitero   Ero th-uno    populoion)-    re-voev  for bro..tdnit to g-eneal
noenofhild-he-rig age  ~1=5-i year) nhn oneirh-oatri de-i-e                          pbhito per thouao dpopulatin; enointe  un .tese ITV re-iver  10.  -trios
to nil emerried oo-   It  -an  age grouP                                                   and in yrro u~hec regiout-ot- of OPats  a    tffel 
Penpacr  hrolaio  Ipter othonni peoultioc)     hoon toe overg.  ioltv
FPOO  AND) NUTRITION                                                                           of "teilygnea   _nern              Jupopo  - deined asnporidio           iiatn
Dtso    ctPr  touoto eiopitaLby9-l,       0       .- lden of per onpita              deor  preoil   to0000O   eea   vn    otsvniee   ot    nl 
anua  prouttio  ofalfn   otile.                   outn    xldes oral and                   if Intn--r  ut  'enot four ti-euer 
fee  d an -n 0vlenu-  Year  asic.   -osditteaox-- prl.mny gouco                          Cinema Annual Atteniuno   tev Cnpotu onr Ya-   batl no r   th   contrt  :f t t
(e.g. augfvae _dtoo oftuu]oc0   r  edbead.oot.utina                                       oId orin-g the yeariouit   dni n..ons to Sr-, -to  Inctcd  tot: I
(e.g. voffee and  en ure e-onodd) - gg-eget  productino of each  -otry                uits.-
ii based on ntinulv  age trd--teprive ovighto.
Per vopita  -opniy of coTlorca  -er-otocfre        raet       - Computed from         CAR OtRPCf
-erQ  eqtionl-t  :C or- ot o- .P,1r   ocai  in ..ountry per -apita                    Total labor_for-                       --ounc. ooi-nLy action peroona   i-- oir, ared
per 0mm.  A-iotaclr nupp too vopr-te  _ontio  producto,  importsla                       f-rve  and unemployed b,o e-tldio,g toeie  -                          r001    0 efio-t
voer-tn -dno  onangec  000 ittk      t-ope    ofu  anma   ee,oeu                    -   on-aito  ovotrivo too 000  c-p-tol-
qoutotie-  cued u-f. ~ooov---g, a-d Ito-   indcr no.n .  quire-                       F opavo  -;fel   oo   ov                      . prvntagv of otatl lob; f-ro.
-tno   -rer  tatian-d by -   o-   otpy        -lia    eeto fr tormabortotr   pv rt ( - Ito  trte It   -mig, foretoty, nunting son
ue _oty a_d teolt-, oo_ netd       vc  tenoo  vemporator, hody on gbtt,               fothiog a- peroeroage       Ieotl Iob- forte -
aett00iloor huti-~f coyp.lot-00  ton ollcicg IC peroent for                     Ir,d-otry  p-erneo   -lab-r  0-0  In  -.oieg, vctoocs  oatfrt                    -nd
-at  o  ouvvtl tt11                                                                to-or-loy, 0000  nod ga-          p-rvtage oftoallborfrt
Ovo vaptt. onpoly H  P0-eic  goan  00  oy    - ?,tc invatnn    f Per               Patn:no t Vt    rvc       oo.sl.50rnl                             atvpto.o
o"Pi,n Iten opp vo-    d pero toy  tot -ppiy of fond in  nio   oatiiyoe    r  ooptdn  ttleoo  too   -Lomi  uo   oo   opr
ab_oR. Pquire-en    or nl_ _-totrovoe oobIinini ty USn  -rrn   o                          ct~g-o of "totl, onto and finale population of oIl ages  -ep-otoi,1;
minifun olloanroto  ot graun of ton iprtein   e  ds"  and20 gras  if         t96v  190,ad 197h  iota.  The- are 1L'sc participatien r-tenrofleoting
anma  an   us   rtol   foooI   vn   nuo   eaia   rti,ae-edC otuture of tOe popoloocon, and long tine tred.  A foe e-tisaetn
Thec  o     Idao ere boor toantooe of 75 grnn  of total protein  and                     00  ro   .sti-oo o-    re
29 groa   of inuo  povteio on an  oe-ge f.e tie cool, proponetd by PAC                  lcei D,pendeo  batDo -Pcofppuatoon roer 15 and t9 no0ovrt
In toe Third Wcoit Food lorey~                                                          the taboo f-oneX-  ge group of 15-co Pyearn.
Pe  opoa -roi  n,ptiy iro  anin   nt puLce - Ptneit supply of food
.hilt  agsII.) taly  naoA-t totonto                   -'.ou  onothe  -e  thouanid          Percentage of Prone   oor   oo  it onoh and kims) - heteived by roote-t
loage gror  --  ea,t  ohiltoo- 1  Othi  ago gr..nP; ftr  -nt mmvi-                       5 p-oent, rione-t l0ipervet, von--a  20 pere..nt, nut pooreat .0 p-eroen
HEALTHP                                                                                    PotFTtt  fTPCIW SPPR=
if; loceottancy ot Birto .000      oonyon-rf--aso   it                                     olroo    tolt   rottIot   e-i   0   v   aiol -Ach   -corurli
rosl-ding etobiro    to L     00,17     - o-o  I,  unt                                     ob toboepoverty 100000 letel i-thtot icoone I-oi hbo. obion 0 noco-l
too--  to loft toer    -orton   r1 p--o     oO      On    oon   o   ual-                   ftv_tdol             P-vrty bon-w  vel   25ornin                   rbanno  r-rl 
hotter of 0-00toto--c   t   .t u -noooeovo   oOoi  nlOtOto co-ooty loove Ioe-l -ooc-oor  ofP! orego per oaoita
ton`e a-ter oupplon  io,        -t rntrd  .u nor. .ate-or  -ntresed hut                    pero-al  -non  of toe nountry. UirbanIve sderi-e  frt. the ruraLl-ico
uncntmutoo   aty  -tIlnotn  roo.  otvot  ortono-  prog,             oO  ndj.uott fo   igner -00 of liir..g-cobanaea
and onoitnoy aelo   no        ..ovntget  tO-ir r-eaorionponitlos I                    Eatixcod ?ouuicBeloiinloe Ab-yIon-lee  r?erot  -orba  and
an -rta  ores  o rotlo  forrotoio" -o,- cdDoot  o-tot   loct pure-hnrrl-frotf-cuooo.ioou  oni n  ae hooe,oOv-
O  eto   rom  n l-.oo   nay tob 00  00-    batlegatiooanb
ovoeso of fon                 -lo    C   ot  unat -entle aneesac iILmply
tha  to   ooa.c10nehr   fo  b-mactot An -01 t-e to spent a                                                                                         -onocan   to oafats ci-i vo
tlnnocvrivns~e prt o  oIl  t, It,  uo-toag tbe fnmily, n cter amets                                                  ovnooSa-ysin ant Projetiono Dep-rtmeot
tuguan 1979



-27-
A__NNEX I
ECONOMIC DEV7ELOPMENT 0230                                         4g of 
(Tn MilNie- of DS Dollar-
Actual                  Estimated        Po~~~~~~_Ae-ecd     Overa..ge Aneaul  rw-th RtsAt Percet of CDP
1967-69                                                                                           (10-5-         1975-   1908-
A,a-ga        1975        1976       1977        1579        19759       96  199Cig5                   7e         79       95             1975       1979        1983
.710O1L AC013N5IS                                                            1976 Pcice  and tEeheege Rates
case Domestic~~-1  Pr-d-,                9,050      14,597      159,256     15,971     17,359      19,002      19,3979    25,933                0.5       1,8      0.0          150.0        c. 100.015.
Can IP0  T ,  uf Tcade (+                  751        -699          -           697        474          83         260       -434.                -1-                -             0,          0.5        1.7
coeotsccIncom                         8,9099      13,060      15,236i    16,666      17,753    19.365        19,115     25,499                7.4       7.5      5.9           95s.2      1+3.5       98,3
-,paeet (Joel, 50S)                            1,491        2,047      7,305       2,416       2,895      3,161       3,061       5,012                7.5     (1.7      8.0           14.1        17-4        19.3
onre(oI. NER) (lot. Cap-eien)          -1,419       -2 297      -2,762     -3.099      -3.384       .3.314    3_064       0,596                0.5       9.6      5.4           15.0        59.1        17.3
sauces lap                          ~~~       ~~~~~      ~~~~72  -250  -ARC  -99/  -489       -133        -53         510                 -        -        -            -1.7        .5.7         2.0
votuptios inpeoditace-                        7,320       19,909      11,579     12,5609     13,371      13,990     14,577    19,035                   .5       04        .670.69                  30.3        /3-1
lanestnaot Pcpacdororeo  (mel. ~~~~~~~~ ~~        ~~~~Sto-ka3    1,0 2,710  3,157  3,452  3,8995  4,279       0,035      6,979e17                     1.          .             .           30        2.
.uaesnOo Sooloos                   i~~~~~~~~~,56a1  2,960   3.657      41,199      4,302       4,411      4,58B       6,064               11.1l    10.1       7.1           20.3       24.1l       20.
-lua..aal Ravloga                              1,500        7,920       3.390       3,17 1     4,276       4,250       4,290      5,667                11,      10.       6.3           19.4        23,3       22,4
i/RJ7INPJN  TRADE                                                               Aae-I Rata at lacreo  Pr,ice-tPc to   oa
Capicol Goods                                   253         958         671         722      1,203J      1,771      2,115       4,143               1G1.0    30.31    10.0            10.-'      40.0          .
iteenteditot  Goode  (oe... Poels>              251          599        739         765         090      1,267       1,4115     7623                21.      70.0  1 3.1              17041 0'.
Fuels                                             3            5        tS          190         244        173    60            7 ,5 170            17.2   1I.         21              1.9        10.3       21.
ia--cpcli- Coade                                 61         210         214         335         19         370         436         70i.                      10.1      1.             1.           9.3        1.
Tonal Meceh-dleimpcs             t              6108      1,425       1,747       7,1298      ,1          ,2         ,7          ,9                 16.4    7.         i.4           6..1       1031.3         Tr2.
Males Mlnaf-tn-ed Reads                          9 1         324        361         302         006        615         2795      1,708              35.5      11.0     027             4.         1.
3t1,oc Rapocas                    ~~~~       ~~~~~~135  1.393  iRs   7,0604      2,952      3,716       3,761       6,573               104.5    77.0     11.9           /1.1        55.0        b.,
07 WAth:   iClfee)6  341)          1   744    1 1,90)   71,300) 1 2.007   i  ,6371      3,02)   1 51261                        11.018 30.) 7       121         3 4.91 30.12963713
(Fsi9                               561    1    9)    0    15B        1565        156i   1   505          2701        7037           1-95.6)   2 0.61   2D7.ai            5.3)        -.7          1.4
Pnl1 eaiseEapocos                       6/6        1,717      7 ,295      2, 790      3,290      0,31         ,53        996               -16.-2   10.9    13.77            103.1       110.0       1
fen-bodi-e Toads Indi-es
foport Price Indee                               71.7         03.9      1001.0      141.7       191.3      1037.2      140.7       190.6
Inpoe   Onio-  Tndeu                             30.0        95.8       300.9       111.5      110.6       142.9       156.0      252.1
le=,  of T-ade ledee                            07.3         57.0      ieo.1i      126.1      115.7       103.0        01.0        79.7
/110ADORN 9Y SECTOR (Feen- Lost)                                XA-oa  DaaaA96---ia   n   ohna   oe                                            vco  Aoa-l G-th Rose                  As Pere-o  of Total
A9totoltaee                      ~~~~~~       ~~~~~2,923  0,1051  4,224  4,330    4,720      0.936       5,204       6,737                0.6      4.6      3.3            30.0       29.7        79.1
Tada,ccy                                     2,022        3,033       39,93      4 0,62      1,434       2,669      4,956       6.761                0.7      5.1       0.4           28.        27.         50.2
OnSe-                                      4.A249           _ 58      0.9405     6_24   4     .96,65     7.291       7.759     1 0,499               5.9      7.0       0.2           41.1       13.1       __03. 7
Total                                        9,59)9      13,536      141012     14,760      19,019      16,916     17,931      23,990                0.1      5.7       6.0         60(0.       190o.0      i03.
PUBLIC 00NA300                                                               Ronoo-l Eas  en C-rt-s  Pea-
A,oPercrt of GDIP
(Reoneal 3oe- aeec
Correoc~  -iaepno                              019        1,502      1,679       2,050       2,348       3,235      4,302      13,129               20.      22.1     25.0            10.3       10,         12.4
Ce.ent Eopaadi tar                             202          702      -651.         931       1.109       1.552     _2.126       6.233               16.1~  71.9       70.5            4.8         5.2        _5.9
Bodgcar  Osai                                  150       -  909         919      1,119       1,039       1,703      2,170       0,R9t               26.2     22.2    26.0              3,5        5.5         0.5
Dotor Pablie  " eton.. Savig                   031          167         -37         -89         15         -            23        60                                                    I    .1     .         5.6
PoblIte -Seto  Toneteet-                        612         917       1, 135     1, 125      1,636       1,973      2,502      10.36/                6,6     21.1    32.0              0,3        6,4         9.9
FRLECTED INIDICATORS                              1965-72      1975-79    1989-93
(verage for Period Iho-sI
Anereo  I00R (Sasad -e GIcs  Fiaed
Ienet.nen, isggad  Dna Yeac                 4,23         3.62        3,7
Impont ElastIcIty                    ~~~~~        ~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~1. 20  2.52 10.33
EargOnsi Soneonie Nanlago Rate        0~~~ ~ ~~~~~          ~~. 20  0.32  0,29
M.argioni SaNooi   Ssntoa Rac                     0.14         0.32        0.24
I-ABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PM Un`RKM                                                                                           DE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JRAIL 00 PUBLIC S00109 INtISTMENT  A-v,a1        Eeci--cd
1904             1973          191             1973         1964-73                                                     Sr-Ial S-r-o                                      20 9                  2.
Ag,iteIlt...                                      15.9                   1.
A9riooIlor                                 2.427            2,057           47.3            30,2         -1.9                                                      I,0 -ety andMiin                                    5 5                 2.
ladoennIy                                  2.958            1.212          18.2             17.           7.                                                       Pma                                                4.86.
Service                    4,219            ~~~~~~         ~~~~     ~~3,542  34.2  32.0    9.2                                                      TtaP."ta-dcon,na--j-e                             14.5                  13 7
Cata1                                      5.134            6.812         190.             100.0          3.2                                                      Do_e                                              16114
toa    sooiae                                    120 1                 100.9
fa cAdded eon Woler- (1970 Poleea sed PE-hn-eiRates)
In 110 aellats      7, of Onecees                O~~~~~~~~~~ceoth Jets                                    P194N00111
1900             97                 1964            1973              1964-75
P-3lie  Secto    avings                           09.5                  53 4
A  ci..lns                               903           1,J17                66,1            09.9               5.9                                                 Esooc Iforcee                                       1 1                  10.0
od a-tr-                              1,9837           2 ,300135.2                         109.                3.7                                                    ,c1901.
Serceso                               1 730            1.540               120.3            91.9              -1.2                                                 Toa  finacini170.                                                       102.R
Tota                                  1,359            1,717              109090           10C0.               2.6T- F- jg                                                                                           D'                    0.
Pebeo-y 1, 1980






-28-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE ANN DEBT
(Amounts in Millions of US Dollars at Current Prices)
Actual                              Estimated                 Pra joct0d
1970      1975       1976       1977        1978       1979       1980        19NS       1982        1985
SLMIARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Euparts (itl. RBS)                    1,000    2,165        2,782      3,397      3,992       5,226      5,644      6,138      7,001       10,656
Imparts (incl. NFS)                   1,149    2030         2j,02      2,723      3,414      4,789       5,JbS      6,796      7,68l       11,515
Resoaror Balance (X-M)                 -149        135        480        674         576        437        -37        -658       -80o        -909
Factor Seruicec  (Net)                 -180      -263        -279       -264       -156         -97       -119       -172        -275        -678
Profits                               -64)  (  -74)   ( -115)   ( -114)   ( -llb)    ( -130)   ( -145)   ( -163)   ( -182)   (  -233)
Other                              ( -116)  ( -189)    ( -164)   ( -150)   (  -38)    (   33)   (   26)   (   -9)   (  -93)   (  -445)
Correct Transfers (Set)                  27        48          21         29          20         21         22          24         25          30
Balamce on Current Account             -302        -80        222        439        442         361       -134       -806    -1,130        -1,557
Private Direct Insatment                 39        32         14         42         47          65         80        100         130         300
Pablic M&LT Loana
Disburs-emots                         235       383         241        374        341        887         552        651        980       1,369
- Rapaymnts                             _75      -135        -152       -174       -231        -458       -319       -330       -385         -552
Net Disbursements                     160       248          89        200        110        429         233        321        595          817
oeher MALT Loans
Disbursements                         101       141         109         85        110        282         212        250        275          365
- Repayusec.s                            59       -87         -87         89        -96        -116       -141       -165       -170         -225
Net Disbursements                      42        54          22         -4         14        166          71         85        105          140
Capital Transactions a.e.i.                 55      -115        215        173          60        291        -           -          -           -
Chbago io Net Reanr-es
(-lnrease5                                6      -139       -562       -850        -673     -1,312       -250         300        300          300
GRANT AND LOAN COMITMENTS            1972        1973         1974        1975        1976         1977        1978
Official Grants and
Crant-like
Public and MALT Loans
IBRD                                74         162           8           88          88         306         475
EDA                                            -           -                        -           -            -
Other Maltilateral                  39          29           65           5          93           61          71
Gouernments                        114          72          52           66         132          65          113
Suppliers                           39          31           50          74          44           31          90
Priuate Banks                       93         190          61          164         169           65         146
Bonds                              -            45
Pablic Loans n.e.i.                -             I         -
Total Public Medi- - acd
Long-term L.acs                      359         530          236         397          518         528         895
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                             Outstanding_on 12131/77                           Ootstamding on 12131/78
(Repoyable in Foreign Curre-cy)             Disb-rsed Dclv              Per-ent               Disbursed Only              Perce-t
World Bank                                   716.2                     26.7                   751.5                    26.5
1DA                                           22.0                     8.8                     21.8                     0.8
Other Maltilaterol                          195.5                       7.3                   243.1                     8.6
Governments                                 928.4                      34.6                   983.8                    34.7
Suppliars                                   207.4                       7.7                   209.4                     7.4
Private Backs                               551.0                     20.6                    567.9                    20.1
Bonds                                        47.7                       1.8                    65.4                     1.6
Public Debts n.e.1.                          11.0                      0.5                      9.7                     0.3
Total Public Median- end
L-eg-tern Laoas                             2,680.0                    100.0                  2,832.6                   100.0
Actacl
1972          1973           1974         1975            1976           1977           1978
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt
Outstanding and Disbarsed /1                 1,626.5       1,901.7        2,070.0        2,318.0       2,403.2        2,680.0        2,832,6
Interest am Public Debt                         57.6           77.2         101.1          111.7          122.8         138,2          171.8
Repayments am Public Debt                       96.3          131.4         207.5          135.3          151.8         176.1          230.5
Total Poblic Debt Ser-ic-                      153.9          208.6          308.6         247.0          274.6         314.3          402.3
Other Debt Service (Net)                       155.1          126.6         118.6           87.0           87.0          09.1           96.0
Totau  Debt Ser-oco (Net)                      309.0          335.2         427.2          334.0          361.6         403.4          498.3
Barden on Export Earnings (i5
Public Debt Service                           12.8          13.5           16.6          11.4            9.9            9.3          10.1
Total Debt S-rvice                            25.6           21.7          23.0           15.4          13.0           11.9           12.5
Total Debt Ser-ice PBIs Net
Foreign Investment Income                   31.5          26.2           25.9           18.8          17.1           15.2          15,4
Average Teens of Public Debt
Interest as 7 Prior Year
Debt O.tetending and
Disbursed                                   4,2            4,7            5.3            5.4           5.3           5.8            6.4
Amortioation a. % Prior Year
Debt Outstandicg end
Disbusesd                                    7.0           B.1           18.9            6.5           6.5           7.3            8.6
IBRD Debt Outstanding and
Disbursed /1                                 453.4         504.5          561.7          633.5         671.6         716.2          751.5
IBRD as 7. Public Debt Outstanding
and Disbursed                                 27.9          26.5           27.1           27.3          27.9          26.7           26.5
IBRD as % Pablic Debt Service                   30.9           29.1          24.1           31.7           31.2         59.6           23.7
IDA Debt Octatanding and
Disb-rsed /L                                  20.9          23.0           22.8           22.5          22.3          22.0           21.8
IDA as  Public Debt Oatanamding
and Disbarsed                                  1.3            1.2           1.1            1.0           0.9           0.8            0.8
IDA a. 7% Public Debt Service                    0.3            0.2           0.1            0.2            0.2          0.1            0.1
1  End of period                                                                                                            GCelombia Division
Li  Nod of period,                                                                        Feb.-.,c,-,, V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 15855






ANNEX II
-29-                              Page 1 of II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                           Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
49 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                       784.5      23.5 /1   --
680      1970  Colombia                          Roads              32.0               1.5
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply        2.0                 .2
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply       88.0                3.5
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation          2.2                 .8
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento                                   i
Municipal                      Water Supply        9.1                2.6
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 56.0                4.1
903     1973  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   60.0                  .1
920     1973  Colombia                           Education          21.2              10.4
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales           Railways          25.0                 .3
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       27.0               14.4
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                   .9
1118    1975  Colombia                           Rural Settlement 19.5                 9.3
1163    1975  Colombia                           Agriculture       21.0               15.3
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   80.0                14.8
1352    1977  Colombia                           Rural Dev.        52.0               40.7
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica              Agricultural Cr. 64.0                29.7
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de                Communications   60.0                58.6
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   15.0                 7.9
1471    1977  Colombia                           Highways          90.0               82.8
1487    1978  Colombia                           Nutrition         25.0               23.2
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply          13.8               13.4
1558    1978  Colombia                           Urban Develop-
ment            24.8               24.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                126.0              113.4
1583    1978  Colombia                           Power             50.0               39.2



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose             Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial             Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export           15.0              14.3
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.  100.0               81.4
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports           61.0              61.0
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power              84.0              73.6
1694 /2 1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              13.5
1697 /2 1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                      Water Supply       30.0              30.0
1725 /2 1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power             72.0               72.0
1726 /2 1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal              Water Supply       31.0              31.0
1737 /2 1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria          Agriculture Cr.  20.0                20.0
1762 /2 1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.                Mining-Nickel    80.0                80.0
TOTAL                                           2,269.6      23.5
Of which has been repaid                           442.9      2.0
Total now outstanding                            1,826.7     21.5
Amount sold                          50.5
Of which has been repaid            27.7            22.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  1,803.9      21.5
Total undisbursed                                                    988.3
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
-31-                                Page 3 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1979)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business          Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board       0.50      -       050
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08         2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans        0.70      -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09         0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment      0.50      -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing          -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera             Development          -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de             Textiles,         1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing          -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging        -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing       1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                 Livestock         1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles          5.00   2.60       7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism              -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del         Development          -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del         Development          -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism          0.23   0.11        0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism          0.80   0.25        1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing              -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement            1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement            3.60      -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                         M4ining           6.00      -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00   2.00       15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43   0.30       2.73
Total Gross Commitments                            40.31  13.65      53.96
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            28.96   8.26       37.22
Total commitments now held by IFC                  11.35   5.39      16.74
Total undisbursed                                    -     _           -



-32-                              ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 4, 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1980
The project is nearing completion; the paving program, which is the
largest component of the project, has experienced considerable cost increases
and delays. The disbursement percentages for the relevant categories of the
loan have been adjusted to spread remaining loan funds over the paving works
implementation period. Project completion is now expected for end-1980. As
of December 31, 1979, US$30.5 million (95% of the total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May  28, 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - June 30, 1980
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally
estimated. The savings of about US$348,000 are being used to finance supple-
mentary sewerage works which were already identified during project appraisal.
Work on the project additions is well advanced and funds should be fully dis-
bursed by the loan closing date. As of December 31, 1979, about 90% of the
loan amount was disbursed.
3.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 28, 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily and the Borrower
continues to perform well. Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section,
which was delayed by a methane explosion, is expected to be completed by
mid-1982; all other project elements will be completed by the end of 1980.
Disbursements up to December 31, 1979, amounted to about 96% of the loan
amount.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-33-                           ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
4.   Ln No. 849 Second Atlantico Development; US$5 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current  - December 31, 1979
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977. Settlement of farmers within the project areas is behind
schedule and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs improve-
ment. Because heavy rainfall in May and again in November resulted in flooding
which destroyed crops in the project area, a study is to be carried out to
determine possible deficiencies in design and a least cost solution for
correcting them. The closing date would be extended once consultants are
employed to carry out the study. The results are expected to be ready for
Bank review in mid-1980.
5.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
milLion, October 10, 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1980
As of December 31, 1979, about 71% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but execution
has since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution;
however during 1979, execution has improved. INSFOPAL has prepared a new
implementation program for each city and works are now expected to be completed
by December 1980. The closing date will be extended in due time.
6.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 12, 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - June 30, 1980
The project is virtually completed; the only remaining item is some
procurement of distribution equipment. After considerable delay in resettling
the people of El Penol and Guatape, filling of the Santa Rita reservoir was
carried out in May 1978, three years behind schedule. The revised project
cost is substantially above appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher
cost of the civil works. As of December 31, 1979, US$51.9 million or 93% of
the loan amount had been disbursed.



-34-                              ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
7.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, June 11, 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1979
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of December 31, 1979, only US$0.1
million remained undisbursed.
8. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution had been suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition
of sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 but suffered
continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted a proposal to
reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the loan.
However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978, retracted
the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally conceived.
Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in planning,
construction, educational programming and personnel training, and project
execution is proceeding normally.
9.   Ln. No. 926 Sixth Railway Project:  US$25 million, August 8, 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing date:  original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1980
Because of severely constrained locomotive availability, freight
traffic in 1979 decreased by 5%, compared to the previous year. The Government
has provided substantial funds to assist CNR in obtaining necessary equipment
and spare parts to improve motive availability. Thus, performance is expected
to improve over the next few months. Together with the Bank, the Government
is studying further corrective measures aimed at enabling the railway to
fulfill its important role in facilitating continued economic growth in
Colombia, including provision of necessary services for the planned exploita-
tion of coal for export. As of December 31, 1979 only about US$300,000 of the
loan amount remained undisbursed.



ANNEX II
-35-                                Page 7 of 11
10. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective,
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976. In
spite of the fiscal restraint imposed by the Government's economic stabiliza-
tion measures, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in most
cities. Works are expected to be completed by December 1980. Sub-borrowers
have not been implementing tariff adjustments as agreed, therefore, INSFOPAI.
is proceeding to take corrective measures. As of December 31, 1979, US$12.6
million or 47% of the loan had been disbursed.
11. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    Original - December 31, 1978
Current - June 30, 1980
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. Though many of the project works have been
commissioned and are earning revenue, project completion is not expected until
June 1981 because of earlier delays in procurement and building construction.
As of December 31, 1979, only US$900,000 million or 6% of the loan remained
undisbursed.
12. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 2, 1975.
Effective date:  April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction and the provision of sufficient credit are
lagging though corrective measures are being slowly taken. As of December 31,
1979, US$9.3 million or 48% of the loan remained undisbursed. Upon receipt
of a Government request, the closing date would be extended for two years in
order to allow sufficient time to complete the project.
13. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule. As of December 31, 1979,
US$5.7 million of the loan amount had been disbursed.



-36-                                ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of December 31, 1979, about 82% of the loan had been
disbursed.
15. Ln No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fourth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are advancing very well, while
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and a methodology for evaluating the project's
impact has been prepared. As of December 31, 1979, US$11.3 million, or 22% of
the loan had been disbursed.
16. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February 4,
1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1981.
The funds assigned to medium and large farmers are now fully committed.
Subloans made to small farmers have recently picked up and this portion of the
loan is expected to be fully committed by 1981. Concern over possible diversion
and substitution of subloan funds led the Borrower to increase substantially
its end-use supervision. About 73% of loan funds for credit to agroindustries
have been committed for 82 subprojects. As of December 31, 1979, US$34.3
million, or 54% of the loan had been disbursed.



-37-                             ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
17. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of several personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expansion,
and design of buildings to house equipment. The Borrower is studying possible
ways to make up some of the time lost. As of December 31, 1979, US$58.6, or
98% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
18. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds should be
fully committed by June 30, 1980. As of December 31, 1979, US$7.1 million had
been disbursed.
19. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. Stabilization and drainage works are progressing
well; contracts for 14 of the 32 construction lots have been signed and works
have commenced. The maintenance program began in January 1980, and consultants
to assist MOPT in executing the program have been retained. The vehicle
weight control program has experienced a 12-month delay but progress is now
satisfactory. As of December 31, 1979, about US$7.2 million had been disbursed.
20. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply. Initial delays occurred in two
subsidiary components--home food production and food quality control--but
activities are now underway. Project management and coordination have been
sound, flexible and effective. Evaluation systems are operating effectively.



-38-                                ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
21.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress in design and tendering is slow and project implementation
is delayed. EMCALI's weak financial position remains the most critical issue
in the implementation of the project. EMCALI has agreed to take corrective
measures to restore the entity's financial viability and to improve management
and administrative procedures. The Bank is following up project execution
closely.
22.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July
21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1. 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The 1978 change of Government led to corresponding staff turnover
in the executing agency and to slow project start; overall progress is now
running about 18 months behind schedule. Project implementation plans in
eight of the 23 cities are substantially completed and it is expected that
implementation plans in the next ten project zones will be completed before
the end of this year. The first disbursement application has been received
and two more are forthcoming. The new Directora General of SIP intends to
accelerate project implementation and will establish a working unit in SIP
for monitoring and operational evaluation of the project.
23.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule.
24.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about one year as a result of the re-issuance of bids for the KfW-financed
component (substations).



ANNEX li
-39-                               Page 11 of 11
25.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US'15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. A number of contracts have been signed, and
work is proceeding without delay.
26.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
By the end of December 1979, about US$60.6 million had been committed
and an additional US$18.5 million, which has been approved by BR for subloans,
is presently being processed.
27.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding well.
28.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well under way, although at higher-than-anticipated
cost.
29.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
30.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
31.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
32.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
33.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
34.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.



-40-                   ~~~~~~ANNEX I:II
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
EIGHTH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        Three months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:        Banco de la Republica
(c)  First presentation to Bank:           September 1979
(d)  First mission to review project:   November 1979
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:    November 1979
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:          April 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:        September 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Special assurances were obtained and understandings reached:
(a) on the maximum size of corporate assets determining eligibility of
enterprises to borrow under the proposed loan (para. 52);
(b) that a ceiling would be imposed on the aggregate amount of regular
subloans denominated in pesos (para. 52);
(c) that any subloan repayments exceeding loan amortization require-
ments would be used exclusively for lending to medium-size and
small enterprises through the Industrial Financing Fund and the
Private Investment Fund (para 52);
(d) that the DFCs would deploy appropriate efforts to promote export
oriented and decentralization projects, and technology development
and pollution control (paras. 54 and 56);
(e) on the terms, on which the proceeds of the loan would be onlent to,
and by, the participating DFCs (Loan and Project Summary, and
paras. 58 and 59);



ANNEX III
-41-                           Page 2 of 2
(f) on arrangements for review and adjustment of interest rates on
subloans (paras. 58 and 59);
(g) with regard to the "plans of action" of CF de Occidente and
CF Aliadas (para. 67);
(h) on financial covenants, including debt/equity, current assets/
equity and exposure limits (paras. 66 and 71);
(i) on mobilization by each participating DFC of domestic resources,
matching disbursements of Bank loan proceeds, and on an interim
domestic resources target for all participating DFCs (para. 73);
(j) on financial resources to be raised abroad (para. 74); and
(k) on a review procedure for mobilizing domestic and external
resources complementing Bank funds (paras. 73 and 74).
2.   An additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be
that the participating DFCs prepare and present to the Bank a satisfactory
plan to achieve the domestic resource mobilization targets (paras. 73 and
78). Another additional condition, affecting only the access of CF
Aliadas to the proceeds of the proposed loan, would be that CF Aliadas
demonstrate to have made substantial progress in carrying out its "plan
of action" (paras. 67 and 79).






7  | & , |   i     <    F ~~~~~~~~~~~~A C / F /C   O C E A NIV2J   
r      2  I-'                          (>i          }  : 0          
CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-/  c            0 X  b
O_                                A
300
/ 7~~~~~~~~pwt0



