OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS         LOAN NUMBER 1857 CO
Gurtee Agreement
(Eighth Development Finance
Companies Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                          10 at  4  1 0  1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1857 CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated 4.*          I 0, c)f,1  between REPUBLIC OF
COLOMBIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco de la Repfiblica (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred and fifty million
dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule (2) to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿-2
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exshange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, Lpso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, which will or might
result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of such
external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost to
the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other assets, satisfactory
to the Bank, of the Guarantor or of any entity owned or controlled
by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor,
including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by any
institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange
stablization fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of -he purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of


﻿-3-
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall take all action, including
the granting of all necessary authorizations, import licenses,
foreign exchange permits and all other approvals required under
the laws of the Guarantor, to ensure the timely procurement of the
goods and services required for the Investment Projects, the
Technology Development Projects and the Pollution Control Pro-
jects.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall make all reabonable
efforts to enable the Financieras to raise in the capital market
within the territories of the Guarantor, if the circumstances
prevailing therein so permit, and in foreign capital markets
funds appropriate for medium- and long-term financing of pro--
ductive facilities and resources.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or
any of its agencies or any agency of any such political sub-
divisions to take, any action which would prevent or interfere
with the performance by the Borrower or the Financieras of
their respective obligations contained in the Loan Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loran Agreements and will take or cause to
be taken all reasonable action necessary or appropriate to
enable the Borrower and the Financieras to perform such obliga-
tions.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Crfdito Pfiblico
of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the


﻿-4-
Guarantor fo,r the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Hacienda y
Cridito Pfiblico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
Bogoti
Colombia
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Bogota
Fft the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By         JDA  A   MAA.'ivj
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /0      day of      , 198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


