Report No. PID11315
Project Name                     Yugoslavia, FED. REP. OF-Emergency (@)
Stabilization of Electricity
Supply of Montenegro
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Power (100%)
Project ID                       YFPE77473
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF FR OF YUGOSLAVIA
Implementing Agency
Address ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY OF
MONTENEGRO (EPCG)
Address: Niksic, Montenegro,
FR Yugoslavia
Contact Person: Nikola Jablan
Tel: (+381-83) 214-250
Fax: (+381-83) 214-250
Email: epcg@cg.yu
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                August 8, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date              June 21, 2002
Bank Approval Date               August 15, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The power sector is one of the largest sectors of the Yugoslav economy,
consisting of coal production, electricity production, and transmission
and distribution of electricity. The power system in Montenegro was
developed as a part of integrated power grid of former SFR Yugoslavia
which was a full member of the UCTE (formerly UCPTE) Western European
power system interconnection. However, during the last ten years, the
power sector in Montenegro was to a considerable extent de-capitalized and
the price of electricity only recently started to increase towards a
sustainable level.Despite large imports of electricity (about 30% of total
demand), the situation in the power sector in Montenegro is extremely
difficult due to a shortage of electricity supply, which caused rolling
blackouts for more than six hours a day during the last winter. The main
reasons for this shortage is a continuing drought which reduced the
production from hydropower plants (accounting for 76 percent of the total
installed capacity) and a growing demand which reached 4.1 TWh in 2001 (a
6.9 percent increase compared to 2000).The Government has already
undertaken a major effort with the help of donor resources to prevent a
wide spread energy crisis, which would endanger basic electricity service
provided to industry and commerce, households, schools and hospitals. The
accumulated problems in the power sector will require time and significant
resources to resolve. However, the most important ingredient for a
sustainable solution will be the steady support from the Government for
the reforms in the sector needed to increase prices, restructure the power
industry and improve its financial viability.
2. Objectives



The objective of the proposed LIC (Learning and Innovation Credit) is to
test whether and to what degree electric power distribution consumers will
improve payment discipline and participate in a loss reduction program in
response to an introduction of remote metering, automated billing and
demand side management (DSM) in pilot areas. Additional objective is to
improve the financial management in the Electric Power Company of
Montenegro (EPCG) through introduction of a modern management information
system (MIS) in EPCG.More specifically, the project would:n Support
automation of metering and billing system in selected distribution areas
in Podgorica, Niksic, Herceg Novi and Bijelo Polje;n support upgrade of a
computer-based financial management system as a part of the corporate MIS
of EPCG; andn support the project implementation through a provision of
consulting services for design, procurement and installation of
distribution pilots and MIS.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Through the proposed emergency project, the Bank would provide funding for
introducing and testing an innovative technology which has a potential to
help reduce distribution losses and improve financial condition of EPCG,
which is essential for a stable supply of electricity in Montenegro.
Furthermore, the Bank's experience in other countries would facilitate the
learning about prospects for replication and scaling up of pilot projects
through a systematic monitoring and evaluation of project results.The Bank
brings to the energy sector in Montenegro its unique experience in
identifying, selecting and implementing priority investments for improving
basic energy and infrastructure service in post-conflict countries. The
Bank will also help to mobilize and target other donor resources for
emergency repair and rehabilitation of power infrastructure and to
coordinate donor's activities in this sector.
4. Description
The proposed credit will have two main components:Power Distribution
Pilots: Under this component funding will be provided for the supply and
installation of equipment and provision of consulting services needed to
automate metering and billing in selected distribution areas in Podgorica,
Niksic, Herceg Novi and Bijelo Polje and refurbish power distribution and
supply facilities.Financial Management System: Under this component
funding will be provided for the supply and installation of a
computer-based financial management system as a part of the corporate MIS
in EPCG. This component will also include technical assistance to EPCG in
design, procurement and implementation of MIS.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $2.00
IBRD
IDA                      $5.00
Total Project Cost       $7.00
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a 3-year period. The Ministry of
Economy of the Republic of Montenegro and EPCG are main counterparts for
the project. The overall coordination of the project would rest with the
Project Management Unit (PMU), which has been established in EPCG. The
PMU will be headed by a Project Manager, who will have overall
- 2-



responsibility for the project. The PMU will be assisted by international
consultants funded under the credit. The consulting team will include
technical specialists, procurement and contract management specialists.
The PMU Project Manager will ensure that all project objectives and
monitorable targets as specified in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
are on track and achieved. The PMU will be responsible for the day to day
operations of the project, procurement and financial management, including
reporting to the Government and to the Bank.
7. Sustainability
The learning under this project will take place through a structured pilot
which will define baseline performance indicators and target values in
each test area, monitor DSM impacts and costs, evaluate the response of
consumers' groups to specific measures, and adjust the program to achieve
aimed performance. The pilot will be considered ready for replication and
larger scale implementation if the collection rate among target consumers
improves and if distribution losses in participating distribution branches
are significantly reduced. It is expected that the pilot project will help
identify organizational changes needed in distribution companies to
improve their financial management and provide better quality and lower
cost service to the consumers.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Similar demand side management programs have shown promising results in
the city of Skopje and Struga, FYR Macedonia, based on the review prepared
in 1998. The best economic results were achieved with usage-shifting
programs, such as time-of-day rates for thermal storage heating and load
control of end-user equipment including water heaters and space heaters.
In Hungary, recently privatized power distribution company EDASZ reported
significant improvements in its financial performance and operating
efficiency after an introduction of demand side control measures, such as
ripple control of household boilers.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  In accordance with OP/BP/GP 4.01 (Environmental
assessment), the project has been rated Environmental category C. The
reason for this rating is that the physical component of this project is
modernization of the existing distribution facilities through introduction
of a modern computer-based systems for metering and financial management,
and there will be no construction of new facilities. The main
environmental issues are: disposal of used equipment and materials; noise
(during construction) and public safety. These issues will have to be
addressed in both the design and operation phases of the project.
11. Contact Point:
Project Team Leader
Dejan R. Ostojic
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-3507
Fax:   (202) 614-1582
-3-



12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
August 16, 2002.
-4-



