Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3708 YF
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Stabilization of Electricity Supply
in the Republic of Montenegro Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 4, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3708 YF
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 4, 2002, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF 
YUGOSLAVIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
(B) 
the Borrower will make available to the Government of the Republic of 
Montenegro, through the Sub-Credit Agreement (as defined hereinafter), the proceeds of the 
Credit, as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“EPCG” means “Elektroprivreda Crne Gore AD-Niksic”, a joint stock company 
of the Republic of Montenegro responsible for power generation, transmission and distribution in 
the Republic of Montenegro, registered by the Commercial Court of the Republic of Montenegro 
on June 15, 1999, or any successor thereto; 
(b)
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European Union 
that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European 
Community, as amended by the Treaty of European Union;
(c)
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)
“Operational Manual” means the manual describing the operational rules and 
procedures of Project implementation, satisfactory to the Association, adopted by the EPCG on 
July 16,2002, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established within EPCG pursuant 
to EPCG decision No. 1001-6351/1, dated June 4, 2002, and referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement; 
(f)
“Project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement entered between the 
Republic of Montenegro and EPCG, referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Implementation Agreement; and
Page  3
(g)
“Sub-credit Agreement” means the agreement entered between the Borrower and 
the Republic of Montenegro, referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Sub-credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
Page  4
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2012, and 
ending May 1, 2022. Each installment shall be five percent (5%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this 
Agreement, shall ensure that the Republic of Montenegro and EPCG carry out the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01, and except as 
the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, in order to ensure the 
implementation the Project, shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to the Republic of 
Montenegro, under a sub-credit agreement (Sub-credit  Agreement), to be entered between the 
Borrower and the Republic of Montenegro, which shall have been approved by the Association, 
and which shall include provisions related to the subsequent provision of the proceeds of the 
Credit by the Republic of Montenegro to EPCG, and  the rights and responsibilities of EPCG in 
Project implementation, under a project implementation agreement (Project Implementation 
Agreement), which shall have been approved by the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-credit Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal or waive the Sub-credit Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure 
that: 
(a)
EPCG maintains, during the term of the Project, a project management unit 
(PMU), under terms of references and with staff and other resources required for Project 
implementation and satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
EPCG implements the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, and 
does not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive the Operational Manual without prior 
approval of the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the Republic of Montenegro and EPCG: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Borrower and 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
Page  5
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, by December 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of this Section 3.04, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by February 28, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of this Section 3.04, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Republic of Montenegro to cause EPCG 
to maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect EPCG’s operations and financial condition, and to 
register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Republic of Montenegro to cause EPCG to:
(i)
have the EPCG records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year:   (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
Page  6
such year as so audited; and  (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause the Republic of 
Montenegro to cause EPCG to:
(i)
maintain records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures in 
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section;
(ii)
retain until at least one (1) year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the reporting obligations set forth in Section 
3.04 of this Agreement,  the Borrower shall cause the Republic of Montenegro to cause EPCG to 
ensure that financial monitoring reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
are prepared and furnished to the Association which:
(i) 
set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds provided 
under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and planned 
uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances 
between the actual
and planned Project implementation; and
(iii) 
set forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, 
Page  7
and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through 
the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar 
quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely the Republic of Montenegro or EPCG shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under the Sub-credit Agreement or Project Implementation 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Sub-credit Agreement has been executed and all conditions to the 
effectiveness of such agreement have been fulfilled; and
(b)
the Project Implementation Agreement has been executed and all conditions to 
the effectiveness of such agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
paragraph (b) of Section 12.02 of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Sub-credit Agreement and Project 
Implementation Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, Republic of 
Montenegro, and EPCG, as applicable, and are legally binding upon the parties thereto.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Deputy Prime Minister is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Federal Government
Bul. Mihajila Pupina 2
11070 Belgrade
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Facsimile:
(381 11) 311-2979
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of 
Belgrade, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
By /s/ Veroljub Dugalic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Rory C. O’Sullivan
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
% of
Credit Allocated 
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in SDR)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, including supply
   3,020,000
83% of local
and installation of 
expenditures and
information technology
80% of foreign
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services
      380,000
81% for services
by firms, 75 % for services by 
foreign individuals, and 68 % 
for services by local individuals
(3)
Unallocated
400,000
TOTAL                                3,800,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; (b) services for individuals costing less than $20,000 equivalent 
each, and firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first contract, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to test whether and to what degree electric power 
distribution consumers will improve payment discipline and participate in a loss reduction 
program, in response to an introduction of remote metering, automated billing and demand side 
management in pilot areas served by EPCG; and (b) to strengthen the financial management 
capacity of EPCG. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Power Distribution Pilots
Page  10
Supply and installation of equipment to upgrade and automate metering, billing, 
and demand side management in Podgorica, Niksic, Herceg Novi and Bijelo Polje power 
distribution areas, owned and operated by EPCG, 
through the provision of goods and 
services.
Part B
:
Financial Management System
Supply and installation of a computer-based management information system (MIS) to 
upgrade the financial management of EPCG, through the provision of goods and services.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2005.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.  Procurement of Goods
Part A
: General
Goods, including supply and installation of information technology (IT), shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, including supply and 
installation of IT, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.  The following provision shall apply to goods, including supply and installation of IT, 
to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Part B.
Prequalification
Bidders for the automated distribution metering and billing system under Part A  of the 
Project, and for the management information system in EPCG under Part B of the Project shall 
be prequalified in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Page  12
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and supply and installation of IT shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of  Part 
B
of Section I of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received and a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  13
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction, Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services related to distribution automation and power sector restructuring and 
management information systems shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; and (b) monitoring and evaluation tasks under Part A of the Project may 
be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Association.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures,  shall be furnished to the 
Association, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals. Such plan shall be updated every 6 months during the execution of the Project, and 
each such updating shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as 
updated from time to time), as shall have been approved by the Association.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
Page  14
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants to be 
selected on a sole-source basis, estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the report on 
the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
