                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000573




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-37080)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION
                         (US$ 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO

                                    FOR A

            EMERGENCY STABILIZATION OF ELECTRICITY SUPPLY

                IN THE REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO PROJECT




                                December 17, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
South Central Europe County Unit

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective 10/12/2007)

                             Currency Unit = Euro
                              1.00 Euro = US$ 1.41
                             US$ 1.00 = 0.70 Euro

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1-December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMR                 Automated Meter Reading
AMR&B               Automated Meter Reading and Billing
DSM                 Demand Side Management
EPCG                Electric Power Company of Montenegro
ERP                 Enterprise Resource Planning System
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FMIS                Financial Management Information System
FRR                 Financial Rate of Return
LIC                 Learning and Innovation Credit
IRR                 Internal Rate of Return
M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PMU                 Project Management Unit
SAC                 Structural Adjustment Credit
TSS                 Transitional Support Strategy
TTL                 Task Team Leader



         Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
       Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
        Sector Manager: Charles Feinstein
    Project Team Leader: Husam Beides
      ICR Team Leader: Husam Beides

                             REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO

      EMERGENCY STABILIZATION OF ELECTRICITY SUPPLY PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 23
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 25
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 27
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 28
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 29
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Emergency
                                                                    Stabilization of
Country:                Montenegro            Project Name:
                                                                    Electricity Supply
                                                                    Project (Montenegro)
Project ID:             P077473               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-37080
ICR Date:               12/18/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     LIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    OF YUGOSLAVIA
Original Total
                        XDR 3.8M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 3.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
EPCG
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/15/2002    Effectiveness:       02/25/2003         02/25/2003
Appraisal:             06/18/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              08/15/2002    Mid-term Review:     12/31/2003
                                     Closing:             08/31/2005         06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                        None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                             100                 100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                              Primary           Primary
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos              Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:            Charles M. Feinstein                Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:       Husam Mohamed Beides                Dejan R. Ostojic
ICR Team Leader:           Husam Mohamed Beides
ICR Primary Author:        James Sayle Moose



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
(From Development Credit Agreement)
  The objectives of the Project are: (a) to test whether and to what degree electric power
distribution consumers will improve payment discipline and participate in a loss
reduction program, in response to an introduction of remote metering, automated billing
and demand side management in pilot areas served by EPCG; and (b) to strengthen the
financial management capacity of EPCG.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No revisions.



                                                 ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                               approval          Target         Completion or
                                              documents)         Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Technical losses no higher than 6% in pilot areas. Non technical losses no higher
               than 2% in pilot areas. Collections 100% in pilot areas.

                                                                             (i) 3%-10% (please

Value          (i) Losses 15%-49%                                            see table 4 in the

quantitative or                            None                              ICR).

Qualitative)   (ii) Collections 50%-92%                                      (ii) 68%-715%
                                                                             (please see table 5
                                                                             in the ICR)
Date achieved 06/30/2003                   12/31/2003                        10/31/2007
Comments       No specific targets were set in the Project Appraisal Document. The objective of
(incl. %       te Project was to test the degree to which losses will be reduced in pilot areas
achievement)   and collections improved.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Adoption of M&E plan
Value
(quantitative  M&E Plan                    No Plan            No Revisions Adopted Plan
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/15/2002                   09/30/2002         09/30/2002     04/30/2004
Comments
(incl. %       Plan was far more elaborate than originally planned and done by outside

achievement)   consultants which took additional time.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     12/18/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     06/23/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     12/29/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  4     06/24/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.48
  5     12/22/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       1.19
  6     05/25/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       1.28
  7     06/30/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       1.28


                                               iii

  8   06/19/2006         Moderately       Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory    2.24

  9   12/01/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory     3.29
  10  06/28/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory     5.66



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      iv

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Background

Following the difficult economic and social conditions of the early and mid 1990s,
Montenegro (then a part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and since 2006 an
independent country) launched an ambitious reform program. The reform, launched in
the late 1990s, aimed at macroeconomic stabilization, rapid normalization to a market
economy, normalization of relations with foreign creditors and integration with regional,
EU and world markets. Fiscal retrenchment was supported by an IMF program that
helped reduce the fiscal deficit from 8 percent of GDP in 2000 to about 5 percent in 2003.
Inflation fell to single digits by 2002 and further thereafter. While progress had clearly
been made by the time of this project in 2002, nonetheless, the remaining reform agenda
was then substantial including reforming the public sector and strengthening the
country's infrastructure sector. Of major concern was the performance of the energy
sector which had been a constraint to growth and macroeconomic stability.

Sector Background

The energy infrastructure was characterized by considerable decapitalization due to lack
of investment and deferred maintenance which were in turn due to the poor operational
and financial performance of the Electric Power Company of Montenegro (EPCG) and
the chronic setting of low electricity prices by the state. The energy sector was a drain on
fiscal resources and would continue to be so without major reform of tariffs. In addition,
declining production, poor collection and high losses in the distribution network were
major factors contributing to EPCG's poor cash flow as it struggled to pay for electricity
imports and meet the growing demand. While EPCG was able to improve its collection
rate from 80% in 1997 to about 88% in 2003, such a level of collection was still much
below standard utility practices. Furthermore, during the last ten years the condition of
the distribution network deteriorated because of the lack of maintenance and investments
and the loading of the network components practically doubled. While these factors
contributed to a significant increase in technical losses, the overall increase in distribution
losses from 13 percent in the early 1980s to almost 25 percent in 2000 was primarily
driven by increasing commercial losses including illegal consumption of electricity.

In response to a major shortage of electricity, which caused rolling blackouts in the
winter of 2001-2002, the Government of Montenegro (GoM) and EPCG adopted a
"Program for Stabilization of EPCG" placing an emphasis on the financial recovery of
EPCG and demand side management (DSM). The Program combined the introduction of
a new tariff system, loss reduction programs to reduce losses in EPCG networks,
modernization of the financial management system of EPCG, and subsequent
restructuring and commercialization of this vertically integrated electricity company.




                                              1

Rationale for Bank Involvement

The Bank's program in Montenegro was guided by the framework of the Transitional
Support Strategy Update (TSS) prepared in 2001 and updated in August 2002 and by a
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC1). The objectives of the TSS were restoring
macroeconomic stability and balance, stimulating near term growth, creating a basis for a
sustainable supply response, improving governance and building effective institutions. In
addition, SAC1 focused on reforms to enhance fiscal sustainability, including reforms of
public expenditure management, pensions, the energy sector, labor markets and business
development. Due to the poor financial situation of the energy sector, improvement of
the performance of the energy sector was and is crucial to sustain economic development
in Montenegro.

Excessive technical and commercial network losses were (and are still) one of the major
contributing factors to the poor financial health of EPCG and therefore needed to be
addressed as a top priority of the "Program for Stabilization of EPCG". This Emergency
Stabilization of Electricity Supply Project was designed to support the new Program and
to complement the policy reforms supported by structural assistance. The Project was
planned to provide financing to pilot mechanisms that have proven effective in other
transitional economies in: 1) improving the sustainability of power utilities through
reducing losses in the utility networks; 2) increasing their collections and 3) improving
the company's financial and accounting processes and practices. The new technologies to
improve the operation of EPCG included: 1) installing state-of-the-art consumer meters
with automatic meter reading (AMR) capacity to eliminate electricity losses and theft;
and 2) installing a modern Financial Management Information System (FMIS) to
improve the accounting and financial processing at EPCG and to facilitate its future
unbundling and restructuring.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objectives were to: 1) test whether distribution consumers will
reduce illegal use of electricity and increase payment rates in response to the introduction
of remote metering, automated billing and demand side management in pilot areas and 2)
strengthen the financial management capacity of EPCG. Key performance indicators
included; (i) reduction of distribution losses and (ii) improved collection ratios.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The Project Development Objectives were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Government of Montenegro was the borrower of the Credit which was on lent to
EPCG, therefore making EPCG the direct beneficiary of the Credit. It was expected that
the implementation of the Project's two components in conjunction with improvements in
procurement methods through the adoption of the Bank's competitive bidding procedures,


                                              2

would provide experience with modern equipment, systems and procedures to EPCG's
staff and management. This was (and still is) essential for future restructuring of EPCG
and the development of loss reduction programs to improve the company's financial
situation. An improved financial situation for EPCG would facilitate its
commercialization and will enable the company to provide the reliable electricity supply
to the public necessary for sustained economic development.

1.5 Original Components

The project consisted of the following two components:

1. Power Distribution Pilots: This component provided funding for the supply and
installation of AMR equipment needed for remote meter reading, automated billing and
demand side management in twenty one selected distribution pilot areas in the cities of
Podgorica, Niksic, Herceg Novi and Bijelo Polje. This component also funded the
rehabilitation of the low voltage networks where the new meters were installed as well as
technical assistance for design, procurement, training and implementation of the pilot
projects.

2. Financial Management System: This component provided funding for the supply
and installation of a computer-based Financial Management Information System (FMIS)
in all the functional entities of EPCG. The component also funded technical assistance
for design, procurement, training and implementation of the FMIS in EPCG.

Annex 2 provides detailed information about the two components.

1.6 Revised Components

The project original components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

The only significant change was that EPCG's cofinancing, which was estimated at US$ 2
million in the PAD, rose to about US$ 4 million due to project delays and subsequent
large increase in the world market prices of metals, cables, equipment and materials.

Due to the longer period required (than initially estimated) for project implementation
and operational acceptances of the AMR and FMIS systems, the Closing Date of the
Credit was extended three times to December 30, 2006, February 28, 2007, and June 30,
2007.

While it did not have a significant impact on the project, in 2006 Montenegro became an
independent county and the Credit was then assumed by the Republic of Montenegro
instead of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.




                                             3

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

a. Soundness of Background Analysis

The project focused on the main issues damaging EPCG at the time of the project's
conception. These were the quite high distribution losses, which were 21.7% in 2001, and
the relatively low collection rate of about 88%. These, combined with moderate tariffs,
lead to a shortage of funds for the company since it was effectively collecting for only
65-70% of the electricity it was supplying. In addition, the accounting/financial side of
the company needed strengthening as the country transitioned to a market economy and
the company prepared for possible unbundling and privatization.

The Project was developed as part of the Bank's support to the "Program for Stabilization
of EPCG" and specifically to support EPCG in preparing for sector reform through
learning about the potential of modern computer based technologies to reduce
distribution losses, improve collections and strengthen EPCG's financial management.
Given the relatively sophisticated metering and communications technology (Automatic
Meter Reading ­ AMR), the automatic billing, and the computer based Financial
Management Information System (FMIS) (all of which were new to EPCG), this Project
was proposed as a pilot project under the Learning and Innovation Credit (LIC). The idea
of such credit is that if the pilot project is fully successful it could then be scaled up and
replicated. The automated metering and billing systems would be replicated in other
distribution areas while the FMIS was viewed as the first module in a more general
Enterprise Resource Planning ( ERP) system which would further improve EPCG's
performance.

b. Assessment of the Project Design

The Project was designed as a Learning and Innovation Credit focusing on applying new
technologies to improve the financial and operational performance of EPCG. The two
components were selected based on: 1) the urgent need to reduce losses in the EPCG
distribution network and improve collections; and 2) the need to introduce computer
based applications to improve financial and accounting processing in EPCG. Given that
the AMR and FMIS systems were new applications to EPCG, two international
consultants were retained to assist in preparing the design and technical requirements for
the two components and to assist EPCG during project tendering and implementation. In
addition, given the importance of the AMR system and its learning objective, the Project
required that EPCG hire from its own resources independent consultants to prepare the
Monitoring and Evaluation Plan for the Project and after completion of this component to
evaluate the applied AMR technology and its results on distribution losses. Also EPCG
was required to establish and fund a project management unit (PMU) in the company to:
1) prepare a project implementation plan, 2) implement the project, 3) carry out
procurement, and 4) provide regular reports on the project. Finally, the Project design
supported financing a portion of the distribution networks rehabilitation where the new



                                                 4

AMR meters were to be installed and envisaged EPCG making available about US$ 2
million to co-finance network rehabilitation. While somewhat complex given the small
size of the project, this design was necessary to ensure that the pilot was properly
implemented and results documented. However, the ICR team believes that in retrospect,
given the complexity of the project design and implementation and the need for
sequential tender of project activities, the project's implementation period should have
been longer than originally planned to allow complete and successful implementation of
the project and avoid any need for extension.

c. Adequacy of Government Commitment at Entry

EPCG was the Project implementing agency and main beneficiary. As such the
Government's role in the project design and implementation was limited. However, the
Government of Montenegro was committed to support energy sector reforms as specified
in the Bank's Structural Adjustment Credits, SAC 1 and SAC 2. SAC 2 was under
implementation during most of the period when this project was being implemented and
under the terms of that Agreement the Government had agreed to improve the financial
condition of EPCG, largely by increasing the tariff to its dominant customer and by
restructuring the company.

d. Adequacy of EPCG Commitment at Entry

EPCG made a major commitment to the project which is discussed in the assessment of
design (section b) above. This commitment consisted of an initial allocation of US$ 2
million of funds which in fact turned out to be about US$ 4 million. It also consisted of
the establishment and funding of the PMU, agreement to hire consultants to prepare the
monitoring and evaluation plan and the completion report, and regular reporting on the
project. This high level of commitment is considered adequate and shows the high level
of support the project had in EPCG.

e. Assessment of Risks

The environmental and social risks were considered to be low which turned out to be the
case. Another six risks were mentioned in the PAD in the risk section and mostly these
turned out to be low also.

The main risk turned out to be implementation delays resulting largely from the
sequential nature of the project procurement and implementation activities. The project
was sequential in that EPCG needed to hire first two design consultants for the project
components and a consultant to design the monitoring plan for the project before
procurement could start for the Project's AMR and FMIS components.

2.2 Implementation

The project was not restructured. However, as mentioned above its implementation was
slower than anticipated in the PAD. There are several reasons for this. The main ones are
discussed above. In addition, EPCG initially did not make available the required co-


                                               5

financing for the project which was important for funding the low voltage and medium
voltage cables required by the new meters and for the development of the Local Area
Network needed for the installation of the FMIS systems. Later in the project EPCG
provided the necessary funding and in fact ended up providing more funds than initially
thought to be necessary. Finally, EPCG staff was not familiar at the beginning of the
Project with the technology, either the FMIS or the automated meters and meter reading.
Given these various constraints, the initial estimate that the project could be completed in
3 years was optimistic.

From the Bank side, three Task Team Leaders (TTLs) were in charge of the Project at
different times, though this is normal in Bank Operations with the rotation of the TTLs.
However, it impacted the Bank's oversight of project implementation during the period
when the procurement activities were underway. Nevertheless, the Bank Project teams
established strong working relations with EPCG and intensified their supervision
activities especially during the final stages of the implementation activities where the
Bank Project team visited Montenegro almost every two months to follow up with EPCG
on the Project implementation.

With EPCG's intensive efforts and focus on implementation activities, the project was
completed successfully with 3,778 meters installed which represents about 1.3% of the
total distribution consumers in Montenegro. Similarly 14 FMIS systems were
successfully installed covering all EPCG functional entities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

a. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design

A fairly elaborate monitoring and evaluation plan was developed and completed in 2004
by a consultant hired by EPCG as required by the Project. The M&E plan involved
measuring and calculating several electrical parameters in the distribution areas where the
new metering systems were to be installed including losses and collections ratios. The
areas could then be compared both before and after the meters were installed. Also
similar distribution areas where meters were not installed were selected and these were
monitored for comparison purposes. The M&E plan includes monitoring the fourteen
output indicators in pilot areas before and after the installation of the new meters. In
addition, the M&E plan defined a methodology for evaluating the impact of installing the
AMR meters in pilot areas by assessing the outcome indicators.

b. M&E Implementation

The developed M&E plan included a computer database for recording, on a monthly
basis, the measured output indicators in the pilot areas, as well as in other areas used for
comparisons. The regional distribution offices were responsible for measuring the
required indicators in their pilot areas and recording them in the database. Measurements
were taken before and after the installation of the meters. The M&E plan included large
numbers of indicators which in the longer term will help EPCG in evaluating the impact
of the AMR system when more extensive measurements will be available from the AMR


                                               6

system. However, in the short term after the installation of AMR system, the focus of the
evaluation was mainly on the impact of the new AMR system on the main indicators
related to system losses and collections.

The status of project implementation was also monitored on a regular basis as it
progressed and regular quarterly progress reports were submitted by EPCG to the Bank.
This monitoring was basically about the status of meter and FMIS installations, the
amount of funds spent and issues delaying implementation.

In addition, and as part of the M&E plan, surveys of EPCG consumers as well EPCG
staff were carried out before the start of the Project implementation, and when the new
AMR meters became operational, surveys were undertaken again of both consumers and
staff in order to review the results of the new metering technology.

c. M&E Utilization

The implementation schedules developed for the Project's two components were used by
EPCG, project suppliers and the Bank team to monitor the progress of the AMR and
FMIS systems installations. To ensure that the systems were fully installed and
successfully deployed in a timely manner without any further delays, problematic issues
that occurred during the implementation of the AMR and FMIS projects were promptly
addressed by joint EPCG, supplier and Bank teams and mitigated.

In addition, EPCG fulfilled the Project requirement and hired an evaluation consultant to
assess the impact of the new AMR systems installed in the pilot areas. Based on
measurements and results obtained before and after installing the new meters, the
consultant prepared an assessment report that includes an evaluation of the applied AMR
metering technology and the impact of its installation on pilot area losses. The report also
includes surveys of consumers and EPCG staff to test their acceptance of the new
technology.

The report prepared by the evaluation consultant also includes an "Action Plan for Pilot
Project Expansion". The plan calls for 12 months of monitoring the results of the pilot
project and then its phased expansion to cover 144,526 customers in other areas of the
country. The areas to be done first would be selected depending primarily on the
estimated value of loss reductions and collection improvements compared to costs.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

There were no significant environmental or social safeguards issues associated with the
project, which mainly involved new meters and FMIS systems, and it was rated a C.

a. Financial Management

The financial management aspects of implementation were satisfactory. FM function for
the project was adequately staffed by a qualified and experienced specialist. Audit reports
were submitted timely to the World Bank with some exceptions and any weaknesses


                                               7

identified by the auditors were subsequently addressed. The final audit report on project
financial statements covering the period from January 1 2006 to June 30 2007 is still to
be submitted. In addition, audit report on EPCG entity financial statements for the year
2007 also needs to be submitted to the World Bank by June 30 2008.

Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) were timely submitted to the Bank. The
World Bank Financial Management Specialist performed substantive procedures during
the supervision, and obtained assurance with respect to reliability of FMRs. Detailed
transactions review was made part of financial management supervision of the project
and found that internal controls and procedures were appropriately applied in practice.

b. Procurement

Despite implementation delays in the first two years, EPCG completed all procurement in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. This took longer than expected, as
discussed in sections 2.1 and 2.2 above, mainly due to the fact that the design required
that important procurement proceed sequentially, which at the same time put pressure on
EPCG procurement staff who were initially not well experienced in Bank Procurement
procedures.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

This pilot project is likely to be replicated elsewhere in the EPCG system. It has
successfully reduced the company's distribution losses and increased collections in the
distribution pilot areas. The consultant who prepared the evaluation report recommended
that the metering and automatic billing program be gradually expanded from the current
3629 customers to cover an additional 144,526 low voltage customers at which point it
would cover a little over half of such customers in the country. The main constraint to
this expansion is likely to be the cost.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

This pilot project remains highly relevant to EPCG and other power utilities suffering
from high network losses and poor collections. It showed that losses can be sharply
reduced and collections improved by adopting new technologies and procedures (See
below). The lessons learned from the design and implementation of the AMR System will
assist EPCG, as well as other utilities with similar conditions to EPCG, in defining and
implementing the proper loss reduction and collection improvement strategy necessary to
improve their financial situation. In addition, improving the financial capacity of EPCG
by installing the FMIS systems in all of its functional entities will facilitate further
financial and accounting unbundling of EPCG. Furthermore, implementation of lessons
learned from application of new metering technologies will also support the government
objective of reducing power losses in the distribution networks as required by the draft
Development Strategy for the Energy Sector prepared in 2007.



                                                8

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The achievement of the Project Development Objectives is rated satisfactory. The
achievement of individual objectives and their associated outcomes based on the
performance indicators are outlined below:

Project Development Objective ­ 1) to test whether collections would be increased and
losses reduced by the introduction of remote metering, automated billing and demand
side management

The overall achievement of this objective is rated highly satisfactory because the AMR
system was successfully implemented and 3767 meters are now installed and reducing
losses and improving collections in 21 EPCG distribution areas. A consultant hired by
EPCG prepared a report assessing the AMR project implementation, results and
technology and recommending a strategy for scaling up the project.

The table below shows the reduction in losses as a result of the AMR Pilot Project as
reported by the consultant. It compares losses in the project pilot areas in 2003 and 2007
and also compares losses in comparator areas which did not have the pilot projects in
2003 and 2007. The table shows the range of total losses in the pilot and non-pilot areas.
The results are very clear. Losses drop sharply in the pilot areas while in the non-pilot
areas the trend is less clear but probably losses are increasing. The decrease in losses in
the pilot areas appears to be both a reduction in technical losses and non-technical losses.

   Table 3: Initial Measurements of Reduction in Electricity Losses due to Project

Region                         Pilot Projects Areas                      Non-Pilot Project Areas
                     2003 losses %           2007 losses %(1)      2003 losses %          2007 losses %
Podgorica                 15%-26%                3.5%-8%              17%-26%                 11%-44%
Niksic                    44%-49%               2.5%-12%              21%-50%                 12%-42%
Bijelo Polje              15%-29%                    1%               16%-32%                 9%-50%
Herceg Novi                  18%                1.5%-2.5%             18%-20%                 24%-28%
    (1) The results include anomalies of negative values for losses (4 pilot areas) or of extremely low
        losses (2 pilot areas) because at the time of taking these measurements not all the meters were
        properly configured. These losses values were not reported above.

While the overall results concerning losses are clear from the available data, these results
are based on only three months measurements obtained immediately after the meter
installation was completed while testing was still underway. Therefore the evaluation
consultant recommended that further analysis be performed based on 12 months
measurements to confirm the benefits of the AMR system.

EPCG, however, continued to evaluate the results of the AMR system and reported the
following loss data in the pilot areas based on six months of measurements. This includes
all pilot areas although some of the pilot areas are combined. The loss data information



                                                      9

in the table clearly shows that the AMR system is an effective solution for reducing
losses in distribution networks. In addition, the results below show that the impact of the
system should be evaluated over a longer period and not only immediately after its
installations.
                                          Table 4: Losses in Pilot Areas
                             Six Months Average (March ­October 2007)

                                                                 Pilot Areas
Years                     P1    P2     P3     P4     P5       P6     P7     P8     P9    P10      P11   P12    P13    P14  P15  16   P17
2003          Losses      15    20     16     21     20       22     23     16     26    19       49    44     49     29   15   18   18
              (%)
2007          Losses      3.6   2.8    2.1    9.7    26.1     11     15     4.7    1.8   2.7      7.5   3.7    5.3    4.2  1.2  0.4  3.0
              (%)
(1) Losses above 10% in some pilot areas are due to the fact that not all meters are connected to the AMR system.

Despite the fact that available data on improvement in collections, at the time the
consultant's report was prepared, was limited to the pilot areas (10 out of 21) in
Podgorica, where 54 % of the meters were installed, the reported data below show that a
significant improvement in collections has occurred in these pilot areas partly due to
EPCG disconnecting non-paying consumers using the remote connection/disconnection
capability of the AMR system. This data is shown in the table below and is for December
2003 and March 2007. The fact that collections were greater than 100% in March 2007 is
due to the fact that some customers were paying overdue bills in that month. Most of the
pilot areas in Podgorica reported an improvement in collection rates reaching up to 100%.
In one pilot area with a high concentration of commercial consumers, the collection rate
in March 2007 was 715% due to these consumers paying a large part of their old debt
after they were disconnected by EPCG.

                   Table 5:Improvement in Collections in Pilot Project Areas

                 Region                                     Pilot Projects Areas
                                   2003 Collections %                              2007 collections %
              Podgorica                      50%-91%                                     68%-715%

EPCG also later provided more data on collection improvements in 17 consolidated pilot
areas based on comparing the average six months (March 2007-October 2007) consumer
debts for electricity with consumer debts in the pilot areas as of December 2006, before
any of the AMR meters were installed. These debts are shown as months of average
electricity consumption payable. The decrease in debt occurs because overdue bills are
being paid as well as current bills.

                      Table 6: Customer's Accumulated Debt in Pilot Areas
                                                         (Months of debt)

                                                                      Pilot Areas
Period                  P1      P2       P3    P4       P5      P6      P7     P8     P9    P10     P11   P12    P13  P14   P15  16  P17
December    Debt in    13.6     11.8    12.2   13.7     11.1    11.8    13.3   8.9    9.1   12.9    11.6  12.1   17.7 11.42 7.9  7.1 4.9
2006        average
            number of
            months
March-      Debt in    8.0      6.0     7.16   11.8     5.7     7.4     10.6   3.3    6.8   8.7     11.5  10.3   19.2 13.4  8.1  4.6 3.4
October     average
2007        number of
            months




                                                                  10

The above table shows that consumer debts have significantly decreased in most pilot
areas due to improved collections. This is especially true for pilot areas in cities.
However, in other pilot areas, especially in rural areas, collection has also improved but
less. This is because in rural or low income areas EPCG is exercising more restraint in
disconnecting consumers to improve collection.

Project Development Objective ­ 2) strengthen the financial management capacity of
EPCG

The overall achievement of the objective is satisfactory since fourteen Financial
Management Information Systems (FMIS) were installed and now are in operation in all
EPCG functional entities as shown in Annex 2. Furthermore about two hundred end users
were trained on using the new system. The new FMIS will improve the financial and
accounting processes at EPCG, improve information availability and will further
facilitate the financial and accounting unbundling of the company. These unbundling
activities have picked up speed after the complete installation of the FMIS in EPCG in
February 2007.

3.3 Efficiency

This is a pilot project and its objectives were to see whether new technologies including
remote meter reading, automatic billing and demand side management would reduce
losses and increase collections. Also it was designed to see if the installation of FMIS
systems in the major units of EPCG would strengthen its financial management. Because
it is a pilot project under a Learning and Innovation Credit, the PAD does not contain any
measures of economic efficiency such as an ERR or FRR.

Nevertheless estimated paybacks from the metering program were calculated by the
consultant before the project was implemented and an estimate made of these paybacks
after the project was completed. The initial estimated payback period for all of the pilot
areas was 2.1 years. The actual result as calculated by the consultant was 3.5 years. Both
of these payback periods are reasonable and correspond to quite acceptable rates of return.
The primary reason for the longer actual payback period is the higher than expected cost
of installing the meters and setting up the metering systems. This in turn is due to project
delays and increases in the cost of cables and cabinets needed for installation of the
meters.

Further analysis was performed by the evaluation consultant to assess the economic
benefits of scaling up the AMR system as part of an action plan for the system. The
consultant calculated the payback periods in different region of EPCG (excluding the
pilot areas). The table below shows the payback for all of the distribution areas.




                                              11

                                                                           Table 7:First Phase AMR System Scale Up:
                                                                                                 Payback periods



                                       S)TB
                                           M(                                                                                                               a).                        b).
              ea                                                                 ser                     Cost

                Ar                                                                                           ent                                               var-                       var-
                                                                                                                                  investment                       odi                        odi

                  butioni                    substationsre                                                                                  R
                                                                                    consum                      equipm
                                                                                          of                                                 MA                       per                        per

                                                          orm
                         Distr                                                              No.                       STB
                                                             ansf                                                        M                     Total                     Payback                    Payback
                                                                 Tr
                                                                   of

                                                                     No.
                                                                                                     mil.                     mil.                      years                       years

 Niksic                              185                                     19453                   2.803                    10.206                     2.7                         1.6

 Cetinjie                             81                                      6736                   1.252                     3.865                     3.0                         1.9

 Podgorica                           541                                     61355                   8.424                    31.631                     3.6                         2.1

 Kilasin                              25                                      2950                   0.383                     1.550                     4.0                         2.3

 B.Polje                              74                                      9270                   1.127                     4.673                     4.2                         2.4

 Kotor                                76                                     10908                   1.163                     5.318                     4.9                         2.6

 Pljevja                              65                                      9377                   1.031                     4.612                     5.5                         2.9

 Ulcinj                               73                                      6104                   1.099                     3.471                     5.8                         3.2

 Bar                                 130                                     18373                   2.018                    8.980                      7.7                         3.7

 H.Novi                              112                                     19643                   1.723                    9.142                      18.4                        6.0

 Budva                               122                                     15322                   1.837                    7.661                      19.1                        6.4

 Rozaje                               35                                      3601                   0.535                    1.952                     -167.1                      15.4

 Zabljak                              30                                      1828                   0.465                    1.220                      -7.9                       -9.1

 Tivat                                68                                      8203                   1.030                    4.176                      -9.9                       -14.8

 Mojkovac                             17                                      2857                   0.265                    1.392                     -10.2                       -15.9

 Berane                               77                                     13429                   1.153                    6.241                     -17.7                       399.4

 Sektor - var.1                      1711                                    209409                  26.308                   106.089                    5.7                         3.0

 Sektor - var.2                      1250                                    144526                  19.552                   74.322                     3.9                         2.5

The action plan for AMR system scale up calls for further monitoring of the system and a
phased scaled up starting with the regions with the lowest payback period as shown in the
table above and probably stopping with the Bar distribution area. This provides the
maximum benefits of the system. In addition, it is expected that the cost of scale up per
meter will be relatively lower than that cost of the pilot AMR system due to:

                              · No investment in AMR Control Center will be needed as the existing
                                AMR center of the pilot project is designed for up to 100,000 meters;
                              · Availability of trained utility personnel;
                              · Need for minimum support from consultants; and
                              · Larger scale of AMR system installation will lower the cost of meters.




                                                                                                      12

Taking the above factors into consideration, the payback period for the AMR system
scale up will be lower as shown in the last column (var-b ) of the above table compared
with the payback periods without considering the above factors (var-a)

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory.

This project is rated satisfactory on the basis of its high relevance (as described in Section
3.1), satisfactory achievement of its development objectives ( as described above), as
well as the satisfactory implementation of the Project's two components. Furthermore,
the results of the AMR system and the lessons learned from its implementation will now
enable EPCG to prepare and implement the appropriate strategy for loss reduction. The
new FMIS systems will also enable EPCG to improve its financial and accounting
processes.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project seeks to promote socially responsible behavior and to introduce metering and
billing systems which are more transparent and less subject to manipulation by
consumers or meter readers. It also reduces the implicit subsidies to non paying
consumers which often belong to a better-off part of the population. Surveys of
consumers were done both before the project began and after, and they show that in both
cases around 85% of the consumers polled preferred the new metering and billing
systems.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

EPCG will be strengthened by the experience with the new metering and billing
technology and also by the introduction of the new FMIS systems. The introduction of
this new technology and these new systems has required considerable training. Also the
introduction of the new FMIS systems makes unbundling of EPCG easier, in order to
conform better to the Energy Community of South East Europe Treaty. In addition,
EPCG's capacity to carry out procurement using World Bank's guidelines has been
tremendously strengthened and EPCG staff members who worked on the project
procurement activities have gained good experience in the Bank's procurement
procedures. Lessons learned from the delays, which occurred during the early stage of the
Project, have helped EPCG in the preparation of the Bank's new credit (the ECSEE ­
APL3 Montenegro Project) and in early preparation of the tender documents for the
components to be financed by the new loan.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
There were no major unintended impacts other than those reported above.




                                              13

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Results of surveys undertaken by EPCG before this project began and after it was
completed to test consumer acceptability of the new metering technology indicate that
most consumers (around 85%) expected to be satisfied and were satisfied with the new
metering and billing systems. For households living in single family houses (the great
majority of the consumers) the percentage was 88%. However, it was 75% for
households living in apartments and 87% for commercial customers.

In addition, a survey was also undertaken by EPCG to test the reaction of EPCG staff to
the new technology. The survey shows that the reaction was overwhelmingly positive.
97% of the staff polled thought that the pilot project represented a significant contribution
to the modernization of EPCG and 92% of staff thought that cooperation with foreign
partners and consumers had been satisfactory. The only area of substantial dissatisfaction
was on training where 40% of the staff thought they had not been adequately trained
while 60% thought they had, indicating that the applications of new technology may
require additional training of the utility staff to enable them to efficiently utilize the new
system.

In addition, EPCG and the Bank teams are currently cooperating in developing a joint
presentation that can be used by both teams to disseminate the results of the AMR pilot
projects.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: low

The overall level of risk to the development outcome is rated as low on the basis that the
successful implementation of the Project's two components and application of new
modern technology will ensure that the outcomes of the Project in terms of reducing
losses in pilot areas and improving EPCG financial capacity are sustainable. However,
there is a risk involved in whether new metering systems will be widely introduced in
EPCG's distribution network due to the high cost associated with scaling up the AMR
Project. EPCG will have to weigh this investment against all of the other priority
investments it has. In addition, a risk may arise related to the ability of the users of the
new FMIS system to utilize the system effectively and to overcome their resistance to
change the existing procedures replaced by the new FMIS. Mitigation measures have
already been taken as more than two hundred users have been trained in using the new
FMIS in the last few months. In addition to user training, senior management's support
and instruction that the new system be used in all financial and accounting activities will
be necessary to ensure that the system is fully utilized by EPCG.




                                               14

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory.

At the time of appraisal, the scope of this Learning and Innovative Credit was very
relevant to EPCG and Montenegro and was designed to assist EPCG in improving its
financial performance. The Bank team that prepared the project worked closely with
EPCG in defining the project scope and outlined the learning objectives of the project.
The design, although complex at the time of appraisal, was reasonable considering the
objectives and the relative lack of experience of EPCG. The Bank team included in the
scope of the project sufficient funds for hiring design and implementation consultants to
assist EPCG in implementing the two components of the Project.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank teams carried out on a regular basis formal supervision missions on all aspects
of procurement implementation and financial management reporting. EPCG and the Bank
teams established good working relations that subsequently enabled the teams to address
and mitigate the implementation problems that occurred. Intensive supervision and
continuing involvement by the Bank teams was instrumental in ensuring that the project's
two components were successfully implemented. Furthermore, to ensure that all
components were successfully implemented and deployed and the learning from the
results of the AMR project occurred, the Bank team supported extensions of the Closing
Date for the Credit.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

The rating for overall Bank performance is based on the Project's satisfactory quality at
entry and satisfactory quality of supervision carried out by the Bank teams as described
above.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

The Government was not involved in the details of the project design and implementation.
However, the Government had always stressed that the Project should be successfully



                                              15

implemented and supported extensions of the Credit to ensure that the components
financed by the Credit were completed and their intended outcomes were achieved. In
addition and over the course of the project, the Government initiated a reform process for
the energy sector that aimed at restructuring EPCG, supporting the privatization and
commercialization of the aluminum smelter KAP (consumes about 1/3 of the electricity
demand in Montenegro) and requiring KAP to gradually import on its own account
increasing portions of its electricity consumption from the regional market. This has
gradually relieved EPCG from some of its supply obligation to KAP, which has in turn
improved EPCG's financial performance. In addition, sector reform over the course of
the credit included signing and ratifying the Energy Community of South East Europe
Treaty, creation of the Energy Regulatory Agency and approval of a new tariff
methodology that resulted in establishing in June 2007 a new unbundled transmission
tariff and a new retail tariff for Montenegro. Despite this progress, the government is
aware that further progress is needed to complete the full unbundling of EPCG and to
establish a policy for private sector participation in development of the energy sector.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

EPCG was the implementing agency for this project and its performance is rated
satisfactory. This rating is based on EPCG's commitment to the project during all of its
stages and its readiness to undertake a pilot project that involved application of new
technology for learning purposes in order to ascertain the best solution for its chronic
problems of high losses and poor collections. Despite delays in implementation activities
during the early stages of the Project and additional costs needed to implement the
Project, EPCG senior management and technical staff remained committed to the
successful deployment and implementation of the components financed under this Credit
and the full disbursement of the Credit. (There was a 99% disbursement ratio). EPCG's
commitment to the Project was manifested by it making available additional funds to co
finance the project, expediting local procurement activities financed by EPCG,
establishing a dedicated Project Management Unit for project implementation and
management, and hiring from its own resources a consultant to assess the results of the
AMR project and prepare a strategy for its expansion.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

6. Lessons Learned

The main lessons learned from the design and implementation of the Project, as well as
its achievements, are the following:

    · Application of modern metering technology provides utilities suffering from high
        network losses and poor collections with a means of mitigating these problems.
        However for any metering project to be effective, it should be accompanied with


                                              16

       an investment program of rehabilitation of LV networks and feeders where the
       metering project is implemented. Given the associated cost of modern metering
       and network rehabilitation, utilities are advised to gradually expand new metering
       technology in areas that will yield the highest benefits as determined by a
       cost/benefit analysis performed for the metering project.
    · Significant costs will be associated with the initial stage of an AMR System
       project. However, costs of subsequent scale up stages of the AMR system may be
       lower due to increased implementation efficiency by utility staff and the
       economies of scale.
    · To avoid delays in project implementation, adequate time and effort is required to
       develop a suitable design for a proper metering system, tender packages, the bid
       evaluation process, and to develop a realistic plan for project implementation.
    · The development of a close working relationship between the Bank Teams and
       EPCG and the system suppliers was critical for successfully implementing the
       components financed by the Credit and achieving the project development
       objectives. This also enabled the Bank Team to deepen its engagement and
       dialogue with EPCG as well as with the Government on issues related to sector
       reform.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

A final draft of the ICR was shared with the Ministry of Economic Development. The
Ministry indicated its satisfaction with the ICR.

EPCG's comments on this ICR are included in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers

None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
None




                                              17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                        Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest
            Components                                                                    Percentage of
                                           (USD millions)          Estimate (USD
                                                                      millions)             Appraisal


POWER DISTRIBUTION PILOTS                           3.4                    6.0                 176%
                                                                          [5.0]*

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM                                              2.3                    3.1                 135%
                                                                          [2.6]*




                Total Baseline Cost                 5.7                    9.1                 160%
                                                                          [7.6]*

Physical Contingencies                              0.80                NA                      NA

Price Contingencies                                 0.50                NA                      NA


                 Total Project Costs                7.0                    9.1                 160%
                                                                          [7.6]*
Project Preparation Fund                            0.0                    0.0                  NA
Front-end fee IBRD                               NA                     NA                      NA

         Total Financing Required                   7.0                    9.1
                                                                          [7.6]*               160%


* Figures given in [ ] are in Euro, which are the actual as the PMU recorded in Euro all the project
expenditures over the years 2003-2007. Since the exchange rate for the Euro changed over this period, the
ICR team assumed an average of 1.2 for Euro/US$ exchange rate.

(b) Financing
                                                                             Actual/Latest
                                                                Appraisal       Estimate
            Source of Funds                     Type of                                       Percentage of
                                             Cofinancing         Estimate        (USD )
                                                             (USD millions) @ June 30,          Appraisal

                                                                                  2007

Borrower                                                     2.00           3.5              175%


International Development Association
(IDA)                                                        5.00           5.6**            112%


** IDA actual financing is larger in US dollar than the appraisal estimate due to the appreciation of the
SDR vs. US$




                                                      18

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Power Distribution Pilots

The Power Distribution Pilots component included the supply and installation of
equipment needed for remote metering, automated billing and demand side management
(all referred to as an AMR system). The purpose of the AMR system was to test whether
and to what degree the electricity consumers in Montenegro would improve their
discipline in electricity payments and participate in the program of loss reduction, in
response to the introduction of the AMR systems in the pilot regions. In addition to the
AMR systems, this component also included the rehabilitation of the low voltage
networks in the pilot areas where the new AMR meters were installed. The rehabilitation
of the networks was implemented as Phase 1 of this component while the implementation
of the AMR system was implemented as Phase 2. The total costs of Phase 1 and Phase 2
were about Euro 5 million of which the World Bank credit financed Euro 2.22 million
and EPCG financed Euro 2.78 million.

The network rehabilitation of Phase 1 involved mainly replacing and expansion of
existing cables and overhead networks as well as distribution transformers in the pilot
areas. The aim of this work was to reduce technical losses in the network and the design
and implementation of this network rehabilitation followed the utility's normal design
and implementation practices. Thus this rehabilitation was carried out in the same manner
irrespective of the type of new meters to be installed. On the other hand, the focus of the
AMR Systems Component ( Phase 2) was on the impact of the implementation of modern
metering technology on reducing the non-technical losses.

The AMR system consists of the following three components, as illustrated in Figure 2-1
below:

    · Digital electricity meters with telecommunication interfaces which are installed at
        the consumer and transformer feeders to measure energy consumption, store the
        recorded data, identify and register any unauthorized meter handling and limit the
        load and exercise control actions (e.g. connect and disconnect) according to the
        commands from the control center;
    · Communication systems including two-way communications between meters and
        the AMR control center through concentrators. Concentrators are placed in
        special meter cabinets in the feeders of the transformers of the pilot areas, with
        the task of collecting the metering data and sending the data to the control center.
        DLC (Distribution Line Carrier) technology is applied for communication
        between meters and concentrators over distribution network low voltage lines.
        Public mobile GSM/GPRS communication technology is applied for
        communication between concentrators and the AMR control center;
    · The computer control center (AMR Center) in Podgorica provides automated
        collection, processing and storage of metering data from all meters in the pilot



                                             19

      areas. The collected data are transferred from the AMR center to the billing
      system for billing and tariff management and for remote connection to the
      financial and accounting systems at EPCG. In addition, the deployment of the
      system is aimed to facilitate further accounting and management unbundling of
      EPCG.




                  Figure 2-1 Conception of AMR system structure

The implementation of the AMR system included installing 3767 meters (representing
about 1.3% of low voltage consumers and about 300 meters more than was originally
planned) in 21 pilot areas (transformer areas) of the following distribution regions ( ED)
of EPCG which are also shown in Figure 2-2:

   · ED Podgorica - 10 transformer areas with 1976 meters at consumer's premises
      and 72 meters at transformer feeders
   · ED Niksi - 6 transformer areas with 677 meters at consumer's premises and 27
      meters at transformer feeders
   · ED Bijelo Polje - 2 transformer areas with 353 meters at consumer's premises and
      15 meters at transformer feeders and
   · ED Herceg Novi - 3 transformer areas with 636 meters at consumer's premises
      and 24 meters at transformer feeders.




                                            20

               Figure 2-2 AMR Meter Installation in EPCG network


Component 2: Financial Management Information System

The installed FMIS systems consist of hardware, software and communication systems.
The hardware is relatively standard consisting of workstations, servers, data storage etc.
The primary software provided include modules for;1) General Ledger, 2) Accounts
Payable, 3) Accounts receivable, 4) Cash Management, 5) Fixed Assets Accounting, 6)
Inventory Management,7) Project Accounting, 8) Consolidation, and 9) Financial and
management Reporting. A Human Resource Management module was also installed at
EPCG headquarters.

FMIS systems are now installed and deployed in all EPCG functional entities as
summarized in Figure 2-3 and more than 200 users have been trained in using the new
system.




                                            21

Figure 2-3: Summary of FMIS Installation Locations


       EPCG Units/Functional Entities with FMIS
                         Systems


                        HEAD OFFICE

                    ELEKTROGRADNJA

                 GENERATION Headquarters

                 Hydro power plant PERUCICA

                   Hydro Power Plant PIVA

                Thermal Power Plant PLJEVLJA

                 TRANSMISSION Headquarters

                 DISTRIBUTION Headquarters

                          DU BAR

                         DU NIKSIC

                        DU PLJEVIJA

                       DU PODGORICA

                     DU BIJELO POLJE

                   SUPPLY Headquarters

      Source : EPCG Du= Distribution Unit




                               22

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Since this is a pilot project implemented through a Learning and Innovation Credit, there
is no estimate of its economy efficiency in the PAD. However, the consultant working for
EPCG made a calculation of the payback from installing the AMR system which is
shown below. It shows, for the four regions with pilot projects, the estimated costs of
installing meters and the estimated payback periods as well as the actual costs of
installing meters and actual payback periods. The difference in payback periods is mostly,
but not solely, due to the actual cost of installing meters being considerably higher than
the estimated costs.

                 Payback Periods and Unit Costs of Meter Installations

                                Estimated                                 Actual
Region           Payback Period        Installation Costs   Payback Period     Installation Cost
                        Years               / meter              Years             / meter
Pod Orica                 2.0                  323                 2.0                672
Niksic                    2.1                  300                 4.9                769
Herceg Novi               2.4                  291                 n.a.               642
Bijelo Polje              2.0                  319                 7.7                872
Weighted                  2.1                  308                 3.5                642
Average


There is not a unique relationship between the payback period and the IRR. However, if
it is assumed that the investments in meters occur over two years and that the benefits
consist of a fixed amount starting in the third year and continuing for 17 years then a
payback period of 2.1 years would correspond to an IRR of about 40% while a payback
period of 3.5 years would correspond to an IRR of around 25%. Both of these are good
rates of return.




                                              23

On Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


Task Team members

             Names                               Title                     Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Dejan .R. Ostojic                Task Team Leader                        ECSSD

Supervision/ICR
Husam Beides                     Task Team Leader                        ECSSD
Angelica A. Fernandes            Procurement Analyst                     ECSPS
Miroslav Frick                   Operations Analyst                      ECSSD
Surekha Jaddoo                   Operations Analyst                      ECSSD
Aleksandar Crnomarkovic          Financial Management Specialist         ECSPS
Gennady Pilch                    Sr. Counsel                             LEGES
Kirsten Burghart Propst          Counsel                                 LEGEM
Nicholay Chistyakov              Senior Finance Officer                  LOAFC
Egli Illic                       Disbursement Analyst                   LOADM
Poonam Rohatgi                   Program Assistant                       ECSSD
Silvia Mauri                     Consultant                              ECCU4
David Kennedy                    Former Task Team Leader                 ECSSD
Jim Moose                        Consultant ­ ICR Primary Author         ECSSD


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                              No. of staff weeks          USD Thousands (including
                                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY02                                                3                               42.15
   FY03                                                5                               27.10
   FY04                                                                                 0.00
   FY05                                                                                 0.00
   FY06                                                                                 0.00
   FY07                                                                                 0.00

                                 Total:                8                               69.25
Supervision/ICR
   FY02                                                                                 0.00
   FY03                                                7                               52.45
   FY04                                               11                               52.23
   FY05                                                6                               28.86
   FY06                                               11                               43.56
   FY07                                               12                               46.91

                                 Total:               47                             224.01
Note: Staff time and cost up to FY07 automatically generated by Portal and may not reflect actual, which
is also no longer available in SAP.




                                                  24

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A survey of consumers was done both before the AMR project began and after it was
completed. Also there was a survey of EPCG staff done after the project was completed.

The survey of consumers done after the project was completed had 10 questions which
were to be answered yes or no. Three types of consumers were identified, households
living in single family homes, households living in apartments and commercial
establishments. Most of the respondents ( 473 out of 684) were households living in
single family houses and the percentages below refer to this category of consumers in
Podgorica although the other categories of consumers and other regions were similar.
The survey showed that consumers thought that the new remote metering and automatic
billing systems led to; 1) improved quality of electricity supply (84%), 2) reduced
electricity theft (91%), 3) fewer incorrect bills ( 67%), and 4) was generally more modern
and acceptable (88%). Therefore, the new metering technology clearly appears to be
preferred by most consumers.

A survey of EPCG staff was also carried out on how the implementation of the project
was viewed and whether it was a success. Generally staff were quite enthusiastic with, for
example, 90%-100% of surveyed staff in all four regions stating yes when asked: 1) "Do
you see your own interest and perspective in further AMR system expansion " , 2) "Do
you believe that the Project realization represents a significant contribution to EPCG
modernization" and 3) "Has satisfactory cooperation with consumers been achieved" .
However only about 60% of EPCG staff indicated satisfaction with the training provided
on the new technology. Therefore, it can be concluded from the results of surveying
EPCG staff that they are supportive of the new AMR system and the application of new
technology to EPCG; however, improved training, in using the new technology would be
necessary for the staff working in the distribution functional entities, both in headquarters
and in the regions.




                                             25

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No workshop but stakeholders were polled. Results of the surveys are described Annex 5
above. In addition, EPCG and the Bank teams are currently cooperating in developing a
joint presentation that can be used by both teams to disseminate the results of the AMR
pilot projects.




                                             26

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


EPCG has no substantial comments regarding the Final Draft of ICR, finding that it has
addressed all important topics in a fully comprehensive and right-to-the-point manner.

However, EPCG would like to express here its appreciation and feeling of being
privileged to have had the opportunity of implementing the Emergency Stabilization of
Electricity Supply in the Republic of Montenegro Project in cooperation with the World
Bank, in particular because it was one among the first projects that were financed by the
World Bank in Montenegro, after unfortunate development of events in the Balkans
during the 1990. Its pioneering nature, complexity of its objectives, and the initial
inexperience of EPCG staff in WB procedures, make the successful outcome of the
Project even more precious.

EPCG would also like to stress here its special appreciation and gratitude to the
professionals who contributed to the success of this joint endeavor, and in particular to
the Project Task Team Leaders: Mr. Dejan Ostojic who designed the Project in 2002, Mr.
David Kennedy who made the Project move from its stand-still in mid-2003 and get the
momentum needed to solve crucial obstacles that had to be surpassed to enable the
Project's smooth further implementation, and to Mr. Husam Beides who helped the
Project during the critical final stages in 2005 and 2006 and made the Project reach its
successful end.

In addition to the good working relations established between EPCG and the Bank teams
in Washington, establishment of strong relations between the Project and the WB
Country Office in Belgrade must also be mentioned. EPCG appreciates readiness of its
personnel to assist the Project promptly in addressing numerous administrative,
procedural and procurement issues, in particular assistance received from Mr. Miroslav
Frick, who spared no time or effort to provide all necessary contacts, documents or
advice whenever they were needed for the Project.

In view of all stated in the ICR and in the above comments, EPCG looks forward to
continuation of cooperation with the World Bank through possible new projects that
would either be the follow-up of the Emergency Stabilization of Electricity Supply in the
Republic of Montenegro Project, or projects in other areas of mutual interest.




                                              27

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


None




                                    28

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Project Appraisal Document. August 2002

Project Monitoring and Evaluation Plan. April 2004.

Project Status Reports and Implementation Status Reports. 2004-2007

Mission Aide Memoires. 2006-2007

Montenegro Joint Portfolio Review Report, March 2007

EPCG Quarterly Progress Reports, 2004-2007

Evaluation Consultants Reports including AMR final Report and Annexes as well as
report on Action plan for AMR system expansion. July 2007

Additional Information with updated measurement provided by EPCG. November 2007




                                          29

