Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7553 TU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Public Sector Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 20, 2008  
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7553 TU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated June 20, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of the Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-
economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred fifty-five million four 
hundred thousand Euro (EUR 255,400,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one  
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, provided that upon 
a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
Page  3
2
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end, and further to Section 5.10 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  4
3
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Borrow
er’s Representative is the Undersecretary of Treasury. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Basbakanlik 
Hazine Mustesarligi 
Inonu Bulvari 
Emek – Ankara 
Turkey 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(312) 212-8550 
 
Page  5
4
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Ankara, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
By: /s/ Ibrahum Canakci  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Ulrich Zachau  
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I
.
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Borrower has satisfactorily implemented an agreed action plan for 
implementation of the Law No. 5502 dated May 16, 2006, which has resulted in: 
(a) consolidated electronic records of the previous social security institutions and 
use of integrated identity number system; (b) introduction of personnel policies 
for the new social security institution and a core cadre of staff; (c) established 
financial management and claims adjustment systems; and (d) unique positive 
drug lists for all participants in the new social security institution. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has established and made operational an expenditure tracking 
system for pharmaceuticals. 
 
3. 
Secondary legislation required for implementation of the Law No. 5018 dated 
December 10, 2003, on Public Financial Management and Control has been 
issued, published and became legally effective. 
 
4. 
Strategy development units responsible for strategic planning, budgeting, 
accounting and internal control functions have become operational in all 
Borrower’s general government institutions. 
 
5. 
Financial statements of central government institutions and local administrations 
for the fiscal year 2006 have been prepared on an accrual basis. 
 
6. 
Law No. 5235 dated October 7, 2004, on Regional Courts of Appeal has been 
enacted and became legally effective as of  June 1, 2005. 
 
7. 
The Borrower has satisfactorily implemented the Judicial Network Project 
(UYAP) which established on-line connections between courts. 
 
8. 
Two Development Agencies have been established and became operational. 
 
Section II
.
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A.
 
General.  
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche. 
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
Page  7
6
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in Euro) 
Single Tranche 
 
255,400,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
255,400,000
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
the withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon deposit of the amount of the Loan 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each March 15 and  September 15 
 
beginning March15, 2021  
 
through September 15, 2030 
 
5.0% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
Page  9
8
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Development Agencies” means the Borrower’s agencies established pursuant to  
the Law No. 5449 on Establishment, Coordination and Duties of Development 
Agencies” dated February 8, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
Page  11
10
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that an event 
has occurred under Section 7.03(c)(i) of the General Conditions. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated May 16, 2008, from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
5. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan set forth in Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  12
11
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put 
in support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures 
excluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
Page  13
12
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan 
Agreement in support of which the Loan is made.”  All 
references to “Project” throughout these General Conditions are 
deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
