CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 371 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Education Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 13, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 371 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Education Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 13, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 13, 1973, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
*        requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Project Unit" means the Unit established
within the Borrower's Ministry of National Education pursuant to Section 4.01(d)
of the Development Credit Agreement (Second Education Project) dated May 29,
1969, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million three hundred thousand
dollars ($10,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
*            Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
*            of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,


﻿4
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services cf consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August 1 commencing
August 1, 1983 and ending February 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on February 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Project
Unit with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical,
educational, financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿5
(b)   For the purposes of overall management and coordination in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall expand and maintain the Project
Unit with such powers, responsibilities, functions and staff as set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall appoint after consultation with the Association
and upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association: (i) a Project Coordinator to be the head of the Project Unit who
shall be made directly responsible to the Assistant Director of National Education
(Planning and Development) for the efficient operation of the Project Unit; and
(ii) such other staff as referred to in Paragraphs 2(b) to (d) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall provide appropriate and suitably equipped
premises for the Project Unit.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ arcJitectural conlaltants and quantity surveying
consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions mutually
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part A other than Part A 1(d) of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall (i)
award the required fellowships to appropriately qualified candidates in accordance
with a plan prepared in consultation with the Association and (ii) employ spccialists
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.06.(a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿6
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall submit to the Association for approval, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans and specifications relating to the construction
of the educational facilities included in Part A of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause the construction of the community
education centers included in Part A(l)(d) of the Project to be carried out by
mobile construction units of the rural centers.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause each entity and institution included
in the Project to carry out its operations and manage its affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial, technical and educational policies and


﻿7
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, furniture and
equipment of the educational institutions included in the Project to be adequately
maintained and shall cause all necessary renewals and repairs thereof to be made;
and (ii) establish appropriate administrative and financial procedures for the purpose
of such maintenance.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, not later than two years after the date
of this Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
conduct an evaluation of the or -year primary teacher training program and draw
up a rationalization plan for the primary teacher training in order to determine
the optimal location and size of primary teacher colleges in each region and the
appropriate length and structure of the progr-m.
Section 4.05. In order to afford medical students appropriate and adequate
clinical experience, the Borrower shall, within six months after the date of this
Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, submit to
the Association for its review a plan for the operation of the Muhimbili Hospital
as a teaching hospital and shall introduce such modifications to said plan as the
Association shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.


﻿8
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.0". The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
0   s


﻿9
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Project Coordinator
referred to in Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement has been appointed in accordance
with the provisions thereof.
Section 8.02. The date July 12, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania


﻿10
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2z .33
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreemcnt to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Caiegory                       Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.        Civil Works other                     4,400,000           65% of total
than those included                                      expenditures
in Category III
II.       Construction Mate-                     200,000            100% of foreign
rials for the com-                                       expenditures or
munity education                                         65% of total
centers                                                  expenditures if
produced locally
III.      Faculty of Medicine
(a)   Civil Works                      600,000           65% of total
expenditures
(b)   Equipment, Books                 170,000            100% of foreign
and Furniture                                      expenditures or
the ex-factory
price if produced
locally
(c)   Technical                      1,170,000           80% of total
Assistance                                         expenditures
IV.       Furniture other                        340,000            100% of foreign
than that under                                          expenditures or
Category III                                             the ex-factory
price if produced
locally
V.        Equipment and                          690,000            100% of foreign
Books other than                                         expenditures or
those under                                              the ex-factory
Category III                                             price if produced
locally


﻿12
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                       Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
VI.         Consultants Serv-                     250,000            80% of total
ices under Section                                      expenditures
3.03 and Project
Unit expenses
VII.        Technical Assistance                  370,000            80% of total
other than that                                         expenditures
under Category III
VIII.       Unallocated                          2,110,000
TOTAL                  10,300,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term    "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)    the term    "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)    expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)    payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
1 above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.     Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in
the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:


﻿13
(a)    if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)    if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)    if the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.     Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I, II,
111(a) or (c), VI or VII shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
(1)   The construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a)   three general secondary schools
(b)   two pre-service primary teacher training colleges
(c)   two vocational training centers
(d)   eight community education centers
(2)   The extension and the supplementary furnishing and equipping of:
(a)   one in-service primary teacher training college
(b)   the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Dar es Salaam
(c)   the Rural Health Center in Bagamoyo
(3)   The provision   of operational expenses for, and supplementary
furnishing and equipping of, the Project Unit.
Part B:
The provision of a total of about 49 man-years of technical assistance and
about 35 man-years of fellowships.
The specific institutions included in the Project, their location and planned
capacity, and the approximate areas to be constructed for each institution are set
forth in Annex A to this Schedule and the details of technical assistance under
Part B hereof are described in Annex B to this Schedule, as such Annexes may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by June, 1977, and Part
B of the Project is expected to be completed by December, 1977.


﻿15
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
Educational Institutions
Approximate        Planned Capacity
Construction
Institution                Location    Area (Ft2)        Training  Boarding
Part A(1) of the Project
General Secondary         Maswa           88,020          640          420
School
General Secondary         Lindi           88,020           640         420
School
General Secondary         Kibondo         88,020          640          420
School
Primary Teacher           Mtwara          81,520          480          360
Training College
Primary Teacher           Tukuya          81,520           480         360
Training College
Vocational Training       Mwanza          22,100           300           -
Center
Vocational Training       Tanga           22,100          300
Center
Community Education       Dodoma          95,360         2,400          -
Centers (8 Centers)       District
Part A(2) of the Project
Primary Teacher           Bagamoyo        53,740*         360          240
Training College
Faculty of                Dar-es-Salaam   65,590**        320          120
Medicine
Rural Health              Bagamoyo         6,200           20           20
Center
TOTAL          692,190         6,580       2,360
*    Includes 9,100 square feet of space to be converted.
**   Includes 10,000 square feet of space to be converted.


﻿16
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Assistance
Faculty of Medicine
A.   Medical Faculty: about 35 man-years of university professional staff
to be employed in the faculty, comprising about two man-years in each of
the following special subject fields:
1.   Basic   Sciences:   comprising   anatomy-histology,   physiology,
biochemistry, microbiology, pharmacology and pathology;
2.    Clinical Medicine: comprising surgery-opthalmology, otolaryngology,
anesthesiology, medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, child-health and
pediatrics, and psychology; and
3.    Community      Medicine:    comprising    community      health,
epidemiology-biostatistics,   behavioral      sciences,     and
parasitology-entomology.
B.   Fellowships: 35 man-years of external fellowships for prospective
members of the Faculty of Medicine.
II.  Management Training
Management training specialist(s): 2 man-years of specialist services in the
identification of management training needs and preparation of a national
plan for the development of management training.
III. Project Unit
A.    Architects: 8 man-years.
B.    Civil Engineer: 2-1/2 man-years.
C.    Clerk of Works: 1-1/2 man-years.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
I.    Contracts Subject to International Competitive Bidding
Subject to the provisions set forth in Paragraph II of this Schedule and of
Section 3.09 of this Agreement, civil works, materials, furniture and equipment
shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as
the Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the
Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants are
notified and the Borrower shall make such additions to or deletions from
the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, a list of all contracts for civil works to be
let in carrying out the Project indicating the estimated value of each contract
and the forecast timetable for award, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make
such modifications in the said documents or procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents
shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders. The bidding documents shall, inter alia, specify that the
bidder may submit bids in respect of individual educational institutions
included in the Project or a group of them included in the bid invitation,
together with related facilities or any combination thereof, the bids therefor
to be opened simultaneously and the Borrower to have the option of awarding
to one contractor one contract in respect of all such institutions and facilities,


﻿18
or separate contracts in respect of several such institutions and facilities to
different contractors.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of
the name of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall
furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
by the Project Unit on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received
together with the recommendations for award of the said Project Unit, and
the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without
the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids
were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
B.    Contracts for Materials, Furniture and Equipment
1.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association for
its approval, the lists of materials, furniture and equipment required for the Project
showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price. Items shall be
indexed, coded and numbered for identification regarding the respective educational
institution and the spaces for which they are required. Insofar as practicable,
contracts for such items shall be for not less than $ 100,000 equivalent. Amendments
to such lists which may be made from time to time shall also be submitt-d to
the Association for approval.


﻿19
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    Procurement shall be limited to those items of materials, furniture and
equipment which are specified in the approved lists mentioned in paragraph B.1
above and which shall be identified in contract documents by the same indexes,
codes and numbers as in such lists.
4.    The Borrower shall send to the Association, after bids have been
evaluated, a summary and analysis thereof, and obtain the Association's approval
before awarding a contract. In case of a contract to be awarded to other than
the lowest bidder, the Borrower shall send to the Association a brief justification
by the Project Unit of the proposed award.
5.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and the contract has been
awarded, the Borrower shall furnish the Association with the following:
(i)         a certificate signed by the Project C.-ordinator that the
goods contracted for are in accordance with the quantities
and specifications in the list approved by the Association
under paragraph B. I above; and
(ii)        two conformed copies of the contract awarded, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
C.    Evaluation of Bids for Materials, Furniture and Equipment
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties
and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.


﻿20
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured
in the territories of the Borrower if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost
on such goods includes a value added in the territories of the Borrowers
of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in the territories of the Borrower.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a)
or (b) above.
3.    For goods included in Categories II through V of the Allocation of
Credit Proceeds, a margin of preference may be granted by the Borrower to
Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by adding to each Foreign
Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount
(hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all
evaluated bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences
indicated below:
Stage                   Bids to be Compared                    Preference
I.               All Preferred Domestic Bids and               None
Non-preferred Domestic Bids.
II.        (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage              Add Domestic
I, if Preferred Domestic Bid, with           Preference
all Foreign Bids;                            Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage              None
I, if Non-preferred Domestic Bid,
with all Foreign Bids.


﻿21
Stage                    Bids to be Compared                    Preference
III.             If lowest evaluated bid under Stage            None
II is not the lowest evaluated bid
under Stage I, all Foreign Bids.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will
be granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the valuation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
II.   Contracts Not Subject to International Competitive Bidding
I.    With respect to any contract for materials, furniture or equipment
estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent, the Borrower may procure such
goods under such contracts on a competitive basis in accordance with the normal
procurement procedures of the Borrower, provided that the aggregate cost of the
goods to be procured in accordance with this procedure shall not exceed $250,000
equivalent.
2.    Contracts for civil works for the vocational training centers shall be
awarded on a competitive basis in accordance with the normal procurement
procedures of the Borrower.
3.    Contracts for locally manufactured construction materials for the
community education centers shall be awarded on a competitive basis in accordance
with the normal procurement procedures of the Borrower.
4.    Contracts for books shall be awarded in accordance with the normal
procurement procedures of the Borrower.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Project
Unit referred to in Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement shall have
such responsibilities and powers as shall be necessary or incidental to the proper
execution and supervision of the Project and, in particular, the following
responsibilities and powers:
(a)   The coordination of the Project with the Borrower's ministries and
other agencies other than the Ministry of National Education;
(b)   the design and supervision of construction of Project institutions in
Part A(l) and the Primary Teacher Training College in Part A(2);
(c)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of architects and
contractors provided for in Section 3.03 and Section 3.04 of this
Agreement;
(d)   the approval of the civil works designs of the educational institutions
included in the Project;
(e)   the preparation of detailed lists of furniture and equipment required
for the Project;
(f)   the procurement of civil works, furniture and equipment, including
the preparation of bidding documents, the evaluation of bids and
recommendations of awards of contracts;
(g)   the regular inspection of all construction work;
(h)   the maintenance of records, including financial records of the execution
of the Project, and the preparation of regular reports to the
Association;
(i)   the coordination of the selection, briefing and supervision of the
specialists and the coordination of the selections of the fellowships
provided for in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
(j)   the preparation of applications for withdrawals from     the Credit
Account.


﻿23
2.    The said Project Unit shall consist of the following staff appointed on a
full-time basis:
(a)   a Project Coordinator who shall have overall responsibility for the
direction and supervision of the Project Unit's work;
(b)   a Deputy Project Coordinator;
(c)   an Accountant;
(d)   a Procurement Officer;
(e)   four Architects;
(f)   a Civil Engineer;
(g)   a clerk of works;
(h)   an adequate number of qualified draftsmen;
(i)   three building inspectors; and
(j)   such technical, accounting, secretarial and other staff as may be
required for the efficient and proper discharge of the Project Unit's
responsibilities.


