Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-4018-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 112.9 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 11, 1985
dicumeut has a restrcted distibutio and may be used by recipiets osy in the performnce of
their official dl Us c.temts aM  cot odhwise be disclosed withou World aBk autbarizatin-



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as intervention
currency. On February 25, 1985 the official exchange rate was set at
Tk 26.47 buying and Tk 26.53 selling per US dollar. The rates shown below
have been used throughout this report:
Currency unit   -   Taka (Tk)
US$1.00          -   Tk26.00
Tk 1.00          -   US$0.038
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)                   -   0.159 cubic meters
1 cubic foot (CF)                -   0.028 cubic meters
1 metric ton of
oil 0.85 specific gravity  -   7.4 bbl
1 kilometer (km)                 -   0.621 miles
MCF                              -   thousand standard cubic feet
MNCF                             -   million standard cubic feet
TCF                              -   trillion (1,000 billion) standard
cubic feet
toe                              -   tons of oil equivalent in heating
value
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          -  Asian Development Bank
ADP         -  Annual Development Program
CIDA        -  Canadian International Development Agency
CNG         -  Compressed Natural Gas
D&M         -  De(olyer and McNaughton (Urited States), consultants
ICB         -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB         -  Local Competitive Bidding
LIE         -  Local International Bidding
LPG         -  Liquefied Petroleum Gns
LRMC         -  Long-Run Marginal Cost
ODA         -  Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
Petrobangla - Bangladesh Oil and Gas Corporation
PIU         -  Project Implemetation Unit
TPA         -  Titas Franchise Area
UNDP        -  United Nations Development Programme
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Appraisal Well         -  Well drilled to ascertain limits of area containing
proven reserves.
Condensate             -  Vaporous fractions of hydrocarbon in a reservoir
that liquify during production.
Gas-Water Contact      -  Interface of gas zone and water zone in gas
reservoir
Lithology              -  Physical characteristics of rock.
Pay Zone               -  Depth at which reservoir beds that yield oil or gas
are found.
Reservoir Structure   -  Geological structure considered capable of
containing hydrocarbons.
Workover               -  Operations carried out to repair a producing well.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMAR'
Borrower:              People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficia-y:           Bangladesh Oil and Gas Corporation
(Petrobangla)
Amount:                SDR112.9 million (US$110.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       The Government would onlend US$73.1 million of the
proceeds of the credit to Petrobangla for a period of
15 years, including a grace period of five years, at an
interest rate of 13% per annum for the development
component of the project. Petrobangla would bear the
foreign exchange risk. US$33.0 million of the proceeds
of the credit would be passed on to Petrobangla as
equity for the field appraisal component of the
project.  US$3.9 million would be passed on as equity
to a new entity to finance pilot compressed natural gas
applications.
Project Description:  The project's objectives are to support Petrobangla's
efforts to: (i) expand gas supplies in line with
incremental demand expected over the medium term and
produce the country's first significant quantities of
condensate available from the gas fields of Kailashtila
and Beani Bazar; (ii) initiate an appraisal program of
the main gas fields to provide a preliminary basis for
their long-term development; and (iii) strengthen its
management capability, particularly in the areas of
field management and production planning. The project
would consist of: (a) a gas field appraisal and
development component that would comprise the drilling
of nine weLls, the workover of two existing wells, and
a reservoir study for each producing field; (b) a gas
infrastructure component to bring the gas fields of
Kailashtila, Bearxi Bazar, and Rashidpur into
production, involving the construction of an
approximately 117-mile long gas pipeline with the
necessary gas and condensate treatment facilities; and
(c) pilot CNG applications; and (d) training and tech-
nical assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties- Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-iU-
Risks:                 The project would face the usual risks associated with
appraisal drilling. There is a risk that one or more
of the appraisal wells would not produce gas in commer-
cial quantities because of the possible lack of con-
tinuity in the reservoir; however, the main justifica-
tion for the appraisal drilling program at this stage
is to ascertain reservoir continuity as a basis for
longer-term commercial development of the fields. The
risk of a dry well should be viewed as the normal cost
to be carried in order to optimize reservoir drainage
and maximize resource recovery.



-ii i-
Estimated Project Cost: 1/
Local      Foreign       Total
---------(US$ million)-------
Field appraisal and development             11.3       48.7         60.0
Infrastructure                              20.1       60.7         80.8
Consultancies and Training                     -        8.3          8.3
Total Base Cost                          31.4      117.7        149.1
Physical Contingencies                       4.7        17.7        22.4
Price Contingencies                         11.3        38.2        49.5
Total Project Cost                       47.4      173.6        221.0
Interest During Construction                18.4        -           18.4
Total Financing Required                 65.8      173.6        239.4
Fiziancing Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
---------(US$ million)…-----
IDA                                         6.4      103.6        110.0
CIDA (Canada)                               4.2       31.7         35.9
ODA (United Kingdom)                        8.2       19.4         27.6
The Netherlands                             0.6        8.0          8.6
UNDP                                          -       10.9         10.9
Government of Bangladesh                   28.0          -         28.0
Total                                  47.4       173.6        221.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                 1986     1987      1988     1989      1990
-----------(US$ million)-----------------
Annual                           8.0      24.8     38.5      32.4      6.3
Cumulative                       8.0      32.8     71.3    103.7    110.0
Economic Rate of Return: n.a.
Appraisal Report:          Bangladesh:  Second Gas Development Project
Report No. 5353-BD, dated April 5, 1985.
Map:                       IBRD 18571
1/ Including US$7.3 million equivalent of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOKMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR112.9 mil-
lion (US$110.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Second Gas Development Project. The Government of Bangladesh would onlend
US$73.1 million of the proceeds of the credit to Petrobangla for a period of
15 years, including a grace period of five years, at a rate of 13% per annum
for the development component of the project. Petrobangla would bear the
foreign exchange risk. US$33.0 million proceeds of the credit would be
passed on to Petrobangla as equity for the field appraisal component of the
project. US$3.9 million would be passed on as equity to a new entity to
finance pilot compressed natural gas (CNG) applications. Parallel financing
in the form of a grant in each case would be provided by Canada (CIDA) for
about US$35.9 million equivalent, by the United Kingdom (ODA) for about
US$27.6 million equivalent, by The Netherlands for about US$8.6 million
equivalent, and by UNDP for about US$10.9 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Economic and Social
Development Prospects" (Report No. 5409-BD, dated April 2, 1985) has been
distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with a very high population density and
widespread poverty (annual income per capita is about US$130). The economy,
dominated by agriculture, remains highly vulnerdble to disruption by both
natural and external factors.  Although considerable progress has been made
in terms of increased flood control, and extending the availabiLity of
irrigation and other inputs, foodgrain production remains heavily dependent
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Second Primary Education Projecr
(Report No. 3976-BD) dated March 7, 1985.



-2-
on weather conditions and falls short of domestic requirements. To meet
minimum needs, the Government has to import foodgrains financed by aid or
from its own resources. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability also
make it necessary to maintain public foodgrain stocks, the financing of which
adds to the problems of fiscal management.
4.      The economy is also characterized by low savings, which reflect the
low level of incomes, and by a large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account for only a negligible part of investment (which has
averaged about 16% of GDP in recent years). Export earnings cover less than
30X of the import bill, with raw jute and jute goods accounting for about 60%
of merchandise exports. The resource gap of about 15% of GDP is financed by
workers' remittances, which rose rapidly to more than 52 of GDP in FY83
(before declining somewhat during the past two years) and by foreign assis-
tance equivalent to about 10 of GDP per annum. The capacity to finance
imports can be sharply affected by external factors that are beyond the
control of the Government; the effect of such adverse factors on the economy
is amplified by the heavy dependence of budgetary revenues on import duties
ard sales taxes, which together account for about 60% of tax revenues.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      In the late 1970s, Bangladesh enjoyed a period of political stability
and economic consolidation and was able to plan for longer-term development.
GDP growth of nearly 6% per annum from FY75 to FY80 was accompanied by rising
public investment, financed by a substantial real increase in aid
disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and external events after
FY80 disrupted the momentum of development. Between FY80 and FY82, the
external terms of trade for Bangladesh fell by 30%, due to declining prices
for jute and jute products, as well as to increases in import prices.
External aid flows, which had been rising steadily up to FY80, declined in
FY81 and in FY82 barely recovered to their FY80 level. Foreign exchange
reserves declined to about US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) by end-FY82. The deterioration in the terms of trade and stagnation
of aid receipts in real terms had an adverse impact on public finances and
forced the Government to impose severe cuts in domestic public investment in
FY81 and FY82. At the same time, the rate of growth in GDP decreased from
about 6% in FY81 to 1.4% in FY82, largely due to a decline in food crop
production following a prolonged drought during FY82.
6.      In response to these adverse developments, the Government took a
series of measures designed to stabilize the economy. In the FY83 Budget,
growth of public expenditure was tightly restrained, new tax measures were
introduced and a series of pricing adjustments were made to reduce subsidies
and improve the financial performance of public sector enterprises and
utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing, and subsidy-reduction measures
amounted to an impressive 2.3% of CDP. In FY83, the Government also
announced its New Industrial Policy designed to improve the efficiency of
public sector enterprises and provide an improved policy environment for the
private sector. More than 100 public sector enterprises were subsequently



-3-
denationalized, investment sanctioning procedures were streamlined and many
industries freed from requiring investment sanctions. Imports were liberal-
ized by increasing access to imports through a secondary exchange market and
by eliminating some quantitative restrictions. By the end of FY83, the
balance of payments position had improved considerably, due to a recovery in
the terms of trade, an upsurge in workers' remittances, higher aid inflows,
as well as increasing exports stimuLated by a substantial depreciation in the
exchange rate. However, the reduction in the current account deficit, which
fell from 14.5% to 10.4% of GDP, was also due to the depressed level of
imports resulting from a continued slow rate of GDP growth, which recovered
to only about 2.7% in FY83. While more favorable weather conditions and
increased inputs led to a 3-4% growth in agriculture, most of the non-
agricultural sectors remained depressed; value added in the manufacturing
sector actually declined by 1-2%.
7.      Economic performance remained mixed in FY84, with GDP growing at only
3%, marginally above the previous year's performance. Agricultural produc-
tion was significantly affected by late floods in autumn 1983, followed by
drought and early floods in spring 1984, which continued with exceptional
severity through September 1984. The losses caused by the floods will also
adversely affect crop prospects for FY85, although a part of the loss may be
compensated for by higher yields in areas less affected. On the other hand,
there has been a sharp recovery in the non-agricultural sectors, beginning in
FY84 and continuing into FY85, partly stimulated by a significant expansion
in domestic credit, but also supported in respect of the manufacturing sector
by the earlier liberalization of import policies and the rationalization of
investment sanctioning procedures.
8.      Following the major domestic revenue effort made in FY83, the
Government has sought to consolidate that effort in its FY84 and FY85
Budgets, rather than to embark on major new initiatives. Further modest tax
and pricing adjustments were made to increase recurrent revenues, but total
revenues for FY84 were well short of the budget target as dutiable imports
and aid disbursements fell considerably below expectation. In FY85, tax
revenues received a significant boost from the resurgence of imports
associated with the recovery of the non-industrial sectors. A substantial
budget deficit was avoided in FY84 by a significant shortfall in deveLopment
expenditures compared with the budget estimate; a similar shortfall in the
Annual Development Program expenditures may occur during FY85. Such short-
falls arise partly from overly ambitious development expenditure targets, but
are also attributable to lower than expected disbursements of project aid as
a result of implementation constraints.
9.      Although domestic prices have remained reLatively stable despite the
large increases in domestic liquidity, the rate of inflation is expected to
increase from about 12% in FY84 to about 14-15% in FY85. However, in January
1985, the Government took a series of measures to limit the growth of
liquidity.  The measures included increases in interest rates and quantita-
tive restrictions on the growth of domestic credit. If these credit policies
are maintained in FY85 and FY86, the acceleration of inflation can be limited
and the pressures on domestic prices gradually reduced.



-4-
10.     The balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves position
improved during FY84. Export earnings rose by 202, due to higher interna-
tional prices for jute, jute products, and tea, as welL as a major boost in
non-traditional exports, while imports remained close to the FY83 level since
economic recovery was sLower than anticipated and aid-financed imports were
depressed by delays in project implementation. Even though workers' remit-
tances began to decline in the second half of the fiscal year, the current
account deficit as a whole declined to 7.42 of GDP in FY84 from 10.4% in
FY83, while gross foreign exchange reserves in March 1984 reached a peak of
US$558 million, equivalent to about 3 months' imports. However, during FY85
there has been a deterioration in the balance of payments. Part of the
growing pressure on the balance of payments arises from the additional
foodgrain imports necessitacei by the severe 1984 floods. Since immediate
additional food aid in response to the crisis was limited, the Government had
to purchase about 1.25 million tons of foodgrains, valued at close to US$250
million, from its own resources. Non-food imports are also projected to
increase significantLy as a result of the strong recovery in the manufactur-
ing sector stimulated by the rapid expansion in domestic credit. Workers'
remittances have also declined further and although exports and aid disburse-
ments are expected to increase over FY84 levels, a substantial drawdown of
reserves of over US$150 million is projected for FY85. The decline in reser-
ves would have been even more marked if a substantial portion (about US$190
million) of foodgrain imports had not been purchased on credit. This short-
term borrowing will, however, add to the difficulty of managing the balance
of payments over the next three years when there wiLl also be substantial
obligations for repurchases from the IMF.
External Debt
11.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium- and long-term debts has not been a
major problem. Nonetheless, the burden of servicing this concessional debt
;_ rising steadily as debts incurred in the first years after independence
are increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments on exter-
nal public medium- and long-term debt are expected to rise from about 13% of
export earnings (goods, services, and workers' remittances) in FY84 to 14% in
FY85 and a peak of 18% in FY87, gradually declining thereafter.  However,
when obligations to the IMF are included, the debt service ratio for FY85 is
estimated at about 20%, rising to between 20-25% during FY86 and FY87. The
debt service ratio is forecast to decline thereafter, as food debts are
repaid, to about 15-17% by FY90. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debt
servicing obligations will remain modest over this period, rising from 8.5%
in FY84 to 8.9% in FY86. The Bank Group's share of total debt outstanding
and disbursed is projected to increase from about 30% in FY84 to about 35% in
FY86.



-5-
Development Planning and Policy Issues
12.     Although the Second Five Year Plan period (FY81-85) is drawing to a
close, the Government's development strategy continues to be largely based on
the priorities outlined in the Plan. The priority development objectives
are: (a) reducing population growth from the present rate of 2.6% per annum;
(b) achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency, (c) eliminating mass illiteracy;
and (d) accelerating domestic energy development. IDA has assisted the
Government in preparing the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan that aims
at increasing foodgrain production. With appropriate producer incentive,
resources to provide needed inputs to farmers, and an expanded role for the
private sector in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural .mple-
ments and inputs, foodgrain self-sufficiency could be achieved by the end of
the decade. Given Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate (74%), the Plan's
emphasis on primary education is well founded; under the Plan the objective
of achieving universal primary education has been adopted. P--ospects for
achieving the objectives of educational expansion and improved foodgrain
availability would be improved by success in reducing the population growth
rate; this will require more determined efforts than have been made thus far,
especially with regard to birth control efforts which have suffered from poor
implementation and have had only limited success. The Government has
recently taken steps to coordinate its birth control activities and to
strengthen training programs for field staff.
13.     Early development of the country's energy resources, particularly
natural gas, is very important since imported petroleum at present preempts
about three-quarters of merchandise export earnings. Since the required
investments are likely to be capital-intensive and lumpy, they need to be
properly planned under a phased priority program. The Government is now
endeavoring, with Asian Development Bank (ADB)/United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) assistance, to formulate an appropriate energy sector
investment program. The implementation of appropriate energy conservation
measures and the setting of energy prices at economically efficient levels
will also be critical to the success of the energy development program.
14.     There is an urgent need to address the growing problems of rural
poverty and unemployment. Fifty percent of the rural population is function-
ally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated significantly
since the 1970s, with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force finding
gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not suffice to
resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the large projected
growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneously, therefore,
to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry and non-
foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector -- especially small-
scale and cottage industries -- so that incomes generated in one subsector
will generate effective demand for the output of others.
15.     As noted in paragraph 6, the Government's New Industrial Policy has
given a greater role to the private sector in industrial development,
increased the incentives for export industries, and liberalized the import
regime. However, there remains an urgent need to strengthen the development
finance institutions, whose financial structure has been undermined by an



-6-
increasing problem of debt a--rears, and to rationalize industrial incentives.
The Government is now examin.ng the future role of the development finance
institutions in the light of recent consultants' studies. An ongoing program
of IDA-financed studies is e;pected to lead to a program of action for the
rationalization of a broad range of trade and industrial policies.
16.     The Government is now preparing its Third Five Year Plan (FY86-90).
WhiLe the development priori:ies are not likely to change significantly from
those incorporated into the Second Five Year Plan, the size of the future
pubLic investment program wi_l need to be set at a level consistent with a
reaListic assessment of prospective external and domestic financial
resources. As external assistance will continue to be severely constrained,
there is a clear need for a sustained and intensive domestic resource mobi-
lization effort to raise tax revenues, increase the level of cost recovery,
reduce subsidies, and improve the financial performance of public
enterprises. In the medium term, the tax base will have to be broadened to
reduce its present dependence on import duties, thereby improving the elas-
ticity of the tax system.
17.     Realization of the Government's levelopment objectives will also
require significant improvements in development administration. There is a
critical need to strengthen project implementation, streamline administrative
procedures, and improve decision-making processes. Recognizing that local
government bodies can play an effective role in the development effort, the
Government has decided to decentralize a number of planning and administra-
tive functions to the upgraded Upazila (Sub-District) level. The implementa-
tion and impact of this policy will need to be closely monitored.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
18.     Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total US$2,977.40
million. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 and a consoLidation loan (US$54.90
million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in 1975 to
cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to independence. In
addition to these, the Bank has approved eighty new credits since Bangladesh
became a member in 1972. In terms of total commitments, approximately 23.6X
of IDA lending has been for agriculture, irrigation and rural development;
11.9% for industry; 10.6% for energy; 7.2% for transportation and
telecommunications; 7.7% for education and technical assistance; 2.2% for
urban infrastructure; 1.6% for population control; and 35.2% for imports
program support. Apart from increased emphasis on energy development, the
composition of IDA lending over the next several years is not expected to
change markedly. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of IFC and
three investments have been approved to date.



-7-
19.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the
Government's priority development objectives set out in the Second Five Year
Plan and summarized in paragraph 12 above. IDA's lending has emphasized
agriculture, with particular importance attached to increasing food produc-
tion through augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as irrigation
equipment, fertilizer and improved seeds, the development of extension
services, research programs and rural cooperatives, the provision of agricul-
tural credit, and the promotion of input and output pricing policies that
allow adequate incentives to farmers Lo increase production. IDA has also
supported the Government's efforts to encourage greater private sector par-
ticipation in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. IDA's
lending program will place increasing emphasis on agricultural diversifica-
tion through increased production of fish, livestock, and forestry products.
20.     An inadequate supply of energy is one of the major constraints to
economic growth in Bangladesh. IDA's lending for power and gas investments
is designed to expand the use of natural gas in substitution for imported
oil, promote conservation measures and more efficient energy use, and
encourage further gas and oil exploration. IDA is alsc financing projects to
expand the country's rural electrification system and power generation and
transmission capabilities.
21.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on two
areas -- primary education and skills development. Lending for primary
education supports the national goals of achieving universal primary educa-
tion and reducing illiteracy, expanding access to education, and upgrading
quality. Projects for vocational and technical education promote the train-
ing of craftsmen, technicians, and engineers.
22.     In order to alleviate the severe economic and social pressures
created by the extremely high population density and the continuing popula-
tion increase, IDA, together with other donors, is assisting the Government
in implementing an accelerated family planning program. With Bangladesh's
urban population expected to increase from about 16 to 18 million in 1985 to
between 35 to 40 millior. by the year 2000, future IDA activities will also
help the Government to address the problem of providing low-cost shelter and
infrastructure services to the urban poor; IDA is already financing water and
sanitation improvements in Chittagong and Dhaka.
23.     To achieve a higher and sustained level of growth, provide productive
employment for a rapidly growing work force, and improve the country's exter-
nal trade and payments position on a sustained basis, industry wilL need to
play a more pivotAl role in the economy. IDA's lending program seeks to
assist the Governnment in: (a) increasing efficiency in public sectur
enterprises; (b) reforming trade, industrial, and financial policies;
(c) strengthening existing financial institutions; (d) establishing export
development Programs; and (e) promoting ruraL and small-scale industries.
In addition 1 assistance under program credits (see paragraph 25), IDA has
supported projects to increase fertilizer production, rehabilitate the jute
and textile industries, strengthen the development finance institutions, and
promote small-scale industries.



-8-
24.     In the transport sector, IDA has focused an the development of the
inland water transport system because of the importance of river transport in
this deltaic country. The road network in 3angladesh is extensive, but the
roads are in poor condition and are inadequately maintained. IDA's future
lending program will concentrate primarily on maintaining and upgrading
existing roads.
25.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer of substantial
financial resources, the assistance strategy for Bangladesh provides that a
significant proporcion of annual lending be in the form of program credits.
In addition to providing much-needed foreign exchange and local counterpart
financial support, annual program credits have provided a useful vehicle for
addressing a wide range of sectoral and macro-economic issues. Due to
Bangladesh's savings/investment gap, IDA credits for project financing con-
tinue to cover all foreign exchange costs and a significant portion of local
currency expenditures. Given the severe limits on external concessionary
assistance, IDA has emphasized the need for Government to mobilize more
domestic financial resources and to utilize these resources more efficiently.
IDA is promoting Government policies to set public utility prices at economi-
cally efficient levels, to mobilize domestic financial resources, and to
improve the efficiency of public sector institutions.
26.      Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domes-
tic financial resources, but also by weak development institutions, limited
managerial capacity, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in con-
sultation with other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on ways to improve project implementation. In support of broader
institutional reform, IDA is: (a) providing technical assistance for project
preparation and implementation; (b) financing projects to train civil ser-
vants and other managerial and technical personnel; and (c) encouraging the
Government to introduce administrative reforms and improve staff salaries and
incentives. Despite progress in implementing reforms, which include
administrative reorganization and improvements in financial planning and
budgetary procedures, adequate institutional capabilities can be achieved
only over the long term. IDA chairs the annual Bangladesh Aid Group meeting
which provides a forum for aid donor consultation and IDA's Resident
Representative chairs regularly schedulec donor meetings in Dhaka to exchange
views on policy issues, project implementation, and aid coordination.
PART III
Introduction
27.      In Bangladesh, per capita energy consumption, which is among the
lowest in the world, is estimated at about 90 kilograms (kg) of oil equiv-
alent annually, of which about 60% is derived from non-commercial sources
such as crop residues and animal wastes. Consumption of commercial energy is
estimated at only 36 kg of oil equivalert per capita, about one-sixteenth of



-9-
the corresponding world average and one-tenth of the average for low-income
countries. While natural gas now accounts for 52% of total commercial
primary energy, the country continues to rely on a reLatively large level
of oil imports which absorb about 60% of the country's total export earnings.
The main thrust of the Government's energy policy is to reduce dependence on
oil imports by accelerating the development of domestic gas resources and by
increasing the economy's absorptive capacity for gas. There are, however,
technological and economic limits to the substitution of natural gas for
liquid hydrocarbons. Accordingly, the Government is also attempting to
intensify the search for oil and has undertaken, partly with IDA's
assistance, a program of seismic surveys and geological studies as the basis
of a promotional effort to attract participation by international oil com-
panies and accelerate the pace of exploratory drilling.
Resource Endowment
28.     Natural gas and limited hydropower are the only sources of commercial
primary energy available within the country. Some coal and peat deposits
have been located, but are presently not considered economic to mine.
Spurred by the promising prospects offered by the vast Bengal basin, the
search for oil started as early as 1908, but has been unsuccessful. Oil
exploration efforts, however, have led to the discovery of substantial reser-
ves of natural gas. Thirteen gas fields, twelve onshore and one offshore,
have been discovered, all located east of the Jamuna River which divides the
country into eastern and western zones. Utilization of natural gas has been
confined to the eastern zone. Exploration is continuing in the western zone,
but results so far have been inconclusive.
29.     About 60% of the total energy used in Bangladesh is supplied from
traditional sources such as crop residue and animal wastes. The energy
provided by biomass sources is estimated to be about 5 million tons of oil
equivalent (toe) annually. As in other developing economies, the level of
utilization of these forms of energy is high, but their end-use efficiency is
low, typically 10-152. While in the future the relative share of biomass
fuels within the overall energy balance will decline, Bangladesh does not
have the resources to sustain a major shift to commercial energy and the
demand for traditional sources will continue to increase with population
growth.
Electric Power
30.     A key Government objective is to improve and expand the supply and
distribution of electricity. The expanded use of natural gas for the gener-
ation of electricity is central to this effort. Bangladesh has a relatively
smaLl electric power generation and distribution system that is divided into
two main grids covering the eastern and western zones, respectively. In the
eastern zone, gas is available for power generation and substantial gas-based
capacity additions are being planned. The western zone relies on imported
fuel and diesel oil. The two grids have recently been linked by a 132 KV
east-west interconnector across the Jamuna River which permits the substitu-



-10-
tion of oil-fueled generation in the west by gas-fueled generation from the
east. Overall, about 25Z of all hydrocarbons used in Bangladesh are con-
verted into electric power.
Natural Gas
31.     Gas Reserves.  Estimates of proven, possible, and probable reserves
for the eastern gas fields were made recently by consultants (DeGolyer and
McNaughton [D&K] of the United States). Gas-in-place is estimated at about
11 trillion cubic feet (TCF). Condensate reserves are estimated at 18 mil-
lion barrels (bbl). Due to a combination of factors, gas reserve estimates
are characterized by the very low ratio of proven reserves (4.0 TCF) to
probable (9.8 TCF) and possible (9.6 TCF) reserves. In each of three fields
(Beani Bazar, Kailashtila, and Kamta), only a single well has been drilled.
In several others, the wells are very close together and do not penetrate all
the producing zones or fail to reach the gas-water contact. In aLl fields,
except Beani Bazar, the configuration of the reservoirs is only sketchily
known. Uncertainty regarding the level of existing reserves makes it impos-
sible for the Government to formulate a long-term development strategy for
the sector. While estimates show abundant gas reserves in relation to cur-
rent production levels (about 85 billion standard cubic feet [BCF] annually),
they are not large when compared to the country's population and the
anticipated level of demand, which is expected to claim all sustainable
production from existing recoverable reserves by the late 1990s. There is,
therefore, an urgent need to initiate a professionally-designed appraisal
program to assess reserves. As a first step, detailed high-resolution seis-
mic surveys of the major gas fields are being undertaken as a part of the
IDA-financed Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1402-BD) (see
paragraph 40) to firm up the reservoir structure maps, provide a basis for
locating future wells to be drilled, and assist in identifying gas-water
contacts. A critical follow-up would be a program of appraisal drilling. A
more precise assessment of reserves is also required before decisions can be
made on the Government's proposed construction of a pipeline across the
Jamuna river (see paragraph 35).
32.      Gas Production and Distribution.  Six gas fields (Titas, Habiganj,
Bakhrabad, Chhatak, Sylhet, and Kailashtila) are currently in production.
Average daily output is about 250 million standard cubic feet (MMCF) of gas
and 300 bbl of condensate. The existing production and distribution
facilities fall under three separate systems: (i) the Titas system covering
the greater Dhaka area and supplied from the Titas and Habiganj gas fields;
(ii) the Bakhrabad system covering the southeastern part of the country,
including the Chittagong area, and supplied from the Bakhrabad gas field; and
(iii) the Jalalabad system covering the Sylhet area and supplied from the
Chhatak, Sylhet, and Kailashtila gas fields. Cumulative production as of the
end of June 1984 was about 0.6 TCF, most of which came from Titas, the only
field to be significantly exploited. Planned investments would result in the
integration of the three systems into one grid, allowing greater flexibility
in field management and increased reliability of supply.



-1l-
Gas Demand/Supply Outlook
33.     Approximately two-thirds of future gas requirements are expected to
originate from capacity additions in the power and fertilizer sectors. Peak
daily demand is expected to grow from 340 MMCF in 1983/4 to close to 1,000
MMCF by 1992/93, i.e., at an average annual rate of 12 percent. With the
slow development of industries in Chittagong, the growth in demand is
expected to originate mostly in the Titas Franchise Area (TFA), which
includes Dhaka and the surrounding areas and constitutes the economic center
of the country. Existing capacity in the Bakhrabad and Jalalabad systems is
expected to remain sufficient to meet projected demand in their respective
franchise area until the end of the decade. In sharp contrast, the scheduled
program for drilling at Titas and Habiganj will barely meet demand in the TFA
for 1985 and Leaves unmet a large portion of projected demand for the follow-
ing years. Peak daily demand in the TFA is expected to grow from about 290
MMCF in 1983/84 to about 470 MMCF in 1987/88 and 700 MMCF in 1992/93.
Petrobangla is counting on three additional supply sources to meet this
incremental demand beyond 1985: (i) a surplus from the Bakhrabad gas field
to be transferred to TFA through a pipeline being constructed with Asian
Development Bank (ADB) financing; (ii) additional wells at Titas and Habiganj
to be drilled with ADB financing and the proposed project (see paragraph 43);
and (iii) gas from the eastern fields (Kailashtila, Beani Bazar and
Rashidpur) to be made available by a new North-South pipeline under the
proposed project (see paragraph 44). While use of gas from the Bakhrabad
field is justified to overcome the current shortage in the TFA, it would be
necessary, in order to safeguard future supplies to the Chittagong area, to
prove reserves at Bakhrabad of at least 2.6 TCF prior to making arrangements
to transfer gas to TFA on a long-term basis (Section 4.04(b) of the Project
Agreement).  Pending evaluation of the Bakhrabad gas reserves, there would be
a joint Government/IDA annual review of the supply/demand situation to ensure
that utilization of gas from Bakhrabad in the TFA remains within prudent
limits (Section 4.04(a) of the Project Agreement) so as to avoid prejudicing
the needs of industrial users in the Chittagong area.
34.     Gas Utilization.  Use of natural gas was initially confined to a
.ertilizer plant and cement factory in the Sylhet district where two small
fields, Chhatak and Sylhet, were discovered during the 1950s. Gas production
was stepped up following the discovery during the 1960s of considerably
larger gas reserves at Titas and other fields. Output has increased steadily
over the last decade, growing at an annual average of 14% from 29 BCF in
1975/76 to 81 BCF (2.0 million toe) in 1983/84. Although fertilizer produc-
tion and power generation account for the bulk of consumption, gas distribu-
tion to private commercial and domestic consumers has been increasing. Gas
distribution networks have been, or will shortly be, installed in most urban
areas located near transmission lines. Distribution Lines servicing clusters
of small industrial units (such as brick kilns and tea drying facilities)
promise attractive benefits and have been given high priority by the
Government.



-12-
35.     Efforts are underway to promote expanded and alternative gas uses to
maximize the absorptive capacity of the economy for natural gas. Technical
assistance will be provided under a Joint UMDP/Bank Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program to review the economic viabiLity of distributing natural
gas to potential users in rural areas. The Government gives high priority to
the transfer of gas across the Jamuna River and has financed a study to
ascertain the feasibility of such a scheme. IDA has agreed in principle to
support further analytical work on the economic viability of such an
investment, which the Government now envisages would be coupled with a more
ambitious road-bridge project. Alternative uses of natural gas and by-
products such as liquefied petroleum gas (LPC) and compressed natural gas
(CNG), are also being investigated. The feasibility of setting up a plant to
extract LPG from natural gas is currently being studied under a Canadian
technical assistance grant and a pilot study of CNG utilization in road
transport is being financed by IDA under the Bakhrabad Gas Development
Project (Credit 1091-BD) (see paragraph 40). Rail and river transport also
offer attractive possibilities for the utilization of CNG. If appraisal of
the gas fields and further exploration confirm the prospects of Bangladesh as
a major gas producer, several export options also could be considered. A gas
utilization study, undertaken as part of the Energy Efficiency and Refinery
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1357-BD) (see paragraph 40), would analyze and
compare the various options available for efficient industrial uses of
natural gas, especially those with export potential. Given the large amount
of capical required, any export option would require support by private
financing. IFC is assisting in the preparation of two gas-based export
projects in Chittagong (urea and methanol).
36.      Pricing of Natural Gas.  The price of natural gas is controlled by
the Government, with about 70Z of consumer prices being channeled directly to
the nationaL budget by way of excise duties. Gas pricing has been one of the
principal policy ingredients of IDA's economic dialogue with the Government.
The Government agrees that gas prices and excise duties should be fixed at
levels to ensure that: (i) sale prices are higher than the long-run marginal
cost (LRMC) of natural gas after taking into account an allowance for
depletion; (ii) the revenues from gas operations are sufficient to cover the
operating expenses and debt service requirements of the entities producing
and distributing the gas and contribute substantially towards future
investments; and (iii) gas tariffs mobilize resources for the economy.
37.     Consultants appointed under the Bakhrabad Gas DeveLopment Project
(Credit 1091-BD) have estimaced the LRMC of producing and transmitting
natural gas in the eastern zone for large consumers with high and stable load
factors at Tk 15.7 per thousand standard cubic feet (MCF) for power and
fertilizer and Tk 19.3/MCF for other industrial consumers (mid 1984 prices).
LRMC for small users would be higher due to relatively high investments for
distribution networks and sharper peaking of demand. Estimates of the deple-
tion premium vary widely, depending on the number of years expected to elapse
before gas reserves are fully committed. The present high uncertainties
about reserve levels make it difficult to arrive at firm estimates and,
hence, to frame a Long-term pricing policy on strictly economic assumptions.



-13-
Assuming no additional reserves are identified, the depletion premium is
estimated at Tk 13.6/MCF (US$0.52) and the average economic cost of supplying
gas to large consumers at Tk 29.8/MCF (US$1.15) compared to a price of
Tk 16.3/MCF (US$0.63) at present. The depletion premium, however, may need
to be adjusted to reflect the results of future exploration; tariff adjust-
ments should also take into account the fact that sharp increases in gas
prices could be disruptive to the economy. Accordingly, under the proposed
project the Government would: (i) increase the average price of natural gas
by at least 20X by July 1, 1985 (as a condition of credit effectiveness);
(ii) increase such price by at least 20% over the new price by July 1, 1986;
and (iii) beginning FY88 and thereafter, make necessary adjustments to gas
prices in accordance with a program to be dgreed with IDA based on the long-
run marginal cost of extraction, transmission, and distribution plus deple-
tion allowance (Sections 4.05 (a), (b), (c) and 6.01(f) of the DeveLopment
Credit Agreement). Based on the results of the proposed field appraisal
program and of future gas exploration efforts, the Government would peri-
odically review with IDA the level of the depletion premium to be used in
calculating future gas prices (Section 4.06 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
38.     Sector Management.  Under Presidential Order 27 of 1972, the
Bangladesh Oil and Gas Corporation (Petrobangla) was established as the state
company entrusted with the exploration and production of oil, the import of
oil, the refining and marketing of petroleum products, and the exploration,
production, transmission, and distribution of natural gas. In 1976, the
functions relating to the import of crude oil and to the refining and market-
ing of petroleum products were transferred to a newly-established state
company, the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation. The production, transmission,
and distribution of natural gas are performed by five regional operating
companies under the supervision and control of Petrobangla. As part of the
proposed project, the Government would undertake a major reorganization of
Petrobangla and its affiliated operating companies (see paragraph 47).
IDA's Role and Lending Strategy in the Petroleum Subsector
39.     Within the petroleum subsector, IDA has focused its dialogue with
Government on a number of key issues, including the need to appraise the
discovered gas fields to optimize their development, to attract private
investors for oil exploration, and to optimize the use of available energy
sources through appropriate energy pricing and conservation measures.
Specifically, IDA's strategy is:
(i) to build up the capabiLity of COB to formulate adequate sector
policies, particularly with regard to gas pricing and to promote
a more efficient operation of the public sector enterprises
through the provision of expert consultancies in management
and petroleum disciplines;



-14-
(ii) to encourage the development of the subsector by introducing
the modern technology and field management procedures by
encouraging alternative uses of natural gas in the agriculture
and transport sectors so as to maximize the absorptive capacity
of the economy for natural gas, and by supporting studies to
develop gas-based export industries; and
(iii)  to support GOB's exploration efforts by financing critical
seismic surveys and geological studies and monitoring the
subsequent promotion of prospective acreage to the international
oil industry.
40.     The projects supported by IDA in the petroleum subsector have
reflected this strategy. The objective of the Bakhrabad Gas Development
Project (Credit 1091-BD), approved in 1980, was to make gas available to
consumers in the Chittagong area; it also included a pilot project designed
to explore the potential for CNG utilization in road motor vehicles. Except
for the CNG pilot project component, the project has been completed and gas
is being distributed to industries in the Chittagong area. The Energy
Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1357-BD), approved in
1983, makes provision for a gas utilization study to examine the potential
for gas use in export-oriented industries for which consultants have been
appointed. Rehabilitation of the refinery is underway and a study has been
carried out of means to improve its yield pattern. The Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project (Credit 1402-BD), also approved in 1983, supports the
Government's efforts to rekindle the interest of international oil companies
in petroleum exploration in Bangladesh. The project is progressing satisfac-
torily and seismic surveys are being carried out. The proposed project would
introduce modern technology and relevant technical expertise to optimize the
future development of the gas subsector. it would aLso include a major
institution-building effort designed to strengthen Pecrobangla's ability to
manage the subsector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.     The proposed project was appraised by a World Bank mission that
visited Bangladesh in July 1984. A report entitled "Bangladesh - Staff
Appraisal Report - Second Gas Development Project" No. 5353-BD, dated
April 5, 1985, is being distributed separately.  Negotiations were held in
February/March 1985. The Government of Bangladesh delegation was led by
Mr. Shafiul Alam, Secretary, Petroleum and Mineral Resources Division.
Project Objectives and Description
42.     The project would support Petrobangla's efforts to:  (i) expand gas
supplies in line with incremental demand expected over the medium term and
produce the country's first significant quantities of condensate;
(ii) initiate an appraisal program of the main gas fields to provide a



-15-
preliminary basis for their long-term deveLopment; and (iii) strengthen its
management capability, particularly in the areas of field management and
production planning. The project would consist of: (a) a gas field appraisal
and development component; (b) a gas infrastructure component; (c) CNC pilot
projects; and (d) technical assistance and training.
Project Components
43.     Gas Field Appraisal and Development.  At present, since none of the
gas fields has been properly appraised, recoverable reserves cannot be estab-
lished accurately. Past field development methods consisted essentially of
drilling clusters of wells around the original discovery well; as a result,
it has not been possible to determine the continuity and properties of the
reservoirs away from the discovery wells. Close monitoring of well perfor-
mance and a rational appraisal program are required so that flow rates can be
optimized for each well, the recoverable reserves established, and the
recovery potential of the fields maximized. The project would include the
drilling of two appraisal wells at Kailashtila and one at Beani Bazar and the
workover of two wells at Rashidpur which were drilled in the 1960s. Six
appraisal wells would also be drilled at the four main gas fields: one at
Titas, one at Habiganj, two at Bakhrabad, and two at Rashidpur. A reservoir
study would be undertaken for each field to provide the basic data needed to
plan its future development. Where gas is found in economically producible
quantities, the appraisal wells would be completed as production wells. To
ensure that future development wells are optimally located, Petrobangla would
establish a technical committee, with membership and terms of reference and
within a time-frame acceptable to IDA, both to review all gas field develop-
ment plans and to approve, in agreement with IDA, the location of all new
wells to be drilled pursuant to such plans (Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of the
Project Agreement).
44.     Gas Infrastructure.  The decision to build a North-South pipeline,
approximately 117 miLes in length, from the Kailashtila gas field to the main
gas transmission grid at Ashuganj via the Beani Bazar and Rashidpur gas
fields would be confirmed following a review of the test results of the
appraisal wells to be drilled at Kailashtila and Beani Bazar. The available
geological evidence is sufficiently encouraging to warrant proceeding with
the design and engineering work for the infrastructural investment without
awaiting the test results. However, disbuisements under the credit for
expenses incurred against infrastructure works would be subject to IDA's
approval after satisfactory review of the test results of the appraisal wells
(paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement). The
project would also provide for the design and installation of gas and conden-
sate treatment facilities at Kailashtila, Beani Bazar, and Rashidpur and the
construction of a condensate line, about ten miles long, from Beani Bazar to
Kailashtila. Although the bulk of the gas production resulting from the
project would be used by large industrial consumers, the project would also
provide distribution facilities to small local consumers located along the
pipeline route and would provide telecommunication facilities and cathodic
protection for the pipeline.



-16-
45.     CNG Pilot Projects.  A separate entity would be created by the
Government to oversee CNG pilot projects and subsequent CNG applications,
possibly for irrigation and for river and rail transport. Establishment of
this enticy is a condition of disbursement of funds for this project com-
ponent (paragraph 3(c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement).
46.     Training and Technical Assistance.  The project would include a
training component focusing on the areas where Petrobangla's weaknesses are
most critical--gas production, reservoir engineering and drilling management.
Training would also be provided in natural gas engineering, pipeline con-
struction and maintenance, communications, telemetering, and corrosion
engineering. Depending on job classification and needs, the training would
consist of technical courses and assignments with companies abroad and on-
the-job training. To help design, supervise, and manage the project,
Petrobangla would appoint three teams of consultants for drilling management
(approximately 170 man-months), reservoir engineering (approximately 160
man-months), and infrastructure engineering (approximately 280 man-months).
The terms of reference and conditions of employment of the drilling manage-
ment and infrastructure engineering consultants would be subject to approval
by IDA and their selection and appointment would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(e) of the Development Credit Agreement).
47.     Reorganization of Petrobangla and Affiliates.  Partly for historical
reasons, the subsector suffers from a fragmented organization which is
responsible for severe management weaknesses. As part of the proposed
project, the Government would implement a major reorganization of Petrobangla
and its operating affiliates with a view to streamlining responsibilities and
enhancing the efficiency of subsector management. Petrobangla's exploration
division would be reconstituted as a separate petroleum exploration and
drilling company. The five existing gas operating companies would be
replaced by two companies to be responsible for gas production, and gas
transmission and distribution respectively. Provision would be made for the
transfer of commercial gas discoveries to the new gas production company at
least at cost (Section 4.03(b) of the Development Credit Agreement). To
carry out the above reorganization, the Government would, by December 31,
1985, submit to IDA a reorganization plan and a staffing plan for Petrobangla
and its five existing gas operating companies and implement such plans, in
consultation with IDA, by July 1, 1986 (Section 4.03(a) of the Development
Credit Agreement). This proposed reorganization is expected to improve the
capability of ['etrobangla and its operating affiliates to develop effective
gas field management practices and to introduce procedures to manage the
integrated pipeline system proposed under Petrobangla's investment program.
In addition, a new gas production department, satisfactory to IDA, would be
established by July 1, 1986 for planning the future development of gas fields
and optimizing flow rates at each producing well (Section 4.07 of the Project
Agreement).
48.     Companies' Finances.  The financial viability of the new company
responsible for gas production and the new company responsible for gas trans-
mission and distribution would depend on two main factors: the level of
long-term indebtedness; and the margins allowed by the Government on gas



-17-
sales. During negotiations it was agreed that: (i) the debt/equity ratio of
the new gas production company would not exceed 60:40 and that of the new gas
transmission and distribution company would not exceed 70:30 (Section 4.02(b)
of the Project Agreement); (ii) the margins left to the two companies on
their gas sales would be sufficient to assure that adequate internally gener-
ated funds are available to meet their debt service requirements and current
expenses, maintain an adequate working capital position, and finance a
reasonable proportion of their future investment programs (Section 4.02(d) of
the Project Agreement); and (iii) the two companies would maintain their
accounts receivable at not more than three months of gas sales (Section
4.02(e) of the Project Agreement). FinanciaL projections indicate that, on
the basis of the planned gas price increases (see paragraph 37), the new
companies would generate adequate profit levels and taxable incomes in all
years, except in the case of the new production company which would incur a
loss in FY88 before revenue from condensate production starts accruing.
Consolidated accounts, investment plans, and projected financial statements
for each of the new companies would be submitted to IDA within 18 months of
their incorporation. (Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
49.     Petrobangla would establish a special Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) within its own organization. Separate project accounts for each com-
ponent would be maintained by the PIU so that the assets being acquired as
part of the project (and the corresponding liabilities) could be transferred
to the corresponding operating company upon completion of each component.
The establishment of the PIU and the appointment of a Project Director and
other key staff would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(d)
of the Development Credit Agreement and paragraph I of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement). No contract for works would be awarded for any of the
drilling, surface facilities, and pipeline components until the land or
right-of-way required for the particular component has been acquired. All
key decisions to be taken by Petrobangla with respect to the wells to be
developed under the project, including their location, target depth, and
drilling and preliminary completion programs, would be subject to prior
review by, and satisfaction of, IDA (paragraphs 3 and 4 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement).
Project Costs
50.     The proposed project is estimated to cost an equivalent of US$221
million, excluding interest during construction, but including duties and
taxes amounting to about US$7.3 million. Physical contingencies are
estimated at 15Z of base cost estimates which are expressed in 1984 prices.
Price contingencies are based on annual escalation rates of 8Z in 1985, 9% in
1986, 1987 and 1988, and 7.5% in 1989 for foreign costs, and a straight 10%
per annum for local costs.



-18-
Financing Plan
51.     IDA assisted the Government in putting together a satisfactory
financing plan for the project, in which bilateral aid funds play an impor-
tant role. CIDA has aereed in principle to finance the drilling contract
(including rig mobilization and drilling crew), the reservoir studies, and
the portion of the training program related to reservoir engineering and gas
production management. ODA has agreed in principle to finance the surface
facilities related Lo the Kailashtila gas field, the local distribution
component, the remaining portion of the training component (pipeline manage-
ment and accounting), and technical assistance in accounting and management
information systems. The Netherlands has agreed in principle to finance the
surface facilities related to the Beani Bazar and Rashidpur gas fields. UNDP
has agreed in principle to finance the drilling management consultants and
the infrastructure engineering consultants. The cofinanciers have also
indicated their willingness to consider financing local costs of the respec-
tive packages to be funded by them except for certain ineligible costs such
as taxes and duties, land acquisition, and overhead. The financing plan is:
Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ Million)
IDA                            6.4      103.6    110.0
CIDA (Canada)                  4.2       31.7      35.9
ODA (United Kingdom)            8.2      19.4      27.6
The Netherlands                 0.6       8.0       8.6
UNDP                           --        10.9      10.9
Government of Bangladesh       28.0       --       28.0
Total project costs      47.4      173.6    221.0
The IDA credit would cover about 51% of total project costs net of duties and
taxes. Aggregate external financing would cover 90% of total project costs,
less taxes and duties. Approval of the Project Proforma 1/ by the Government
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.el(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement). The Government would also be required to
fulfill all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the funding agree-
ments of the cofinanciers before the IDA credit is made effective (Section
6.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
52.     Proceeds of the IDA credit (US$73.1 million) and the funds of the
other cofinanciers (US$41.3 million) to be used for the foreign exchange
costs of the development component of the project (US$114.4) would be onlent
to Petrobangla at a rate of 13% per annum for a period of 15 years, including
a grace period of five years. Petrobangla would bear the foreign exchange
1/ An internal Government document, the approval of which is a prerequi-
site for the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-19-
risk. The onlending terms are in line with those applicable to industrial
lending in Bangladesh and would result in a positive real rate of interest.
The local cost portion (US$37.1 million) of the development component of the
project and the costs of the field-appraisal component (US$65.6 million)
would be passed on to Petrobangla as equity totalling US$102.7 million (IDA,
US$33 million; Government, US$28.0 million; and other cofinanciers, US$41.7
million). A condition of effectiveness would be that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between Government and Petrobangla has been executed (Sections 3.01
(b) and (d) and 6.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement). US$3.9 million
would be passed on as equity to the new CNG entity to finance CNG pilot
projects (Section 3.01(e) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
53.     Four main single-responsibility contracts are envisaged under the
project for pipelaying, surface facilities (two contracts), and drilling.
All goods and services financed from the proceeds of the IDA credit would be
procured under ICB in accordance with IDA's Procurement Guidelines with the
exception of items of a specialized nature available from a limited number of
suppliers such as well services and items costing less than US$100,000 equiv-
alent and therefore not of sufficient value to attract wide international
competition. Such items may be procured through limited international bid-
ding (LIB) up to an aggregate of US$5.5 million (including US$500,000 for the
CNG component). In addition, contracts for civil works under the CNG com-
ponent will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB).
Goods or equipment available from local manufacturers would be granted the
normal 152 preference or the equivalent of the customs duty, if less, in bid
evaluation. Qualified domestic construction contractors would be granted a
7.5% preference (Schedule I to the Project Agreement).



-20-
Procurement Table /a
(US$ miLlion)
Procurement Method
Co-                            Total
Project Component                 ICB  financing /b Other /c    N.A./d   Cost
Gas Field Appraisal.
and Development
Site Preparation                 -       -          4.6          -        4.6
Rig Costs                        -      30.7        0.1          -        30.8
Well Services                    -       -         19.8          -        19.8
(19.5)                (19.5)
Well Materials & Consumables  22.5       -          3.6         3.2       29.3
(22.5)    -        ( 2.7)                (25.2)
Drilling Supervision             4.3     -           -           -         4.3
Subtotal                 26.8    30.7       28.1         3.2       88.8
(22.5)  ( -  )    (22.2)        ( - )    (44.7)
Infrastructure
Surface Facilities              -       21.5        0.1         0.9      22.5
Pipe and Ancillary Equipment  28.2       -          3.8         2.9      34.9
(28.2)              (3.0)                (31.2)
Pipelaying Contract             37.1     -          6.9          -       44.0
(30.2)                                   (30.2)
Distribution Lines               -      11.7        0.1         0.3      12.1
Engineering                      6.6     -           -           -        6.6
Subtotal                 71.9    33.2        10.9        4.1      120.1
(58.4)  (-  )    ( 3.0)        (-)   (61.4)
Consultancies & Training           3.1     8.2        0.8          -        12.1
(3.1)    -         (0.8)        -       ( 3.9)
TOTAL                         101.8    72.1        39.8         7.3     221.0
( 84.0)  ( -  )    (26.0)        ( - )   (110.0)
/a  The figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed
from the proceeds of the IDA credit.
/b According to the procurement procedures of each cofinancier.
7T Force account, LIB and LCB.
7J Customs duties.



-21-
Disbursement
54.    Disbursement would take place over a period of five years.
Disbursement for goods and equipment would be made against 100% of the for-
eign expenditures of items directly imported, or 100% of the ex-factory cost
if manufactured locally, and 80% of total expenditures for items procured
locally off-the-shelf. Disbursement for well services would be made against
1002 of the foreign expenditures and 80% of the local expenditures. Except
for the CNG component, disbursement would be against 100% of foreign expendi-
tures for civiL works; for the CNG component, it would be against 100% of
foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures. IDA would finance 100%
of all consultant services. In order to facilitate disbursement of the IDA
credit, a Special Project Account would be established in the Bangladesh Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.02(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). The inLtial deposit into the SpeciaL Account
would be US$5 million. Withdrawals from and subsequent replenishments of the
Special Account would be made according to the provisions of ScheduLe 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
Accounts and Audits
55.     Petrobangla and its operating companies are required by law to
prepare full accounts of their financial position and the results of their
operations. The companies also follow adequate internal control procedures
and are subject to two types of external audits: (a) external audit by a
firm of chartered accountants, after which the balance sheet and profit and
loss account of each entity are presented to the general meeting of the
stockholders at least once during each calendar year; and (b) the Government
commercial audit submitted to the concerned Ministry of the Government.
Petrobangla and its affiliated companies would supply IDA with copies of
their financial statements, including the project accounts, duly audited by
the Comptroller and Auditor General, and of the independent corporate
auditor's opinion, no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year (Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement). Similar provision would also
apply for the new CNG entity (Section 4.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Environmental Impact and Safety
56.     While drilling, production operations, and pipeline construction pose
minimal hazards to the ecology, the proper handling of condensate and liquid
wastes is a topic of concern. All condensate and other liquid products would
be kept in closed systems and all safety precautions taken according to
normal industry field practices. Although the water separated from the
condensate and gas flows may be saline, test data indicate that no special
disposal measures are warranted. However, hydrocarbon liquids/water
separators (fire traps) would be installed near storage facilities to avoid
any mishap caused by the drainage of liquids. The gas pipeline would be
buried and all drainage and other surface features restored after



-22-
construction. Compensation would be made for any crop damage or loss of land
resulting from the project. Although pipelines generally have a good safety
record, there is a danger that leaks could create fire hazards. These risks
would be minimized by strict adherence to internationally accepted safety
codes in design and installatic, application of cathodic protection on the
pipelines, and the installation of a telecommunication system. The necessary
equipment would be Drovided as part of the project. Moreover, operational
staff wOL'd be trained in safety and preventive maintenance and required to
adhere to . strict schedule of safety drills.
Project Justification
57.     The development component of the project would generate substantial
additional quantities of natural gas and condensate. On the basis of conser-
vative estimates of future production levels, the project is expected to
produce about 0.9 TCF of gas and 8 million bbl of condensate over a twenty-
year period (excluding any production from the appraisal wells at the main
gas fields). Although additional gas supplies could be made available in the
Dhaka area at a lower investment cost by accelerating the development of the
Titas, Habiganj, and/or Bakhrabad gas field, the proposed project represents
the most attractive supply option available because of the additional revenue
from condensate (about US$20 million per annum) which would more than offset
the additional cost in transmission infrastructure. There is no unambiguous
method to evaluate the project benefits. Depending on the way gas sales are
valued, and indirectly on the price elasticity of gas consumption, estim.ates
of the internal rate of return for the development component of the project
range from 25% when gas is valued at its projected sale price to 90% when it
is valued on the basis of the thermal equivalence of the assumed replaced
source of energy.
58.     The benefits to be derived from the appraisal drilling program, while
not easily quantifiable, would be tangible and of critical importance to the
sector. The program would provide the basis for determining the optimal
deliverability of each field by assessing the production rates and number of
wells necessary to maximize the recovery potential. Moreover, each appraisal
well is expected to be completed as a producing well, thereby contributing to
the gas supply available to consumers.
Project Risks
59.     The proposed project would involve the usual risks associated with
appraisal drilling. The main risk is that possible discontinuities in reser-
voir lithology could cause one or more of the appraisal wells not to produce
commercial quantities of gas; however, the main reason the appraisal drilling
program is required at this stage is to establish whether or not such discon-
tinuities exist. The risk of a dry well should be viewed as the normal cost
to be carried in order to optimize reservoir drainage and maximize the
ultimate recovery of the fields.



-23-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.     The Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic of
Bangladesh and the Association, the Project Agreement between the Association
and Petrobangla and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
61.     Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III.  Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit include:
(a) approval of the Project Proforma (Section 6.01(a) of the Development
Credit Agreement); (b) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the Funding Agreements of the other financiers (Section 6.01(b)
of the Development Credit Agreement); (c) execution of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government and Petrobangla (Section 6.01(c) of the
Development Credit Agreement); (d) establishment of the Project
Implementation Unit and appointment of the Project Director and other key
staff (Section 6.01(d) of the Development Credit Agreement); (e) appointment
of drilling management and infrastructure engineering consultants (Section
6.01(e) of the Development Credit Agreement); and (f) an average increase of
20% in the price of natural gas by July 1, 1985 (Section 6.01(f) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
62.     I am satisfied that the proposed credic would comply with the
Articl.!s of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
April 11, 1985



-24-
ANNEX I
T A B L E  36                                        Page  1
4NMLGDASH              - tCOC7L INDICATORS IMTA SNRT
WICRANO                             EEERItNCZ C0R1  (NVECIT  AWAClR) 
HNOT            (HOYT RtCCT ISTIATO) lb
REtCET      Low INCOIC            MIDDLE INCO1
isaotk    iYJoLk-    ETDziAmTE    ASIA 6 PACIFIC         ASIA 6 PACIFIC
AURA (TUNUANS EQ. O)
TOTAL                                144.0      144.0       144.0
ACRICULTURAL                          94.h       97.0        97.4
GIW PCAPtOA C(UES)                       40.0      60.0        140.0            278.6                1091.2
(KILOGX M  OIF OIL CQUIVALENT)                  20.0         35.0            272.0                 567.3
wvnAnou AND VITAL mTnncu
POPULATION.NID-YEAR (THOUSAN)    53491.0   68117.0        92859.0
URIAN POPULATION (t OF TOTAL)          5.2       7.6         11.5             21.7                  34.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YZAR 2000 (HELL)                            156.7
STATIONARY POPtULATION CMILL)                             454.1
POPULATION MOHENTIBI                                        1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. cI.                        371.5      473.0       629.6            166.6                 261.9
PER SQ. Kl. ACRI. LAND             565.3      702.S       931.0            345.5                 1735.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE CE)
0-14 YRS                           44.3       46.3        42.8             35.3                   39.0
15-64 YRS                           52.5      51.1         54.9             59.8                  57.6
65 AND ABOVE                         3.2        2.7         2.7              4.3                   3.3
POPULATION CROWTHt RATE (t)
TOTAL                                1.9        2.4         2.6              1.9                   2.3
URBA                                 3.7        6.2         6.1              4.1                   4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          66.6       48.0        46.8             27.1                  30.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER 71T0D1S)        22..       20.9        16.9             10.1                   9.5
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4        3.4         3.1              1.8                   2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS  ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..      373.0       1607.0
USERS (Z OF IARRIED WNEN)             ..        *-         19.0 /C             -                  S2.7
FOOD AN)D 3IITE
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        106.0      101.0        94.0            112.8                 123.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIREMIENTS)       67.0       85.0        J4. )            97.7                  114.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            44.0       43.0        42.0             56.8                  57.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.0        9.0         7.0 /d          14.9                   14.1
CHILD CACES 1-41 DEATH RATE           24.9       23.0        19.4              9.8                   7.2
HEfALTh
LIFE EXPFCT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         43.5       44.9        48.2             60.0                  60.4
INFANT NORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        159.0     150.3        133.3             83.8                  66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (tPOP)
TOTAL                                 ..       45.0        53.0 /e          32.9                   37.0
URAN                                           13.0        15.0 7i          70.9                  54.8
RURAL                                 ..       47.0        55.0 7;          22.1                  26.4
ACCESS TO ENCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 --        6.0         5.0 It          18.1                  41.3
URBAN                                 ..        ..         'o.o 7           72.8                  47.4
RURAL                                 _          ..          ..              4.6                  33.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..    t430.0       10940.0 17        3484.2                7749.4
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                 ..   76810.0      24450.0           4793.1                2460.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BEt
TOTAL                                 ..    7020.0 lh   4240.0 /I         1066.5                 1044.2
URBAN                                 ..     830.0 W      600.0 7?         298.0                 651.2
RURAL                                 ..         ..     23470.0 7;b       5993.4                2594.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL ED              ..        ..           ..               ..                  27.0
MOtnSC
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..        5.9 tl      5.8
URBAN                                 ..       6.1 jj       6.1
RURAL                                 ..        5.9 1l      5.8
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROO0
TOTAL                                 _ _
URBA                                  ..        ...
RURAL                                 ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. 2 OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                 . _                   3_5
URBAN                                 ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..        ..



-25-
ANNEX I
T A A LX  3A                                          Page  2
RANOLADESH             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
Ai-iGLsAEsH                        mREFRENCE GROUPS (   NTED AVEkACES) /a
HOST            (HOST RECENS ESTIMATE) /b
RECEN       LOW INCOMIE          MIDDLE INCOME
10ft1   AgL         ISTIMAT      AS L     PACIFC        ASIA S PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRDIMRY:  TOTAL                     47.0      52.0         62.0             97.4                 102.0
HALE                     66.0       68.0        76.0            110.5                 105.9
FEMALE                   26.0       34.0        47.0             83.7                  98.2
SECONIMYt TOTAL                      3.0      19.0         15.0             35.9                  46.0
MALE                     14.0       29.0        24.0             44.6                  48.7
FE4422                    1.0        8.0         6.0             26.8                  43.1
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECOIDARY)            1.0       0.8         14.3              2.2                  17.5
PUPIL-TEACHE RATIO
PRIKARY                               ..      45.0         44.0             38.5                  31.8
SECOIDARY                             ..      26.0         21.0             18.7                  23.5
ADULT LMRACY RATE (2)                 21.6       23.0 /1     26.0 Id          53.4                  72.9
coaorto
PASSENGER CARS/IHOUSAND POP             ..       0.4          0.4             0.9                   i(2.1
RADIO RECIIVERS/THWUSAND POP            ..        ..          3.0            112.1                 113.6
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               .         ..          0.9             15.7                  50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              ..         ..          4.7 a&          16.2                  53.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCCAITA           ..         ..           ..              3.6                   3.4
-m w asCZ
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS1          19252.0   23611.0      33221.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2      16.6         17.3             33.3                  33.5
AGRICULTURE (CERCE)                 87.0       10.0        74.0             69.6                  52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0       3o0         2t1.             15.3                  17.9
PARTICIPATIOH RArE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               26.0       34.7        35.8             42.6                  38.7
HALE                                53.7       55.9        57.1             54.7                  50.9
FEMAIE                              11.4       11.9        13.1             29.8                  26.6
ECM IC DEPENDENCY RATO                 1.3       1.4          1.3              1.0                   2.1
INCONI DIS7RIUYIO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED NY
HICHEST 57 OF HOUSEHOLDS            18.3 fh     .. 1         .,               ..                  22.2
NICHEST 202 or HoUSEHmLS            44.5 7W   64.2 71                         *-                  48.0
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.9       S 5. 7        .. **                                 6.4
LOWEST 4010? HOUJSEHOtDS            17.9 7      19.6 /l     ..               .                   15.5
POmRT mTARGET GRUS
ESTMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBU                                  .         ..        139.0 Id         133.9                 188.6
RURAL                                .,         ..        111.07d          111.6                 152.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCGE
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .         ......                                           177.9
RURAL                                            .                            . .                164.6
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSLUTrE
POVERTY I[ME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                ..         ..         86.0 /d         43.8                   23.4
RURAL                                ..         ..         86.0 Id          51.7                  37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APMICABLE
ON  T E S
/I  The group averages for each indicator are population-ueighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
Indlcators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwisa noted. "Data for 1960" refer to ay year between 1959 and 1961; "Data f or 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for 'Most Retent Estlate" between 198D and 1982.
/c  1983-84 data; /d 1977; Le 1976; /f 1975; /& 1979; /b 1972; /i 1978; jj 1973; /k 1963; /l 1967.
JUNE. 1984



Pi-sad    I    Pa  ""   s-.            PTLs .-Pal Dw a'i-n en
tls' e     a   as  ssquc-  e                  .4 ena   -I1f V  q
5e s-a eamhataa.uP    l-v. laq  Damafladqeda W )  et am-
Sums    r P  e .qe     cass. bis    -   eaua9sqSns              s
...-.--. s-,~-t-s~  -  * -.1 J.  s-`pDmas  aesaap.   eset cc..l  in   i
am-uP-n   s-m"S    AA._ea1sas- , 5*5T-.-                                                ssan  tis-d- 0151Wo 1Than  r I VVA PVP. etd.j n.
J_d%              "aft-do- u.sspm   lau-c  uss.     Pcsial M   -. -s.s da)    J 3n
ML                                                                                                            M~~~~~~~~~~~a nsp    s   stls-qes    e    Pft
w-  Mai l,_V%  -t A.-   -xi'Mm "-V-.LIsam  injs  e  q    Is-Li-  PPal Anaa-)sIceae
.1                  -1. -.   -VpV Al;"=._~-an                                                                             .s'o-nmiq.aq-qlatAV  A
*-sq*p ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ es             -! - -as-                                          ".-cla
-  a l5cL5c. paae  'etc-es-   ussusc.aaspe isls-ussssse          n.m  c~~~~~-as         I.:f , s :e de   PK-s   c)  Av te ill Pre    -T-- c-ia
-  ;':  z~~~s .LJ eq   -   sequep u-es -'u  5~~~~~~~..te1 sss-uesil lVcVs se  ld's.  aucuen   A.un            T-s   -ad .-it atsea-  ls- nl.
-PP, AJ Volldid "e Aq p.ll       lin ddS g pitd P1j5  pul
5. inlId Ge  usnd  - ssseafd s.d  ecame   uesie   _sa.s'co. _sq   sesq  a3 ensepd elVadlontCdi -a  seV  WAAsp Lcad pee   ge ja   i
s'e5.4Iqs-sesq  - -  ~a~s~su~ al~I   tlfl L~l±..                           esdea~31--n.ess- - 1 SP -                    j,l.--  p-ees  .d Pibe Vdiglca le
!Al-...=-  It. J.  -.1-   .1-1 -  .1-  0. di&V-.si A . Val                      e-da   esu   n%uccdd5  s.mis    ne 
- ss-I  PS.se.)  ...ed   - sU   bA.,.,s.-squ    ps*ac..   clas.tusss   u                                              nAg5.
-.  u- p.sLu p5 LI  mp"  saue    as 'sem    hiTiT~~lUii~i         5ae le  .ysaufluicuiaml    AVlpaeq on  Sq psas             all-ness-
5u'  ' 1-. -    n*     '-aeq aSqJsp5  ~e    n                                      s~a    - 'Al. -  p.aats
5  15  ll eIsi  n  "Si'le~5 ~s iccI-s5ct5   11- P.sm.ujs.    "p.  pcs lutic  -tal    lid. "VI"e 45fs_~ aJ.q   en- 'SaI
5  .5Jtfl  P                 110   l   sOP*qte  t.Sqlse.1 .ausd sadpes   Ase   u-in l          p
0.15  050 . sqes  's-* JS  Act.sd--pc   'l    tIAI                                    tI Sis..lal  A.l 5. .ellpelAd -ge-ac     VVPseae- n  lagc
etep 5g.'pa p~.  scs  .,ae5aeq.5 ¶e.i 5. . J.cl.    )s-sauad--e)e-s -idauj 151   cs)aq*-e   .   spse                                   *i pal ensdV
51J  sqe5scul ~cesc..l5 a  *aaJ  .qeses-   - TiasLteu              psd,cOatD% sd . spc Mi- ii-11.-   .-. Alss   l -5   I-  Asal4ll.j
tslp 1151 Pa sisalssmSl Issese.ela                                                               IM Ms Ec
asacs  sesl.sIas-sltLe   c-.  '~  c   tetde
-t-.p.ae  sl.4snss ccmpe~ its seq puLlman1 en seals  .d.sdl Ce seq.. s.f pesccca ci .Is   -sucdnfll..' lcust
pie  cV-Pell-esS-i             s.c.s      sesl sc-.  .e  sei.                                  -    cmqbqsee,t   s".-P4.aP-al   i                           ~q
a. asq..-t a pIs  a- s '-  Issues  ls caupsss uu tc..c a-n.I.. ess.d 'uV inS                       gueasse     ats  s-pa s-uae  tesan.usuq
Pus!- eat   c5sa       ssd   sm ' u   qe                                         ais    .Jqnt-       east55us    ssla      uc   s
p.'.p5'e  am   ess-c ksIel.I Iaa*m.ec~S ces..PW-Pas2sel                                                                                'm
u.su.tlIea   ase  .ds   ases  ea-  suc.  5 aseIstIenGes'Sam-u spc                                   secSSas   uscs au'PcsuAe
ssea- ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    - M.                                                         I '5  .spesu  a   esiSI)*dac1  umssS  csa   scudtsli mms   asp5dgaqs
551511   Ia a  a-acasasses  ma  s.S I  p. aJaca.~l       t 555uPs Icc   seuin   p  sqa  sed 4p 
s.etes a.  s-c-55.e aujsl-~sl55d caletssatd  ~l!5J!~                                           p qet e   ~Ssa *qqO  lmmlildl
essac  e   s  sn5       a   es5  plnnms saS5 c =-d-emsaSp.a   mcq   .   qsps                                              peas.1   atDMetl
a5llils sacsste         -pla _c-  5e aleds qsaac me dan  Vel(laselj2 e-we  nm  u-uu.ucdn
pa *ea~~~~~-u   aal.5a ~~~~~p5 in   buace c-eu                                           clap e15 en '(cam  macu sasulei.d.d~~~~ -T-    d -VA "   VV  -G
Ifl sal. . 505-sI   T~sae~  pueaaa5s 5   eaci                    sset-pi .    sblcsssea.4 a ian     .. e    l'  d9 pcsteL e     lss-q
se51inasP-i S-cu                               (ae5pV 1c     u                       Psc   c5tlti  M-  ecusesclu
V,m  luau enq!_  ares sIam    PVVi
pa flees LI ,'ai -s tu5as5 s  ut.scscSs.s.5 e       pc~ ssIcss'ascc ISJ aeqea p=:e5.Va- -q usaVsuc-sa 5eq I_-u
(cts   a-apu-  es  ul. Isi--  515511 -sec*.  cssasets  55p5                                'amp   at  n  mtOt amostal
silsi emmcdlses  .  a5.ae  las  ss-tsulslsaednucusd   cm5pp                    P7Vii
s-stesisal slepes-el 5. .ttatasde   -  - 5,ltlP5sld.Ii  1 se-a -ss sl.u aselacudVsA te  -sass Saluuascs  sses assbeesc d.
caleuls.sse5    -qe"tl~~cm'mselis5151                                      lsc'  sd  q  sassudl   q  s  me                  seueeJlus
a-es ss-sil-a    flipscsts.ssni.-mu  sassPlce iclsleica  eqsps emses e     pes-sc  es  ame  e Ad u-AP.uA.     c s as s u-1
m.p.u~~~~u~ Ltt.aacd           sqL  'Asuu-~~~JdVV p-Jcseseec       ul-.sdsine-   ssg dcc
csLaa"I    5c    sa"a s 5' 15s   ltdssq   psq ce   Aq sssisss  s.mt-ca.                                                            s -s-3su1        e
aa s-s tsessai Setetes, -sq-ni a'  us-iss-..  'saC  elpiscsd       aLISOc- Is au-Il ausp5cdld as dasspau sqt sq - atl   Vdddd
dlIsulal lsmal passac  - caus  ic-5tal  ssa. eaa lasiaups    5saci  calumdel eietel  uu5liaJ rest      taP..    eseseqs -0*u1.a
a.lpan  'I.eie  a  escss  ~~tinJ ..p... ets   sWi       1-ilIlP. sdaeSeq   5uu'ut5   q                                sslt.uc-eq  psaM cs. eq  p   la
'cls5se5e s-'lis  eqsc-nes.~I   *sm5 Sc  esIt                   eq  - plaus  en  c5e  -ucsdsd  ss-ucss mase'Panc-  Jn-sA.-L
tasc   t-   u--  a    '-s eeI-  eae ls qs  css.'eq   a  tcsls  su   l slSsc  esq ,                   saqsp eqs s          sel Aen
atiqscu        am  aee.  e a   c-ue-Isq  15  lsa.. 5555  s',u-rasd   i               M.a M
......eaccee-   P-.   cAl1-IP.-uP.ssils!.~!5                                                 ..g  m   -I,-qt=Sclss  ss Fm-s e    s'-uasins  esd
-.alespsd'ss                           sa           P-,. a Pal   u-i  .us..s  55   ssaadnic           a.
-'a's--  as s'-n-ca .-c 551  51 -a's sleq .1lestlS.a ¶5g.s   I-,- ,-p-    flIssase   assas  aseqs pa                J. pa V.101...1pI
alqu- CeIel -t'. tel tqs. lils   *eSI  ccs.il~. .'uc - 10VP dd.¶*VuliT'SIdiAlll  J dd` -   I-sU-5PP  PSUD
p'.u-'tem  -m  - Lu- s. 5a .epe1  I. s.p'eq u   t5cusnaset pa          SiP     Smsme.s-  sPl55  Ase VaPs  c'qs' 5. am5s ua 51 lass
I.lseIlI. ;a- LV;ThzmT..ssaLhiis sme   -L             s. ge  'u-I'a-mc          ..Sil   Si s   - c-s-m on.            AD
lslaeqc.sc  le --1i.... -cs lssI-                                               pd,  V        .[%* s c   l-- jejejSs-tsafSlV -us    map pa ' Vg
aj se-spa a ets-ea .sl)mlls c 'ust ~ ~~All'su;t  ssmde- aW e5usa          .P-.5 acc55q      EAtsoassssp  PuA.qsss  enl
p.c 'Isusenu-sI cIIes, s--as-'s-sql  - ~secsmept *es-1   iee.sn              scAl e PssP=     p. asa p.l1555, pes-sised '.al P   Insa   lsssAas
scfla - q s'us 5.5sesq  I q mIl'.55 sseeel s  .atses515pa                  sj-a-5 m  aIsela   tu.cdt  tes-n    (tua ui eaadlnarnsam
pa1-  _stssq 'u    sa-i   te las- meLee tart 'si       a's...s
I5pct.l5Ismsus.ld  sspssLlss-cs.scs  -s-selL ll  sIt  e       Weq-caJoua  en'ara  'a
p.15cln-ns    leuqs.  asIe'm-    a.tsa.lssmscilseqe-cas s.    spps       csdass-9                                                 p  i   -c-- 



-27-
ECOUIIClT DIU1CA4T3
Population: 95.9 oilliea (Jauary 1983)
CU? Per Capita: 036116 (193)
Amount
(millian 0g3          Avarage Annual Increase (C)                Bbare of CUD at Markat Prices (ZI
in current prices)         (in C    1Mmtnt uRiCee)                        (in Crrsat pries.)
lIdicator            _ _83                mo n6-70- nFT80   n8a                     n60y FT70   n7s .             rts2   n83
MATIOI  ACCO0I
Crees daastic product LI        10,640            4.0     -0.6       5.5      3.3       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0 100.0
Agriculture La                 5.139            3.1      -1.3      3.3      2.8        59.9   56.9   62.5   53.4   46.7  46.9
Induatry j                     1.448            7.9      -3.2      5.4      2.7         7.7    9.6   11.3   12.7   13.8  13.1
Service. La                    4.033            4.9       3.3      8.1      4.2        30.1   30.0   26.2   34.0   39.6  40.0
Consumption                     10.438            4.4     -0.7       6.0      2.5        92.4   92.8   99.2   95.0  103.9  9L1
Groes dometic invDet_ent         1,768           10.9    -10.9       2.0      0.1         6.9   11.3    8.1   16.7   13.8  16.6
Exports of goode & afe             899            0.6    -11.7       3.4    10.6         L0.O    8.3    3.0    7.B    7.7    L4
Imports of goode  & Ufa          2465             L.B    -12.0       6.1    -0.4          9.3   12.5   10.3   22.5   25.3  23.2
Cres national savings              691           26.5    -17.7      22.1    20.0          0.9    6.1    1.0    4.0   -1.0   6.5
Amout
(million BE$                  Comasition of NrechaDdis. Trade t2)
in current prices)                      (in currant nsrice)
no4                      n73    n7s    rEU         FTl      83    Y 84
ECUADISE TRADE
erebandise exports                 822                       100.0   IOO   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary Lk                       263                        40.4    31.5   29.6    30.9    33.2    32.0
lanufactures                     559                        39.6    68.5   70.6    69.1    66.8    68.0
Nerchandise ivports              2,353                       10.O   100.0  100.0   1 0L00   100.0   100.0
Wood                             398                        44.1    42.2   30.2    13.9    19.5    16.9
Petroleum                        355                         3.2    11.1   16.2    21.7    19.7    15.1
Kechinery & equipmet             608                        13.8    11.5   23.0    26.1    29.5    25.8
Otber                            992                        38.9    35.2   32.0    38.2    31.3    42.2
nT74    n75    FT76       nn7    nY78    nw79    rsso    YTO        nu8    FY8
PRICE AD TEStB OF TRADE IN1DICES (1972/73-100)
GDP DefLator                                  140.6   240.7   183.1   177.2   203.6   216.8   252.7    267.3   295.9   331.4
-change rate CTkI0SS)                           7.9661   8.8759  14.8521  15.4S67  15.1215 15.2228 15.4777   16.3447  20.0400 23.7600
Export priee index                            104.5   119.0   103.4   108.9   126.5   160.9   198.9    175.7   147.7   154.5
Import price indez                            144.9   187.8   180.2   178.2   168.7   208.9   234.9    263.9   259.9   237.4
TeTs of trade index                            72.1    63.4    57.4    61.1    75.0    77.0    86.7         66.6    56.8    65.1
As  of GOP
(at current urice.)
7175    nn7?     7180     '182    nF83
PUBLIC FINAIUCE
Current revenue                                   5.4      9.5     10.5       11.6    10.7
Current expenditure                               4.5      7.8      7.7        8.4     8.5
Current surplus C.) or deficit (-)               +0.9    +1.7    * 2.8       + 3.2    12.2
Capital expenditure                               3.1      9.5     13.3       12.4    11.8
Foreign financing                                 2.4      6.0      8.2        8.0    11.4
7160-70     '70-75      n175-80    n180-83
OrUn INDICATORS
GNP growtb rate (2)                              4.2        -0.6           6.5       4.0
CGP per capita growth rate (Z)                   1.5        -3.0           4.0       1.6
n not amailable
n not applicable
l At mrket pricre.
lb Raw jute, tea, and fieheries.
Feb. 27, 1985



CUIIM  21  A o.s3.                                                   ImuLIme
n pillieg -M  le 0 e 8tr5t  6ri23s)
at~~~~~~~~~~~Ata                                                                                   lii.. £m.isi
Net exprt- of oeder                             -1,09    -03    -470   -D55    -946  -1,630  -1.322  -1,946  -1,623   -1,531   -2.10D
xerts of Seos                                    344     372      405     490      610     722      711     626     6U        822      900
lurt. of gOWS                                -1,403  -1.275    -875  -1,349  -1 556  -2.372  -2.533  -2,572  -2,309   -2.353   -3,000
not export. of *-rvices                             21     - 7      -29     -32      -20       4       13     -70    -112       -33      -90
Workers' remlttauce                                 35       29      s0     113      143     210      379     424     628       552      433
Currat seemet brlsaca                           -L,003 -U2          7J1    =M       -31 435-1  428 -1.52   1E07                1012   -755
Direct private   tmot                                        ..
IILS lon  (met)                                    490      497     233     393      420     580      513     50      476       563      575
Crsuta & gSrat-lU   flown                          382      245     265     394      551     592      504     687     709       697      840
Other capital floes (mot)                          274       e7      17     -39      -16     14       307     253     164       -82       49
Chanse in reserves (- - iocreae)                  -151       53    -81       25    -124      119       24     IU2   -242       -166      291
International remurus  (Md of period)              266     213      294     269      393     271     249      10     350       516      225
Bosoms a  muths of imports of next year            2.5     2.9      2.6     2.1      2.0     1.3     1.2      0.6     1.8       2.1      1.0
Actual
GRSS DISINmmNT
Total greos  diabmrsnsnts                     519      563      268     435      477     630     562      548     549
Couceeinual                                 458      533      244     401     456      600     341      460     43
Silateral                                 343      390     144      262     213      273     2S7     232      213
IDA                                       112      128       86      BB     153      152     170     158      190
Otbhr mltilaterel                           3       13      14       51      91      176      04      70  .   80
son-ct cus.ion l                             60       30       24      35      20       30      21       S1      67
IListerial                                 45       16        6       2       3       17       2        7      28
msan                                        -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -
Otbhr  .ltilateral                          -        1       -        -       -        -       1      31       12
Private                                    15       13       18      32      17       13      19      42       26
1125 DIUSSUItSS                                   498      497      238     398      420     300      313     508     476
DUT OUTSUNDISC
Total out.tmndims and disbhrsed             1.355    1.797   2,053    2,371  2.951   3,216   3,615   3,979   4,470
Official                                  1.233    1.689   1.940    2,436  2,800    3.067   3,491   3,334   4,317
IBM                                        55       35      53        53    55        55      53      53       53
IDA                                      255       330     466       554    707      S59   1.027   I,181   1,366
Ot-er                                     923    1,254   1.419    1.827  2.067   2.154   2,409   2.599   2.896
Private                                     122      108      113      135    142      149     124      145     153
nndisbered debt                             ',019      948   1,016    1,335  1,659   1.719   2,104   2,619   2,773
MTS snz
TOtal debt service                             31       S8       59       69     95       94      91       X7     123
AUortiaare                                   21       66       30       37     57       50      50       40      74
Interest                                     10       22      28        32     38       43      42      47       49
IDID debt service                               0        2        3        3      4        4       4        4       3
IDA debt service                                1        2        3        4      4        6       7        a       a
Average interet rate
Official                                    1.8      1.2      1.3      1.2    1.3      1.2     1.6     1.J      1.0
Private                                    2.3       L9       7.2      6.2    6.1      6.9    10.5      8.6     A.6
Average iturity
Official                                   35.1     42.9    3A6       38.5   36.?    34.2    35.1    35.5    39.5
Private                                    15.3     11.3    11.0       9.5   14.8    19.2      7.7    11.7    12.9
BANK GROP MO5WQh (t)
IBM DoD/total DO                                4        3        3        2       2       2       2        1       1
ID D diaburmemauts/total diaborsmeents          0        0        0        0       0       0       0        0       0
DN D debt ervice/total debt series              0        2        6        5      A        4       1.       a       3
IDA DM/total DOD                               19       21       23       22      24      27      28       30      31
IU disberosmentetotal disbursmenets            22       23       32       20      32      24      30       29      35
IDA debt serviceltotal d-bt serice              3        3        5        5      5        6       7        9       6
Tom VIRICIVRE                                          AltJuneJila         IU/ID   IUING (At Juse 1983) 7BID    IDA
Maturity structure of debt                                               Outstaeding & Disbursed              54.9  1,365.8
Raturitis. due within 5 yoer                           15.1            Umdiebursed                            -   1,005.0
HDaritise due witbin 10 years                          29.4            Outstanding, incl. D disbursed       54.9  2,370.8
Interet structure of debt
Interet due within I year                               1.4
n- ot availabl
Februr  21, 1905



.'           ~~~-29-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH La
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30. 1984)
Amounts
Loan or                                                           (less cancellations)
Credit                                                               USS Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower               Purpuse              Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 31 credits fully disbursed                       54.90 1,079.15         -
527       1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                -      62.00        1.07
542       1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                 -      21.00        3.27
605       1976  Bangladesh Karnafuli Irrigation                -      22.37        5.66
631       1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                  -      16.00        5.54
725       1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigation                  -      21.00        8.83
735       1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II          -       5.00        0.60
787       1978 Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II                -      25.00        9.56
825       1978  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II            -       7.00       2.29
828       1978 Bangladesh  Agricultural Research               -       6.00       0.45
864       1978 Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control            -      19.00      11.36
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries              -       6.00       2.74
912       1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training                -      25.00      13.23
921       1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II    -        32.00       17.12
934       1979  Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                    -      28.00        9.87
941       1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply & Sewerage II -        22.00       2.83
955       1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                   -      25.00       16.80
964       1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                        -      10.00        6.29
990       1980 Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                      -      37.00      20.31
1001       1980 Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II          -      20.00       11.56
1023       1980 Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -      29.00      17.85
1032       1980 Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation        -      20.00       12.39
1042       1980 Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation              -      11.00        6.25
1054       1980 Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -         40.00      24.79
1065Lc     1980 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III            -      35.00       19.20
1091/c     1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development          -      85.00        9.43
1096/c     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport               -      25.00       11.83
1117/c     1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II          -      50.00       23.82
1124kc    1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV             -      16.00        6.09
1140/c     1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                     -      18.00       10.11
1147/k     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                -      40.00       17.50
1184/c     1982 Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II         -      27.00       21.92
1204/c     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer         -      15.00       12.79



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bansladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower               Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1205/c     1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -         30.00      26.07
1215/c     1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II            -       27.00      19.99
1247/c     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                    -       60.00      53.37
1254/c     1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Pover             -       92.00      79.44
1262/c     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification              -       40.00      30.78
1287/c     1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                  -       68.00      51.55
1300/c     1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI                 -      110.00       9.78
1301/c     1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                  -       6.00        4.12
1318/C     1983 Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training            -        7.80       6.99
1321/c     1983 Bangladesh  Telecommunications III              -       35.00      32.27
1349/      1983 Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
management)                     -       12.00      10.37
1357/c     1983 Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation         -      28.50       26.07
1384/c     1983 Bangladesh  Rural Development II                -      100.00      89.00
1396/C     1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II           -        8.10       7.37
1399/c Id  1983 Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                 -       20.00      18.15
1402/c le  1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -          23.00     21.38
1440/c /d  1984 Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance          -        25.00     23.78
1455/c /f  1984 Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research        -        24.50     24.50
1467/c kk  1984 Bangladesh  Water Development Board             -        41.50     41.50
1471/c /d  1'84 Bangladesh  Import Program XII                  -       140.00     88.37
1477/c kk  1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II          -        23.00     23.00
F022/c LL  1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II           -       22.00     22.00
1490/c /e  1984  Bangladesh  Technical Education                -        36.00     36.00



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                             (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                 US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1504-0Lj  1984  Bangladesh  SAP - 725 BD                         -        10.00      10.00
1504-1L./f 1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1023 BD                          -         5.00       5.00
1504-2/c/f 1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1247 BD                         -         7.00       7.00
1504-3Icif 1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1262 BD                          -         8.00       8.00
Total                                                      54.90  22908.92  1,119.20
of which repaid                                            -         4.13     -
Total now outstanding                                      54.90  2,904.62
Amount sold                                               0.00       0.00
Total nov held by Bank and IDA                             54.90  2.904.62
Total undisbur6ed                                                  1.119.20  1.119.20
La  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
/c Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs. Amounts
of principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in
effect on September 30, 1984, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits
funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange
in effect on the dates of disbursement.
4d  Became effective on June 19, 1984.
le Effective December 20, 1984.
/f Effective October 25, 1984.
a. Not yet effective.



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30. 1984) /a
Fiscal                                                                 Amounts in US$ Million
Year            ObliRor                 Type of Business              Loan   Equity    Total
1969    Ka=naphuli Paper Mills Ltd.   Pulp & Paper Products            5.60    0.63      6.23
1979    Highapeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                     1.20     0.36      1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of          Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.                Finance Company                         1.05      1.05
Total gross commitments                                                6.80      2.04      8.84
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales               5.60     0.63      6.23
-Total now held by IFC                                                 1.20      1.41      2.61
*   Total undisbursed                                                      0.65       -0.65
/a  The folloviug IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1982    Bata Shoe Co.                    Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.               and Tannery                   2.7        .5       3.2
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX III
-33-                         Page  1
BANCLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:
Twenty-three months.
(b)  Agency preparing the project:
Petrobangla.
(c)  Date of first preparation mission by IDA and date of
first mission to consider the project:
March 1983; July 1983.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:
June 1984.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:
March 1985.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1985.
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Action:
None.
Section III: Conditions of Effectiveness are:
(a)  approval of the Project Proforma (paragraph 51);
(b)  fulfillment of all conditions of effectiveness of
the other financiers (paragraph 51);
(c)  execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(paragraph 52);



-34.                          ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) establishment of the Project Implementation Unit
and appointment of key staff (paragraph 49);
Ce) appointment of drilling management and infrastructure
engineering consultants (paragraph 46); and
(f) an average increase of 20% in the price of natural gas
by July 1, 1985 (paragraph 37).
Conditions of Disbursement are:
(a) for the Gas Infrastructure Development Component - satis-
factory test resulto for the three new wells to be drilled
at the Kailashtilla and Beani Bazar gas fields; and
(b)  for the CNG Component - establishment of the new CNG
entity.
Other Conditions are that:
(a) Government would reorganize Petrobangla and its operating
affiliates by July 1, 1986 and submit an implementation
plan and staffing plan, both satisfactory to IDA, by
December 31, 1985 (paragraph 47);
(b) Government would increase the average price of natural gas
by a further 20% by July 1, 1986, and beginning in FY88 and
thereafter, adjust prices, in agreement with IDA, based on
long-run marginal costs pLus depletion premium (paragraph
37);
(c) Petrobangla would ensure that following evaluation of the
Bakhrabad gas field, transfer of Bakhrabad gas to the
Titas Franchise Area take place only if Bakhrabad reserves
exceed 2.6 TCF (paragraph 33);
(d) Petrobangla would set up a technical committee to review
gas field development plans and only undertake futue
development well drilling at the gas fields covered
under the project in agreement with IDA (paragraph
43);
(e) Petrobangla would establish a new gas production
(paragraph 47);
(f) Petrobangla would submit to IDA the consolidated accounts,
investment plans, and projected financial statements of the
two gas operating companies within 18 months of their



-35-                            ANNEX III
Page 3
establishment (paragraph 48); and ensure that the gas
production company maintain a debt equity ratio of 60:40
and the gas distribution company of 70:30, that both com-
panies generate adequate funds to cover debt, current
expenses, working capital, and future investment, and that
both companies maintain accounts receivable at no more than
three months of gas sales iparagraph 48); and
(g) Petrobangla would forward to IDA its audited financial
statements and those of its operating affiliates within
nine months of the end of each fiscal year; the new CNC
entity also would forward to IDA its audited financial
statements within nine months of the end of each fiscal
year (paragraph 55).



IBRD 18571
At  9.
BANGLADESH
/1/                                   &, ..Nh`   GAS TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
-i !   C{h,,^u.q..w. \   N;.94-\         .                            _ _ _         Proposed Prolect              W
Existing
uiu                                                             Under ImpInmantation
ro ^';>~'t < +--~ 0 | . \ - i'.!9, z                                                         Natural Gas Discoveries
-   "-|  ; .!Primwry ROads
,    _z_\   l   \  , ,t ,                         , .,     ~~~~~~~~~RnilwaVs
/                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Riverrs
-  l-l   r *- -  internationoI Boundaries
s   )                  A ~~~~I                                    - -     -_vf *\
Sylhu2t
-2~~~~~~~5.                                                                 Chhmie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~allk  .2
,!--                                                                & I F.  Sy1h.1
Fanchugen I
ro.kh.h an
-24  t  ~~id <0¢°,;R\^P.                                                                                                24-
la                                                              ~' tIt-yS  , N  D  I A
-  flnn,P..t.,.,.s           -   ~~~~Wps                OA
\>;X  ~~~~~~~~~   9      ~~~~~~ <],, ~~~~~~ComillaJ  
ren 7, _S-  n                                                   .f 'w(
-2r        r    o         t         \ ;           \         '        |       \       t;         2
- j*                      :                        50            100w i'K>'.   ILOmETESS3 
{_  r~~~~_   i'  ,.    J  .   ,      ~~PMdkha.                                   Ch           \]
_ 0-(   <j  t 1- !                                -           g ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Kultutxtis
I         h N D I A         >                         :.
|  Set of lBe~a! i   -2r          °l        25         50         7? MILES                    '   )N BUER MA
{/ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ AD                                             Kit°50O IPAOETEJtS                  \
W7SRI L^tlAW;'"
NOVEMBER 1984






