Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16257
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1586-BD)
January 22, 1997
Energy and Project Finance Division
Country Department 1, South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Taka (Tk)
Appraisal Year 1984 US$1 = Tk 26
Intervening Year 1989 US$1 = Tk 32
Completion Year 1993 US$1 = Tk 40
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I cubic meter (cm)  =  35.3 cubic feet (cf)
I thousand cubic meters (mcm)  =  35.3 mcf
I million cubic meters (mmcm) =  35.3 mmcf
I billion cubic meters (bcm) =  35.3 bcf
I thousand cubic meters of natural gas  =  9.31 kilocalories
I ton of oil equivalent (toe)  =  10.2 million kilocalories
I barrel (bbl) 0.85 SG crude oil =  0.135 ton
=  0.159 cu. meter
=  42 US gallons
I metric ton of oil (330 API)  =  7.36 barrels (bbl)
I metric ton heavy oil (17.00 API)  =  6.60 barrels (bbl)
1 normal cubic meter (Ncm)  =  37.32 standard cubic feet (scf)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BGDP            Bakhrabad Gas Development Project (Cr. 109 1-BD)
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency (Canada)
CNG             Compressed Natural Gas
CNGCL           Compressed Natural Gas Company Limited
DGIS            Directoraat Generaal voor Internationale Samenwerking (the Netherlands)
ESAC            Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1999-BD)
GIDP            Gas Infrastructure Development Project (Cr. 2720-BD)
GOB             Government of Bangladesh
GTCL            Gas Transmission Company Limited
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
LPG             Liquefied Petroleum Gas
NGL             Natural Gas Liquids
ODA             Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
PIU              Project Implementation tJnit
RPGCL           Rupantarita Prakritik Gas Co. Ltd
SCADA           Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SGDP            Second Gas Development Project (Cr. 1586-BD)
TA-V            Fifth Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1440-BD)
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
Vice President               D. Joseph Wood
Director                     Mieko Nishimizu
Division Chief               Per Ljung
Staff Members                Hannachi Morsli
:A.S.M. Bashirul Huq



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1586-BD)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Sector Context ..........................................                                                              1
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives and Design ...........................................2
Achievement of Project Objectives ...........................................5
Project Implementation Experience ...........................................6
Performance of Project Components ...........................................7
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation ..........................................                             10
Sustai nability of Project Benefits ..........................................                                        13
IDA Performance ..........................................                                                            13
Borrower Performance ..........................................                                                       14
Assessment of Outcome .............................15............  5
Future Operations .........................................                                                           15
Major Lessons Learned .........................................                                                       16
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .17
Table 2:  Related IDA Credits                                                .18
Table 3: Project Timetable .                                                                                          19
Table 4:    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Credit Disbursements .19
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .20
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .21
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .21
Table 8A: Project Costs .22
Table 8B: Project Financing .23
Table 9:  Economic Performance .23
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .24
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .28
Table 12:  Use of IDA Resources: Staff Inputs .28
Table 13:   Use of IDA Resources: Major Project Missions .28
Table 14:  Summary of Major Project Changes .29
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Petrobangla Operational Plan .........................................                                    30
Appendix B: Borrower's Evaluation .........................................                                           32
Appendix C: IDA's Response to Borrower's Evaluation .........................................                         36
MAP - IBRD 28074
dThis  ocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                    l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1586-BD)
Preface
This is the Implementationi Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Gas Development Project
(SGDP) in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1586-BD in the amount of SDR 112.9 million (US$110
millioni equivalent) was approved on April 30, 1985, and inade effective on March 14, 1986.
The credit closed on December 31, 1993 after three one-year extensions and one selective half-
year extension to the original closing date of June 30, 1990. IDA disbursed a total of SDR 84.2 million
(US$113.2 million equivalent). The final disbursement took place on January 12, 1994, at which time
the balance of SDR 28.7 million (US$27.9 million equivalent) was canceled. Disbursements valued in
US Dollars were higher than the US Dollar value of the original credit despite the cancellation of funds
because of a major increase in the value of the SDR during the project's implementation. Cofinancing
for the project was provided by the Canadian International Development Agency, the Overseas
Development Administration of the United Kingdom, the United Nations Development Programme,
and the Directoraat Generaal voor Internationale Samenwerking of the Netherlands.
This ICR was prepared in draft by Hannachi Morsli, Principal Petroleum Engineer, Oil and Gas
Division, Industry and Energy Department, who was Task Manager for SGDP during the period of
1988-93. The ICR was finalized by A.S.M. Bashirul Huq, Program Officer, Bangladesh Resident
Mission. In January 1995, responsibility for the gas sector in Bangladesh was transferred from the
Infrastructure Operations Division to the Energy and Project Finance Division for which Mr. Per Ljung
is Chief. The ICR was reviewed by Messrs. Per Ljung and by Fakhruddin Ahmed (Project Adviser)
Country Department 1, South Asia Region. The ICR is based on documents in the project files.
Although there was no separate completion mission for the project, an Operations Plan was prepared
(Appendix A) which has been agreed by the Government. The Borrower contributed to the preparation
of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation (Appendix B) and by commenting on the draft ICR. In the
Borrower's evaluation, a number of strong statements are included with which IDA does not concur;
therefore, IDA's views on Petrobangla's comments are provided as Appendix C. Although IDA sent a
draft copy of the ICR to the project's cofinanciers in January 1996, no comments were received from
them. In December 1996, the consultant for drilling management supervision was also invited to
comment on the report; their comments have been incorporated into the report as appropriate.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1586-BD)
Evaluation Summary
Sector Context
i.    The Second Gas Development Project (SGDP) which emerged from a gas sector dialogue
between IDA and the Governmeit of Bangladesh (GOB) focused mainly on satisfying the medium-term
gas supply needs of Dhaka aiid its surroundinig areas. Other key sector concerns were: establishing a
reliable reserve base for long-term gas production; increasing potential revenues from gas supply by
extracting highi-value condensate and other natural gas liquids (NGL); and the possible development of
compressed natural gas (CNG) as a vehicle fuel.
Objectives and Design
ii.    The objectives of the SGDP, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, were to: (a) expand gas
supplies in line with expected incremental gas demand over the medium term; (b) produce the country's first
significant quantities of condensate from the Kailashtila and Beani Bazar gas fields; (c) initiate an appraisal
program for the country's main gas fields; and (d) strengthen the management and operational capability of
Petrobangla and its operating companies. In addition, an objective which was implied but not explicitly
stated in the SAR, was assessing the viability of the CNG as a vehicle fuel. To meet these objectives, the
project's main components consisted of: (a) drilling of six appraisal and three development wells; (b)
construction of gas dehydration and processing facilities; (c) construction of a major north-south gas
pipeline (117 miles long) to transport dry gas from the northern gas fields to the central part of the country;
(d) construction of a small pipeline (10 miles long) to transport condensate from Beani Bazar to Kailashtila;
(e) development of a CNG pilot through construction of CNG filling stations and conversion of vehicles
from gasoline and diesel fuel to CNG fuel; and (f) technical assistance and training for Petrobangla, the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and Petrobangla's operating companies.
iii.    The project's objectives were focused on key technical aspects of increasing gas supply to address
impending gas shortages, recovering NGL from produced gas to help reduce import of petroleum products,
and the need to improve Petrobangla's technical and managerial capability to meet supply objectives.
There were several changes to the project's design and its legal agreements during project
implementation (see Table 14). The major change was the re-configuration and re-design of gas
processing and transport infrastructure to allow for the extraction from the gas, in addition to condensate,
of other NGL, particularly butane and propane, which are the two components used to make liquefied
petroleum gas (LPG or bottled gas). This required the construction of a more complex gas dehydration
facility at Kailashtila field to extract NGL; a gas processing facility at Ashuganj to fractionate NGL
(separation and recovery); and a small size pipeline along the main gas pipeline to transport NGL from
Kailashtila to Ashuganj. The NGL fractionation plant was to be located at Ashuganj to facilitate
transportation of NGL using barges. Other changes in project design included: (a) the decision not to
build a gas processing facility at Beani Bazar gas field because of insufficient gas reserves; (b) the need
to increase the diameter of the north-south gas pipeline from Kailashtila to Ashuganj to meet increasing
gas demand while remaining consistent with the upper capacity limit of the gas processing facilities and



-ii-
the funding available for the project; and (c) changes in the process of gas at Rashidpur due to the
finding of condensate present in one of the main reservoirs that had not been anticipated at project
appraisal. There were also amendments to the project's legal agreements to: (a) facilitate procurement;
(b) reflect changes in the organization of  Petrobangla unider a later project, the Energy Sector
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1999-BD); (c) alleviate field operationial problems caused by a lack of
counterpart funding; and (d) allow financilig for the NGL fractionation plant.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.    Despite a three-anld-a half year implemilenitation delay. the project achieved its main objectives of
gas production and gas field appraisal. The project's gas deliveries and reserves addition were much
highier than the appraisal forecast. At the end of 1995, eiglht wvells of the project's 1 1 well program were
producing at a rate of about 90 billion cubic feet (bcf) of natural gas (about one half of Bangladesh's
total gas production) and 0.4 million barrels (mmbbl) of condensate per year. This level of production is
equivalenlt to about 2.8 million tons of oil per year wlich Bangladesh would otherwise have to import at
an aninual cost of approximately US$50-55 million. When all the project's wells are put into production
at some future date, the project's overall production rate is expected to increase further by 20 bcf of gas
and 0.2 mmbbl of condenlsate per year (para 16). Petrobanlgla estimates that cumulative gas production
from the project, covering the period 1991/92 throughi 2007/08, will total about 1,800 bcf, or double the
appraisal estimiate. Similarly, cumulative condenisate production during this period is expected to reach
12.6 million barrels (mmbbl), compared to an appraisal estimate of 8 mmbbl. The project also increased
the proven gas reserves from 4 to 12 trillion cubic feet (tcf). Although the Ashuganj NGL fractionation
plant was not built under the project, the Kailashtila NGL extraction plant has provided Petrobangla with
the capability to produce about 22,000 tons of L,PG per year upon completion of the necessary NGL
fractionation plant. On the institutional side, Petrobangla reorganized along functional lines to promote
greater efficiency, but made only moderately effective use c,f the training which the project provided to
improve managerial and operational capabilities.
v.     The main factor that caused the project to deviate from  its original schedule was a two-year lag
In the project's implementation start-up due to lengthy procurement procedures before awarding the
conitract for well drilling. An additional delay of about a year and a half resulted from: (a) changes in
the design of the project to accommodate extraction of other gas liquids in addition of condensate; (b)
lengthy procurement procedures for supply and construction of the gas surface facilities; and (c) civil
disturbances that interrupted pipeline construction. It also took an unduly long time to initiate the CNG
pilot (para 26). The project's main implementation problem was the cumbersome procurement process
(paras. 32-34).
vi.     The project became effective in March 1986, about six months after the planned date due to
delays in GOB's signing agreements with the project's cofinanciers. The credit's original closing date
was June 1990. After three one-year extensions, and one selected extension for six months, the credit
closed on December 31, 1993. Project costs, which totaled US$280 million, were slightly higher than
the appraisal estimate of US$239 million (Table 8A). These higher costs resulted from: modifications
of the project's design; and implementation delays (para. 18). IDA disbursements of SDR 84.2 million
(US$113.2 million equivalent at thel994 exchange rate) were lower than the original credit amount of
SDR 112.9 million (US$1 10 million equivalent at 1984 exchange rate) because the Ashuganj NGL
fractionation plant was not constructed (para. 24).
Sustainability of Project Benefits
vii.    The main benefits of the project are increased production of gas and condensate. The currently
proven recoverable gas reserve base of about 12 tcf is more than enough to meet cumulative expected gas
sales at least through 2008. Also, the increased use of gas as a clean-burning fuel in place of petroleum



-I_j-
fuels, will continue to benefit the environment by reducing pollution and deforestation. As para. 20
notes, the ICR's re-estimate of the project's economic rate of return (82%) indicates that the project is
economically viable.
Summary of Findings. and Lessons Learned
viii.   The project's overall outcome is rated  as satisfactory, despite serious implementation delays
because: (a) it exceeded both its objectives for increases in the reserve base and in the production of gas and
condensate (para 16); (b) it has partially achieved its objectives of strengthening Petrobangla, establishing a
capability for LPG production, and initiating a pilot to assess the viability of CNG use in the transport
sector; and (c) it is economically viable (para 20). However, the outcome could have been highly
satisfactory if, inter alia, (a) the benefits of the project had not been delayed by factors that were
substantially within the control of the Borrower; (b) the fractionation plant at Ashuganj had been
constructed; and (c) full advantage taken of the opportunity to strengthen management and operations
through training. The performance of IDA (paras 41-44) and of the Borrower (paras 45-46) are also rated
as marginally satisfactory given the complications whichi were encountered in coordinating agreements and
financing between the numerous donors, and the changing situations which required deviations from the
original project design.  The project's operational plan (para 48 and Appendix A) indicates that
Petrobangla's operating companies will be able to sustain the project's major benefits with external
technical assistance for reservoir engineering, NGL extraction and LPG production.
ix.    There are several key lessons to be learned from the project. The primary causes of difficulty
and delay during project implementation were directly related to delayed procurement actions by the
Borrower. Future projects should be designed commensurate with the management capacity of the
implementing agency, and specifically mandate advance procurement decisions. By negotiations, all
preparatory and design work should be completed for the first two years, and should be ready for
tendering and award by effectiveness.  Staff trained in procurement should be on board in the
implementing agency prior to appraisal of a proposed project.
x.     Project Implementation Units are useful entities to coordinate implementation activities of a
project, especially one as complex as the SGDP.  However, care must be taken not to imbed
disincentives to completion.
xi.    Another lesson leamed relates to cofinancing. While cofinancing is advantageous to both the
Borrower and IDA from a financial standpoint, procurement restrictions, such as limiting the bidding to
the country of the respective donor agency, can defeat considerations of economy and efficiency and,
therefore, constrain project implementation performance. Because of separate agreements between the
cofinanciers and GOB, project implementation coordination proved to be difficult. Design changes
dictated by unforeseen developments proved also to be difficult to implement in cofinanced projects.
Therefore, project appraisal should carefully assess all aspects of such arrangements to ensure that
delays in one of the cofinanced programs does not unduly prejudice implementation of the entire
project.
xii    A final lesson is it may be preferable for IDA to finance smaller and less complex projects in a
desired sequential order to achieve greater success in meeting development objectives. This would
ensure that the absorbtive capacity of the Borrower is not over-burdened, and that future investments
are based on assumptions that are both realistic and achievable.






IMIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1586-BD)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Sector Context
I.      When IDA appraised the Second Gas Development Project (SGDP) in 1984, the cost of oil
imports to Bangladesh was equivalent to about 60% of the country's export earnings. Therefore, a high
priority for the country's economic development was the use of abundant natural gas resources to meet
energy needs at least cost to the economy. Bangladesh had 4 tcf of proven gas reserves when IDA
appraised the SGDP. This resource base was large compared to annual gas production of about 250
million cubic feet per day (mmcf/d), but there were acute supply problems due to insufficient gas field
development and inadequate gas infrastructure. Thus, the focus of gas development was on mobilizing
the financial resources and expertise to construct essential infrastructure; appraise and confirm the gas
reserve base for meeting future energy needs; and ensure efficient gas recovery.
2.     Prior to the project, gas production in Bangladesh came from six gas fields in three separate
areas in the eastern part of the country: (a) the Titas and Habiganj gas fields in the east-central part of
the country, supplying Dhaka and its surrounding areas; (b) the Bakhrabad gas field, southeast of Dhaka,
supplying the southeastern part of the country (notably the Chittagong industrial area); and (c) the
Chhatak, Sylhet and Kailashtila gas fields in the northeastern part of the country supplying Sylhet and its
surrounding areas. The major consumers of gas were power generation and fertilizer production plants.
At the time of project appraisal, there were several projects in various stages of planning and
implementation to assist the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in developing the Titas Gas Field to
supply the Dhaka area. However, delays in the implementation of these projects had led to gas shortages
at peak demand in the order of 30-50 mmcf/d. Furthermore, Petrobangla (the parastatal controlling
exploration, production, transmission and distribution of gas) expected peak demand to grow
substantially, reaching up to 300 mmcf/d in 1990. About 60% of this increase in demand was to come
from the Dhaka area. As a result, forecasts indicated that by 1990, gas supplies from the Titas field
would be able to meet less than half of the Dhaka area's peak demand.
3.    Satisfying the medium-term gas supply needs in the Dhaka area was the immediate focus of the
gas-sector dialogue between IDA and GOB. There were, however, other concerns from a long-term
perspective: (a) establishing a reliable gas reserve base for long-term gas development; (b) increasing
potential revenues from gas supply by extracting high-value gas condensate and other petroleum liquids
from the northeastern gas fields, particularly at Kailashtila and Beani Bazar; (c) introducing the
economic pricing of gas to ensure cost recovery and efficiency; and possibly using compressed natural
gas (CNG) to help reduce the country's dependence on imported vehicle fuel. During this time,
implementation of the 1981 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project under Cr. 1091-BD was underway
(para 13) which focused on developing and producing the Bakhrabad gas field to supply to Chittagong.



2
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives and Design
4.     The project's objectives were to: (a) expand gas supplies from the Kailashtila and Beani Bazar gas
fields in line with expected incremental gas demand over the medium-term; (b) produce the country's first
significant quantities of condensate from the Kailashtila and Beani Bazar gas fields; (c) initiate an appraisal
program for the country's main gas fields to provide a preliminary basis for their long-term development;
and (d) strengthen the management capability of Petrobangla and its operating comapnies. In addition, an
objective which was implied but not explicitly stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), was assessing the
viability of using CNG as a vehicle fuel. To achieve its objectives, the project consisted of the following
components: (a) drilling three development and six appraisal wells and rehabilitating two existing wellst;
(b) conducting a reservoir engineering study for eight selected gas fields; (c) constructing a 117-mile long
north-south gas pipeline,2 with the necessary gas and condensate treatment facilities and telemetry
equipment; (d) pilot-testing applications of CNG in transport; and (e) providing technical assistance and
training in gas company management and gas field operations, including drilling, reservoir engineering, and
pipeline operations.
5.     The sequential phasing of the project's drilling and infrastructure components made adherence to
the project's implementation schedule extremely important. None of the work on the project's pipelines for
gas and condensate could start before the completion of the three development wells, two in Kailashtila and
one at Beani Bazar. After the completion of these wells, it was necessary to conduct a reservoir engineering
study to confirm the level of gas and condensate reserves, of which an adequate quantity had to be proven
before the IDA-financed main component could proceed, i.e., the procurement and construction of the
north-south gas pipeline.  Similarly, the procurement and construction of the gas dehydration and
processing facilities, which were cofinanced, could not proceed before confirmation of the north-south gas
pipeline's construction.  Finally, initiating the construction of  all of the project's surface facilities,
particularly the gas treatment plants, was necessary before designing, procuring and installing the
Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system for monitoring gas processing, transmission
and distribution operations.
6.     Given the importance of project phasing, SGDP's cofinanciers agreed to cooperate according to a
Memorandum of Understanding Among Cofinanciers. Relating to Cooperation, Coordination and Exchange
of Information. These cofinanciers were: (a) the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA),
financing the well drilling and rehabilitation program along with the reservoir engineering study; (b) the
Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom, financing the Kailashtila gas
dehydration and condensate fractionation facilities; (c) the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP), financing the technical assistance program; and (d) the Directoraat Generaal voor
Internationale Samenwerking (DGIS) of the Netherlands financing the Rashidpur and Beani Bazar gas
dehydration facilities. Each of the cofinanciers negotiated and signed its own agreement with GOB.
There were eight agreements between the cofinanciers and GOB and between the cofinanciers.
According to the Memorandum of Understanding between the cofinanciers, IDA would assume the role of
coordinator of the cofinanciers for overall project implementation activities. Each cofinancier agreed to
keep IDA informed about the status of its financing agreement with the GOB.
These were to consist of six wells to initiate the appraisal of the main gas fields (Bakhrabad (2), Rashidpur (2)
Habiganj, and Titas); three development wells (two at Kailashtila and one at Beani Bazar); and rehabilitation of
two existing wells at Rashidpur.
2 This pipeline was to be linked to other pipelines which were existing or in progress, in order to enhance security
of gas supply.



3
7.     The project's objectives were focused on key technical aspects of increasing gas supply to address
impending gas shortages.  Although SGDP contained some covenants regarding gas pricing and
institutional development of Petrobangla, most of the sector policy issues such as gas sector reform and
pricing were the subject of a subsequent operation3 approved in 1989. The main physical objectives of
increasing gas supply and evaluating the reserve base were clearly defined at project appraisal. Existing
gas shortages were expected to increase substantially without the project. The gas field appraisal
program was necessary because information on gas reserves was insufficient for the long-term gas
development. Prior to the project, drilling operations were limited to very few production wells drilled
next to the discovery wells to meet short to medium-term gas supply needs. More drilling operations
were necessary to initiate appraisal of the gas fields.
8.     There were several changes to the project's design and its legal agreements (summarized in
Table 14). Following the drilling results of Kailashtila and Rashidpur fields and subsequent studies
indicating that the Kailashtila's gas contained, in addition to condensate, sufficient natural gas liquids
(NGL), particularly propane and butane, to warrant developing an liquefied petroleum gas (LPG)
production scheme, and that the Rashidpur's gas contained sufficient condensate to warrant its recovery,
GOB decided to recover as much hydrocarbon liquids as economically possible under the project. As a
result, for Kailashtila, which became the largest rich gas field In Bangladesh, the ODA-financed original
plan of a 120 mmcf/d capacity gas dehydration plant, with condensate extraction (silica gel process) and
2,500 tons per day (t/d) capacity condensate fractionation plant, to produce kerosene, gasoline and diesel
for Sylhet area market, was changed to a 90 mmcf/d capacity gas dehydration and NGL extraction.
Based on a feasibility study, the quantities of NGL were far more than the local market of Sylhet area
could absorb, as was originally planned for the 2,500 t/d of condensate. The most economical scheme
for these liquids was to transport them in a mixture phase in a separate small pipeline from Kailashtila to
Ashuganj where they would be fractionated into various liquids and transported by barges to the
country's major markets, such as Dhaka area and the western part of Bangladesh. For this purpose, the
original plan of a condensate fractionation plant at Kailashtila was changed to an NGL fractionation
plant at Ashuganj.
9.     For Rashidpur, the DGIS-financed original plan for a 120 mmcf/d capacity gas dehydration
plant, without hydrocarbon liquid extraction, was changed to two gas dehydration plants, 60 mmcf/d
capacity each, one without hydrocarbon liquid extraction, using simple (glycol) process, and the other
with condensate extraction (silica gel process). The condensate extraction design capacity was for about
50 t/d, to be increased over time. The extracted condensate was to be taken by trucks to the planned
Ashuganj NGL fractionation plant or the nearest barging facility for further transportation to the
Chittagong's refinery. Other changes were: (a) the need for an increase in the north-south gas pipeline
diameter from 20 to 24 inchies to meet growing gas demand while remaining within the upper capacity
limit of the gas dehydration and processing facilities and the funding available for the project; (b) the
necessity for construction of a 6 inch-diameter gas liquid pipeline alongside the north-south gas pipeline
to transport Kailashtila's NGL to Ashuganj for fractionation; and (c) the decision not to build gas
processing facilities at Beani Bazar, because of insufficient gas reserves (para 25). The decision not to
build Beani Bazar processing facilities was also due to the fact that DGIS in consultation with other
cofinanciers, preferred to use all of its grant funds to process Rashidpur gas, which required two different
processes rather than the one originally proposed. As a result, available funds were committed later for
two plants at Rashidpur field (at relatively higher cost). The resultant effect was to abandon the Beani
Bazar process plant and the pipelines from Beani Bazar to Kailashtila.
3 Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC), Cr. 1999-BD.



4
10.   IDA  considered restructuring the project or rescheduling some of the components for
implementation under a follow up project so that the SGDP could close earlier. After consultation with
the cofinanciers, IDA concluded that these options were not feasible nor in the best interest of the
project's objectives given the delays already experienced. A restructuring or rescheduling would have
required stopping the project, demobilizing consultants who were under contract, and that would have
seriously impeded the ongoing CIDA-financed drilling program. In addition, the cofinanciers had their
funding formally linked with an assured IDA-led project, making restructuring or rescheduling extremely
difficult. Ultimately, the changes in the project's design were reflected in the credit's legal documents.
These legal documents were also amended to: (a) facilitate procurement by increasing the ceiling of
limited international bidding and allowing local shopping; (b) alleviate field problems by financing part
of the local expenditures to build well drilling locations and related access roads; and (c) allow financing
of the Ashuganj's NGL fractionation plant, which could not be financed by ODA as originally planned
for the condensate fractionation plant, due to a much higher cost for the Kailashtila's new NGL facility.
11.    With hindsight, the project should have included a comprehensive analysis of gas at Kailashtila
before designing gas processing facilities, not only because it was important to know the gas quality for
production of NGL, but also because an existing well had been producing to supply gas to Sylhet city
and its surrounding areas for many years. The inclusion of such an analysis at project appraisal could
have avoided delays that resulted from the need to revise the configuration and design of the gas
treatment facilities after gas analysis findings became available during project implementation. It should
be noted, however, that carrying out the gas analysis was not feasible before appraisal without disrupting
gas supply for two to three weeks as Kalashtila gas field had only one producing well with reportedly a
damaged production tubing. Nevertheless, the difficulty for carrying out an analysis should have been
recognized in the SAR, in which case some measures could have been taken to minimize the delays
caused by the unexpected NGL content in the gas. The project's design at appraisal provided for the
extraction of condensate only through field-based gas dehydration units (silica gel process) with a small
condensate fractionation plant at Kailashtila. This plant was intended to meet only the needs of the
northeastern region. However, initial well results in 1989 revealed not only that the gas field was larger
than originally estimated, but it also contained a substantial quantity of other liquids, in addition of
condensate, especially butane and propane, which are used to produce LPG. Given the high market
value of LPG and its substitution potential for fuelwood and imported kerosene, GOB's preference to
include as part of the project extraction and fractionation of NGL contained in the gas to be produced at
Kailashtila field was supported by IDA and the other cofinanciers.
12.    Petrobangla's strengthening through reorganization was an important objective because of:
overlapping activities among various operating companies, which were organized by region rather than
by function; insufficient delegation of responsibilities; and inadequate field development and planning.
Petrobangla's reorganization implemented under ESAC was appropriate except for the Bangladesh
Petroleum Exploration Co. Ltd., which was supposed to implement a large part of the project training in
well drilling, had the combined functions of exploration, seismic surveys and drilling operations with
associated services. Efficient industry practice usually favors placing seismic work and drilling activities
under separate service companies. By combining these activities with exploration under a single
company, there was a tendency for the exploration program to become driven by making use of available
seismic and rig crews rather than rationalizing the exploration activity.
13.   On the overall managerial and institutional side, the project extended beyond the technical
capability of Petrobangla in general and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in particular, because it
covered several gas fields with varying degrees of technical complexity and required a stronger
coordinating capability. Previous IDA-financed gas projects had focused either on one field, such as



5
Bakhrabad Gas Development Project (BGDP, Cr. 1091-BD), or on a single activity, such as Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project (Cr. 1402-BD). A logical option for expanding and strengthening
Petrobangla's capabilities, which IDA considered during appraisal, was teaming Petrobangla with an
international oil and gas company. But at the time of project appraisal, there was virtually no interest of
potential foreign partners in developing Bangladesh's gas for domestic use only. Furthermore, at that
time, GOB had also indicated its preference for keeping the gas sector under domestic control.
14.    Although the project provided adequate mitigation of technical risks involved in meeting
production objectives through a comprehensive field appraisal program, it did not sufficiently guard
against institutional risks to project implementation in the area of procurement. The SAR indicates that
IDA accepted the inefficient procurement system as part of "business as usual" in Bangladesh but
thought that problems could be avoided by a strong PIU with authority for procurement matters.
However, the PIU was not able to take decisions on large procurement contracts as government approval
continued to be required.
15.    There was no environmental impact assessment made for the project as it was not required when
the project was appraised in 1984. However, supervision missions often reviewed the environmental
aspects of the project. Neither the gas and NGL pipelines nor the gas processing facilities are expected
to pose a significant environmental hazard. However, some of the well location sumps used to store
drilling fluids generated during well drilling operations were not backfilled. Following the completion of
the drilling program, which was carried out using non-toxic drilling fluid chemicals, CIDA inspected all
drilling sites and made recommendations for a total recovery of remaining unused well location areas
including proper reclamation of drilling location sumps; these recommendations were subsequently
implemented by CIDA at its own cost.
Achievement of Project Objectives
16.    The project exceeded its objectives of natural gas and gas liquid production.  After the
completion of the north-south gas pipeline in mid 1992, the project wells were put into production
progressively. Eight wells were produced by the end of 1995 at a rate of about 90 bcf of natural gas and
0.4 mmbbl of condensate per year. This level of production is equivalent to about 2.8 million tons of oil
per year, which Bangladesh would otherwise have to import at an annual cost of about US$50 to US$55
million. When the remaining three wells are put into production at some future time, the project's
overall production is expected to increase by 20 bcf of natural gas and 0.2 mmbbl of condensate per year.
Petrobangla estimated that cumulative gas production from the project, covering the period of 1991/92
through 2007/08, will total 1.8 tcf, or double the project's appraisal. Similarly, cumulative condensate
production during the same period is expected to reach about 12.6 mmbbl, compared to an appraisal
estimate of 8 mmbbl. Furthermore, if the production tubing size of the project's wells is increased from
31/l inches to 4'12 inches, the gas production would increase by 25 to 30%. Other achievements of the
project consisted of: (a) extraction, for the first time in Bangladesh, of large quantities of NGL giving
Petrobangla the possibility to produce, upon completion of the necessary NGL fractionation facilities,
about 22,000 tons per year of LPG and a number of other petroleum products with a total market value of
about US$50 million; (b) increase of the country's proven recoverable gas reserves from about 4 to 12
tcf; (c) discovery of two new gas fields at the Bakhrabad gas field; and (d) determination of Kailashtila
and Rashidpur gas fields as much larger than originally anticipated. However, the project did not
achieve its objectives of procuring and building the Ashuganj's NGL fractionation plant (para 24). The
project only partially achieved its objectives of strengthening Petrobangla's operations through training,
which was limited to that provided by the CIDA-financed drilling contractor and reservoir engineering
study consultant (para 28).



6
Project Implementation Experience
17.   Implementation Arrangements.    A  PIU  was created specifically to oversee project
implementation for all components except for the CNG pilot. The PIU was supposed to be insulated
from the administrative problems that had characterized the sector in general and Petrobangla in
particular. The structure and organization of the PIU were similar to a unit which was created for
implementing the first gas project, the BGDP, which performed very well. Unfortunately, the PIU's
performance under the SGDP was very poor. The physical project components were excessively delayed
with the ripple effect that procurement of the NGL fractionation plant and the SCADA system could not
be completed despite an overall extension of three and half years of the credit's closing date (para 5).
The lack of continuity in management of Petrobangla in general and of PIU in particular, was one of the
main causes of poor implementation performance. The PIU of the SGDP had four changes in leadership
during the project's most active period, 1988-91. GOB and Petrobangla made most of the decisions that
were norma!ly within the prerogative of the PIU. In comparison, the PIU of the BGDP had one manager
throughout the project's implementation period (1980-84), who was able to organize a dedicated and
motivated management team, which made most of the decisions. It should be noted that the PIU of the
BGDP became the production company of Bakhrabad gas field, while the PIU of the SGDP was
dismantled and the project's facilities transferred to existing operating companies in 1994. In retrospect,
because of the complexity of the project, IDA was overly optimistic in expecting the PIU to properly
implement the project, and especially to expect that Petrobangla would not interfere with day-to-day
decisions.
18.    Adherence to Schedule. Project effectiveness was delayed about six months due to delays in
signing agreements between GOB and the cofinanciers. The implementation of SGDP originally was to
span five years, from 1985 to 1990. However, due to protracted procurement procedures to award the
CIDA-financed contract to drill the project's wells (the results of which were necessary to design the
project's gas pipelines and gas treatment plants) the project's implementation started in March 1988.
Further delays of about 18 months resulted from: (a) civil unrest in late 1990 during which local
residents of Sylhet held up the construction of the north-south gas pipeline; (b) changes in design of the
project's surface facilities in 1991 to accommodate the recovery of NGL from Kailashtila field and
condensate from Rashidpur field; and (c) slow procurement of the project's equipment, materials, works
and services in general, and the NGL fractionation plant in particular. Ultimately, the project closed in
December 1993, three and half years behind schedule--without the NGL fractionation plant, and without
the SCADA system (para 17).
19.    Project Costs. Actual project costs were about US$280 million, nearly 17% higher than the
SAR estimate of US$239 million (Table 8A). These higher costs resulted mainly from the (a) increase
in the north-south gas pipeline's diameter from 20 to 24 inches; (b) addition of a six inch diameter NGL
pipeline from Kailashtila to Ashuganj alongside the north-south gas pipeline; (c) construction delays in
the north-south gas and NGL pipelines; (d) construction at the Kailashtila field of a plant for gas
dehydration and NGL extraction, using a turbo-expander process instead of a gas dehydration and
condensate extraction plant using a chemical (silica gel) process; (e) construction at Rashidpur field of
two gas process plants, one for gas dehydration (using glycol), and the other for gas dehydration and
condensate extraction (using silica gel); and (f) implementation delays that affected the costs of some
equipment, materials, works and services. IDA disbursed a total of SDR 84.2 million (US$113.2 million
equivalent) and canceled SDR 28.7 (US$27.9 million equivalent). The reason for the cancellation was
that after three extensions of the project's closing date, Petrobangla, was unable to award the
construction contract for the planned NGL fractionation plant. The absence of Ashuganj fractionation



7
plant has led Petrobangla to incur an additional cost of US$2.25 million for re-injection of LPG fraction
of Kailashtila NGL plant by putting a vent gas compressor unit ir order to inject the LPG from the NGL
into the gas stream. Consequent loss of this LPG is likely to continue for an uncertain period of time.
20.   Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The SAR for the SGDP estimated the ERR for the project at
91% on a fuel replacement basis. The ICR's re-estimate of the ERR on this basis is 82%. The re-estimate
is lower because of a three-and-a-half year delay in revenues from project investments; lower international
oil prices than anticipated at appraisal; and slightly higher project costs (Table 9).
Performance of Project Components
21.    Gas Field Appraisal and Development. According to the project's implementation plan, the
drilling of appraisal and development wells was to begin in April 1986 and finish by early 1989. However,
the drilling program did not begin until March 1988, and finished in December 1990. The two-year delay
in the start-up of the drilling resulted from a lengthy procurement period in the award of the CIDA-financed
drilling contract because Petrobangla did not fully comply with CIDA's requirements for the evaluation of
bids. The drilling of three development wells and six appraisal wells along with the rehabilitation of two
existing wells (para 4) was carried out satisfactorily, about six months ahead of contract and under the
estimated cost by about US$8 million.
22.   North-South Gas Pipeline. The construction of the north-south gas pipeline was scheduled to
begin by the first quarter of 1987 and be completed by mid-1989. However, because of the delay in the
award of the drilling contract, the pipeline construction tender was issued in early 1989 taking into
account two diameter options (20 and 24 inches). The construction contract was awarded in mid-1990
for a 24 inch diameter pipeline, and the pipe-laying work began in October 1990 with the beginning of
the dry season. To compensate for the project's start-up delay, the contract specified the completion of
the pipeline in one dry season, which runs from November to April, instead of two dry seasons provided
for in the project appraisal's schedule. The contract stipulated that the pipeline contractor would lay 20
km in the first dry season, and to complete the project by April 30, 1991. However, during construction,
civil disturbances by residents in the Sylhet area, asserting inadequate compensation for land acquisition,
impaired the pipeline contractor's activity. As a result, the contractor was able to complete only about
two thirds of the pipeline's construction in one dry season, meaning that the remaining work had to be
postponed until the following dry season. A dispute took place between the two parties over the
construction delays and the responsibility for the additional cost to complete the pipeline construction.
This dispute became serious enough for Petrobangla/PIU to consider a new tendering to complete the
pipeline. A tendering at that stage would have left the project, which was under a second year extension,
without a pipeline and, therefore, without gas production for an undetermined period of time. IDA and
the other cofinanciers were deeply concerned about the potential impact of the dispute on the project.
ODA and DGIS predicated their concurrence to Petrobangla/PIU's awarding the Kailashtila and
Rashidpur gas facility construction contracts subject to assurance that the north-south gas pipeline would
be completed. After several months of unsuccessful negotiations between Petrobangla/PIU and the
pipeline contractor, IDA requested that GOB take all necessary actions to complete the pipeline within
the following dry season while negotiating a settlement of the dispute within the framework of their
contract.  Petrobangla/PIU and the contractor extended the contract, the contractor resumed the
construction work in November 1991, and completed the pipeline in May 1992 (at an additional cost of
about US$14 million, of which IDA financed about US$10.5 million). Because Petrobangla/PIU and the
contractor were unable to settle their dispute within the framework of their contractual agreement, the
dispute was submitted to international arbitration and is yet to be settled. The pipeline began operating



8
at partial capacity during the second part of 1992, and at 66% capacity in 1994 onwards, following
completion of the gas dehydration and processing facilities at Kailashtila and Rashidpur.
23.    Gas Dehydration and Processing Facilities. The construction of the gas dehydration and gas
liquids processing facilities was scheduled to begin during the later half of 1987 and be completed by
mid-1989. First tendering process was initiated in October 1987 for the Kailashtila gas field facilities
based on the project appraisal's design according to which the field would have two plants, one for gas
dehydration and condensate extraction and another for condensate fractionation. However, this tendering
was canceled in 1989 when the drilling results became available and GOB decided to recover as much
hydrocarbon liquids as possible. A revised engineering design with subsequent procurement process
began in 1990 and 1991 for all surface facilities, except for the Beani Bazar field, because the potential
production from this field proved to be too small to warrant construction of field based gas treatment
plants.  The DGIS-financed construction contracts for the two Rashidpur gas facilities (the gas
dehydration with simple process and the gas dehydration with condensate extraction) were awarded in
October 1991 and May 1992 respectively. The ODA-financed construction contract for the Kailashtila
gas dehydration and NGL extraction facility was awarded in May 1992. The facilities for the Rashidpur
and Kailashtila gas fields were completed, commissioned and put in operation in March and December
1994 respectively. These facilities are now operating.
24.    The construction of the planned Ashuganj NGL fractionation plant for the LPG production did not
take place due to protracted procurement procedures. It took about eight months to evaluate two bids, and
negotiate a draft contract for the Ashuganj NGL fractionation plant, while it took about the same time to
evaluate, negotiate and finalize the award of contracts for the cofinanced Kailashtila and Rashidpur plants
for which ODA and DGIS were closely following the procurement process. When Petrobangla/PIU
submitted the bid evaluation report and the draft contract for the Ashuganj plant for the final clearance,
GOB rejected the draft agreement on the grounds that an NGL fractionation plant was not within the scope
of the government's project documents and that there was not enough competition since only two bidders
responded to the tender. At IDA's request, GOB agreed to reconsider its decision. However, while GOB
was reconsidering its action, the period of bid validity had expired. Subsequently the contractor proposed
for the contract award with increased prices, but this action was not acceptable to IDA. Therefore GOB and
Petrobangla initiated a re-tendering process in early 1992.  However, at the end of the period of the
project's third extension (June 30, 1993), the re-tendering process was still far from complete. It thus
became clear that the plant would not be built under the project without an extension for at least another
three years, and IDA found such a long extension unacceptable.
25.    The construction of the Beani Bazar gas dehydration and processing facility was canceled from
this project due to insufficient gas reserves and the lack of financing for the facility. The results of Beani
Bazar development well and the reservoir engineering study indicated that the field's reserves were about
250 bcf, of which the recoverable reserves would be about 130 bcf. With two wells producing at a total
rate of 60 mmcf/d, the field's production life would have been only six or seven years, less than half the
production life that processing plants require in order to be cost-effective. Because the field size proved
to be too small, DGIS formally withdrew from financing the construction of Beani Bazar surface
facilities in May 1991. As a result, it was no longer necessary to continue the construction of the pipeline
between Kailashtila and Beani Bazar. Although a smaller pipeline between Kailashtila and Beani Bazar
was proposed by IDA and other cofinanciers to enable gas to be processed, this was not accepted by
GOB. Therefore, the Beani Bazar component was ultimately dropped from the project, and because
there is no surface facility and no pipeline at Beani Bazar at present, this field is not producing.



9
26.    Compressed Natural Gas.  In 1987, GOB established the Compressed Natural Gas Co., Ltd.
(CNGCL), as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Petrobangla. The company was to implement the CNG pilot
operations, focusing on procuring and installing gas filling stations along with the conversion kits from
diesel and gasoline to CNG of 1,000-2,000 road vehicles, two rivercrafts, one bulk barge and one
locomotive. Neither Petrobangla nor the management of CNGCL was effective nor showed sufficient
commitment to carry out the pilot. Letters of Invitation (LOI) to appoint consultants to assist in developing
the pilot were issued in 1987, 1988 and 1989 but were unfruitful. In 1992, a new manager of CNGCL
resumed the CNG pilot activity, when the company was renamed as Rupantarita Prakritik Gas Co. Ltd.
(RPGCL). New initiatives were taken and a consultant was appointed to assist in the procurement of four
CN4G filling stations for road vehicles and one filling station for rivercrafts. By the time the credit closed,
procurement of these stations was not yet completed and GOB had to finance them (about US$0.7 million)
from its own budget in late 1994 and early 1995. Todate, RPGCL has installed four CNG filling stations in
Dhaka city and procured conversion kits for petrol and diesel engine driven vehicles. About 120 petrol
engines have been converted, and for the marine component, RPGCL has signed an agreement with the
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation for conversion of one ferry from diesel to CNG.
27.    Technical Assistance. There were two contracts for technical assistance under the project; (a) one
was for drilling management supervision to ensure that the drilling of the project's wells and the
rehabilitation of the two existing wells of Rashidpur was carried out in accordance with international
standards; and (b) the other was for infrastructure engineering and construction supervision to ensure that
the construction of the pipelines and gas dehydration and processing plants was consistent with the latest
technologies in gas transmission and gas processing. UNDP funded both technical assistance contracts, as
discussed below, with IDA as the Executing Agency.
(a)    Drilling Management Supervision. The first contract for this consultant was terminated in
1988. During the preparatory phase, due to a two-year delay in getting drilling operations
started (para 29), the consultant devoted considerably more resources than had been
budgeted, thereby reducing the resources available when drilling began and intensive
supervision was required. IDA and the consultant signed an amending letter in September
1987 which was designed to limit future expenses. Meetings were held between IDA and
the consultant in August 1988 to discuss the amending letter, and the results of an
independent audit of the project. However, these meetings proved unsuccessful and the
contract was terminated on October 10, 1988. In addition, as stated in GOB/Petrobangla's
contribution to the ICR, the appraisal well design which was applied provided for a
production tubing size smaller than already used in the country for production wells. The
cost of replacing the tubing, using the 1990 prices, was estimated at about US$6 million,
although this figure was never verified. Another consultant was engaged to complete the
drilling management services.
(b)    Infrastructure Engineering and Construction Supervision. This consultant completed the
infrastructure engineering and construction supervision work satisfactorily. Because the
construction of the gas dehydration and processing facilities extended beyond the project's
final closing date of December 1993 and UNDP funds for the project were exhausted, the
financing of the technical assistance for the gas plant engineering and construction
supervision continued under IDA's Technical Assistance Credit V (Cr. 1440 TA-V).



10
28.    Training. Petrobangla's staff in general and PIU's staff in particular received some operations
oriented training thrpugh the two contractors for constrvttion of the silica-gel and glycol dehydration
plants. Training was also arranged for 32 drilling technicians and eight reservoir specialists by the
CIDA-financed drilling contractors. However, organized training programs in various disciplines could
not be arranged centrally by Petrobangla/PIU for their operating staff due mainly to bureaucratic
obstruction within Petrobangla, and the general lack of interest for training within GOB. Later, through
UNDP and with funds provided under TA-V, about 30 staff were sent for different selected training
courses abroad. To ensure that there was an aptitude to absorb and effectively utilize the modem
technology being imported, the project's objective was to train both young graduates and staff selected
from existing personnel. Because of GOB's tight control on recruitment as part of its efforts to contain
the rising public sector expenditures, Petrobangla could not recruit any young graduates in spite of
GOB's promises to be flexible about allowing recruitment for training. The drilling technicians who
were trained by the drilling contractors were young graduates recruited on a temporary basis, with the
intention that Petrobangla would hire them permanently after training. The training was highly
satisfactory but most of these drillers were no longer with Petrobangla by the time the project was closed
in 1993 because they were not able to obtain regular positions. Because of the recruitment difficulties
experienced for the drilling technicians, the reservoir engineering staff that were trained were chosen
from existing Petrobangla personnel. But by the end of 1995, due to the absence of career development
plan of Petrobangla, most of these trained reservoir engineers were no longer working in the field of
reservoir engineering. They were assigned to other activities while Petrobangla's reservoir engineering
unit remained inadequately staffed.
29.    Procurement. The procurement of goods and services financed by IDA and the hiring of
consultants financed by UNDP were subject to IDA's procurement guidelines. The procurement
financed by the other cofinanciers (CIDA, ODA and DGIS) was limited to bidders of their respective
countries.  Considerable delays were experienced in all of the project's procurement activities.
Procurement of most of the infrastructure components involved frequent rebiddings and disagreements
between  IDA  (including  the other cofinanciers) and  GOB/Petrobangla/PIU.   The project's
implementation commencement delay of about two years resulted from an argument between CIDA and
GOB/Petrobangla/PIU over the qualification of bidders for the well drilling contract, which was financed
by CIDA (para 21). PIU qualified, as responsive, only one out of seven bids submitted by Canadian
drilling contractors. CIDA rejected the Petrobangla/PIU's selection, and after eighteen months of
discussions with GOB/Petrobangla/PIU, undertook its own evaluation. CIDA's evaluation qualified four
bids of which the lowest bidder, subsequently selected, was reportedly US$18 million less than the one
proposed by Petrobangla/PIU. The performance of the CIDA selected drilling contractor was highly
satisfactory. It completed the drilling program six months ahead of schedule and at about US$8 million
less than budgeted. In contrast, procurement of Ashuganj NGL fractionation plant that was to be
financed by IDA was the responsibility of GOB/Petrobangla/PIU for its bidding process. IDA staff
made considerable unsuccessful efforts to advise GOB/Petrobangla/PIU on the need for making a timely
award of contract in order to complete the infrastructure program under the project. In the end, the
project closed without the NGL fractionation plant and the SCADA system (para 17).
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
30.    Factors Outside the Control of the Government and Implementing Agency. The major factors
outside the control of GOB and Petrobangla/PlU that contributed to the delays were demonstrations by
residents along the pipeline construction route and flooding.  The demonstrations over the pipeline
construction involved farmers who felt that they had not received adequate compensation for the right-of-



11
way. These demonstrations (which included stoning and burning of equipment) were very disruptive to
pipeline construction. Furthermore, during much of the project's implementation period, Bangladesh
experienced more flooding than usual, which exacerbated the project's overall implementation delays.
31.    Factors Within the Control of the Borrower and the Implementing Agency. The project
suffered from frequent management turnover in Petrobangla and PIU. Both Petrobangla and PIU had
four changes each in leadership during the project's most active implementation period (1988-91). GOB
appointed chairmen, managing directors and department directors from senior managers/executives of
statutory organizations. In turn, these executives appointed new project directors and other project
management staff of their choice, sometimes without sufficient emphasis on managerial and professional
skills. This resulted in an environment in which any project implementation related decision, even on
routine matters, could not be taken, individually or collectively, without having approval from the
highest level of GOB/Petrobangla.   The decision-making process became highly centralized,
cumbersome and time consuming. Most of the decisions were then subject to committees which took an
inordinately long time to take any decision, seriously impeding project implementation performance.
32.    The slow decision-making affected particularly the project's procurement activity. The project's
procurement invariably lacked rigor, discipline and professionalism. While with the help of the project's
consultants and IDA's standard documents, the quality of the bidding documents was satisfactory, bid
evaluation and contract award were subject to protracted and cumbersome procedures.  All bid
evaluations were carried out by committees formed of Petrobangla and PIU staff.  The project
consultants were requested to evaluate only some of the major construction contracts, separately from
Petrobangla/PlU's committees. The consultant's evaluation results and recommendations were generally
not considered when they contradicted those of the committees as was often the case. Committees' bid
evaluation was a lengthy process with several intermediate clearances at PIU's management level,
Petrobangla's management level, Petrobangla Board's level and a number of other levels within GOB.
Evaluation reports were turned down often at Petrobangla Board level and GOB's level and sent back
down the line for re-evaluation. New committees were often appointed to re-evaluate the proposals for
contract award. Furthermore, neither tender committee members nor GOB's officials involved in the
process were accountable for the project's procurement delays.
33.    There was a strong perception that the main impediment in the bid evaluation process was
GOB's deliberate interference in the project's procurement activities. There were no systems and
procedures for monitoring procurement actions in general and contract award proposals in particular. It
was difficult to track down an evaluation report and contract award proposal once it reached GOB's
approval stage where often there was no concern about project timing and bid validity periods.
Petrobangla and PIU were very shy to remind higher level authorities that actions were required. There
was an extreme secrecy surrounding bid evaluation activity, while key information was available with
most of the local representatives of the bidders, resulting in numerous complaints from unsuccessful
bidders which added to project delays. About three years of the project's three-and-half year delay, were
due to procurement procedures. The project involved about one hundred supply, work and service
contracts of different values. Most of them were awarded beyond the original bid validity period, often
after two to three bid security extensions. Bidders also withdrew from the process once the bid security
expired. Most of the field construction contracts were awarded or made effective at times that were
completely out of phase of the construction seasons, thereby constraining the field activities.
34.    Contract administration was poor, and a number of suppliers and contractors complained of slow
payments. The lengthy and cumbersome procurement process and the poor contract administration
discouraged a number of well known major oil and gas engineering, supply and construction firms from



12
participating in Petrobangla's procurement. The lack of competition was strongly felt in all major
construction contracts throughout the implementation period.
35.    Petrobangla has operated the gas sector for many years without a comprehensive long-term gas
development master plan, and that affected the performance of both its companies and the project
adversely. Sector operations could have greatly benefited from a structured approach, integrating the
various gas fields operationally and phasing out their development according to a least-cost development
program based on a conclusive reserve appraisal and an optimum gas and NGL recovery scheme. Due to
the lack of such plan, field development practices continue to emphasize gas production needed in the
short-term at the expense of reservoir delineation. Even as late as 1996, none of the country's known gas
fields had been completely appraised and the extent of its gas reserves accurately established. As a
result, fields are being produced at "peak rate" rather than "plateau production rate" which is the most
appropriate method for optimum recovery of both gas and NGL. In addition, under current development
practices, it has been difficult to arrive at universally accepted estimates and, hence, to globally optimize
the configuration of field development programs. Even short- and medium-term operational plans have
not been available to allow Petrobangla to monitor the various field activities effectively and provide
timely guidance and support to its operating companies and PIU.
36.    The lack of operations oriented training, particularly in the area of gas surface facilities, made it
difficult to commission and operate most of the gas processing plants without heavy reliance on external
assistance. Such assistance, which requires clearance from the highest level in the government, is not
easy to obtain in Bangladesh. In this regard, the start-up and operations of the Kailashtila's gas
dehydration and NGL extraction facility (turbo-expander process system) required foreign technical
assistance, which was mobilized only after some delays.
37.    Another delaying factor was the need to re-configure and re-design gas dehydration and processing
facilities along with the gas liquids transportation system. In addition, reducing the schedule in the
construction contract for the north-south gas pipeline from two dry seasons to one dry season proved to be
inadequate and resulted in a dispute between Petrobangla and the contractor and subsequently in an
international arbitration over payments related to the time beyond one dry season. This also delayed
completing and commissioning the gas pipeline.
38.    Factors Within the Control of IDA. The project has been an effective vehicle for enhancing
donor coordination in the gas sector. However, towards the end of the project, there was a lack of
coordination between IDA staff in charge of the SGDP and those preparing the LPG Transport and
Distribution Project (Cr. 2263-BD). This lack of coordination affected the procurement process for the
Ashuganj NGL fractionation plant as a more coordinated and integrated approach by IDA would have
ascertained the availability of NGL before finalizing the LPG Project. This may have encouraged GOB,
Petrobangla and PIU to expedite the procurement of Ashuganj NGL's fractionation plant. The problem
was exacerbated by the lack of continuity in the management of Petrobangla and the PIU where there
were frequent changes in the top management.
39.    Factors Outside the Control of IDA. The project suffered setbacks and delays due also to
reasons which could not be mitigated by IDA, such as: (a) frequent change in the management of
Petrobangla and PIU; (b) cumbersome procurement procedures and delayed payments to contractors; (c)
allocation of counterpart funds out of GOB's Annual Development Plan, through which financial
resources are allocated to projects; and (d) release of counterpart funds, which often led to a shortage of
funds required for implementation. Contract administration and management was one of PIU's institutional
weaknesses, and this could not be overcome despite repeated requests from IDA and the cofinanciers.



13
Considerable frustration was expressed by most all contractors involved in the project.  Excessive
misinterpretation of contractual obligations, compounded by PIU's lack of decision-making, resulted in
drawn-out disagreements between PIU and the contractors. This problem became so acute that bidders
over-priced their bids and did not participate in subsequent project tenderings.
Sustainability of Project Benefits
40.    The main benefits of the project are increased production of gas and condensate. The current
reserve base of 12 tcf is more than enough to meet cumulative expected gas sales at least through 2008.
Also, the increased use of gas, which is a clean-burning fuel, in place of petroleum fuels and firewoods,
will continue to benefit the country by reducing pollution and deforestation, particularly since the
country's forest depletion has greatly exceeded the natural replenishment rate. As para 20 notes, the
lCR's re-estinate of the ERR indicates that the project is economically viable. The project's operational
plan (para 48 and Appendix A) indicates that Petrobangla's operating companies will be able to sustain the
project's major benefits with external technical assistance for reservoir engineering and NGL extraction,
fractionationl and process.
IDA Performance
4 1.    Factoring in the complications and delays encountered throughout the life of the project, IDA's
performiance overall is considered mnarginally satisfactory. Its extensive experience in the gas sector of
other countries and a previous project in Bangladesh was instrumental in helping the Borrower identify
and prepare the project, which produced a successful supply response to increasing gas demand.
However, IDA's appraisal of the project could have been more diligent in urging Petrobangla to conduct
a comprehensive gas analysis of the Kailashtila field; taking greater precautions to minimize
procurement problems; and identifying the institutional bottlenecks to the development of CNG by
Petrobangla. During the lengthy procurement process for mobilizing the CIDA-financed drilling
contractor. IDA could have limited the expenditure for drilling management consultancy (para 27a) for
which almost half of the budget was spent before the work even started.
42.    The complexity of the project in general, and need for a major departure from the project as
appraised in particular, compounded the difficulties whichi were experienced during implementation.
Especially problematic were the need for protracted coordination with other donors. In early 1989 when
the drilling results of Kailashtila indicated that the gas contained other NGL in addition to condensate
and GOB decided to assess the viability of their recovery, IDA staff made considerable efforts to
coordinate new NGL recovery studies which were carried out separately by Petrobangla's infrastructure
consultant, and consultants hired by ODA, DGIS and CIDA. In early 1990 when these studies indicated
that the gas contained sufficient propane and butane to warrant LPG production to be consumed as a
substitute for imported kerosene used in household cooking, IDA staff worked closely' with GOB and the
cofinanciers in redesigning the project's surface facilities. A year later, similar actions were also taken
by IDA staff when the drilling results of Rashidpur indicated that the gas contained sufficient condensate
to justify its extraction. IDA modified the project's legal documents to formalize the design changes.
Throughout the project's implementationi. IDA staff coordinated the activities of the cofinanciers and
endeavored to maintain a cooperative and productive relationship with GOB. Petrobangla and PIU.
Also, to minimize project implementation problems. IDA staff assisted the PIU and its consultants in
developing work programs, defining technical specifications for field equipment and materials,
organizing field operations and discussing problems with contractors and field service companies.



14
43.    The successful completion of the north-south gas pipeline, which is the backbone of the project,
owes much to the efforts of the IDA staff. In mid-1991, Petrobangla/PIU entered into a dispute with the
pipeline contractor because the pipeline construction was not completed in one dry season (1990-91) as
stipulated in the contract. The dispute made it difficult for the construction work to resume and the
contractor was about to demobilize. A new tendering to complete the pipeline, as was contemplated by
Petrobangla/PIU, would have left the project, which was under a second year extension, without gas
pipeline and, therefore, without gas productioni for an undetermined period of time. To ensure the
completioni of the pipeline under the project, IDA requested GOB/Petrobangla/PIU to take all necessary
actions to resume pipeline construction work while handling the dispute through appropriate contract
provisions.  IDA staff had also played an active role in reducing payments arrears to suppliers,
contractors and consultants by intervening almost regularly with Petrobangla and PIU. IDA's Dhaka
office monitored the project's implementation on almost a daily basis, including the organization of
frequent coordination meetings with GOB/Petrobangla/PIU and local representatives of the cofinanciers.
44.    A major complicating factor was the lack of coordination between implementatioll of the SGDP,
and simultaneously processing a new project wliclh depended on1 the building of the Ashuganj NGL
fractionation plant for which financing was provided under SGDP. The proposed l,PG Transport and
Distribution Project was appraised in April 1991 while the procurement of the fractionation plant was
still in the re-tendering process. Some officials of GOB and Petrobangla tended to perceive the proposed
new project as an alternative for them to procure the NGL fractionation plant. This perception persisted
until the re-tendering for the plant stalled completely towards the end of 1992. Because of that situation,
the relationship between IDA and Petrobangla/PIU staff became somewhat strained when it was clear in
early 1993 that GOB would not award the construction contract for the NGL fractionation plant, and that
the project would be closed without it. This seriously impacted the viability of the LPG Transport and
Distribution Project (Cr. 2263-BD) which was approved by IDA in June 1991, but closed in December
1996 without being implemented.  IDA's judgment was clouded by over-optimistic assumptions,
especially in the light of experience whichi indicated persistent poor performance in procurement matters
which had seriously delayed project implementation of the SGDP.
Borrower Performance
45.    Because the Borrower faced the same complications which faced IDA, especially the complex
coordination required with other donors, the Borrower's overall performance is also considered
marginally satisfactory. It would have been better if GOB and Petrobangla had taken greater ownership
of the project, and take greater efforts to adhere to the project's implementation schedule. In preparing
the project, Petrobangla did not conduct an analysis of the gas from producing wells at Kailashtila. This
analysis turned out to be necessary to the configuration and design of the project's gas processing
facilities, and if it had taken place at the time of project appraisal it could have reduced project delays.
46.    The performance of the Borrower during project implementation was less than satisfactory
because: (a) GOB's procurement procedures were overly complex (paras 32-33) and caused major
delays In the project's implemilenltationi; (b) Petrobangla did not provide adequate support and guidance to
l'IU (para 35); (c) Petrobangla and PIU made only minimal use of the project to strengthen their
capability through training (paras 28 and 36); and (d) Petrobangla and GOB were unable to complete the
procurement for the NGL fractionation plant at Ashuganj despite lengthy extensions of the credit's
closing date (para 24). Compliance with covenant requirements was somewhat satisfactory even with
delays. Essentially, the Borrower complied with the covenants for the technical reviews of the project's
well drilling program, but only partially complied with covenants for promoting efficient gas pricing.
rhe one covenanit whiich was not complied was the requirement to establish a Gas Production



15
Department to be responsible for planning the future development of gas fields and optimizing flow rates
at each producing well. As an interim measure, a Reservoir Study Cell was created in July 1994 to
conduct reservoir studies and for preparation of a field development plan. Operation of the facilities is
also satisfactory.
Assessment of Outcome
47.    The project's overall outcome is rated as satisfactory, despite requirements for numerous project
design changes and serious implementation delays because:  (a) it exceeded both its objectives for
increases in the reserve base and in the production of gas and condensate (para 16); (b) it partially
achieved its objectives of strengtheniing Petrobangla through training (para 16); (c) a capability was
established for LPG production (para 16); (d) a pilot was initiated to assess the viability of CNG use in
the transport sector (para 26); and (e) it is economically viable (para 20). The benefits of the project
could have been greater and accrued much earlier if GOB and Petrobangla had been more efficient in
implementing the project by: (a) following a result-oriented procurement system which vested the
necessary decision-making authority in Petrobangla and the PIU; (b) making a greater effort to adhere to
the project's implementation schedule; (c) formulating a long-term gas development master plan for
decision-making and a performiance evaluation system; (d) making full use of the project's training
program to improve Petrobangla and PIU's managerial and operational capability; (e) taking the
necessary timely actions for completing the CNG pilot and NGL fractionation components; (f) following
IDA's recommendations to increase the size of well production tubing; and (g) organizing the
explorationi company (Bangladesh Petroleum Exploration Co. Ltd.) according to the international oil and
gas industry's practice. The Ashuganj NGL fractionation plant would have provided additional revenues
of about US$30 million per year from NGL fractionation for LPG production. Similarly, a larger tubing
size would have increased the gas production of the project's wells by more than 30%. The use of CNG
could bring about foreign exchanige savings by reducing imports of vehicle fuels. If Petrobangla had
implemented the training program  in tine, it would have better capability to effectively manage its
operations with less dependence on foreign technical assistance. Given the fairly extensive gas network
and the number of production wells and gas processing facilities now available in the country, it has
become urgent that Petrobangla and its companies improve their management and operational capability.
Future Operations
48.    Appendix A provides a plan to sustain the project's operations in the future. It indicates that the
project essentially has put in place the necessary facilities to sustain gas and condensate production from
existing fields, but that Petrobangla requires technical assistance to optimize gas recovery and operate
the complex NGL extraction facility at Kailashtila as well the future NGL fractionation plant at
Ashuganj. Petrobangla has not been able to fully appraise its gas resources and has neither the financial
resources nor the expertise to do so. However, GOB is seeking external resources for this purpose by
opening up the gas sector to internationlal oil and gas companies and already has signed a few production
sharinig contracts.
49.    The LPG Transport and Distribution Project (US$67.2 million) was intenided to support storage
and transport of LPG produced from the Ashuganj plant, and for distribution of LPG as bottled gas.
Because the Ashuganj plant was not completed under SGDP, the follow-on LPG Project could not be
implemented. Because of the importance of this facility, IDA and Petrobangla are currently evaluating a
feasibility study for the construction of this fractionationi plant. Funds for the feasibility study have been
provided by a Japanese grant fund.



16
50.    Petrobangla still needs strengtileniing, and the ongoing Gas Infrastructure Development Project
(Cr. 2720-BD) is assisting in this endeavor. Petrobangla should have a long-term  master plan for
effective decision making and performance monitoring for gas sector development. Such a plan should
be prepared and updated regularly covering all important aspects of gas sector development, including
gas field appraisal and development, processing, transmission, distribution and marketling. Petrobangla
needs to delegate sufficient administrative and financial authority to the project administrationi and
provide sufficient incentives for keeping the project on schedule. In particular, it is important for
Petrobangla's gas producing companies to operate independently from the Governmenit, and according to
a corporate development plan and performance targets.
Major Lessons Learned
51.     There are several key lessons to be learmed from the project. The primary causes of difficulty
and delay during project implementation were directly related to delayed procurement actions by the
Borrower. Futuure projects should be designed commensurate with the management capacity of the
implemenitinig agency, and specifically mandate advance procurement decisions. By negotiations, all
preparatory and design work should be completed for the first two years, and should be ready for
tendering and award by effectiveness.  Staff trained in procurement should be on board in the
implementing agency prior to appraisal of a proposed project.
52.    IDA should avoid establishing PlUs that have operational responsibility for the assets created
under the project. The PIU for SGDP was to operate the project facilities until the completion of the
project. This led to two undesirable outcomes: (i) PIU's staff increased over what could be considered
adequate for an entity of a temporary nature; and (ii) there was an incentive for PIU staff to delay
project completion, at which time the project facilities were to be handed over to the operating gas
companies.
53.    Another lesson learned relates to cofinancing. While cofinancinig is advantageous to both the
Borrower and IDA from a financial standpoint, procurement restrictions, such as limiting the bidding to
the country of the respective donor agency, can defeat considerations of economy and efficiency and,
therefore, constrain project implementation performance. Because of separate agreements between the
cofinanlciers and GOB, project implementation coordination proved to be difficult. Design changes
dictated by unforeseen developments proved also to be difficult to implement in cofinanced projects.
Therefore, project appraisal should carefully assess all aspects of such arrangements to ensure that
delays in one of the cofinaniced programs does not unduly prejudice implemenltationi of the entire
project.
54.    A final lesson is it may be preferable for IDA to finance smaller and less complex projects in a
desired sequenitial order to achieve greater success in meeting development objectives. This would
ensure that the absorbtive capacity of the Borrower is not over-burdened, and that future investmenits
are based on assumptions that are both realistic and achievable.



17
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of objectives                Substantial           Partial            Negligible         Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                      0                   0                   0 O
Sector policies                             0                   0                   0                     U
Financial objectives                        0                   0                   0                     U
Institutional development                   0                   *                   0                     0
Physical objectives                         *                   0                   0                     O
Poverty reduction                           0                   0                   0                     U
Gender concems                              0                   0                    El
Other social objectives                     0                   0                    0                     U
Environmental objectives                    0                   *                    0                    0
Public sector management                    0                   0                   0                      U
Private sector development                  0                   0                   O                      U
B.   Proiect sustainability                         Likely                    Unlikely                  tJncertain
U                  ~~~~~~~0                    0
Highly
C.   Bank performance                             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 Deficient
Identification                                  0                          U                          0
Preparation assistance                          0
Appraisal                                       0                          0                          U
Supervision                                     0                          U                          0
Hihly
D.   Borrower performance                         satisfactory              Satisfactory                 Deficient
Preparation                                     0                          0 O
Implementation                                  a                          0                          U
Covenant compliance                             0                          *                          O
Operation                                       0                          U                          0
Highly
E.                                        Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory        unsatisfactory
Assessment of outcome                       0                   *                   0                     0



18
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit title                  Purpose                  Year of   Status
approval
Preceding Operations
I . Bakhrabad Gas             Gas field development      1981    Closed
Development Project        and pipeline construction          12/31/85
(Cr. 1091-BD)
2. Petroleum Exploration      Private participation      1983    Closed
Promotion Project          promotion                          06/30/90
(Cr. 1402-BD)
3. Second Gas Development     Gas field development      1985    Subject of this ICR.
Project                    and transmission line              Closed 12/31/93
(Cr. 1586-BD)              construction
Following Operations
4. Refinery Modification and    Construction of          1988    Closed 12/31/94
LPG Distribution           secondary conversion
(Cr. 1749-BD)              plant
5. Energy Adjustment Credit    Provision of foreign      1995    Closed 12/31/91
(Cr. 1999-BD)              exchange for energy
imports and support to
the Government's reform
program for the energy
sector
6. Liquefied Petroleum Gas    Support for downstream     1991    Closed on 06/30 /96. The
(LPG) Transport and        transport and distribution         project was not implemented.
Distribution Project       of LPG to be produced
(Cr. 2263-BD)              from the northern gas
fields.
7. Gas Infrastructure         Alleviation of gas supply    1995    Ongoing
Development Project        shortages and support for
(Cr. 2720-BD)              reforms in gas sector
management.
Source: Project files.



19
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                     Planned Date                 Actual Date
Identification                                        March/April, 1983               March, 1983
Preparation                                            September, 1983              November, 1983
Appraisal                                              April/May, 1994                 July, 1984
Negotiations                                            February, 1985               February, 1985
Board presentation                                      April 30, 1985               April 30, 1985
Signing                                                  May 2, 1985                  May 2, 1985
Effectiveness                                           August 2, 1985              March 14, 1986
Project completion                                    December 31, 1990              June 30, 1993
Loan closing                                             June 30, 1990            December 31, 1993
Source: IDA Management Information S) stem and Project Files.
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Credit Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY    FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93    FY94
86
Appraisal estimate            8.0    32.8    71.3    103.7   110.0
Actual                       6.13    7.78     8.86    17.98    73.98    97.62   113.68   115.93    113.20*
Actual as % of estimate       77      24       12      17       67
Date of final disbursement: January 12, 1994 - Cancellation US$27.9 million.
Disbursement of US$115.93 million in 1993 includes US$2.73 million in the Special Account which was
recovered in 1994.
Source: IDA Loan Department.
* Actual disbursements in US dollar terms were higher than estimated at project appraisal despite the cancellation of some amounts
because the exchange rate of US$ per SDR, during project implementation, averaged about 3(1% higher than the rate at appraisal.



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation
indicators in SAR/        SAR estimate of completion
President's Report                    date                         Actual
1. Development (3 wells)               March 1989                     January 1989
2 Kailashtila, I Beani Bazar
2. Workovers (2 wells)                  March 1989                      May 1989
2 Rashidpur
3. Appraisal (6 wells)                  March 1989                   December 1990
2 Bakhrabad, I Titas,
I Habiganj, 2 Rashidpur
4. Reservoir studies                     May 1989                       June 1993
5. Drilling supervision                 March 1989                      May 1991
6. Gas treatment plants                 April 1989                   November 1994
7. North/South pipeline                  July 1989                      May 1992
8. Pipeline from Kailashtila to          July 1989                      Canceled
Beani Bazar
9. Engineering, management,              July 1989                   December 1994
and construction
supervision
Source: SAR, supervision reports, and Petrobangla implementation progress reports.



21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1. Gradual increase in the project's incremental gas production from a level of about 250 mmcfd in
1992/93 to about 350 mmcfd when all the project's wells are put into production.
2. Gas production could be increased to about 550-600 mmcfd if and when the wells are equipped with a
larger diameter production tubing.
3. Production of 2,000 bpd of condensate in 1993 from Kailashtila and Rashidpur wells.
4. Production of a large quantity of NGLs capable of yielding up to 22,000 metric tons per year of LPG
following the construction of the NGL fractionation plant as Ashuganj.
Source: Project files.
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study               Purpose as defined at appraisal       Impact of study
1. Reservoir Engineering study   Confirmation of reserves added   Tripled the overall gas reserve
by the project.                base and specified the production
potential of individual fields.
2. Feasibility study for NGL   Selection of the appropriate   Highlighted the difficult logistics
recovery and LPG production.    locations for NGL and LPG     of locating LPG and NGL
(This study was not provided for  recovery and process plants.  process plants at Kailashtila
in the SAR.)                                                  field. Led to the decision to
build a pipeline to transport the
NGL from Kailashtila to
Ashuganj to facilitate NGL
fractionation and LPG handling,
and distribution.
Source: Project files.



22
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ millions)
Appraisal estimate                                                     Actual
Local  Foreign                                             Local   Foreign
Item                                            costs              costs               Total    costs                          costs               Total
Part A:
Gas Field Appraisal & Development
......................................................  ................... ...............  .................................. ............  .. .   ...............................................    ....................... ....................................................
1.  Development(3 wells)                                                                3.,                  17                20.6                 4.2                17.3               21.5
2 Kailashtila, I Beani Bazar
........................................ .............................. ............................ ....................... ............ ........... ...................... ........................ .......... ...........................................
2.  Workovers (2 wells)                                                                  1.1                  1.4               2.5                   0.4                 1.6               2.0
2 Rashidpur
........................................I.......................................................... ........................ ............................................... ....................... ......  ..............................................
3. Appraisal (6 wells)                                                                  6.6                30.3                36.9                  7.0               26.2                33.2
2 Bakhrabad, I Titas,
I Habiganj, 2 Rashidpur
Subtotal    11.3                              48.7                60.0                11.6                45.1                56.7
Part B
Gas Infrastructure
................................................................................................... ...........  ............ ............................................... ....................... .......... ...........................................
I .  Treatment Plants                                                                   1.7                13.4                15.1                 5.3               51.6                56.9
........................................  ...........  ...........  ................................... ........................ ..............................................    .....  ................... ........... .........................................
2. N/S Pipeline & Ancillary                                                             13.4                39.3               52.7                20.9                85.1                106.0
Equipment
.... ......I....................................................................................... ........... ............ ......................................... .... ....................... .......... ..............I.............................
3.  Distribution Lines                                                                  5.0                  3.0                8.0                                                                     l
for Tea Estates Supply
.................  ................................................................................. .......................  ....................... ......................    ........................ .......... ......................  ....................
4. Engineering, Management,                                                                                 5.0                 5.0                 ---                10.6                 10.6
Construction Supervision
.............................................................................................   ....................................................  ..................  ....    ............ ......... .........................................   .......
5.  Technical Assistance & Training                                                      ---                8.3                 8.3                                     0.3                 0.3
Subtotal   20.1                               69.0                89.1                26.2              147.6    173.8
TOTAL BASE COST                                                                        31.4    117.7   149.1   37.8    192.7   230.5
6. Physical Contingencies                                                               4.7                 17.7               22.4
..................  .......I.........                 ,    ,,,,,   .....   ......   .....   -,   .... ,   --    ..,...                                    .......,,,,,,, ......   -- ..... ., ,,,,,  .,,,,,,,,.
7. Price Contingencies                                                                 11.3                38.2                 49.5
TOTAL ADJUSTED COST                                                                    47.4   173.6   221    37.8   192.7   230.5
Interest during construction                                                           18.4                  ---               18.4                49.4                 ---                 49.4
TOTAL FINANCING                                                                        65.8    173.6   239.4   87.2    192.7   279.9
Source: SAR and Petrobangla.



23
Table 811: Project Financing
(US$ millions)
Appraisal estimate                                                                      Actual
Source                        Local                 Foreign                       Total                      Local                Foreign                       Total
IDA                                   6.4                   103.6                    110.0                           2.7                    99.7                    102.4
........      ............. ...................... ...4........................................... ...................................   ....................... ..................................................................................
CIDA                                  4.2                    31.7                      35.9                          0.0                    26.2                       26.2
ODA                                   8.2                     19.4                     27.6                          0.0                    38.3                      38.3
DGIS                                  0.6                      8.0                       8.6                         0.0                     15.2                     15.2
..6i ....... .....I....................66...................................................... ................................. ............................................................
l UNDP                               0.0                     10.9                      10.9                          0.0                      8.5                       8.5
i.............................. ........................................ .............................. ...................................   ....................................... ...........................................I...........................
GOB                                 28.0                       0.0                     28.0                         84.5                      4.8                     89.3
Interest                            18.4                           -                   18.4                              -                        -                        -
during
constn.*
'total                             65.8                    173.6                    239.4                         87.2                   192.7                    279.9
Source: SAR and Petrobangla.
* Covered by GOB
Table 9: Economic Performance
Appraisal Estimate                                                   Actual
Net present value of benefits                                                       485.4                                                   2066.5
at a 12% discount rate
(US$ million)
Economic rate-of-return (%)                                                         91.0                                                      82.3
Source: SAR. Petrobangla, IDA staff estimates.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Bangladesrh
Second Gas Development Project (Cr. 1586-BD)
Agreement     Sectio   Covenant
n       type    Description of covenant                                             Status of comments
Development    4.01   Accountst  (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect their (a) Complied
Credit                  audits   operations, resources and expenditures.
Agreement
(DCA)
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts audited by indepcndent  (b) Complied with dclys
auditors; (ii) fumish a cenified copy of the audit report of such scope and in
such detail as reasonably requested, no later than nine months after the end of
each year; and (iii) fumish other information concerning the accounts, the
audit and said records as reasonably requested.
(c) For all expenditures, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts reflecting expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing    (c) Complied with delays
Date, all records of expenditures; (iii) enable the Association's representatives
to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such separate accounts are
included in the annual audit and that the report contains a separate opinion by
the auditors as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn have becn
used fbr the purpose lor which they were provided.
DCA            4.02   Accounts/  The Borrower shall cause the CNG Project Entity: (a) to maintain insurance;   Partially complied. The Compressed Natural Gas component was poorly implemented due to
audits   (b) to operate in accordance with sound practices with qualified management  lack of adequate management and insufficient support from the Govemment of Bangladesh.
and competent staff; and (c) to operate and maintain its plants, machinery,
equipment and other property in accordance with sound development
practices.
DCA            4.03   Accounts/  (a) The Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1985 furmish a reorganization    (a) Partially complied. The covenant was superseded by the reform prograrn agreed under the
audits   plan for Petrobangla and the five existing gas operating companies together    Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC Credit No. 1999-BD), which was more comprehensive.
with a staffing plan; and (ii) by July 1, 1986 implement such plans in  The ESAC program was to be carried out in two sequential phases: the 'Companies Plan"
consultation with the Association.                                 (reorganization of Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Minerals Corporation (BOGMCJ into Petrobangla)
and the more complex "Systems Plan." The Companies Plan was completed, for the most part, by
the end of July 1986. with the legal establishment of Bangladesh Petroleum Exploration
Company (BAPEX) and appointment of managers and the boards of Petrobangla and all the
operating companies (OCs). However, the implementation of the Systems Plan fell considerably
behind schedule.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) Petrobangla's exploration division will  Partially complied. Petrobangla now has seven OCs: BAPEX, the exploration and drilling
be reconstituted as a separate petroleum exploration company; (ii) the five  company; Bangladesh Gas Fields Company Limited (BGFCL) and Sylhet Gas Fields Company
existing gas operating companies will be replaced by two new companies to    Limited (SGFCL), the production companies; Titas Gas Transmission and Distribution Company
be responsible for gas production and gas transmission and distribution,  (TGTDC), Bakhrabad Gas Systems Limited (BGSL) and Jalalabad Gas Transmission and
respectively; and (iii) provision will be made for the transfer of commercial    Distribution Company (JGTDSL), the distribution companies; and Compressed Natural Gas
gas discoveries to the new gas production company least cost.      Company Limited (CNGCL), the CNG and natural gas liquids (NGLs) company. While
Petrobangla structure has been changed to a holding company, further adjustments are still
necessary to operationalize the change.



DCA             4.04    Accounts/  The Borrower shall ensure that necessary conditions will be created and    Partially complied.
audits    maintained to enable the New Companies to meet the financial requirements
specified in the Project Agreement
DCA              4.05    Accounts/  The Borrower shall:                                                       Partially complied. There was no compliance with these specifications in 1985 or
audits   (a) by July I, 1985, increase the national average price of natural gas charged to  1986 From 1988 onward, compliance was Seededepenang on the Ener
group. In 1989, covenant 4.05 (i) was superseded by a covenant in the Energy Sector
consumers by at least 20%;                                               Adjustment Credit, which changed the basis for gas pricing to a two-step approach.
The first step focused on achieving equality with the economic cost of supply,
including depletion premium, for each consumer group. The second step focused on
(b) by July 1, 1986, increase such price by at least 20% over the new price; and  reducing the gap between tlhe price of gas and that ofsubstitute fuels, to achoieve
greater resource mobilization from the gas subsector.
(c) beginning FY88 and thereafter, make necessary adjustments in the structure  (a) (b) and (c) Partially complied
and level of gas prices based on the long-run marginal cost of extraction,
transmission and distribution plus a depletion premium.
DCA              4.06    Accounts/  The Borrower shall periodically review the magnitude of the depletion premium  Partially complied. The Borrower reviewed the depletion premium, but not
audits   to be used in calculating future gas prices based upon the results of the field  frequently enough to be satisfactory.
appraisal program to be carried out under the Project and on future gas
exploration efforts.
Project          4.01    Accounts/  (a) Petrobangla shall maintain (i) records and accounts adequate to reflect their  (a) Complied with delays
Agreement                 audits    operations and financial condition; and (ii) separate records and accounts
(PA)                                adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices their
operations and financial condition in respect of the Project.                                                                                                   In
(b) Petrobangla shall cause the New Companies to: (i) have accounts and   (b) Complied with delays
financial statements and the Special Account for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) fumish no later than
nine months after year end (A) certified copies of the financial statements and
(B) the report of the audit; and (iii) fumish other information conceming
accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit, and said records as
reasonably requested.
(c) For all expenditures, Petrobangla shall: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts reflecting expenditures; (ii) retain records evidencing expenditures  (c) Complied.
until one year after the Closing Date; (iii) enable the Association's
representative to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such separate
accounts are included in the annual audit and that the report contains a separate
opinion by the auditors as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in
respect to such expenditures have been used for the purpose for which they
were provided.
-_ -                     =                                                                                                                                            _.



PA               4.02    Accounts/  (a) Petrobangla shall cause the New Companies to manage their affairs,   (a) Partially complied.
audits    carry on their operations and maintain their financial position in accordance
with sound business and prudenit financial practices.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Petrobangla shall ensure  (b) Partially complied. Instructions were given by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to
that the New Companies will not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of  convert Tk 530 million and Tk 912 million of debt to equity for BGSL and BGFCL,
such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than (i) 60 to 40, for the   respectively. MOF further agreed to convert additional Tk 617 million for BGFCL
new gas production company, and (ii) 70 to 30, for the new gas transmission   and Tk 149 million, at least, for TGTDC, to enable both companies to comply. These
and distribution company.                                              conversions were reflected in the OC's FY92 accounts.
(c) For the purposes of paragraph (b) above: (i) "Debt" means any      (c) Complied with delays
indebtedness of the New Companies maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred. (ii) Debt shall be
deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt or for the modification of its terms of
payment of the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into. (iii) "Equity" means the sum ofthe total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of the New
Companies not allocated to cover specific liabilities.   (iv) Whenever it
shall be necessary to value debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be niade on the basis of the prevailing official rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Association.
(d) Petrobangla shall ensure that the New Companies will have sufficient  (d) Partially complied. Debt service liability is being partially met by the companies  N)
intemally generated funds available to them to meet their debt service  who haveijust eough wokn  capialitbut aeina position  t bynane   a
requirements and operating expenses, to maintain an adequate working   who have Just enough workig capital, but are not im a position to finance a
capital position and to finance a reasonable proportion of their future  reasonable proportion of their future mvestment requirement.
investment requirements.
(e) Petrobangla shall cause the New Companies to maintain their respective
accounts receivable at not more than three months of gas sales.        (e) Partially Complied. Accounts receivable ranged from the equivalent of 3-6
months on sales revenues.



P'A               4.03    Financial  Petrobangla shall cause the New Companies to furnish to the Association  Partially complied. Both new companies have submitted consolidated accounts and
within eighteen months of their incorporation, their consolidated accounts,   financial statements, but not within the stipulated time.
investment plans and projected financial statements.
PA                4.04    Managerial (a) Petrobangla shall conduct an annual review with the Association    (a) Complied.
regarding the demand-supply situation of gas supplied from the Bakhrabad
gas field in order to ensure that the utilization of such gas in the Titas
Franchise Area is kept within prudent limits.
(b) Except as otherwise agreed by both parties, Petrobangla shall ensure that  (b) Complied.
gas from the Bakhrabad gas field will be transferred to the Titas Franchise
Area only if, upon completion of appraisal drilling at Bakhrabad, it is
established that the gas reserves at Bakhrabad exceed 2.6 trillion cubic feet.
PA                4.05    Managerial  Petrobangla shall establish a technical committee satisfactory to the  Partially complied. A committee has not been formed for the purpose of the
Association to review all gas field development plans to be prepared under   covenant, but plans are reviewed by the Planning Division and locations of drilling
the Project and to approve the location of all new wells to be drilled  are jointly decided by the operating companies and Petrobangla.
I_____________                        pursuant to such plans.
PA                4.06    Managerial  Petrobangla shall ensure that no new development wells are drilled in the  Complied.
future at the gas fields covered by the Project unless die proposed
development plans for such wells have first been reviewed by and are
satisfactory to the Association.
PA                4 07    Managerial  Petrobangla shall, by July I, 1986, establish, in a manner satisfactory to the   Not complied. A Gas Production Departmenit has not been established as yet. As a
Association, a Gas Production Department to be responsible for planning  interim measure, a Reservoir Study Cell was created in July 1994 for reservoir study
the future development of gas fields and optimizing flow rates at each  and for preparing field development plans.
producing well.
tQ



28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The project was in compliance with all Bank policies.
Table 12: Use of IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Staffweeks                               Cost (US$ thousand)
To appraisal                                                                                                        38.9                                                 88.3
.........................  ............................................. ............................................................................ ................................................................. ....................
Appraisal through Board
approval                                                                                                      87.7                                                 190.7
........................................ ..................................................................;...............................................................................................................................
Board approval through effectiveness, supervision                                                                                                                      466.1
and completion                                                                                                     219.6
TOTAL:                                346.2                                                 745.1
Source: IDA Management Infornation System.
Table 13: Use of IDA Resources: Major Project Missions
Stage of Project Cycle                           Dates                     Days in field                                     Staffing                    Project Rating   Types ofProblems
Identification                       March, 1983                            ---                                     ---                                           NA                NA
..   ...................................   ........ .................. .....................   .......................... ................... .....    ....................  ........................  .................... .............   ................................ ...........................
Preparation                          Nov. 2-18, 1983                        7                                        2PE, EC                                      NA                NA
-Appraisai. .....................   ........... ................................ ................ .................I....... ....................... .............   ....................... ........................... ..........
Apraisal                          July, 1984                                                                      -----
Supervision  I                       April 16-27, 1985                      11                                      FA,G E                                          i               NA
............................................    ..... ..........................................   .................................................  .I............................................   .. .................. ......... . . .................
Supervision 2                        Sept. 30-Oct. 12, 1985                 13                                      EC, FA, PE
!.......... .......ision..Nov2i.c2;.9   ................................................ ........................ .. .. ...    i.E....   .........................    ................ ; ..... ..... ..... ...
Supervision 3                       Nov. 27-Dec. 2, 1986                   6                                        PE                                            2                P, T
........        "risinaii8 .......I........ 1    ....I.....Il  .......      ......      ........      .    ..............I'l......                                 ...... 11.......    .................................. 2...;
Supervision 4                       Mar. 1-16. 1987                        16                                      PE                                             2                P, T
....................................I.   ...............................................    ...................  F  A............ ... ....    ... ... .......... .... ... ; ..... .... ....... ..... .............
Supervision 5                       Sept. 20-Oct. 9, 1987                  20                                      GF, FA                                         2                P, T
Supervision 6                        Dec. 8-22, 1987                        15                                      EC,FA                                          2                P, T
~........................................... ...................    ............................ ...................    .................................................    ..................... ........................    ..................... ..........    ........ .............................
Supervision 7                        April 17-May 3, 1988                   17                                      PE, FA                                         2                P, T
............................................  ...............................................   .................................................    .............................................    ..............................  ..................
Supervision 8                        Mar. 25-April 13, 1989                20                                       PE,.FA                                         2                PE T, AF
Supervision 9                        Dec. 1-19, 1989                        20                                      PE, EC, FA,                                    3                P, T
GE
Supervision i1 May 14-31, 990                                               13                                      PE                                             3               P;   T
S1 ~ 1117   111  .... ...............   ...............................................    ..................P;.C;;...........3........   ............ ..... ........ ...... ..... .......;.......... ........ ..
Spervision  11I                    May 4-28, 1991                         25                                       PE, EC, FA,                                    3               M, P, T, F
Source: Project files.
Note: In addition to the missions listed, there were short field visits, discussions with consultants, etc., which are also included
in the total staff weeks used on the project.
Staffing Abbreviations:
PE - Petroleum Engineer, GE - Geologist,
PS - Procurement Specialist, FA - Financial Analyst, EC - Economist.
b/ Project Status Ratings:
I - No significant problems, 2 - Moderate problems,
3 - Major problems being addressed, 4 - Major problems not adequately addressed.
clProblem Designation:
F - Financial, M - Managerial, T - Technical, TR - Training; P - Procurement; AF - Availability of funds.
N.A. = Not Applicable.
NOTE: The files do not reflect why there were no supervision missions after May 1991 through December 1993 when
the project closed. The files also do not indicate why a separate completion mission was not undertaken for this
project.



29
Page I of I
Table 14: Summary of Major Project Changes
Box 1: Changes in Project Design
Project Component             Design at Appraisal                  Modification during
Project Implementation
Gas Processing Facilities     Field-based   dehydration   and  No gas processing facilities at Beani Bazar
condensate recovery units using a  because the drilling and the reservoir study
silica gel process for wet gas at results proved the field to be too small to
Kailashtila and Beani Bazar, and  justify a field based gas dehydration and NGL
dehydration units using a glycol extraction plant. A gas dehydration with NGL
process for dry gas at Rashidpur.  extraction (turbo-expander) instead of
condensate extraction (silica gel process) at
Kailashtila.A gas dehydration with
condensate extraction (silica gel process)
instead of a simple gas dehydration (gas
water separation using glycol process) for
Rashidpur because of the presence of
condensate not anticipated at appraisal.
Gas Pipeline                  A 20-inch diameter gas pipeline  A 24-inch diameter pipeline from Kailashtila
from Beani Bazar to Kailashtila  to Ashuganj, to meet increasing gas demand.
and to Ashuganj.
Condensate Pipeline           A  condensate  pipeline  from  No  pipeline between  Beani Bazar and
Beani Bazar to Kailashtila.   Kailashtila due to the small gas reserves.
However, a small size NGL pipeline was
constructed along the gas pipeline between
Kailashtila and Ashuganj.
Box 2: Changes in the Project's LegalAgreements
Purpose                                       Date / Description
Facilitate procurement.                      January 1988/ Amendment to Schedule I of the Project
Agreement to increase the limit for Limited International
Bidding to US$200,000 and allow local shopping for individual
contracts under US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$500,000.
Reflect changes in the organization of Petrobangla   July 1989/ Development Credit Agreement amended to define
as per ESAC (Cr.1999-BD) covenants.           "new companies" as: one exploration and drilling company;
two gas production companies; three transmission and
distribution companies; and one company for the production of
CNG.
Alleviate field problems caused by a lack of July 1989/ Schedules I and 2 of the Development Credit
counterpart funding.                          Agreement modified to allocate funds for the construction of
well platforms which were supposed to be financed by
Petrobangla to minimize standby charges for the CIDA-financed
drilling rig.
Allow financing for NGL production and transport.  June 1992/ Schedule 2, Part B of the Development Credit
Agreement modified to allow for NGL extraction and
fractionation facilities at Kailashtila and Ashuganj respectively
and a small size NGL pipeline to transport NGL including
condensate from Kailashtila to Ashuganj.



AppendixA
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH: SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENTPROJECT (CREDIT 1586-BD)
Operational Plan
Project Operations and Current Arrangements                           Issues and Recommended Actions
Gas Production. The two gas producing companies formed following the  Issues. The operating companies do not have the necessary expertise, structure and
reorganization of Petrobangla in 1990-91 have the capacity to operate and  resources to develop and implement an appropriate gas field management policy to
produce gas from existing wells. However, the companies lack the necessary    optimize reserve recovery and maximize NGL extraction and fractionate the liquids to
financial resources and engineering capability to optimize the level of gas  produce liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).
recovery. Similarly, the production companies lack the necessary technical
expertise to extract natural gas liquids (NGL) from rich gas fields, such as  Actions. Petrobangla has already: (a) made provisions, under the GIDP project, for
Kailashtila.                                                          external technical assistance to update gas field reservoir data and adjust operational
parameters; and (b) secured the necessary technical assistance to operate the complex
NGL facility at Kailashtila.
Gas Field Development. Petrobangla's production companies do not have the   Issues. Bangladesh has not been able to fully appraise its gas resources. The level of
financial resources and expertise to fully develop existing gas fields. Also, its   proven reserves (12 trillion cubic feet) is based on drilled areas which constitute a small
exploration company (BAPEX) does not have the financial capability to  part of known gas fields. The country's gas potential, which could be much larger than
undertake gas development activity on their own or as an exploration company   estimated prior .o the project, needs further evaluation.
C
Actions. GOB has opened up the oil and gas sector to the international private sector.
GOB has signed two production-sharing contracts with oil international companies, one
for offshore exploration and development in the Bay of Bengal, an area which is highly
gas-prone, and the other onshore near the existing north-eastem gas fields. GOB is
negotiating additional contracts with other international oil companies. A round table
conference in London and another at Houston are being planned for the promotion of
second round of bidding for oil and gas exploration concessions.
Production of LPG. Petrobangla has no experience or financial resources to    Issues. NGL extraction and subsequent fractionation for LPG production turned out to
produce LPG. After over three one-year extensions of the project's closing  be too difficult a problem to resolve.
date, Petrobangla was not able to complete the tendering process to build the  Actions. The production of LPG should be undertaken as early as possible.
necessary NGL fractionation plant in order to use the NGL from Kailashtila to
produce LPG.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 2
BANGLADESH: SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 1586-BD)
Operational Plan (continued)
Project Operations and Current Arrangements                            Issues and Recommended Actions
CNG Production. Petrobangla's RPGCL has not been able to conclusively  Issues. Petrobangla and RPGCL will have to continue with promotion of CNG technology,
implement the pilot testing of CNG applications. The company has set up four  and produce and market CNG for buses and trucks.
CNG filling stations in Dhaka city and procured CNG conversion kits for
petrol and diesel vehicles.                                            Actions. Bangladesh currently imports all of its vehicle fuel needs. I here is clearly a
market potential for CNG; however, the private sector should be attracted to invest in this
activity. In the meantime, RPGCL will need to intensify the operation of CNG conversion
of vehicles and sale of CNG through their newly installed stations to the converted vrehicles.
Strengthening of Petrobangla and Gas Sector Reform                     Issues. Petrobangla is still operating like an extension of GOB, which controls many of the
During the project's implementation, Petrobangla and its operating companies   operating companies' decisions. Operating budgets are not tied to corporate development
re-organized along functional lines for more efficient operations. Also to  plans and there are no performance targets. As a result, there is little accountability for
improve the efficiency of gas pricing and to enhance cost recovery, GOB,  decision-making. Also GOB has not allowed the operating companies sufficient margins to
under the project, adopted the pricing of natural gas based on the estimated  meet their financial requirements. The training component was not completed under SGDP
economic cost of supply including a depletion premium and the excise duty has  and Petrobangla needs substantial training in management and operations. Concerning gas
been reduced to 55%. Gas price offered to private sector international oil  pricing, there is a need for further reforms in the level of retail prices to ensure adequate  w
companies has been fixed at 75% of the import price of high-sulfur fuel oil for   margins for the operating companies
on-shore finds and a 25% premium for off-shore finds.
Actions.  As part of the GIDP, GOB has agreed to jointly review, with IDA, a priority
investment program for the gas sector and GOB's action plan for strengthening the
institutional and regulatory frameworks for the gas sector. This action program will focus
on steps to commercialize and corporatize Petrobangla. The ongoing GIDP contains
provisions for training Petrobangla staff. Concerning gas pricing. GOB has decreased
excise duties and increased the margins of the operating companies in line with a tariff
reform program. Also, under GIDP, GOB has agreed to review on an annual basis, with
IDA, the adequacy of the operating margins for Petrobangla's operating companies the
annual margins. Meanwhile, under a TA project funded by the ADB, BEICIP-Franlab of
France a study was prepared on "Preparation of a Gas System Development Plan and
Strengthening of the Organizational and Regulatory Framework for the Oil and Gas Sector
in Bangladesh," which also deals with gas tariff issue. GOB has also constituted a high
powered committee to study the gas tariff and recommend a long term gas pricing policy.



32
Aplpendix B
Page 1 of 4
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Second Gas Development Project
(Credit 1586-BD)
Borrower's Evaluation4
1.     OBJECTIVE:
A project in the name and title " Second Gas Development Project" was originated from GOB for IDA
assistance in the year 1985. The objectives of the project were:
a)    to increase gas supplies from the Kailashtila and Beanibazar fields to meet the medium term and
to produce significant quantities of condensate for the first time.
b)    to initiate our appraisal drilling program for the main gas fields at Titas, Habiganj, Bakhrabad
and Rashidpur with a view to obtain preliminary basis for the development of said gas fields in
the long-term.
c)    to strengthen the management and operational capability of Petrobangla.
2.     IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE:
a)     IDA's appraisal estimates of the time needed for project implementation were over optimistic
and were exceeded by as much as 100%. The project scheduled to be completed in mid 1989
was completed (98%) in mid 1995. The major causes of delays were changes in design
parameters, complexity resulting from multiple parallel co-financing arrangements, delay in
approval procedures and other impediments like high turnover of key personnel in the executing
agency and complexities raised during construction contract execution.
b)     Three years delay in starting drilling consequently caused serious delay in finalising design for
gas treatment facilities and pipeline components.
c)     While execution of the project it was experienced that co-financier back out from their earlier
commitment for financing a specific component as a part or whole.
3.     RESULTS:
The project achieved its main objectives:
4This section has been prepared by the Borrower, and its contents are not attributable to IDA. The Evaluation was
prepared by the Ministry of Planning and Development, Planning and Development Division, Energy Wing, and
was submitted to IDA's Resident Mission in Dhaka, Bangladesh, in October 1995. Only the summary Evaluation is
included with this report; additional details and the full report are filed in the World Bank's Asia Information
Center.



33
Appendix B
Page 2 of 4
Proved about 4 TCF of recoverable gas reserves, increasinig the country's proven recoverable gas
reserves from about 8 TCF to 12 TCF.
Kailashtila and Beanibazar Fields containi much larger reserves than previously estimated and is
relatively rich in NGL.
With the availability of propane arid butane, a 90MMCFD molecuar sieve turbo-expander at
Kailashtila to extract NGL's has been constructed, construction of condensate pipeline (6 inch
dia) from  I'ailaslitila to Ashuganij of about 180 Km. has been constructed under a
modified/revised program and construction of fractionation plant at Ashuganj to fractionate the
NGL's is under active considerationl of Petrobangla. Based on the availability of NGL at
Kailashtila, a small scale NGL plant for recovering 5000 MTY of LPG at Kailashtila is under
implementation.
With the completion of North-South gas pipe line sufficient gas supply from  Kailashtila,
Habigangj and Rashidpur fields has been established and presently the pipe line has been put into
operation for transmission of gas from Habiganj and Rashidpur gas fields from Sept. 1992 and
Sept. 1993 respectively. At present supply of about 180 MMCFD of gas is being carried out
through this pipeline.
Construction of 206 Km. (2 inch - 6 inch dia) distribution gas pipelines has been completed
under Sylhet Tea Estate Gas Supply Project (Phase II), as per target.
Installation of 4 Nos of CNG refuelling stations has been completed and arrangements have been
made for conversion of vehicles.
4.     SUSTAINABILITY:
Though the scope of Second Gas Development Project (SGDP) had been modified and revised
throughout the implementation period, the overall benefits of the project will remain, so much so that, if
the drilling of the wells alongwith the construction of respective surface/process facilities and the North-
South pipeline were not carried out, there would have already been a dire scarcity of gas supply. This
overall benefit will continue and will be furthered by the completion of the A-B pipeline and the
installation of the proposed Ashugani NGL processing plant and its downstream facilities.
The sustainability of the SGDP project relates mainly to the production of the wells drilled and thereafter
processed and the products transported and marketed thereof. While 11 wells were drilled/worked over,
not all the wells could be brought into production due to the non-installation of requisite process/surface
facilities; thus presently gas from only 8 (eight) wells could be produced and processed, which however
has helped alleviate a lot of gas supply shortfall. Further, because of initial design constraints, smaller
sized production tubings (3.5 inch) were used thus restricting the well flows. Moreover, because of
withdrawal of the Netherlands governments willingness to provide funds for the originally proposed
process/surface facility at Beanibazar, gas and NGL/condensate could not be produced and recovered
from that field. To complicate matters most, the proposed Ashuganj NGL Plant (under a different PP but
under overall SGDP) could not be implemented thus creating a bottleneck whereby NGL could not be



34
Appendix B
Page 3 of 4
extracted/recovered from the Kailashtila-ll gas treatment facilities (i.e. KTL-1I MSTE plant) as there was
no means of utilising/processinig the high pressure NGL to have been produced there. As a consequence,
the KTL-11 MSTE plant had to be modified from the original design so as to produce/recover condensate
and to re-inject the LPG contenits into the sales gas stream. Consequently also, the NGL/Condensate
pipeline would also be under utilised and not utilised for its intended NGL transportation. These
modification meant a longer period for construction and of course more money. The non-production of
gas fiom 3 wells is certainly a cash-flow setback for the project; however the production from the other
wells have helped mitigate gas shortage problems to a great extent. Lastly, while for the time being, the
North-South Gas Pipeline is not transportling the designed capacity, however, very shortly this pipeline
will not be able to cater for the gas demand envisaged, as a resultalit of whicil another gas pipeline is
apparently proposed/planined between Rash idpur/Habiganj and Ashuganj. It may be mentioned that if
IDA had heeded earlier PIU officials request for increasinig the N-S pipeline dia to 30 inches in
accordance with Gas Unie's earlier study, their duplication may have been avoided.
5.     FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED:
i)    In case of multi donor Financing, Project Co-ordination and monitoring wer more complex and
cumbersome in respect of consensus decision of any of its individual components.
ii)    It was not only GOB who took substantially more time than expected, but the donors also took
very long time to give their concurrence/approval or even comments. Two cases in point are : (ii)
DGIS/the Netherlands took a long time to give their initial approval to the technical evaluation
for Rashidpur surface/process facilities and (ii) IDA took a long time to give their decision
regarding technical and financial evaluation and subsequent award of contract for the Ashuganj
NGL plant.
iii)    The high-handedness of the donors became very apparent in the implementation of the project.
For example, DGIS withholding the approval/clearance of the technical and financial evaluation
of Rashidpur surface/process facilities and "compelling" PIU/Petrobangla to accept the bid of a
previously "black-listed" contractor, after which they accorded their approval, and (ii) IDA dilly-
dallying in giving their concurrence and decision regarding, the bids and award of contract for
Ashuganj NGL plant, ultimately discouraging the Contractor to formally sign the contract even
after they had initiated it and thus leaving PIU/Petrobangla high-and-dry due to the non-
implementation of that component.
iv)    The donor's unilateral and seemingly whimsical attitude and withdrawal of funding from
previously agreed project components, such as: DGIS withdrawing from funding Beanibazar
surface/process facilities, ODA withdrawing from funding the initially proposed Ashuganj
condensate fractionation plant and IDA declining funds for the Ashuganj NGL fractionation
plant and TELECOM/SCADA component, the cumulative effect of which is much lower benefit
culminating from the project. Further, at IDA's insistence, construction of gas and condensate
pipeline of the 20 Km. section between Beanibazar and Kailashtila had to be suspended.
v)     Donor complicating a bilateral issue between the Contractor and Employer/Client, e.g. IDA
unilaterally supporting the claim of M/S. Saipem, the North-South pipeline contractor against the



35
Appendix B
Page 4 of 4
counter-ciaim by PIU/Petrobangla. Their support had helped to encourage Saipem to lay further
claim money and go for arbitration.
vi)    An overall, integrated and most of all, long overview is required to conceptualise a project in its
entirety - this way continiuous and repeated revisioii/modification of the total project or any of its
components can be avoided.
vii)   It is necessary It is necessary for a proper and sincere two-way communication between the
Borrower/project implementation agency and the Creditors/Donors for optimising a project.
Lack of this can unnecessarily complicate issues and can lead to duplications, and consequent
much extra costs, of some components. For example, it was repeatedly mentioned and urged by
the Borrower/project implementation agency officials during the initial stage of the project that
the North-South Pipeline from KTL - Ashuganj be made a 30 inch pipeline in line with a
previous Gas Unie feasibility study or at least the section from Rashidpur to Ashuganj or even
failing that, definitely the section from Habiganj to Ashuganj section should be 30 inch dia. IDA
simply brushed it aside and we now find that a parallel line will have to be constructed between
Rashidpur and Ashuganj within the shortest possible period to cater for the foreseeable increased
gas supply from Rashidpur resulting from implementation of GIDP.
viii)   Generally, project designs were well done and turnkey implementation was satisfactory except a
few hiccups here and there.
ix)    Construction supervision was generally satisfactory but a few lapses and resultant defects/errors
were observed.
x)     Overall, the project facilitated the generally smooth, albeit very nerve racking and
worrisome/restless periods in coordination for the implementation of various project components
among the various related agencies companies. These also showed that even a handful of
dedicated, committed and experienced project management personnel can make the difference
even against formidable odds. However, the appreciation of such endeavour is conspicuously,
lacking, both from the Donor's/creditor's and Borrower's/agency's sides.



36
Appendix C
Page I of I
IDA's Response to the Borrower's Evaluation
In the Borrower's contribution to the ICR (Appendix B), Petrobangla makes a number of strong statements about
the project's implementation with which IDA does not concur. This Appendix responds to some of the Petrobangla's most
important comments included in its evaluation.
I.      First, Petrobangla states that " ...While II wells were drilled/worked over not all wells could be brought into
production due to the non-installation of requisite process/surface facilities; thus presently gas from only eight wells could
be produced and processed..." This statement is misleading. It is important to note that out of the nine wells drilled, three
were development wells and six were appraisal wells. It is a standard industry practice not to provide surface facilities for
appraisal wells which are drilled for the purpose of gas reserve delineation. When appraisal wells are proved to be
commercially producers, they are put into production with subsequent field development programs. Nevertheless, all the
project's appraisal wells were completed as producers and have been put into production using existing production
facilities.
2.      Second, Petrobangla states that "... because of initial design constraints, smaller-sized production tubings (3'/,")
were used thus restricting well flows." This statement does not reflect the fact that IDA: (a) suggested as early as
December 1986 to use a production tubing similar to the one (5 inch-size) used in Bakhrabad gas field; (b) pointed out at
the beginning of the well drilling activity in 1988 that the 31/2 inch size tubing procured by PIU was too small and would
restrict the productivity of the wells; and (c) recommended and proposed to finance a larger diameter (4'/2 and 5 inch size)
production tubing. However, Petrobangla did not take any action, indicating that there was no other use for the already
supplied 3/2 inch-size tubing.
3.      Third, Petrobangla states that although the amount of gas flowing through the north-south gas pipeline did not
reach its design capacity during project implementation, in a short period of time the pipeline will not be sufficient to meet
gas demand and a second pipeline will be required. In this regard, Petrobangla states that "...if IDA had heeded earlier PIU
officials requests for increasing the pipeline diameter to 30 inches..., its duplication could have been avoided." Here it is
important to note that, at project appraisal, Petrobangla requested a 18-20 inch-size gas pipeline. It is IDA who, again,
recommended a larger diameter gas pipeline to take into account increasing gas demand, which developed in the Dhaka
areas, in conjunction with the project's delays, and that could not be foreseen at appraisal. The selected size was then 24
inches in order to remain consistent with the upper capacity limit of the gas processing facilities and the funding available
for the project.
4.      Fourth, Petrobangla asserts that IDA supported the claim of the pipeline contractor for more compensation to
offset higher costs incurred due to the disruption in pipeline construction. It is important to clarify that IDA's
involvement in this situation was simply to recommend that the pipeline construction be completed and that the two parties
follow the provisions of their contract which applied to such dispute over construction delays. A prolonged suspension of
work, as implied at that time by Petrobangla, would have left the project without an operable gas pipeline and this would
have been disastrous for the sector.
5.      Finally, Petrobangla states that IDA denied funds for the Ashuganj fractionation plant and SCADA system,
leaving Petrobangla without a complete system for gas and liquids production and a monitoring system for gas facilities.
IDA along with the other cofinanciers, gave considerable support to the Borrower for developing the capability to produce
LPG by reallocating funds and granting several extensions of the project's closing date to allow for the procurement of the
Ashuganj's NGL fractionation plant. Similarly, ODA accepted to finance a gas dehydration and NGL extraction using
turbo-expander instead of silica-gel process at Kailashtila gas field and DGIS a silica-gel instead of glycol process at
Rashidpur gas field. Only after a protracted sequence of closing date extensions did IDA conclude that Petrobangla was
not showing a commitment to the timely completion of the procurement of the Ashuganj's NGL fractionation plant and
saw no justification for any further extensions. IDA did not finance the installation of a SCADA system under the SGDP
because the system required installation during construction of the planned gas infrastructure facilities, including the NGL
fractionation plant. Furthermore, IDA and the other cofinanciers, particularly ODA, have continued to encourage
Petrobangla to install the fractionation plant and the SCADA system and have agreed to provide financing for both of these
facilities under other projects.



91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~92
INDIA
2r   It jsHeRFUR                                          ,,; ~~~~~~~~~SUNAMGANJ    Coo                      .
-25-              (SEPl
J CC.F.         ,Sylh;I.5 HARIPUR |
JAMAdPURO.Cf/?M  'P   Jlobd                                                                                                             "
51<AUSHA$AU$ HONETRAKNETAK'\CYlNA-A X                                                                               O
o FF MYMENSINGH I -
GHAT
OHUAPUR                     A
BHU*PUR \           IKISHAL    GAFFARGAON
UKA                     t KISHOREGANJ
|HABIGANJ O    Ros.S HR
0 HU
A   CHA  \   JYt ONG          CGRSGTNG                                   J                            INDIA
\\< MANIKGONU iFN (                                                                     ,/
G"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
\>   ~~~~~~~~~~OKERAU t                                     G o\, .Flolf  UtdH      A^ 4   
FARIOPLUR     A , ,,s |  ,  BA                 .            Q AL\0
' , MGUNSHl',P  mOf
K ~       ~           - <---m--           HATIA'f1'
GANJ f .                                                       *ANOWARA
NOAKHAU                 s T FLd    I               ff
BARISAL.                                                         fft^A/  
BANGLADESH/  \                                                           \ BHL
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJEC-        l              >          ~%             SsNGRAUIDO
PATUAKNHAIR - AU G                                                         Cal I*JDEt  . NSIthUJt ' 
~oP~OWCIciN                                              KOGANOWARAi
AMA OF8WMA MO
Ez                                                                                                                    SX~ANLAES
r~~~~~~SCN   A   EEOMN  RJC                                                                                                                        LDS









I MAG I NG;
Repo rt No:      16257
Type: ICR



