Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5353-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMET PROJECT
April 5, 1985
Energy Department
Petroleum Projects Division
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wvithout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit   =   Taka (Tk)
US$1.00         =    Tk26.0G
Tk 1.00              US$0.038
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I barrel (bbl)               =    0.159 c3ubic meters (n3)
I cubic foot (CF)            =    0.028 m
1 British Thermal
Unit (Btu)               =    0.252 kilocalories (Kc)
1 metric ton (mT) of
oil 0.85 sp.gr.          =    7.4 bbl
1 kilometer (km)                  0 0.621 miles
MCF                          =    thousand standard cubic feet
MMCFD                        =    million standard cubic feet per day
TCF                          =    trillion (1,000 billion) cubic feet
toe                          =    tons of oil equivalent in heating
value
MW                           =    megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
ADP         Annual Development Plan
BGFCL       Bangladesh Gas Fields Company Limited
BGSL        Bakhrabad Gas System Limited
BPC         Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
BPDB        Bangladesh Power Development Board
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
CNG         Compressed Natural Gas
D&M         DeGolyer and McNaughton (United States), Consultants
ERL         Eastern Refinery Limited
GOB         Government of Bangladesh
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
JGTD        Jalalabad Gas Transmission and Distribution Co.
LNG         Liquefied Natural Gas
LPG         Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LRMC        Long-run Marginal Cost
NGL         Natural Gas Liquid
ODA         Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
OGDC        Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
SGFL        Sylhet Gas Fields Limited
TFA         Titas Franchise Area
TGTDC       Titas Gas Transmission and Distribution Co. Ltd.
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
This report is based on the findings of a mission that visited
Bangladesh in July 1984 and was prepared by Messrs. U. Kirmani,
J-P. Pinard and J.S. Thomas of the Energy Department and W. McKenney
(Consultant).



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiary:          Petrobangla.
Amount:                SDR 112.9 million (US$110.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard.
Relending Terms:      The Government would onlend US$73.1 million of the proceeds of
the credit to be used for the development of the eastern gas
fields (Kailashtila and Beani Bazar) to Petrobangla for a
period of 15 years, including a grace period of five years, at
a rate of 13% per annum. Prtrobangla would bear the foreign
exchange risk. US$33.0 million of the proceeds of the credit,
to be used primarily for the appraisal of the main gas fields,
would be passed on to Petrobangla as equity. US$3.9 million
would be passed on as equity to a new eatity to be established
to undertake pilot compressed natural gas (CNG) applications.
Project Description:  The project would support Petrobangla's efforts to
(i) expand gas supplies in line with incremental demand
expected over the medium term and produce the country's first
significant quantities of condensate available from the gas
fields of Kailashtila and Beani Bazar; (ii) initiate an
appraisal program of the main gas fields to provide a
preliminary basis for their long-term development; and
(iii) strengthen its own management capability, particularly
in the areas of field management and production planning. The
project would consist of (a) a gas field appraisal and
development component that would comprise the drilling of nine
wells, the workover of two existing wells, and a reservoir
study for each producing field; (b) a gas infrastructure
component to bring the gas fields of Kailashtila, Beani Bazar
and Rashidpur into production, involving the construction of
an approximately 117-mile long gas pipeline with the necessary
gas and condensate treatment facilities; (c) pilot CNG
applications; and (d) training and technical assistance.
The proposed project would involve the usual risks associated
with appraisal drilling. There is a risk that one or more of
the appraisal wells would not produce commercial quantities of
gas because of the possible lack of continuity in the reser-
voirs. However, the main justification for the appraisal
drilling program at this stage is to ascertain reservoir
continuity as a basis for the longer-term development of the
fields. The risk of a dry well should be viewed as the normal
cost to be carried in order to optimize reservoir drainage and
maximize the ultimate recovery of the fields.
I This document has a resricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offii dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Cost:
Local    Foreign    Total
- -  US$ mlllion)
Field appraisal and development          11.3      48.7      60.0
Infrastructure                           20.1      60.7      80.8
Consultancies and Training                 -        8.3       8.3
Total Base Cost 1-                    31.4     117.7     149.1
Physical Contingencies                    4.7      17.7      22.4
Price Contingencies                      11.3      38.2      49.5
Total Project Cost                    47.4     173.6     221.0
Interest During Construction             18.4        -       18.4
Total Financing Required              65.8     173.6     239.4
Financing Plan:                               Local   Foreign    Total
-     (US$ million)
IDA                                    6.4     103.6     110.0
CIDA (Canada)                          4.2      31.7      35.9
ODA (United Kingdom)                   8.2      19.4      27.6
Government of the Netherlands          0.6       8.0       8.6
UNDP                                    -       10.9      10.9
Government of Bangladesh              28.0        -       28.0
Total                            47.4     173.6     221.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
----      (US$ million)-
Annual              8.0  24.8  38.5   32.4    6.3
Cumulative          8.0  32.8   71.3  103.7  110.0
Economic Rate
of Return:           n.a.
Appraisal Report:       Bangladesh:  Second Gas Development Project
Report No.     , dated
Map:                    IBRD 18571
1/  Including taxes and duties of US$7.3 million equivalent.



BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE SECTOR ...........................................                1
Introduction .......       .................................     1
Commercial Energy Balance ...............   ............        2
Resource Endowment .... ..............................           2
Power ........................................................  4
Natural Gas ..........................................          4
Petroleum Products ......       ............................     8
Sector Planning .......       ..............................     9
IDA's Role and Lending Strategy in the Sector .......           9
II-.    THE BENEFICIARY         ..........................................  11
Bae'kground .............    ........ ..................................1
Sector Corporation and Operating Companies ........ ..         11
Organization and Management Capabil-ities ..      ..........   11
Proposed Reorganization           .............................  13
Implementation Considerations .......................          13
Institution Building ................................          14
Accounts and Audits ......       ...........................    15
Insurance ...............       ............................   15
III.    THE PROJECT  ............................................            15
Objectives of the Project .....      ......................    15
Gas Demand and Supply Outlook ..................    .....      16
Project Design          ......................................  18
Gas and Condensate Reserves .....       ....................   20
Project Description .................................          20
Project Implementation            -. . ....                    21
Project Costs....                                              23
Financing Plan                 .....24
Procurement and Consultants   .........................        25
Disbursement                  .....26
Training...........                                            27
Ecology and Safety               .....                         27
Land and Right of Way       ...............................    28
Reporting Requirements .28



-ll-
Table of Contents (Continued)                                          Page No.
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS....                                               28
Financial Analysis of the Project ...................       30
V.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND PROJECT RISKS .32
Justification for the Gas Development Component .32
Justification for the Gas Field Appraisal Component         34
Project Risks.                                              34
VI. AGREEMENTS .35
ANNEXES
1.01  Petroleum Geology and Prognosis .38
1.02     Geological Notes on the Gas Fields .40
2.01     Organization Chart .........................................   42
3.01     Natural Gas Reserves and Production .43
3.02  Natural Gas Production by Field .44
3.03 Gas Pipelines .45
4.01  Natural Gas Tariffs .46
4.02     Petroleum Products Prices and Import Parity                      47
5.01     Estimated Cost of Drilling Program       .                       48
5.02     Estimated Cost of Kailashtila-Ashuganj Transmission Line         49
5.03     Estimated Costs of Surface Facilities .50
5.04     Estimated Schedule of Disbursement .52
5.05     Project Implementation Schedule                                  53
6.01     Gas Field Development - Income Statement ...................   54
6.02     Gas Field Development - Balance Sheet .55
6.03     Gas Field Development - Statement of Sources
& Uses of Funds .56
6.04     Gas Transmission & Distribution Component - Income Statement    57
6.05     Gas Transmission & Distribution Component - Balance Sheet        58
6.06     Gas Transmission & Distribution Component - Statement of
Sources & Uses of Funds .59
6.07     Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements .60
7.01  Economic Analysis .61
7.02    Assumptions Used in Economic Analysis .63
_AP IBRD 18571 .65



I - THE SECTOR11
Introduction
1.01     Energy consumption in Bangladesh on a per-capita basis is among the lowest
in the world. It is estimated at about 90 kg of oil equivalent (kg.o.e.) per year,
of which about 60% is accounted for by non-conomercial sources such as crop residues
and animal wastes. Consumption of commercial energy is estimated at only 36 kg o.e.
per capita, about one-sixteenth of the corresponding world average and one-tenth of
the average for low-income countries. In terms of resource endowment, Bangladesh
has an abundant potential supply of natural gas but is otherwise poorly endowed in
primary energy. Although traditional forms of energy (vegetable and animal wastes),
widely used in rural areas, are expected to remain predominant in the foreseeable
future, the recently accelerated development of the gas sector has led to a rapid
growth in commercial energy utilization and a progressive decline in the share of
commercial energy derived from liquid hydrocarbons. Natural gas now accounts for
52Z of total commercial primary energy. This development notwithstanding, the
country still has to rely on a relatively large level of oil imports which make
disproportionate claims on its limited foreign exchange resources. In 1983/84,
total primary supply of commercial energy (gross of conversion losses) amounted to
3.4 million toe, of which net oil imports contributed 1.4 million toe (at a cost of
about US$450 million), absorbing about 60% of the country's total export earnings.
-.O2     Potential for expanded commercial energy demand in Bangladesh is large.
The source most likely to be available to meet this potential is natural gas. In
fact, subject to confirmation of potential reserves and well productivity, natural
gas offers Bangladesh an unparalleled development opportunity in that it makes the
building of a reliable, comparatively low cost energy base a feasible objective
within the severe resource constraints faced by the country. The Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) is aware of this potential and the main thrust of its energy policy
is to reduce dependence on oil imports by accelerating the development of domestic
gas resources and increasing the economy's absorptive capacity for gas. The use of
gas for fertilizer production and power generation, with an increasing emphasis on
rural electrification, is a major facet of this pol:`. There are, however,
technological and economic limits to the substitution of liquid hydrocarbons by
natural gas. Accordingly, GOB is also attempting in parallel to intensify the
search for oil, which has so far proved unsuccessful and is currently at a very low
level. The oil companies that entered into production sharing contracts in the late
70s for offshore exploration have all relinquished their concessions and Bangladesh
Shell Oil Co. is the only foreign company currently active in the country, exploring
1 A more detailed description and analysis of the sector is contained in the
report entitled "Bangladesh: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector" (October
1982, Report No. 3873-BD), which is part of a series of reports of the Joint
UNDp/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program.



-2-
a 10,000 km2 contract area in the Chittagong Hill Tracts.-   To intensify explora-
tion, GOB has undertaken, partly with IDA's assistance, a program of seismic surveys
and geological studies as the basis of a promotion effort to attract participation
by international oil companies (IOCs) and accelerate the pace of exploratory
drilling.
Commercial Energy Balance
1.03     Commercial sources of primary energy in Bangladesh are hydropower, natural
gas, oil and coal, the latter two being imported. The table below estimates
Bangladesh's energy balance in terms of oil equivalent:
Commercial Energy Balance - 1983/84
('000 toe)
Demand                                       Supply
Domestic
Residential/Commercial    747  (22%)      Natural Gas                  2,009
a!                     H~~~~~~~~ydro Power            281
Industrial a             1,103  (32%)
Energy Imports
Transport                  506  (15%)     Petroleum Products (net)   1,405
Coal                          177
Agriculture                901  (27%)     Total Primary Supply         3,872
(of which fertilizer)  (754) (22%)
Less: Conversion and
Others                     140  ( 4%)        Transmission Losses         475
Total Demand               3,397 (100%)      Total Net Energy Supply    3,397
a/ Excluding gas used as fertilizer feedstock.
Sources: Petrobangla, Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation, Eastern Refinery
Ltd., Bangladesh Power Development Board and Bangladesh Bank.
Resource Endowment
1.04     Commercial Energy.  Natural gas and a limited hydropower potential
are the only two sources of commercial primary energy currently available
within the country. Some coal and peat deposits have been located but are
presently not considered economic to mine. More critically, Bangladesh has no
known oil reserves and has to meet all its liquid hydrocarbon requirements
through imports. Spurred by the promising prospects offered by the vast
Bengal basin, the search for oil started as early as 1908 but has so far been
unsuccessful in locating oil deposits. Exploration efforts, however, have led
1/ This effort is currently being thwarted by political insecurity in the
area.



- 3 -
to the discovery of substantial reserves of natural gas. Thirteen gas
fields, twelve onshore and one offshore, have been discovered, all located
east of the Jamuna River which divides the country from north to south into
eastern and western zones. Total gas reserves are currently estimated at
about 11 trillion standard cubic feet (TCF), of which 75% are expected to be
recoverable through normal production methods. Because of the heavy cost of a
pipeline across the Jamuna river, use of natural gas has so far been confined
to the eastern zone. Exploration efforts are continuing in the western zone
but results have so far been inconclusive.
1.05     Substantial coal deposits, estimated at about 700 million tons, exist
in the northwestern part of the country. These deposits consist of several
seams at depths ranging from 640 to 1,050 meters underneath water-bearing
alluvial strata.  This raises difficult and costly production problems and
extraction cost estimates indicate that, for the foreseeable future, coal from
these deposits could not compete with imported steam coal. Peat deposits
exist in the Faridpur and Khulna districts, with a total estimated reserve of
about 130 million metric tons. However, both on account of high cost of
extraction and low calorific value, no significant use has been made of these
deposits apart from small-scale use for domestic purposes.
1.06     Two of the world's largest rivers, the Ganges and the Brahmaputra,
flow through Bangladesh. However, because of the flat terrain the potential
for hydroelectric power is limited. The hydropotential that can be econo-
mically harnessed at Kaptai in the Chittagong Hill Tracts has been evaluated
at 340 MW, of which 130 MW has been developed. The northern portion of the
Brahmaputra river offers potential for a dam site with an estimated capacity
of 400 MW but the remote location and high development costs make the
construction of such a dam a remote possibility.
1.07     Traditional Energy.  More than half of the total energy used in
Bangladesh continues to be ret from traditional sources, which include crop
residue, animal wastes, straw, rice husks, jute sticks and firewood. Overall,
the energy provided from biomass sources is estimated to amount to about 5
million toe annually. As in other developing economies, the level of
utilization of these forms of energy is high, but their end-use efficiency is
low - typically of the order of 10 to 15%. While in the future the relative
share of biomass fuels within the overall energy balance will no doubt be
declining, Bangladesh does not have the resources to sustain a major shift to
commercial energy and demand for traditional sources is likely to keep
increasing with population. Concerted efforts are therefore required to
upgrade the end-use efficiency of traditional forms of energy through the
introduction of more modern cooking appliances or other means. A critical
issue relates to the rapid depletion of the country's forest resources as
firewood resources are being overexploited to meet increasing demand.
Alarming increases in the price of fuelwood and jute sticks suggest that a
crisis may already be in the offing. Foreign assistance has recently started
to be made available in support of forestry studies and community forestry
projects. Further support to accelerate rural afforestation is essential.



-4-
Power
1.08     A key Government objective is to improve and expand the supply and
distribution of electricity in rural and urban areas, the expanded use of
natural gas via electricity being central to its energy strategy. Bangladesh
has a relatively small electric power generation and distribution system
divided into two main grids covering the eastern and western zones, respec-
tively. In the eastern zone, besides some hydropotential, gas is available
for power generation and substantial gas-based capacity additions are being
planned. The western zone, on the other hand, has to rely on imported fuel
oil and diesel oil. The two grids have recently been linked by a 132 KV east-
west interconnector across the Jamuna River which permits the substitution of
oil-fueled generation in the west by gas-fueled generation from the east.
Overall, about one fourth of all hydrocarbons used in Bangladesh is at present
converted into electric power, 17% of all oil products and 39% of all locally
produced natural gas.
Natural Gas
1.09     Gas Reserves.  Bangladesh is well endowed with natural gas although
all the discoveries are confined to the eastern zone. There have been some
gas shows in the small number of wells drilled in the western zone but the
data secured so far are inconclusive. Estimates of proven, possible, and
probable reserves for the eastern gas fields were made recently by consultants
(DeGolyer and McNaughton (D&MJ) on the basis of avaiLable seismic profiles,
petrophysics, geology and engineering data.  On the basis ,o the estimates of
the consultants, gas-in-place is reckoned at about 11 TCF,   Condensate
reserves are estimated at 18 million barrels (bbl), 57 percent of which would
come from the Kailashtila and Beani Bazar gas fields. Reserve estimates, the
assumptions on which these estimates are based and other specifics of the gas
fields are shown in Annex 3.01.
1.10     These estimates are characterized by the very low ratio of proven to
probable and possible reserves (4.0 TCF, 9.8 TCF and 9.6 TCF, respectively).
This is due to a combination of factors: in three of the fields (Beani Bazar,
Kailashtila and Kamta) only a single well has been drilled. In several
others, the wells are very close together and do not penetrate all the
producing zones or fail to reach the gas-water contact. In all fields except
Beani Bazar, the configuration of the reservoirs is only sketchily known for
lack of detailed seismic data and step-out appraisal wells along the
structure. Uncertainty regarding the magnitude and producibility of the
exiscing reserves due to the paucity of reservoir data makes it impossible for
the Government to formulate a long-term development strategy for the sector.
The remaining proven recoverable reserves are less than 3 TCF and investment
decisions in the power and fertilizer sectors are now being taken which make
claims on the gas reserves in excess of this amount. There is therefore an
urgent need to initiate a professionally-designed appraisal program to assess
the reserves. As a first step, detailed high-resolution seismic surveys of
the major gas fields are being undertaken as a part of the IDA-financed
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (PEPP) to firm up the reservoir
1/ Using probabilities of 1.0 for proven reserves, 0.5 for probable reserves
and 0.25 for possible reserves.



-5-
structure maps, provide a firmer basis for locating future wells to be drilled
on the structures, and assist in identifying gas-water contacts. A critical
follow-up would be a program of appraisal drilling. In fact, since the proven
reserves (at Titas, Habiganj and Bakhrabad) are aLready fuLly committed, such
a program is a prerequisite to the further development of the producing gas
fields.
1.11     While the estimates of gas reserves prepared by Petrobangla and D&M
on the basis of available reservoir information appear abundant in relation
to current production levels (about 85 billion cubic feet [BCF] annually),
they are not large when compared to the country's population and the anti-
cipated level of demand. ActualLy, the planned expansion of natural gas
utilization over the next 5-10 years is conditional upon a rational appraisal
of known gas reserves; assuming part of the reserves currently classified as
probable can be proven in the interval, demand for natural gas in expected to
reach the maximum level of production sustainable from the existing recover-
able reserves (i.e. about 300 BCF with a production/reserve ratio of 15 years)
by the late 1990's. For further expansion, new gas reserves would probabLy
need to be discovered. A more precise assessment of the reserves of known gas
fields is also required before decisions can be made on GOB's proposed
construction of a pipeline across the Jamuna river and its possible linkage to
an export scheme.
1.12     Gas Production and Distribution.  Six gas fields are currently in
production. Daily output is about 250 MMCF of gas and 300 bbl of conden-
sate. The existing production and distribution facilities fall under three
separate systems: (i) the Titas system covering the greater Dhaka area and
supplied from the Titas and Habiganj gas fields; (ii) the Bakhrabad system
covering the southeastern part of the country, including the Chittagong area,
and supplied from the Bakhrabad gas field; and (iii) the Jalalabad system
covering the Sylhet area and supplied from the Chhatak, Sylhet and Kailashtila
gas fields. Cumulative production as of the end of FY84 was about 0.6 TCF,
most of which came from Titas, the only field exploited in any significant
measure so far. Planned investments would result in thc integration of the
three systems into one grid, allowing greater flexibility in field management
and increased reliability of supply. The salient feacures of the ecisting
pipelines are shown in Annex 3.03.
1.13     Gas Utilization.  Use of natural gas started in the Sylhet district,
where the two small fieLds of Chhatak and Sylhet were discovered during the
1950s, and was initially confined to a fertilizer plant and a cement
factory. Gas production was stepped up following Shell's discovery of
considerably larger gas reserves during the 1960s (at Titas and other
fields). Output has increased steadily over the last decade, growing at an
average of 14% p.a. from 29 BCF in 1975/76 to 81 BCF in 1983/84 (2.0 million
toe). This rate of growth resulted mainly from the expansion of the gas
production and distribution system which has made gas available to a large
array of users. It also reflected efforts by the Government to encourage the
substitution of gas for other types of fuels through promotional pricing
policies. Gas utilization now covers power generation, fertilizer production
and other industrial, commercial and domestic uses. Although gas distribu-
tion to small industries and domestic consumers has been expanding steadily,
fertilizer production and power generation account for the bulk of consump-
tion. This pattern is expected to continue ir the future, reflecting the



-6-
continued emphasis of the Government on improving the availability of
electricity and fertilizer, which is in line with sound economic strategy.
This notwithstanding, gas distribution to private conmercial and domestic
consumers has been progressing. Gas distribution networks have been or will
shortly be installed in most urban areas located -lose to transmission
lines. Distribution lines servicing clusters of small industridl units (e.g.,
brick kilns, tea drying facilities) promise attractive benefits and have
accordingly been given high priority by GOB.
Natural Gas Consumption by Sector
Average Annual
1975/76        1982/83        Growth Rate
Sector           BCF   percent      BCF  percent   1975/76-1982/83
Fertilizer        15.2     54      31.8      39            12.7
Power             8.7      31      30.4      38            16.9
Industrial        3.4      12      10.2      13            14.8
Commercial &
Domestic        0.8       3       8.1      10            34.7
Total        28.1    100       80.5    100            14.1
1.14     While the overall gas utilization strategy pursued by the Government
is economically satisfactory, there is a need for further analytical work to
assess the economic justification of gas utilization by specific user
groups. IDA has been encouraging the promotion of alternative gas uses to
maximize the absorptive capacity of the economy for natural gas. Technical
assistance will be provided under the Joint UNDP/Bank Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program (ESHAP) to assess the economic viability of distributing
natural gas to potential users in the rural areas. The study is intended to
identify potential additional demand from small-scale users in the agriculture
sector (crop drying, tube wells, food processing, etc.) and assess the
economic viability of small-scale power generation units to substitute local
diesel units or complement planned rural electrification projects. GOB gives
high priority to the transfer of gas west of the Jamuna River and has financed
a study out of its own resources to assess the feasibility of such a scheme.
IDA has agreed in principle co support further analytical work on the subject
in order to assess the economic viability of the investment, which GOB now
envisages would be coupled with a more ambitious road-bridge project.
Alternative uses of natural gas and by-products such as LPG and CNG are also
being investigated. The feasibility of setting up a plant to extract LPG from
natural gas is currently being studied under a Canadian technical assistance
grant and a pilot study of CNG utilization in road transport is being financed
by IDA. If successful, this study would be expanded on a wider scale possibly
with the support of a foreign company. Rail and river transport also offer
attractive possibilities for the utilization of CNG, which the Government is
interested in investigating.
1.15     If appraisal of the gas fields and further exploration confirm the
prospects of Bangladesh as a major gas province, several export options could
be considered. A gas utilization study, undertaken as part of the Energy



Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project, is intended to analyze and
compare the various options available for efficient industrial uses of natural
gas, especially those with export potential. Given the large amount of
capital requireds, any export option will require support by private financ-
ing. IFC is now assisting in the preparation of two gas-based export projects
in Chittagong (urea and methanol).
1.16     Pricing of Natural Gas.  The price of natural gas is controlled by
the Goverment, with about 70Z of consumer prices on the average being
channelled directly to the national budget by way of excise duties. The
successive price increases introduced by GOB since 1980 are shown in
Annex 4.01.
Natural Gas Tariffs (TM/MCF)
(as of July 1, 1984)
Weighted
Power &    Industrial   Commercial   Domestic        Average
Fertilizer   Consumers   Consumers    Consumers   for Industry
Sale Price         13.05       36.00    45.20/51.00      34.00          16.3
(US$/MCF)       (0.50)       (1.38)   (1.74/ 1.96)    (1.31)          (0.63)
of which
Excise Duty      10.45       21.65    29.41/33.85      21.65          12.0
(US$/MCF)       (0.40)       (0.83)   (1.13/ 1.30)    (0.83)          (0.46)
Margin to
Oper. Cos.
Prod.          1.00         1.00      1.90/ 2.80      1.00           1.0
Trans & Distr. 1.60        13.35    13.89/14.35      11.35           3.3
1.17     Gas pricing has been one of the principal ingredients of IDA's
economic dialogue with GOB. The broad principles which should govern the
pricing of natural gas were agreed between IDA and GOB under the Bakhrabad Gas
Development Project, namely that gas prices and excise duty rates should be
fixed at such levels as will ensure that (a) sale prices are higher than the
long-run marginal cost (LRNC) of natural gas after taking into account an
allowance for depletion; (b) the entities producing and distributing the gas
are financially viable, which would imply that their revenues from gas
operations are sufficient to cover their operating expenses and debt service
requirements and contribute substantially towards future investments; and
(c) gas tariffs mobilize resources for the economy.
1.18     Consultants appointed under the Bakhrabad Gas Development Project
have estimated the LRMC of producing and transmitting natural gas in the
eastern zone for large consumers with high and stable load factors at
Tk15.7/MCF for power and fertilizer and Tk19.3 for other industrial consumers
(mid-1984 prices). LRMC for small users would be higher on account of rela-
tively high investments for distribution networks and sharper peaking of
demand. Estimates of the depletion premium vary widely with the number of
years expected to elapse before gas reserves are fully committed, as well as
with the cost of the eventual energy substitute. The present high uncertain-
ties about reserve levels make it difficult to arrive at firm estimates and,
hence, to frame a long-term pricing policy on strictly economic arguments.



Given the anticipated buildup in gas utilization, existing recoverable
reserves are expected to be fully committed by the late 1990s. Assuming no
additional reserves are either proved or discovered, the depletion premium is
estimated at Tkl3.6/MCF (US$0.52) and the average economic cost of gas for
large consumers at Tk29.8/ICF (US$1.15) compared to a price of Tkl6.3/MCF
(US$0.63) at present. Tariff adjustment, however, should account for (i)
future exploration that will become justified as demand for and the price of
natural gas increase and (ii) the fact that sharp increases in gas tariffs
could be disruptive to the economy.
1.19     IDA received assurance from GOB during negotiations that (i) as
an immediate step towards meeting the above general principles, z,tural
gas prices will be increased by 20Z by July 1, 1985 and again by 20% bD5
July 1, 1986. The first set of tariff adjustments will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit; and (ii) that, beginning July 1987
and thereafter, gas prices will be adjusted in accordance with a program
to be agreed with IDA based on the long-run marginal cost of extraction,
transmission and distribution plus depletion allowance; GOB would periodically
review with IDA the magnitude of the depletion premium, based on the results
of the proposed field appraisal program and of future gas exploration
efforts. As discussed in para 4.09, the proposed tari'f adjustment is
expected to permit GOB to maintain excise duty rates constant in real terms
while allowing sufficient margins to the gas companies to operate profitably.
Petroleum Products
1.20     Despite the increased utilization of natural gas in almost all the
sectors of the economy, petroleum products still account for 36% of total
commercial energy consumption.  As in most developing countries, consumption
is skewed towards middle distillates (kerosene and diesel oil). This causes
an imbalance in the refinery product yields and requires some of the fractions
(naphtha and fuel oil) to be exported while additional volumes of the middle
distillates have to be imported. About 33X of the total consumption of
petroleum products is in the transport sector, followed by domestic usage
(mainly for cooking and lighting) (22%), power generation (17%) and the
industrial sector (13%).
Consumption of Petroleum Products
(in metric tons)
Average Annual
1975/76              1983/84         Growth Rate
'000 mT  percent     '000 mT  percent  1975/76-1983/84
LPG                        -        -             6        1
Gasoline and Naphtha      54        6           48         4        (1-5)
Diesel and Kerosene      653       59          831        71        3.1
Fuel Oil and Bitumen    389        35           285       24        (3.8)
Total a/               1,106      100        1,170       100        0.7
a/ Excluding solvents, and refinery consumption and losses.



- 9 -
1.21     The pattern of consumption of petroleum products in Bangladesh has
evolved noticeably since the mid-seventies. The product having shown the most
significant growth rate has been diesel oil, which is used in transport and
agriculture and can be replaced only to a limited extent by natural gas.
Together with kerosene, which is widely utilized for illumination purposes,
middle distillates accounts for 71% of total consumption of petroleum products
and 30% of total commercial energy use. Increased use of natural gas has
dampened the demand for light ends (naphtha) and reduced the demand for fuel
oil. With increased use of natural gas, we can anticipate a greater imbalance
between refinery yields and the consumption pattern. The Energy Efficiency
and Refinery Rehabilitation Project supported by IDA includes a techno-
economic study intended to determine the necessary modifications to be made to
the refinery to reduce the gap between its yield pattern and the changing
long-term demand profile for petroleum fuels in the country.
Sector Planning
1.22     Integrated processes for energy planning and policy making have not
yet been established but key planning exercises are underway. The energy
section of the draft Second Five Year Plan (FY81-85) was prepared by merely
collating the submissions of the various agencies related to the field of
energy. Recognizing the need for a central energy planning body, GOB has
taken major steps to strengthen its energy planning and policy making
capability. Over the last two years it has established an Energy Study and
Planning Cell (ESPC) within the Planning Commission. This cell is supported
by a UNDP/ADB funded technical assistance project, the Energy Planning Project
(EPP). This project aims at upgrading the capability for energy planning
within the Planning Commission. More specifically, it is intended to help
develop a long-term energy plan covering the next twenty years and provide the
framework within which five-year energy plans can be formulated. GOB has also
commissioned a Power System Master Plan to guide future investment in the
power sector. Finally, the IDA-financed Energy Efficiency and Refinery
Rehabilitation Project will assist GOB in preparing a program of industrial
energy conservation measures.
1.23     GOB is in the process of drafting a five-year plan covering the
period FY85-89. The plan is expected to continue giving high priority to the
energy sector in the allocation of investment resources. In the gas sector,
besides the proposed project which aims to develop the eastern gas fields of
Kailashtila, Beani Bazar and Rashidpur with the necessary pipeline lin'ks, GOB
intends to construct a pipeline between Bakhrabad and Dhaka and possibly at a
later stage a pipeline between Eakhrabad and Titas. Further development
drilling at the main gas fields (i.e. Titas, Habiganj and Bakhrabad) is also
envisaged in line with the anticipated growth in gas consumption.
IDA's Role and Lending Strategy in the Petroleum Subsector
1.24     The outlook in the petroleum sector in Bangladesh is one of a
promising but still largely untapped potential offered by the natural gas
resources for expanded energy consumption; and good prospects for further
hydrocarbon discoveries, possibly in the form of oil. Within this context,
IDA has focussed its dialogue with GOB on a number of key sectoral issues,
namely the need for GOB to (i) appraise the discovered gas fields to
optimize their development; (ii) attract private interests to intensify oil



- 10 -
exploration; and (iii) optimize the use of available energy sources through
appropriate energy pricing and conservation measures. Specifically, the
strategy of IDA in the petroleum subsector can be set forth as follows:
(i)    to build up the capability of GOB in the formulation of adequate
sector policies, particularly in the area of gas pricing where
sound economic foundations are being provided for policy making,
and in promoting a more efficient operation of the public sector
enterprises in charge of oil and gas operations through the
provision of expert consultancies both in management and
petroleum disciplines;
(ii)    to encourage the development of the gas sector by introducing
the modern technology and field management procedures required
to promote the efficient and timely development of identified
reserves through the acquisition of high resolution seismic
data, appraisal drilling and reservoir studies; by encouraging
alternative uses of natural gas in the agriculture and transport
sectors so as to maximize the absorptive capacity of the economy
for natural gas; and by supporting studies to develop gas-based
export industries; and
(iii)    for exploration, to support GOB's promotional e'forts by
financing critical seismic surveys and geological studies and
monitoring the subsequent promotion of prospective acreage to
the international oil industry.
1.25     The projects supported by IDA in the petroleum sector have been
designed to support this strategy. The objective of the Bakhrabad Gas
Development Project, approved in 1980, was to make gas available to consumers
in the Chittagong area; it also included a pilot project designed to explore
the potential for CNG utilization in road motor vehicles. The Energy
Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project, approved in 1983, makes
provision for a Gas Utilization Study to examine the potential for gas use in
export-oriented industries. The Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project, also
approved in 1983, is supporting GOB's efforts to rekindle the interest of lOCs
in exploring in Bangladesh; modern seismic data will be acquired over the next
two years and a hydrocarbon habitat study prepared, following which a promo-
tion campaign will be organized. The project also includes a program of
detailed seismic surveys covering the main gas fields. The proposed project
has been designed to meet the objective of introducing the modern technology
and relevant technical expertise needed to optimize the future development of
the gas sector. It is coupled to a major institution building effort designed
to strengthen Petrobangla's capability to manage the development of the gas
sector.
1.26     The Bakhrabad Gas Development Project was essentialy completed in
March 1984, with a slight delay from the original schedule and within the
original budget. This is an unusually successful implementation record
compared to most projects in Bangladesh and efforts have been made to analyze
the factors behind it and draw appropriate lessons for future projects. The
main reasons for the satisfactory implementation performance include (i) a
strong management team with centralized responsibilities for project
implementation and competent assistance from consultants; (ii) a limited



- 11 -
number of contracts, which minimized procurement difficulties; (iii) the
recruitment of a foreign drilling contractor; and (iv) intensive supervision
by IDA staff. Preparation of a project completion report is being initiated
and will be finalized upon completion of the CNG pilot project component,
which is expected by mid-1985.
II - THE BENEFICIARY
Background
2.01     Natural gas was first discovered by private companies - Pakistan
Petroleum Limited (PPL) at Sylhet, and Shell at Rashidpur, Kailashtila,
Habiganj, Titas and Bakhrabad. These companies, together with the Government-
owned Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC), were exploring for oil and
gas on a limited scale during the fifties and sixties. Imnediately after
independence the Government took over all the Pakistani companies including
PPL and OGDC and subsequently took over Shell's interest in Bangladesh. In
March 1972, through a Presidential decree, the Bangladesh Minerals, Oil and
Gas Corporation (BMOGC) was created. Through an amendment of 1974, BMOGC was
split into two sector corporations, the oil and gas development function being
vested in the Bangladesh Oil and Gas Corporation (Petrobangla).
Sector Corporation and Operating Companies
2.02     Under Presidential Order 27 of 1972, Petrobangla was established as
the state company entrusted with the exploration and production of oil, import
of oil, refining and marketing of petroleum products, and the exploration,
production, transmission and distribution of natural gas. In 1976 the func-
tions relating to the import of crude oil and to the refining and marketing of
petroleum products were transferred to a newly-established state company, the
Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC). In 1978, Toila Shandhani, a separate
state enterprise (previously OGDC) engaged in onshore exploration, was merged
with Petrobangla. The production, transmission and distribution of natural gas
are performed by five regional operating companies placed under Petrobangla's
supervision and control. Natural gas is being produced by three separate
companies: Bangladesh Gas Fields Company Limited (BGFCL), Bakhrabad Gas System
Limited (BGSL) and Sylhet Gas Fields Limited (SGFL), which operate the gas
fields of Titas and Habiganj, Bakhrabad, and Sylhet, Chhatak and Kailashtila,
respectively. While BGSL is also responsible for gas transmission and
distribution of the gas produced at Bakhrabad in its franchise area which
extends to Chittagong, two separate companies deal exclusively with gas
transmission and distribution: the Titas Gas Transmission and Distribution
Company (TGTDC) and the Jalalabad Gas Transmission and Distribution Company
(JGTDC). These companies purchase gas from BGFCL and SGFL and market it in
their own area of franchise. The attached map shows the location of the major
gas fields and transmission systems.
Organization and Management Capabilities
2.03     The responsibilities of Petrobangla, as defined in its articles of
association, include (i) exploration for oil and gas; (ii) planning and
execution of projects in the gas development sector; and (iii) supervision of
the activities of the operating companies engaged in gas production and
distribution. The corporation is organized in four directorates (planning,



- 12 -
finance, exploration and administration) and a Secretariat. Petrobangla's
organization chart is in Annex 2.01. Petrobangla's total staff is in excess
of 1,500, more than half of which is engaged in petroleum exploration. While
Petrobangla ensures the coordination am7ng the operating companies, which owe
their existence to historical factors 1 ,it is not a holding company as
such. Net income from the companies' operations is transferred directly to
the national account and Petrobangla's own administrative budget is met
largely through service charges from the five operating companies with the
exception of exploration expenses financed through bugetary allocations under
GOB's Annual Development Program (ADP). Petrobangla is answerable to the
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources and is managed by a Government-
nominated Board of Directors consisting of six members, including the
Chairman.  Petrobangla's record in discharging its function.s has ieen mixed.
While the corporation and its affiliates have a nucleus cf competent officers,
their performance has suffered from lack of continuity irA top management
and frequent reorganizations.
2.04     Petrobangla assumes direct responsibility for the implementation of
a large share of gas development projects; other projects are implemented
directly by the responsible operating company. The collective implementation
performance of the Petrobangla group has been weak, suffering from lack of
centralized project authority, insufficient delegation of responsibility to
project managers, instability in management appointments and delays in
procurement. These factors have had a particularly negative impact on the
implementation of drilling projects undertaken by Petrobangla's own drilling
division. The proposed project has been designed taking these deficiencies
into account. The issue of associating Petrobangla with a foreign oil company
as an instrument to strengthen its own capabilities as well as, more broadly,
the overall management of the gas sector has been raised with GOB in the
course of appraisal. There are several constraints to such an approach at
this time: from the oil company standpoint, there is minimal interest in a
relatively small gas development project exclusively dedicated to the domestic
market; the lack of convertible resources to remunerate an eventual foreign
partner is another serious impediment; on the Government side, there is a
preference, for the moment at least, to keep the management of gas resources
for domestic purposes under purely domestic ownership and control. However,
the draft articles of association of the new operating companies under which
1/ SGFL was established in 1972 (initially as Bangladesh Petroleum Limited)
when GOB took control of the assets of Pakistan Petroleum Limited and
entrusted their management to the newly created company. BGFCL was originally
incorporated as a private company under the name of Pakistan Shell Oil Co.
(PSOC), wholly owned by the Shell Company of Pakistan, a London-based
company. In February 1972, the Government of Bangladesh took over the entire
holdings in Bangladesh of PSOC and incorporated them as Bangladesh Shell Oil
Company (BSOC). In August 1975, BGFCL was established under the Companies Act
to operate the Titas and Habiganj gas fields, while TGTDC was created to
assume responsibility for BSOC's transmission and distribution assets. BGSL
was established in 1981 for the purpose of implementing the Bakhrabad Gas
Development Project and subsequently operating the gas field and the gas
system. Finally, JGTDC has recently been created to assume responsibility for
the transmission and distribution of gas within the Sylhet district (apart
from SGFL's direct sales to a few industries).



- 13 -
GOB intends to consolidate its petroleun exploration and gas development
interests in the near future (para 2.05) make provisions for the possibility
of non-Government participation. While the possibility of associating a
foreign partner to the development of the gas sector remains a remote possi-
bility at present, future expansion of the sector and the increased complexity
of managing it may progressively lead GOB to consider such an approach.
Prospects for private sector involvement would clearly be much brighter in the
context of an export scheme possibly coupled to an exploration venture and
preliminary interest in such a scheme has been expressed by one or two oil
companies. The proposed project is expected to clarify one fundamental
parameter for an export scheme: namely, by firming up the country's gas
reserves.
Proposed Reorganization
2.05     Partly for historical reasons, the sector suffers from a fragmented
organization which is responsible for severe management weaknesses. These
call for an integration of the various entities involved in the sector and
consolidation of available expertise. GOB is aware of the need to streamline
the sector's organization structure and intends to undertake a major reorgani-
zation of Petrobangla and its operating affiliates. Three new companies would
be created with responsibilities defined on a functional rather than regional
basis, i.e. for petroleum exploration and drilling, gas field development, and
gas transmission and distribution, respectively. The activities now carried
out by Petrobangla (for exploration) and the five operating companies would be
taken over by the three new companies. Provision will be made for the
transfer of commercial gas discoveries to the new gas production company at
least at cost. A fourth company with responsibility for the development of
solid minerals would also be established. These proposals, which could be far
reaching in their bearing on the company's future operational efficiency and
its capability to enter into joint ventures or other cooperation arrangements
with foreign companies, are the subject of discussions between IDA and the
Government. A diagnostic study of Petrobangla's organizational and managerial
weaknesses and of GOB's reorganization plans was carried out before credit
negotiations with the assistance of an international management consultant.
The study recommends consolidating all drilling activities within one single
entity and maintaining a strong centralized project implementation capability
within the organization, which Petrobangla intends to undertake. A timetable
for the proposed reorganization was agreed with GOB during negotiations (para
2.06). Technical assistance to assist with the accounting implications of the
reorganizatioo will be provided as a part of the proposed project.
Implementation Considerations
2.06     The implementation arrangements for the project, which are discussed
in paras 3.13 to 3.15, have been designed so as to insulate the project from
the instability in management which has characterized the sector. To ensure
the necessary coordination among the interrelated components of the project,
Petrobangla has agreed to set up a special project unit within its own organi-
zation for the specific purpose of implementing the project.  All available
funds (from GOB, IDA, UNDP and bilateral sources) will be onlent by GOB to
Petrobangla and separate project accounts maintained by the project unit for
each component so that the assets being acquired as part of the project (and
the corresponding liabilities) can be transferred to the corresponding
operating company upon completion of each component namely, wells and surface
facilities to the new gas producing company and pipelines to the new



- 14 -
transmission company. During negotiations, assurance was obtained from GOB
that it will submit an implementation plan for the proposed reorganization,
including a staffing plan for the two new gas companies satisfactory to IDA,
by December 31, 1985. The proposed reorganization will be implemented by
July 1, 1986 and the consolidated accounts, investment plan and projected
financial statements of each of the new companies submitted to IDA within
eighteen months of their incorporation (i.e. by the end of 1987).
Institution Building
2.07     The proposed reorganization is expected to have a beneficial impact
on the management capability of Petrobangla and its operating affiliates. In
particular, it will make it easier to deal with the two most critical issues
that needs to be addressed over the project period, i.e. the development of
effective gas field management practices and the introduction of appropriate
procedures to manage the integrated pipeline system that will result from the
proposed investment program. The proposed project will be linked to an
intensive training program aimed at strengthening the institution with
particular emphasis on the following two key areas:
i) Gas field management. A serious weakness in current operational
practices is the rather haphazard way in which the gas fields are
being developed and gas production planned. Gas production was
started by completing the discovery wells on the fields closest to
the markets and, when extra gas was needed, by drilling a few wells
next to the discovery wells. While this has provided an adequate,
albeit piecemeal, approach for the limited development of the gas
fields to date, the paucity of reservoir information is emerging as a
major constraint to further development. The sector is going through
a critical transition phase, passing from a time where the limited
information available from the discovery wells was a sufficient basis
to produce the small amounts of gas required, to a full development
phase designed to supply large quantities of gas over long periods.
Critical to the achievement of the ambitious production targets set
by GOB is the establishment of more sophisticated development and
production planning procedures in place of the rather mechanical
practices of today. For this purpose, Petrobangla has agreed to
create a new gas production department within its own organization.
This new department, to be located initially within the project unit
and transferred subsequently to the new gas production company, will
be responsible with the assistance of consultants for planning the
future development of the gas fields and optimizing flow rates at
each producing well.
(ii) Pipeline system management. While the three operating companies
now responsible for gas transmission and distribution collectively
have a body of well trained engineers and technicians, the integra-
tion of the various existing and proposed pipelines under a common
grid will greatly increase the complexity of managing the system.
The proposed project will strengthen the responsible entity in two



- 15 -
ways: (a) by providing the necessary telemetry equipment so that
centralized control of the transmission facilities can be effected;
and (b) by providing the necessary technical assistance in pipeline
system management.
Accounts and Audits
2.08     Petrobangla and its operating companies are required by law to
prepare full accounts of their financial position and the results of their
operation. Their accounting systems are reasonably good. The companies also
follow adequate internal control procedures and are subject to two types of
external audit: (a) external audit by a firm of chartered accountants, after
which the balance sheet and profit and loss account of each entity are to be
presented to the general meeting of the stockholders at least once during each
calendar year. Accounts are required to be ready for external audit within
nine months following the end of the financial year and are reviewed within
three months after submission; (b) each entity is also subject to the
Government's commercial audit whose report is submitted to the concerned
Ministry of the Government. during negotiations, agreement was reached with
Petrobangla and the beneficiary companies to the effect that they will supply
the Association with copies of their financial statements, including the
project accounts, duly audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General, and of
the independent corporate auditor's opinion, no later than nine months after
the end of each fiscal year.
Insurance
2.09     National statutes require that all insurance within Bangladesh as
well as on all imports be obtained from the state insurance corporation,
Sadharan Bima Corporation. Insurances involving high value risk which, in
the event of loss, are required to be replaced by imports involving foreign
exchange are reinsured abroad. The terms of reference of the consultants
responsible for implementation of the drilling and infrastructure components
will include provisions for assisting and advising the project unit on
adequate builders' risk coverage during the construction phase of the proposed
project. Following the completion and acceptance of the project facilities,
the beneficiary companies will take out a comprehensive insurance, which will
include third party liability and personnel and property damages.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
3.01     The project originated from a request from GOB for IDA assistance in
developing the gas fields of Kailashtila and Beani Bazar to take advantage of
the relatively high condensate content in the gas from these two fields. IDA's
role in shaping the project focussed on comparing the project to alternative
gas development schemes to ensure that the project constituted the most
attractive supply opt;^n available to Petrobangla. The economic analysis,
which was carried out at an early stage in the appraisal process on the basis
of the preliminary reserve and deliverability data, indicates that expected
revenues from recovered condensate and gas would make the proposed project the
most economic option in comparison with alternative development options.
Discussions between IDA staff and Petrobangla also emphasized the need to
appraise the country's gas fields, including the two fields proposed by GOB as



- 16 -
a basis for the project, as a critical prerequisite to committing funds to
development. Of equal importance were the discussions with GOB on the need
to draw lessons from the successful implementation of the Bakhrabad Gas
Development Project in designing the implementation framework for the
project. As a consequence, a project was designed whose main objectives are
to (i) expand gas supplies from the Kailashtila and Beani Bazar gas fields
in line with the incremental demand expected over the medium-term and produce
the country's first significant quantities of condensate; (ii) initiate an
appraisal drilling program at the main gas fields (Titas, Habiganj, Bakhrabad
and Rashidpur) to provide a preliminary basis for their long-term development;
and (iii) strengthen the operational management of Petrobangla.
Gas Demand and Supply Outlook
p
3.02     The availability of substantial reserves of natural gas offers
Bangladesh the possibility of building an energy base at an affordable cost.
In fact, since gas development costs are extremely low in comparison to those
of alterniative sources of energy there are clear economic advantages in
developing the gas resources as quickly as possible to replace other fuels
(including wood) and to give industry a competitive edge. Approximately two-
thirds of future gas requirements are expected to originate from capacity
additious in the power and fertilizer sectors, the remainder being on account
of other industrial, commercial and domestic consumers which would substitute
gas for imported liquid fuels. Peak daily demand is exrected to grow from 340
MKCFD in 1983/84 to close to 1,000 MMCFD by 1992/93, i.e. at an average annual
growth rate of 12% p.a. (roughly the pace of growth achieved over the past
seven years.) The power and fertilizer sectors would account for approxi-
mately 47% and 23% of the additional demand, respectively. Deceleration in
the pace of investment in these sectors would adversely impact on these demand
projections. With the slow development of export-oriented industries in
Chittagong, the growth in demand is expected to originate mostly in the Titas
Franchise Area (TFA), which includes Dhaka and surrounding areas and
constitutes the economic center of the country.
Peak Hour Gas Demand Forecast
(in MMCFD)
83/84-92/93
1983/84  1987/88    1989/90    1992/93    growth rate
(actual)                      _               (X p.a.)
Power                157      270         340        490          13.5
Fertilizer           112      180         180        275          10.5
Other                113      230         310        325          12.6
Total                382      680         830      1,090          12.4
Adjusted peak for
diversity         340       610         750        980          12.5
(of which TFA)      (287)    (470)       (550)      (700)         11.1
Source: Bechtel National and IDA estimates



- 17 -
3.03     The capacity of the Titas system is currently being expanded.  Three
additional wells are being drilled at Titas (for a total of eight) with ADB
financing and two at Habigani (for a total of four) with French bilateral
assistance. The capacity of the transmission system will also be expanded to
accommodate the increase in gas production. These projects have suffered
considerable delays, more particularly the drilling of the wells 6-7-8 at
Titas for which an ADB credit was approved in late 1980. The resulting gas
shortage (estimated at 30-50 NMCFD at peak) is having an adverse impact on the
economy. Power generation is being curtailed drastically and the transmission
of electricity to the western zone via the recently completed power inter-
connector has decreased markedly, diminishing the economic benefits to be
derived from this important investment. The tight gas supply situation is
partly responsible for the exceedingly high flow rates imposed on the
producing wells and for deferring much needed well work-over in the Titas and
Sylhet fields. The Bakhrabad Gas Development Project financed by IDA, OPEC
Fund and OECF (Japan) was completed in February 1984. Although demand is
building up more slowly than anticipated at appraisal, conversion of most of
the industries in Chittagong has been completed and the economy is likely to
benefit significantly from this project. In the Sylhet area, the exploratory
well at Kailashtila has been brought into production with Dutch assistance,
thus adding to the available supply in the Jalalabad system.
3.04     Existing capacity in the Bakhrabad and Jalalabad systems is expected
to remain sufficient to meet projected demand in their respective franchise
area until the end of the decade. In sharp contrast, the scheduled program
for drilling at Titas and Habiganj will barely meet demand in the TFA for 1985
and leave unmet a large portion of projected demand for the following years.
Petrobangla is counting on three additional supply sources to meet the
incremental demand in the TTA beyond 1985:  (i) surplus from the Bakhrabad gas
field until demand in Chittagong builds up, to be made available by a new
pipeline linking Bakhrabad to Demra (Dhaka city gate station), for which the
ADB is providing the necessary financing; (ii) additional wells at Titas and
Habiganj; and (iii) gas from the eastern fields (Kailashtila, Beani Bazar and
Rashidpur) to be made available by a new North-South (N/S) pipeline. Overall,
the supply situation in the TFA is expected to develop as follows:
Gas Supply/Demand Outlook in the TFA
(in MMCFD)
1988      1990
Demand (peak)                     470        550
Supply
Titas                           230        230
Habiganj                        150        150
Transfer from Bakhrabad a!       60         80
Eastern gas fields               60        180
Total                        500        640
a/ assuming additional reserves are proven at Bakhrabad



- 18 -
3.05     Because of the configuration of the pipeline system, transfer of gas
from Bakhrabad to the TFA will be limited to the demand in and around Dhaka,
currently 55 MMCFD at peak and expected to increase to about 80 MMCFD over the
medium-term. Although surplus from the existing five wells at Bakhrabad is
expected to dwindle over the years as demand in Chittagong builds up, transfer
of gas to Dhaka could continue if additional development wells are drilled at
Bakhrabad, which Petrobangla plans to do with ADB financing over the nexL few
years. However, prior to making arrangements for the transfer of gas to the
TFA on a continuous basis, it is necessary to prove additional reserves at
Bakhrabad. This is required to safeguard adequate gas reserves on a long-term
basis for the Chittagong area. Out of concern for this consideration, the
credit agreement for the Bakhrabad Project stipulated that GOB would dedicate
2.6 TCF for the Chittagong market. At present 1.4 TCF is proved for Bakhrabad
so that an additional 1.2 TCF of gas reserves would need to be identified and
proved from the "probable" and "possible" reserves.  This is one of the primary
considerations for proposing appraisal drilling at Bakhrabad. Further, while
temporary use of gas from Bakhrabad is justified to overcome thc. current
shortage in the TFA, it would be necessary, in order to safeguard future
supplies to the Chittagong area, to prove reserves at Bakhrabad of at least
2.6 TCF prior to making arrangements to transfer gas to the TFA on a long-term
basis. Pending evaluation of the Bakhrabad gas reserves there will be a joint
Petrobangla/IDA annual review of the supply/demand situation to ensure that
utilization of gas from Bakhrabad in the TFA remains within prudent limits.
Moreover, assurance was obtained from Petrobangla, during negotiations, that
once evaluation of the field has been completed consequent to the appraisal
drilling, transfer of gas to the TFA would take place only if the reserves
have been estimated to be above 2.6 TCF.
Project Design
3.06     Based on the objectives outlined in para 3.01, a project was
designed comprising two main components: an appraisal drilling program and
an infrastructure construction component. The drilling component will aim
at initiating the appraisal of (i) the eastern gas fields of Kailashtila and
Beani Bazar leading to their immediate development and (ii) the main gas
fields to provide the basis for their future development. The infrastruc-
ture component will include the gas and condensate treatment facilities and
pipeline links required for the development of the eastern gas fields.
(i) Development of Eastern Gas Fields
3.07     The proposed project will provide for the initial development of
the gas fields of Kailashtila and Beani Bazar located in the northeastern part
of the country. These fields are moderately rich in natural gas liquids
(NGLs) (1500-1800 bbl/day) and the additional revenue from NGLs (US$17-20
million per year) is e;pected to more than offset the cost of constructing
pipeline links from these fields to the main gas transmission grid (para
5.04). The project will also involve the initial development of the Rashidpur
gas field located near the pipeline route where two wells drilled by Shell in
the 1960's need to be worked over. Although the bulk of the incremental gas
production resulting from the project will be transferred to the TFA at



- 19 -
Ashuganj for use by large industrial consumers (mostly power and fertilizer),11
the project will also provide gas to small local consumers located along the
pipeline route. The project will be coordinated with and include the unfunded
portion of the on-going Sylhet Tea Estates Gas Supply Project financed by the
ODA (U.K.) and the Belgian Government, and which aims at distributing natural
gas to small industrial, commercial and domestic consumers in the
Shamshernagar, Srimangal and Rashidpur areas which the proposed main pipeline
will cross.
(ii) Appraisal of the Main Gas Fields.
3.08     A properly managed appraisal program of Bangladesh's gas fields has
long been recommended by all of the consultants who have attempted to plan a
technically sound development program of the country's gas resources. At
present, none of the fields has been properly appraised and recoverable
reserves cannot be established accurately on the basis of available informa-
tion. Past field development methods consisted essentially of drilling
clusters of wells around the original discovery. While such a practice
ensured that short term and relatively modest needs were catered to, it has
not been possible to determine the continuity and properties of the reservoirs
away from the discovery wells. This has worked relatively well until
recently, but is not a sound basis for further development. For instance,
the current high rates of extraction from the wells at Titas, if not monitored
very closely, could cause premature pressure drop and water coning problems,
leading to lower ultimate recovery. Close monitoring of well performance and
a rational appraisal program are required so that flow rates can be optimized
for each well, the recoverable reserves established and the ultimate recovery
potential of the fields maximized. The proposed project will initiate a
program of appraisal drilling and include reservoir studies to provide some of
the basic data needed to plan the future development of the main gas fields
(i.e., Titas, Rabiganj, Bakhrabad, and Rashidpur). In addition to the three
wells to be drilled at Kailashtila and Beani Bazar, the project includes the
drilling of six appraisal wells distributed as follows: two wells each at
Bakhrabad and Rashidpur and one well each at Titas and Habiganj. Any
modification to this proposed program will be subject to IDA approval.
3.09     The project will seek to build up Petrobangla's management capability
in the areas of field development and production planning. As indicated in
para 2.07, the proposed project will support the creation of a new gas
production and reservoir engineering department within Petrobangla so as to
provide the necessary framework within which the required changes in field
management procedures can be institutionalized. An important function of the
new department will be to supervise the production performance of each well
and plan for further field development. The necessary equipment for
continuous monitoring of well behavior will also be provided as part of the
project so that a reservoir management program (based on regular bottom-hole
pressure measurements) can be initiated. The proposed appraisal drilling
program is the logical follow-up to the detail seismic surveys to be
undertaken as part of the PEPP, which are expected to establish the aerial
extent of the structures, identify potentially producing horizons and help
1/ Base-load consumers are essential to optimize condensate recovery from
Kailashtila and Beani Bazar.



- 20 -
locate appraisal wells. Subsequent to the appraisal drilling, a reservoir
study would be commissioned for each producing field and a development plan
prepared for each reservoir. In order to ensure that future development
wells are optimally located Petrobangla has agreed to set up a committee
consisting of the necessary technical personnel, which will review the
proposed development plans and approve the well location after ensuring that
all data necessary for taking this decision has been secured. Further,
insofar as the gas fields covered under the proposed project are concerned,
future development drilling will be initiated only after a similar review of
the development plans has been carried out by IDA.
Gas and Condensate Reserves
3.10     The results of the exploratory well on the Kailashtila and Beani
Bazar structures and the available seismic data indicate that the combined
reserves of gas and condensate of the two fields provide a minimum basis to
justify the necessary infrastructure investment for their development,
including a 117-mile pipeline to bring the gas to the main consuming areas.
As a first step towards confirming the potential of the Kailashtila field, GOB
has conducted a long-term test of the exploration well which has been produced
intermittently since July 1983. The test has yielded positive results, which
has eliminated most of the risks that the reservoirs may not be commercially
producible.
3.11     The first two appraisal wells in the program will be drilled at
Kailashtila, followed by one at Beani Bazar. The decision to build the
pipeline will be confirmed following a review of the test results of these
three wells. The available geological evidence is sufficiently encouraging to
warrant proceeding with the design and engineering work for the infrastructure
investment without awaiting the results of these three wells.  The likelihood
of having to abort the project after one or more of the three wells have been
drilled is low and would not justify considering the construction of the pipe-
Line as a separate project, since this would entail the deferral of condensate
revenues by one to two years and require additional drilling elsewhere.
During negotiations assurance was obtained that the final decision on the size
and configuration of the surface installations and the transmission pipeline
will be made only after the well results have been analyzed and will be
subject to IDA's approval. Project cost estimates are based on the assumption
that a 20" transmission line will be built which is the largest size that can
reasonably be expected and also the most likely one. Credit disbursement
against expenses incurred under the infrastructure component of the project
will be subject to IDA's approval after satisfactory review of the well test
results.
Project Description
3.12     The project will consist of two components:
Part A: a gas field appraisal and development component, including:
(i)    the drilling of two wells at Kailashtila and one at Beani Bazar;
(ii)    the workover of the two existing wells at Rashidpur;
(iii)    the drilling of six wells to initiate the appraisal of the main
gas fields (Bakhrabad, Titas, Habiganj and Rashidpur);



- 21 -
(iv)    a reservoir study for each of the producing fields;
(v)    drilling supervision services, training in reservoir engineering
and drilling management and other consultancies;
(vi)    the completion as production wells of the appraisal wells where
gas is found in economically producible quantities; and
(vii)    reservoir measurement equipment.
Part B: a gas infrastructure component, which would involve:
(i)    the design and installation of gas and condensate treatment
facilities at Kailashtila, Beani Bazar and Rashidpur;
(ii)    the construction of a gas pipeline (N/S pipeline) approximately
117 miles in length from the Kailashtila gas field to Ashuganj
(via the Beani Bazar and Rashidpur gas fields);
(iii)    a condensate line from Beani Bazar to Kailashtila (10 miles);
(iv)    communication facilities and cathodic protection for the gas
pipeline;
(v)    local distribution facilities to small consumers along the gas
pipeline route (Sylhet Tea Estates Gas Supply Project);
(vi)    provision of project engineering, management and construction
supervision services required during the implementation of the
project;
(vii)    technical assistance and training in support of pipeline
operations; and
(vi_i)    technical assistance to further assess the viability of CNG
utilization in the transport, agriculture and other sectors.
Project Implementation
3.13     The record of project implementation in a'-most all sectors in
Bangladesh has been weak. This was recognized early in IDA's association with
the development of the gas sector. The framework designed for the implementa-
tion of the Bakhrabad Gas Development Project took implementation weaknesses
into account and subsequently proved effective in ensuring that the project be
implemented within the planned budget and schedule. Similar arrangements a.e
proposed for the present project. Besides simplifying the task of project
implementation by reducing the number of decision points within Petrobangla,
the proposed approach, which relies on a centralized project unit concept, is
expected to provide the most efficient way of coordinating the financial and
technical contributions anticipated from various sources. This approach to
project implementation is supported by the other donors who have already
indicated a firm interest in cofinancing the project (para. 3.18) and is, on
balance, the most appropriate management framework to safeguard efficient
implementation of the project without entrusting the development of the gas
fields to an operating oil company, which, as noted in para 2.04, is not
considered to be realistic in the short-term.



- 22 -
3.14     Project Implementation Unit.  Implementation responsibility for the
proposed project will be entrusted by Petrobangla to an independent project
implementation unit (PIU) placed under the authority of a project director
satisfactory to IDA. The PIU will be given adequate financial and administra-
tive authority to enable it to effectively discharge its responsibilities.
The project director will report directly to the Chairman. Appointment of the
unit head and key staff members of the project unit will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit. The project unit will have its own
accounting, procurement, transport, land acquisition, administrative and
technical sections. It will keep separate project accounts for the project
as a whole, as well as for each component. While concerns over the efficiency
of project implementation argue in favor of a centralized project unit,
efforts will be made to establish a project structure that will be easily
integrated into the future organizational structure when the project is
completed. The project unit will comprise two sections to deal with gas
production and transmission, respectively, so that the staff involved can be
easily transferred to the new companies and make use of the acquired
experience when the project is completed. Since the drilling program is
essentially a follow-up to the component of the PEPP dealing with the gas
fields, the project unit will also coordinate the activities of the PEPP.
3.15     Contractors and Consultant Services.  An important project objective
is to ensure that needed gas supplies are not delayed by inefficient drilling
as has been the case over the last few years when gas shortages have emerged
due to delays in drilling undertaken by Petrobangla's own drilling division.
To ensure that the project is implemented efficiently and in accordance with
industry standards, Petrobangla will recruit the services of foreign contrac-
tors for the drilling, well services, well completion, construction of surface
facilities and pipelaying. Domestic contractors will also be prequalified for
the construction of local distribution lines. To help design, supervise and
manage the project, Petrobangla will appoint three teams of consultants for
drilling management assistance, infrastructure engineeNing and construction
supervision, and reservoir engineering, respectively.  The drilling consul-
tants in consultation with the reservoir engineering team will help manage the
field appraisal program, being responsible in particular for the preparation
of bidding documents, evaluation of bids, preparation and supervision of the
drilling and work-over program, location of wells, evaluation of reservoir and
test data, production testing of the wells and commissioning of wellhead
facilities. Subsequent to the drilling, the reservoir engineering consultants
will undertake a separate reservoir management study for each producing
field. Separately, Petrobangla will appoint a qualified expatriate engiaeer-
ing consulting firm to design and supervise the construction of the gas
infrastructure component. The consultants will be responsible for optimizing
the design of the condensate and gas treatment facilities required for the
development of the Kailashtila, Beani Bazar ani Rashidpur gas fields as
discussed in para 3.11.
3.16     UNDP has expressed interest in financing the drilling management and
infrastructure engineering consultants.  Their terms of reference and condi-
tions of employment will be subject to IDA appr: ral. Further selection and
appointment of these consultants will be a conditioit of credit effectiveness.
Similar arrangements were put into place for the Bakhrabad Gas Development
Project and proved effective. Although the proposed project is somewhat more
complex, in particular as regards the drilling program which is expected to
raise arduous logistical problems, the proposed implementation arrangements
are considered satisfactory. Key decisions, including well location and



- 23 -
target depth, and the drilling and preliminary completion programs to be
prepared for each well, will be subject to IDA clearance. No well will be
drilled below the lowest identified pay zone in the field in question. The
design and engineering work on the pipeline and surface facilities will
proceed in parallel with the drilling of the first three wells at the
Kailashtila and Beani Bazar gas fields during the first year of project
implementation. Implementation of the project will proceed subsequently along
two separate lines: the construction of the N/S pipeline and the surface
facilities for the development of the eastern gas fields; and the continuing
appraisal of the main gas fields. The project will support pilot CNG
applications in the transport, agriculture and other sectors. Institutional
arrangements responsible for overseeing these activities, including the
establishment of an independent entity, satisfactory to the Association, will
be a condition of disbursement of funds under the CNG component. Funds will
be transferred directly by GOB to the new entity. The project implementation
schedule is given in Annex 5.05.
Project Costs
3.17     The proposed project is estimated to cost an equivalent of
US$221 million including physical and price contingencies, of which taxes and
duties would account for 7.3 million. Physical contingencies are estimated at
ISZ of base cost estimates which are expressed in 1984 prices. Price
contingencies are based on annual escalation rates of 8Z in 1985, 9% in 1986,
1987 and 1988, and 7.5% in 1989 for foreign costs and a straight 10% p.a. for
local costs.
Project Cost Summary
Tk million             US$ million
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total
Field Appraisal and Development
Kailashtila/Beani Bazar             94    441    535       3.6   17.0   20.6
Rashidpur work-over                 29      36     65      1.1    1.4    2.5
Appraisal of Main Gas Fields       172    788    960       6.6   30.3   36.9
Subtotal                      295  1,265  1,560      11.3   48.7   60.0
Infrastructure
Surface Facilities                  44    348    392       1.7   13.4   15.1
Pipeline and Ancillary Equipment  348  1,022  1,370       13.4   39.3   52.7
Distribution Lines                 130      78    208      5.0    3.0    8.0
Engineering & Const. Supervision   -       13G    130      -       5.0    5.0
Subtotal                      522  1,578  2,100      20.1   60.7   80.8
Consultancies & Training                -      217    217      -       8.3    8.3
Base Cost                              817  3,060  3,877      31.4  117.7  149.1
Physical Contingencies             123    459    582       4.7   17.7   22.4
Price Contingencies                292    995  1,287      11.3   38.2   49.5
Total Estimated Cost        1,232  4,514  5,746      47.4  173.6  221.0
Interest During Construction       478     -      478     18.4    -      18.4
Total Financing Required   1,710  4,514  6,224       65.8  173.6  239.4



- 24 -
Financing Plan
3.18     IDA is assisting GOB in putting together a satisfactory financing
plan for the project, in which bilateral aid funds are expected to play an
important role. GOB finds it difficult to identify suitable projects to
utilize bilateral aid which is usually associated with preferential procure-
ment and has requested IDA's assistance in identifying potential cofinancers
for the project. CIDA has expressed interest in financing the drilling
contract (including rig mobilization and drilling crew), the reservoir studies
and the portion of the training program related to reservoir engineering and
gas production management. ODA has expressed interest in financing the sur-
face facilities related to the Kailashtila gas field, the local distribution
component, the remaining portion of the training component (pipeline
management and accounting), and technical assistance in accounting and
management information systems. The Dutch Government has expressed interest
in financing the surface facilities related to the Beani Bazar and Rashidpur
gas fields. The UNDP has expressed interest in financing the drilling
management consultants and the infrastructure engineering consultants. The
cofinanciers have also indicated their wiLlingness to consider financing the
entire local cost of the respective packages to be funded by them except for
certain local costs noneligible under their policies. These include taxes and
duties, land acquisition and overheads. The IDA credit (US$110 million) will
cover the difference between the amount of cofinancing available (US$83
million) and 90Z of total project costs net of taxes and duties.  The credit
amount will represent 51% of the total project cost net of taxes and duties.
The proposed allocation is indicated below. To ensure prompt provision of
budgetar_1funds and appointment of project staff, approval of the Project
Proformaz- by GOB will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.  GOB would
further be required to fulfill all conditions of effectiveness of other
cofinanciers before the IDA credit is made effective. Efforts are made to
ensure that the multiplicity of cofinanciers is not detrimental to efficient
project implementation, as it has been the case for other projects, by
minimizing the number of cofinanciers involved in each particular component.
Moreoyer, IDA would take the lead in supervising the project irrespective of
its relative contribution to a particular component. The tentative financing
plan is as follows:
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign    Total
- -US$ million--
IDA                            6.4      103.6      110.0
CIDA (Canada)                  4.2       31.7      35.9
ODA (United Kingdom)           8.2       19.4       27.6
Gov't of the Netherlands       0.6        8.0        8.6
UNDP                             -       10.9       10.9
Gov't of Bangladesh           28.0         -       28.0
Total                         47.4      173.6      221.0
1/ An internal GOB document, the approval of which is a prerequisite for the
release of funds and hiring of staff.



- 25 -
3.19     On the basis of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the
Association, the proceeds of the IDA credit together with the proceeds of the
other cofinanciers to be used for the foreign exchange costs of developing the
eastern gas fields (US$114.4 million) will be onlent to Petrobangla at a rate
of 13% for a period of 15 years, including a grace period of five years.
Petrobangla will bear the foreign exchange risk involved in these borrowings.
The local cost portion of developing the eastern gas fields (US$37.1 million),
the full cost of appraising the main gas fields and funds made available for
training and technical assistance (US$65.6 million) will be passed on to
Pecrobangla as equity. A condition of effectiveness would be that the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and Petrobangla has been executed.
During negotiations, assurance was obtained from GOB that it will make
available to Petrobangla on a timely basis any local and foreign currency
funds including cost overruns that may be needed to complete the project.
Upon completion of the project, the assets acquired as part of the project and
the corresponding liabilities will be transferred to the two new gas companies
to be established. US$3.9 million will be passed on by GOB to the new entity
to be established to undertake CNG pilot projects as equity.
Procurement and Consultants
3.20     Four main single responsibility contracts are envisaged under the
project: pipelaying; surface facilities (two contracts); and drilling. The
pipelaying contract to be financed by IDA will be awarded to an expatriate
contractor to be selected, after prequalification, following international
competitive bidding procedures. The contract related to drilling will be
financed by CIDA and the contractor will be selected in accordance with the
procedures of the Canadian Government. Similarly, the two contracts for the
surface facilities, to be financed by the ODA and the Dutch Government, will
be entered in accordance with the procedures of the British Government and the
Dutch Government, respectively. All goods and services financed from the
proceeds of the IDA credit will be procured under ICB in accordance with the
procedures set forth in the Association's procurement guidelines, with the
exception of (i) items of a specialized nature available from a iimited number
of suppliers, such as well services (i.e. logging, mud services, cementing and
testing); and (ii) items costing less than US$100,000, and therefore not of
sufficient value to attract wide international competition, up to an aggregate
of US$5.5 million (including US$500,000 for the CNG component), which may be
procured through limited international bidding. In addition, contracts for
civil works under the CNG component will be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) up to an aggregate amount of US$300,000. All
bidding packages for US$500,000 or above (US$50,000 for goods and US$100,000
for civil works under the CNG component) would be subject to prior review by
IDA. Goods or equipment available from local suppliers would be granted the
normal 15% preference or the equivalent of the customs duty, if less, in bid
evaluation. Qualified domestic construction contractors would be granted a
7.5 % preference. Technical assistance will be provided under three main
contracts, for drilling management assistance, reservoir engineering, and
infrastructure engineering and construction supervision, respectively. The
drilling advisory services are estimated to require about 170 man-months, the
reservoir engineering studies about 160 man-months and infrastructure
engineering and construction supervision about 280 man-months.



- 26 -
3.21     The procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.  The
figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed from the
proceeds of the IDA credit.
Procurement Table
(US$ million)
Procurement Method              Total
Project Component                        ICB  Cofinancing a/ Other b/   N.A. c/  Cost
Gas Field Appraisal
and Development
Site Preparation                      -        -           4.6       -         4.6
Rig Costs                             -      30.7          0.1       -        30.8
Well Services                         -        -          19.8       -        19.8
-        -        (19.5)              ( 19.5)
Well Materials and Consumableo      22.5       -           3.6      3.2        29.3
(22.5)      -        ( 2.7)       -      ( 25.2)
Drilling Supervision                 4.3       -            -        -         4.3
Subtotal                       26.8     30.7        28.1       3.2       88.8
(22.5)   ( - )       (22.2)    ( - )    ( 44.7)
Infrastructure
Surface Facilities                    -      21.5          0.1      0.9       22.5
Pipe & Ancillary Equipment          28.2       -           3.8      2.9       34.9
(28.2)               C 3.0)              ( 31.2)
Pipe Laying Contract                37.1       -           6.9        -       44.0
(30.2)                                   C 30.2)
Distribution Lines                    -      11.7          0.1      0.3       12.1
Engineering                          6.6       -            -        -         6.6
71.9     33.2        10.9       4.1      120.1
Subtotal                      (58.4)   ( - )       ( 3.0)    ( - )    ( 61.4)
Consultancies & Training                 3.1      8.2          0.8        -        12.1
(3.1)      -         (0.8)        -      ( 3.9)
TOTAL                              101.8     72.1         39.8      7.3      221.0
(84.0)   ( - )       (26.0)    ( - )    (110.0)
a/  According to the procurement procedures of each cofinancier.
h/ Force Account, LIB and LCB
c/  Customs duties
Disbursement
3.22     Disbursement for goods and equipment would be made against 100% of
the foreign expenditures of items directly imported or the ex-factory cost if
manufactured locally and 80% of total expenditures for items procured locally
off-the-shelf. Disbursement for well services would be made against 100% of



- 27 -
the foreign expenditures and 80% of the local expenditures. Disbursement
would be against 100X of the foreign expenditures of civil works (except for
the CNG component in which case disbursement would be against 100% of foreign
expenditures and 80Z of local expenditures of civil works). Disbursement
would be against OOZ of consultant services. In order to facilitate
disbursement against procurement of goods and consultant services, a Special
Project Account would be established in the Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. The initial deposit into the
Special Account would be US$5 million. The estimated disbursement schedule
shown in Annex 5.04 is in line with the average disbursement profile for
energy projects (excluding power) approved between FY73 and FY83. The closing
date would be June 30, 1990.
Training
3.23     The proposed project will include a training component focused on the
specific areas where Petrobangla's weaknesses are most critical, i.e. produc-
tion and reservoir engineering and drilling management. Training will also be
provided in natural gas engineering, pipeline construction and maintenance,
communications, telemetering and corrosion engineering. Depending on job
classification and needs, training will consist of technical courses and
assignments with companies abroad and on-the-job training during engineering,
implementation and commissioning of the project. The terms of reference of
the consultants will contain specific provisions for assisting Petrobangla
with the preparation and implementation of a training program for its
personnel in the above areas.
Ecology and Safety
3.24     Drilling, production operations and pipeline construction pose
minimal hazards to the ecology. However, the proper handling of condensate
and liquid wastes is a topic of concern. All condensate and other liquid
products will be kept in closed systems and safety precautions taken according
to normal industry field practices to minimize the risks involved. Although
the water separated from the condensate and gas flows may be saline, test data
obtained so far do not warrant any special disposal measures. However,
hydrocarbon liquids/water separators (fire traps) will be installed near the
storage facilities to avoid any mishap that could be caused by the drainage of
liquids.
3.25     The gas pipeline will be buried and all drainage and other surface
features restored after construction. Moreover, compensation will be made for
any crop damage and loss of land that may result from the project. Although
pipelines generally have a good safety record compared to other modes of
transportation, there is a danger that leaks could create fire hazards. These
risks will be minimized by strict adherence to internationally accepted safety
codes in design and installation, application of cathodic protection on the
pipelines and the installation of a telecommunication system in the area of
operations. The necessary equipment is being provided as part of the
project. Moreover, operational staff will be trained in safety and preventive
maintenance and required to adhere to a strict schedule of safety drills.



- 28 -
Land and Right-of-Way
3.26     Petrobangla will have to acquire land for the well sites and the
surface production and condensate treating facilities, as well as rights-of-
way and easements along the pipeline route and at pipeline interconnections
and terminals. No major problems are foreseen in this respect since GOB can
exercise its power of eminent domain on behalf of Petrobangla. However, to
ensure that no costly delays will occur, a condition of the proposed credit is
that no contract for civil works for the drilling, surface facilities and
pipeline components of the project shall be awarded until the necessary land
or right-of-way required for the particular component of the project has been
acquired.
Reporting Requirements
3.27     Petrobangla will submit to IDA, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, work schedules and any other reports and contracts
connected with the project. Any modifications from the agreed work programs,
costs and expenditures will be promptly reported to the Association. In
addition, Petrobangla will be requested to submit to IDA quarterly and annual
progress reports prepared along formats to be agreed with the Association and
showing cost estimates, expenditures, procurement status and disbursements. A
project completion report will be submitted by Petrobangla upon completion of
the project.
IV - FINANCIAL ASPECTS
4.01     As already indicated (para 2.05), it is GOB's intention to merge the
five gas companies operating under Petrobangla's jurisdiction within two
single companies with country-wide responsibilities for gas production and gas
transmission and distribution. The assets to be acquired under the project
will be transferred to these two companies upon completion of physical
works. Since no decision has yet been made on the basis upon which the
accounts of the individual companies will be consolidated, in particular on
the method to be followed to apportion the outstanding liabilities of BGSL, no
firm projections on the new companies' financial position can be prepared at
this point. In the absence of projected consolidated accounts, the following
paragraphs, first, review the financial position of the operating companies,
their plans for expansion and the way these are expected to affect their
financing standir4, and then discuss the expected financial results of the
project and the proposed financial covenants which would apply to the new
companies unon enaction of the proposed reorganization.
4.02     Three of the five operating companies, BGFCL, SGFL and TGTDC, have
been operating since Independence. Their financial results are summarized in
the followin table. BGSL was established in 1980 to implement and operate
the Bakhrabad Gas Development Project which has recently been completed and
for which no operational data are available as yet. JGTDC is much smaller
than the other companies and is responsible for gas distribution in the Sylhet
area with no significant bearing on the financial outlook of the sector as a
whole.



- 29 -
Financial Suimmary (FY83)
(Tk million)
BGFCL    SGFL    TGTDC
Revenues                            119        75      868
Operating Profit                     67        63       84
Net Profit after taxes               27        31       14
Total Assets                        967      403    1,469
Return on Average Ne;
Fixed Assets (X v               12.8     68.0      12.4
Return on Average Equity (X)        6.3      18.6      6.2
Debt-Service Coverage              22.3       -        1.8
Debt/Equity Ratio                  4:96    0:100      68:32
a/  Net profit after tax plus interest divided by average net
fixed assets plus exploration cost when appropriate.
4.03     The profitability and financial structure of the two gas producing
companies (BGFCL and SGFL) are adequate. Both companies are expanding and/or
rehabilitating their facilities, thereby increasing their indebtedness; their
position, however, is expected to remain financially sound, with a debt equity
ratio of no more than 50:50, which is adequate to their operations. In
comparison, the financial structure of TGTDC appears excessively imbalanced
and its profit level inadequate. In the past TGTDC has relied heavily on
long-term debt as a means of financing its expansion program. Insufficient
income margins have at times impaired its debt service capability, forcing GOB
to convert part of the company's outstanding debt to equity in 1979. This,
however, was insufficient to prevent TGTDC from being in default with a
financial covenant stipulated under an ADB credit limiting its debt equity
ratio to 70:30 during the following years. GOB has again recently converted
part of TGTDC's outstanding debt to equity, which presently allows TGTDC to be
in compliance with the ADB debt/equity covenant.
4.04     BGSL's gas sales in the Chittagong area are expected to progress more
slowly than anticipated at appraisal, largely due to delays in the construc-
tion of a new fertilizer factory. As noted in para 3.04, BGSL is undertaking
the construction of a pipeline link between Bakhrabad and Dhaka so that
surplus gas at Bakhrabad can be used in the Dhaka area which is currently
facing a rather severe gas shortage. Upon completion of this pipeline in June
1985, BGSL sales will reach a level in excess of the anticipated figure,
albeit at the cost of additional investment in transmission.
4.05     Overall, the margins on gas production and transmission necessary to
ensure the financial viability of the project are expected to provide a sound
basis for the companies' existing and planned assets. As recovered condensate



- 30 -
becomes an increasingly important source of revenue, the financial outlook of
the gas production company is expected to remain satisfactory. The financial
outlook of the future gas transmission company, on the other hand, will require
close monitoring. Assurances were received from GOB during negotiations that
it will provide the necessary conditions for the new companies to be finan-
cially viable and in a position to service the debt to be incurred for the
proposed project-. The fi nancial viability of the new companies will depend
on two main factors: (i) the level of long-term indebtedness; and (ii) the
margins allowed by GOB on their gas sales. Accordingly, assurances were
obtained from GOB during negotiations that (i) the debt equity ratio of the
new gas producing company will not exceed 60:40 and that of the new gas
transmission and distribution company will not exceed 70:30; (ii) the margins
left to the two companies on their gas sales will be sufficient to assure that
adequate internally generated funds are available to the companies to meet
their debt service requirements and current expenses, maintain an adequate
working capital position and finance a reasonable proportion of their future
investment program; and (iii) the two companies will maintain their accounts
receivable at not more than three months of gas sales. The Association
received assurances from GOB during uegotiations that it will be party to a
review of the financial position of the new companies when they are esta-
blished and that the operating companies will be provided with adequate
financial conditions to be in a position to meet the above covenants which
are expected to ensure their financial viability.
Financial Analysis of the Project
4.06     The project is expected to have a financial rate of return of 32Z
before taxes but excluding excise duties accruing directly to GOB and a net
present value of US$98 million equivalent in 1984 prices. The present value
of GOB revenues derived from excise duties is estimated at about US$100
million equivalent. The project, which will be split between the two new gas
companies, will represent a major addition to their assets. For this reason,
the following paragraphs discuss the financial performance of the gas field
operations and pipeline operations separately and draw conclusions on the
required increase in the margin allowed by GOB on the operations of the
transmission entity for each component of the project to operate profitably.
4.07     Gas Production.  The projected income statements, balance sheets and
statements of sources and applications of funds for the gas field development
component of the project are shown as Annexes 6.01 to 6.03. Salient financial
indicators of project operations over the next ten years are presented below:



- 31 -
Gas Field Development - Financial Summary
(in millions of Takas)
Fiscal Year                           1988      1989     1990      1993
------------forecast-------
Margin on Gas Sales (Tk/MCF)           1.5       1.5       1.7      2.2
Sales
Gas (BCF)                           20       61        62        65
Condensate ('000 bbl)                -       594      567      492
Revenue (net of excise duties)
Gas                                 29       93       103       144
Condensate                           -    1,039       991       861
Total                               29    1,132    1,094       1005
Operating Income                      (120)      852      838       803
Interest Payment                         -       212      201       138
Income Tax                               -       277      342       357
Net Profit After Taxes                (120)      347      279       292
Operating Income
as a Z of Revenue                   (415)       75       77        80
Return on Average
Net Fixed Assets (%)                  (7)       28       27        33
Debt Service Coverage                    -       3.8      2.0       2.0
4.08     The financial projections indicate that (i) the profitability of
project operations is expected to be high owing to the large condensate
revenue the project will generate, and relatively insensitive to the level of
gas tariffs (net of excise duty) which would contribute only marginally to the
total revenue; and (ii) the project would generate a taxable income in all
years except FY88.
4.09     Gas Transmission and Distribution.  The projected income statements,
balance sheets and statements of sources and applications of funds of the
project are shown in Annexes 6.04 to 6.06. Salient financial indicators of
project operations over the next ten years are presented below:
Gas Transmission & Distribution - Financial Summary
(in millions of Takas)
Fiscal Year                  1988   1989   1990   1993
Margin on Sales to TFA
(Tk/MCF)                   7.3    8.0    8.9   11.8
Operating Income              63    304    383    693
Net Profit after Taxes         28     41     80    244
Operating Income
as a Z of Revenue           11      18     20      26
Return on Average
Net Fixed Assets (Z)          1     10     13      24
Debt Service Coverage         -      2.4    1.4    1.8



- 32 -
4.10     The margin presently left by GOB to the gas transmission and distri-
bution companies (Tkl.60/MCF on sales to power and fertilizer factories) will
have to be substantially adjusted for the project to operate profitably. The
required increase, which is in line with the LRMC estimates of transmitting
gas to large consumers, is particularly critical for the project finances
because the bulk of its output will go to power and fertilizer units in the
TPA, leaving little opportunity to take advantage of the cross-subsidization
implicit in the current tariff structure. The above projections assume
increases in the sale price of natural gas of 20% at the beginning of FY86,
FY87 and FY88, with the margins left to the gas producing company and the
excise duty rates being assumed to increase by the expected rate of inflation
(lOZ). A flat 10% escalation rate is applied on the following years. The
financial projections indicate that on the basis of these assumptions, which
are ia line with the understandings reached with GOB on gas tariff adjustments
for FY86 and FY87 (para 1.19), (i) the project operations would generate
adequate profit levels; and (ii) the project would generate a taxable income
in all years.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Justification for the Gas Development Component
5.01     The development component of the project will generate substantial
additional quantities of natural gas and condensate. On the basis of conser-
vative estimates of future production levels, the project is expected to
produce about 0.9 TCF of gas and 8 million bbl of condensate over a twenty-
year period (excluding any production from the appraisal wells at the main
gas fields). The ultimate recovery potential of the Kailashtila gas field
is likely to be well in excess of the forecast cumulative production. While
additional wells would be required to increase production above the projected
level, the economic viability of the proposed project in relation to alterna-
tive gas development schemes, which is discussed below, would clearly be
further strengthened in the event gas and condensate production at Kailashtila
would exceed the projected figures.  There is no unambiguous method to
evaluate the project benefits. Assuming that demand for gas is inelastic, gas
sales can be valued on the basis of the thermal equivalence of the assumed
replaced source of energy, which provides an upper estimate of the project
returns (para 5.02). A floor estimate of project returns is obtained by
assuming high price elasticity and valuing the gas at its sales price, which
in this case is projected to reach the LRMC of extraction and distribution
plus a premium for depletion. The sensitivity analysis presented in para 5.03
assumes implicitly a straight line, downward sloping demand curve for natural
gas. To confirm chat the project represents the most beneficial way of
producing gas in the required quantities, the project is compared to the
average marginal investment in the sector (paras 5.04 and 5.05).
5.02     Most of the gas produced by the project will be consumed in the TFA
where additional capacity in power generation is expected to account for more
than half of the incremental demand for natural gas over the next ten years.
Smaller quantities of gas (about 5% of total output) will be sold to commercial
entities (i.e. brick kilns, tea estates, etc.), small-scale industries and
domestic consumers along the pipeline route. The internal rate of return on
investment was first estimated by valuing the gas produced on the basis of the
thermal equivalence of the source of energy it is expected to replace. In
the absence of natural gas resources, Bangladesh's new power stations would
probably be burning coal and the cost of imported coal (US$64/ton) has been
used to value the gas to be used in the power sector. Fuel oil, coal and
firewood prices with the relevant thermal equivalencies were used to value the



- 33 -
gas in other applications. The project's benefit streams also include revenue
from the sale of condensate fractions. Recovered condensate from Beani Bazar
and Kailashtila would partly substitute imported crude and petroleum
products. Its composition is, in both cases, roughly 70% gasoline and 30Z
kerosene lus diesel. The kerosene and diesel components would directly
substitute imported middle distillates. As for the gasoline component,
although this is a surplus product in Bangladesh due to the imbalance between
the refinery yields and the pattern of petroleum products consumption, its
production would result in additional exports of naphtha and, therefore, in
added foreign exchange earnings for the country. The economic value of
condensate has accordingly being estimated on the basis of the FOB price of
naphtha and CIF price of high-speed diesel in a 70-30 ratio. Because natural
gas is a depletable resource, its supply cost must include an allowance for
the lost opportunity of future use. This allowance was estimated on the
conservative assumptions that the volume of reserves will remain fixed at
their currently estimated level and that coal will be the source of energy
used once gas reserves become insufficient tco meet demand. The depletion
charge is expected to increase in real terms at a rate equal to the social
discount rate (12%) so that it progressively closes the difference between the
LRMC of producing gas and the cost of replacement fuel. On the basis of these
assumptions, the economic rate of return of the project is estimated at about
90X. (Details are in Annexes 7.01 and 7.02.)
5.03     The significance of this estimate of the project internal rate of
return is predicated on the key assumption that all factors outside the gas
sector remain unchanged irrespective of the project being undertaken. This,
however, is an untenable assumption in the case of Bangladesh where the gas
sector has such a critical bearing on the economy as a whole. Since most of
the incremental demand for gas is induced (specially in the power sector) the
above estimate, which in effect is based on the assumption of an inelastic
demand for gas, fails to provide a realistic assessment of the return of the
project to the economy by valuing the gas produced at import parity.
Estimating the rate of return cn investment in the gas sector would
theretically require an evaluation of the impact of the availability of gas
resources on the rest of the economy, for which there is no clear methodo-
logy. The gas sector holds the most promising development opportunity for
Bangladesh and one can reasonably assume that the rate of growth of GDP (3.3%
p.a. over the last five years and expected to average 4-5Z p.a. over the next
five years) would be significantly reduced in the absence of domestic gas
reserves. While there is no meaningful single measure of the benefits to be
derived from the proposed gas development project, such a project is clearly
among the highest priorities of the country and is considered as such by
GOB. A sensitivity analysis was conducted to attempt to capture the influence
of low gas prices on consumption levels. Assuming a straight line demand
curve, gas production was valued at the average of the cost of gas and the
cost of replaced energy.  The internal rate of return of the project is
estimated on this basis at about 60% 1
5.04     Several alternatives to increase the availability of gas in the TFA
were compared in the course of project preparation and economic analysis has
been focused on the more meaningful task of comparing these alternatives.
Additional gas supplies could be made available in the TFA at a cheaper
1/ The most conservative estimate of the internal rate of return based on
valuation of benefits at the projected sales price amounts to 25%, the same as
the equalizing discount rate discussed in para 5.04 because of the equality of
price to LRNC plus depletion premium.



- 34 -
investment cost by accelerating the development of the Titas and Habiganj gas
fields and/or the Bakhrabad gas field. Both these options would require
smaller additional investment gas transmission than the proposed project. The
preference for the project is predicated on the additional revenues to accrue
from the recovery of condensate which are expected to more than account for
the additional capital cost. This can be illustrated in several ways. The
long-run marginal cost of supplying gas to large consumers within ;4e TFA from
the Titas and Habigani gas fields has been estimated at US$.26/MCX- . In
comparison, the implicit incremental cost of gas for the proposed project
after the condensate revenues have been credited to the cost streams is
negative (i.e. the present value of condensate revenues is expected to exceed
that of investment and operating costs). This is equivalent to saying that
the present value of the proposed project is higher than that of a project of
equivalent p,pacity predicated on the development of the Titas and Habiganj
gas fields - . An equivalent way of analyzing the project is to value the gas
produced at US$0.26/MCF, i.e. the system long-run marginal cost of production
and transmission. The equalizing rate of return calculated on this basis is
about 252.
5.05     Sensitivity analysis on the last case were conducted for several
alternative assumptions. The results suggest that the economic rate of return
on the project should remain higher than the discount rate of 12Z (i.e. the
internal rate of return of a marginal extension of the system under similar
assumptions) and the proposed project remain the most attractive gas supply
option even under the adverse circumstances where the project cost would be
higher than estimated by 50% or the condensate revenues lower than expected by
50% (the internal rate of return works out at about 17% in either case).
Justification for the Gas Field Appraisal Component
5.06     The case for initiating an appraisal drilling program at this stage
has been made in Chapter 3. The benefits to be derived from the project,
while not easily quantifiable, will be tangible and of critical importance to
the sector. The program will provide the basis for determining the optimum
deliverability of each field by assessing the production rates and number of
wells necessary to maximize the ultimate recovery potential. Moreover, each
appraisal well is expected to be completed as producer, vhereby contributiag
to the gas supply available to consumers as described ia para 3.04.
Project Risks
5.07     In considering the geological risk that the app-sisal drilling
program will result in some dry holes which cannot be completed as producers
and so will not contribute to the gas supply, three elements should be taken
into account: (i) structural uncertainty; (ii) reservoir properties; and
(iii) mechanical failure in the course of drilling. Wells drilled in the past
on the basis of the old single-fold seismic data have been found to fit
prognosis. With the additional detail seismic to be acquired during the next
two years, the risk of the wells not being on structure will be negligible.
On the other hand, the reservoir properties in this geological setting are
variable, and it is very likely that the sands are not continuous. There is
therefore the risk of one of more appraisal wells not producing commercial
1/ Bechtel Nat., Gas Development Study, 1984.
2/ Precise present value calculations would face similar methodology
difficulties as ERR calculations.



- 35 -
quantities of gas because of the possible lack of continuity in the
reservoirs. However, this is the main reason why the appraisal drilling
program is required at this stage. The risk of a dry well should be viewed
as the normal cost to be carried in order to optimize reservoir drainage
and maximize the ultimate recovery of the fields. Appraisal wells could be
drilled either at the presumed outer limit of the fields to confirm its
boundaries at the outset or, alternatively, at increasing step-out distances
from existing wells to alleviate the risk of their being dry. The latter
course will be followed to have the best chance of meeting the twin purposes
of improving reservoir knowledge and using the wells as producers. Finally,
the possibility of a total mechanical failure resulting in the loss of the
well is also negligible, provided a competent drilling contractor is hired and
the equipment used (particularly casing) is subject to the normal tests before
being used.
5.08     A separate form of risk relates to the excess gas production capacity
that may result from the various investments contemplated by Petrobangla for
implementation over the next five years. The mission considers that this risk
is relatively small in relation to the total investment package (at most the
equivalent of 2-3 extra wells which would be absorbed within 1 or 2 years)
and, on balance, worth taking. Moreover, the possibility that delays will
occur in the proposed drilling program, particularly as regards the wells to
be drilled by Petrobangla (outside the scope of the proposed project), must be
considered given the usually poor implementation experience of development
projects in Bangladesh. Secondly, the supply forecast shown in para. 3.04
assumes a 100% success ratio for the appraisal drilling program; while this
is expected to materialize, given the conservative nature of the appraisal
outsteps to be used, the projected balance does indicate a maximum supply
position.
VI. AGREEMENTS
6.01     During negotiations the following issues were raised with GOB and
satisfactory assurances were obtained that:
(i)     natural gas prices will be increased by 20% by July 1, 1985, and
again by 20% by July 1, 1986, and also that beginning July 1987 and
thereafter, gas prices will be adjusted in accordance with a program
to be agreed with IDA based on long run marginal cost of extraction,
transmission and distribution plus depletion allowance (para 1.19);
(ii)     GOB will regularly review with IDA the magnitude of the depletion
premium to be incorporated in the calculation of the economic cost of
gas (para 1.19);
(iii)     GODB will submit an implementation plan for the proposed reorganiza-
tion of Petrobangla and its operating affiliates, including a staff-
ing plan satisfactory to IDA, by December 31, 1985 (para 2.06);
(iv)     GOB will ensure that the proposed reorganization is implemented by
July 1, 1986 (para 2.06); and



- 36 -
(v)     GOB will make available to Petrobangla on a timely basis any local
and foreign currency funds including cost overruns that may be needed
to complete the project (para 3.19).
6.02     During negotiations, agreement was reached with Petrobangla that:
(i)    Petrobangla will ensure that the consolidated accounts, investment
plan and projected financial statements of each of the new gas
operating companies will be submitted to IDA within eighteen months
of their incorporation (para 2.06);
(ii)    Petrobangla will establish a new gas production and reservoir
engineering department (para 2.07);
(iii)    Petrobangla and its operating affiliates will forward audited
financial statements of their operations to the Association within
nine months after the end of each fiscal year (para 2.08);
(iv)    following the evaluation of the Bakhrabad gas field to be undertaken
as a part of the appraisal drilling progran, transfer of gas from
Bakhrabad to the Titas Franchise Area will take place only if the
reserves at Bakhrabad have been estimated to be above 2.6 TCF (para
3.05);
(v)    Petrobangla will set up a comnittee consisting of the necessary
technical personnel to review the development plans to be prepared by
the reservoir engineering consultants and approve the location of
future development wells (para 3.09);
(vi)    future development drilling at the gas fields covered under the
proposed project will be subject to the prior review by IDA of the
proposed development plans (para 3.09);
(vii)    decisions on well location and target depth, as well as the dAilling
and preliminary completion programs, for the wells to be drilled as
part of the project will be subject to IDA's approval (para 3.16);
(viii)    no well included in the project will be drilled below the lowest
identified pay zone in the field in question (para 3.16);
(ix)    no contract for civil works for the drilling, surface facilities
and pipeline components shall be awarded until the necessary land
has been acquired for that particular component of the project
(para 3.26);
(x)    Petrobangla will provide the necessary conditions for the new gas
production company to maintain a debt equity ratio that will not
exceed 60:40, and for the new gas transmission and distribution
company to maintain a debt equity ratio that will not exceed 70:30;
for both companies to generate adequate funds to meet their debt
service requirements and current expenses, maintain an adequate



- 37 -
working capital position and finance a reasonable proportion of their
future investment program; and for both companies to maintain their
accounts receivable at not more than three months of gas sales (para
4.05).
6.03     Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit will be:
(i)    the increase of natural gas prices by at least 20Z on the average
(para 1.19);
(ii)    the establishment of the project implementation unit and appointment
of the unit head and key staff members (para 3.14);
(iii)    the selection and appointment of drilling management and
infrastructure engineering consultants under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.16);
(iv)    the fulfillment of all conditions of effectiveness of other
cofinanciers by the Borrower (para 3.18);
Cv)    the approval by the Borrower of the Project Proforma for carrying out
the project (para 3.18); and
Cvi)    the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and Petrobangla (para 3.19).
6.04     Disbursement of IDA funds against expenses incurred under Part B of
the project will be subject to IDA's approval after satisfactory review of the
test results of the three wells to be drilled at Kailashtila and Beani Bazar
under Part A of the project (para 3.11).
6.05     A condition of disbursement for the CNG component would be the
establishment by GOB of an independent entity to oversee CNG applications in
the transport, agriculture and other sectors (para 3.16).
6.06     Based on the agreements reached on the items listed above, the
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$110 million.



- 38 -                  ANEX 1.01
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Petroleum Geology and Prognosis
1.       Most of Bangladesh is underlain by a large deltaic complex which has
been laid down since Oligocene times (some 20 million years ago).  Deltaic
deposition began in the NE and continued extending towards the southeast and
south, reaching the present coastline iu Pliocene or Pleistocene times. At
present the center of deposition is in the deen offshore where sand and mud
flows are being deposited by the discharge from the Ganges and the Jamuna
river systems. The deltaic sediments are generally very thick, probably
attaining thicknesses of the order of 20,000 meters in the deepest point of
the basin. Typically, they consist of alternating sands and shales with the
shales containing organic material which in favorable circumstances becomes
the source of oil and gas.
2.       Many of the large deltas of the world contain large reserves of oil
and gas. Notable examples in the Far East are the Raram Delta in Brunei-
Sarawak (3 billion barrels of oil, and 6 Tcf of gts), the Mahakam Delta in
East Kalimantan (1 billion barrels of oil). The Ganges-Jamuna delta offers a
similar oil geological setting, and conditions are considered favorable for
large accumulations of hydrocarbons. Large accumulations of gas have already
been discovered in eleven fields in the northeast of the country with a total
of some 11 Tcf of gas in place.
3.       Geologically Bangladesh can be divided into a number of well-defined
structural/stratigraphical units: The Bengal Basin proper underlies most of
Bangladesh and extends out into the Bay of Bengal. The frame of the basin is
formed by a series of massifs of stable basement rocks where the sedimentary
cover is thin. The Bengal basin is bounded to the west by the Indian Shield
which has remained as a stable block since Paleozoic times. To the north the
basin is bounded by the Shillong Massif which is linked to the Indian Shield
through the Rangpur Saddle, and to the east by the mountains of the Arakan-
Chin-Yoma fold system. Finally, the southern limit of the basin is far out
into the Bay of Bengal towards the edge of the continental shelf.
4.       Within the main basin there are three distinct/geological provinces
with different petroleum prospects:
(i)    The Eastern Fold Zone.  To the east the Tertiary sequences are
folded into a series of narrow N-S trending anticlinal folds
parallel to the edge of the basin. These folds are well defined
by the seismic results and have been found to contain the main
gas fields of East Bangladesh.



_ 39 -                   ANNEX 1.01
Page 2 of 2
(ii)    Western Hinge Line.  The transition zone from the 'Indian
Shield" to the Bengal Basin is known as the Bogra slope and the
hinge Zone. This Hinge Zone is an area of considerable interest
where a dramatic thickening of the Younger Tertiary sediments
takes place over a relatively short distance (from less than a
thousand meters on the Indian Shield to several thousands of
meters in the Bengal Basin). Early seismic results from this
area indicate a number of interesting geological structures
which could contain hydrocarbon.
(iii)    Bengal Basin proper.  In the main Bengal Basin the deltaic
sedimentary fill has been transplanted by the Ganges Jamuna
river system as erosional debris from the emerging Himalaya
Mountains following the Alpine orogeny. The two river systems
continue to deposit vast quantities of sediments into the Bay of
Bengal.
5.       The sedimentary sequence of the delta area is rather monotonous:
sandstones generally predominate with shale and clay intercalations; the
latter can become rather thick with a wide aerial distribution (several
thousands of square kilometers). The shale intercalations in deltaic
complexes usually contain abundant organic material which, under suitable
geochemical and thermal conditions, can be converted into oil and gas. At a
later stage the shale bodies often act as cap rocks, sealing the oil and
gas. In the central delta area and in the lower delta/offshore area, there is
no direct evidence of source rocks, but by analogy with other deltas the
presence of such rocks is very likely. Evidence for trapping conditions have
been using seismic results from the current reconnaissance seismic survey will
also indicate the existence of this type of structure in the onshore lower
delta area.
6.       Until the geological history and structure of the Bengal Basin is
better understood, its total oil and gas potential will remain uncertain. In
addition to the reconnaissance seismic survey of the relatively unexplored
south west delta area, seismic surveys are also being carried out in the Hinge
Line belt and detail seisdic work is beginning on the gas fields in the
eastern fold belt. The new seismic data should give indications as to the
composition of the basin fill and the presence of geological structures. In
parallel, a detailed oil habitat study is being made of the whole basin area
to help better understand the history of the basin. In the case that
promising structures are found in the Bengal Basin proper and along the Hinge
Line a first round of exploration drilling should be planned for the central
and western delta areas.
April 1985



- 40 -                           ANNEX 1.02
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Geological Notes on the Gas Fields
General
1.       The gas fields being appraised and developed in this project are all
situated in the eastern part of the country. They fall within the belt of
long narrow N-S trending folds on the east side of the Bengal Basin.
(Attachment 1, forthcoming). The folds were defined in the early 1960s using
simple seismic techniques and widely spaced coverage. The seismic results are
generally of fair to good quality and show a series of simple folds with no
evidence of major faulting. The detail surveys being carried out in the
1984/85 and 1985/86 dry seasons as part of the Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project are expected to give a much clearer picture of the structure of the
fields. They may also indicate in some areas the extent of the gas bearing
sands and possibly even show the gas/water contact in favorable circum-
stances. Seven main gas fields in the area are KailashtilaJ Beani Bazar,
Rashidpur, Habiganj, Titas, Bakrahbad and Feni.  These fields have not yet
been properly appraised. Only the original discovery wells, and in the case
of HLbiganj, Titas and Bakrahbad, a number of production wells close to the
original discovery well have been drilled.
2.       To prove the areal extent of the fields and the reservoir properties
over that area, a number of more widely spaced appraisal wells penetrating the
reservoir or reservoirs are required. The spacing of the wells depends on the
lateral variations in the lithology of the reservoir and the certainty of the
seismic results. In the case of a uniform reservoir with the top of the
reservoir and the gas/water contact accurately established by the seismic
results, a single well would be sufficient to define the field and the
reserves. However, the reservoirs are not uniform and even with good seismic
results several wells are expected to be required in most cases to test the
reservoir properties. In this area appraisal wells should be spaced at around
2 km. intervals to allow for lateral variations in the reservoir and possible
errors in the top reservoir structure due to unpredictable variations in
seismic velocities.
3.       Kailashtila Field.  The old seismic data indicate that the structure
is an assymetrical anticline with a steep western flank. Two appraisal wells
are planned. The current estimate of gas reserves of around 1.1 TCF could be
increased to 3 TCF if both appraisal wells are successful.
4.       Beani Bazar Field.  The Beani Bazar field is smaller than the other
fields in the area and the gas bearing horizons deeper. However, the liquid
content of the gas is relatively high and it is planned to develop the field
to use the gas and recover the associated liquids. The current seismic
interpretation indicates that one appraisal well should be sufficient to give
a good indication of the reserves of this field. If it is successful this
well is expected to double the proven reserves of the field to around 1.0 TCF.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1.02
Page 2 of 2
5.       Rashidpur Field.  This is an elongated north/south trending anticline
which has been drilled at the southern end of the structure. The detail
seismic survey and two appraisal wells may show that this is an extensive
structure some 20 km. in length. The upper producing horizons are relatively
shallow at 5000 ft. and could be developed by a series of shallow wells spaced
along the crest. The current estimate of the reserves of 2.6 TCF may well be
increased by a factor of three or more during the appraisal of the field.
6.       Habigani Field.  The discovery well was drilled at the northern end
of the structure and a second well was then drilled next to it. Two wells are
already planned on this field to be drilled under a French Aid program. It is
planned to drill one or two appraisal wells on the southern part of the field,
one well on the crest of the structure and a second further south to prove the
southern flank of the field. If successful, the result of the appraisal
drilling could well increase the reserves from 1.5 TCF to around 3 TCF.
7.       Titas Field.  The Titas field is a large structure situated close to
the main market of Dhaka. The discovery well on the Titas structure, Titas 1,
was drilled on the east flank. It penetrated three series of gas bearing
sands, the shallowest and most productive 'A' sands has four members (Al to
A4) of which the A2 and A3 are the thickest and most consistent. These sands
are located at a depth of around 2600 m.
8.       Five wells have been drilled, Titas 1, 3 and 4, close together on the
east flank; Titas 2 one kilometer to the north indicates the A2 sand thicken-
ing to the north. The Titas 5 well was drilled from the same surface location
as Titas 1, 3 and 4 but was deviated to the east towards the crest of the
structure. All four 'A' sands were found in a higher structural position with
similar thicknesses to those found on the flank; but the 'B' sands are poorly
developed being represented by only one thin layer indicating that these sands
may be thin or absent on the crest of the structure. The well was stopped
before reaching the 'C' sands. This field is currently estimated to contain
around 2 TCF of recoverable reserves.
9.       Bakrahbad Field.  The Bakrahbad structure is a long N/S trending fold
which has only been drilled on what appears to be a faulted high block near
the southern end of the structure. Five wells have been drilled within this
southern crestal area, and three more are planned in the same area. An
extensive seismic detail survey is planned over the southern culmination and
the long northern extension of the trend. Depending on the results of the
seismic survey an appraisal well will be drilled as an out-step on the
southern culmination. This well should double the reserves from the present
figure of 1.5 TCF. In case the seismic over the northern part of the
structure indicates that it is gas bearing further exploration would be needed
and could prove large additional reserves.
10.      Overall, the appraisal program, if it is successful, may well double
the current estimated 11 TCF reserves, and if the seismic survey results
indicate that the extensions of the Bakhrabad and Rashidpur fields are likely
to contain gas further exploration and appraisal wells may increase the
reserves in excess of 20 TCF. If such an amount of reserves were proven,
various alternative export schemes could be considered.
April 1985



BANGLADEPJSH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organogram of Petrobangla
O RGANOaGR AM             FP,E_,R.^O BA NG LA (E XI ST I NG J
BnoAo or Do RCTORS
I CHAIRAN_
EORCTOR(PL NiNi   ohctoaPLoRAI!!IU
-r. _EMC E-AIA_  { *"^Sr _, ..  KMT-Ot                                _      f
LENrAT. O DV          e W          CKMPHsI COSURVELY OPSTS                                               IO_C cnL
.1~~~~~~.U~~irtw.-7Vq -.  m,wm~-                          :    
> CCHST~~~AarIO OtSK*         -Ertnss  J -tL -OEM| N 
. ~                                  GaSo   o    L "s ot"rZreM    I _  Ms o"A  LT             I
April 1985



BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Natural Gas Reserves and Production
C(in trillion standard cubic feet)
Depth of                                 Cumulative   Condensate   Calorific
Year of    No. of   Producing    Estimated Gas In Place   Production    Recovery             Value
Gas Fields         Discovery  Wells       Horizon    Proven Probable Possible    by 1982    (BBLHMMCF)    (BTU/CF)
(metres)
Sylhet                    1955       6         1220        0.26    0.17       -            0.10        3.4           1052
Chhatak                   1959       1         1220       0.01    0.03        -            0.02      trace           1007
Rashidpur                 1960       2     1460/2755       0.43    2,82      3.03           -          0.3           1014
Kailashtila               1962       1     2300/3000       0.40    1.10      0.43           -           12           1050
Titas                     1962       5         2600        1.29    1.63      3.04          0.28        1.4           1036
Habiganj                  1963       2     1450/3030       0.59    1.56      0.43          0.07        0.1           1020          w
Bakhrabad                 1968       5     1790/2450       1.38    0.59      2.67           -          2.0           1022
Semutang                  1968       1           -        0.01    0.02       0.03           -        trace            --
Kutubdia (offsbore)       1977       1           -         -        1.00      -             -        trace           1043
begumganj                 1980       2           -        0.06    0.06        -             -          0.3           106'
Feni                      1981       1         2760       0.07    0.10        -             -          3.8            --
Beani Bazar               1982       1     3200/3470      0.11    0.62        -             -        17-20            922
Kamts                     1982       1         2290        0.01    0.09                     -          0.1            --
Total                                                      4.62    9.79      9.63          0.47
1/  Sources:  DeColyer & MeNaughton and Petrobangla
w
April 1985



- 44 -
ANNEX 3.02
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Natural Gas Production By Field, 1960 - 1983
(in million standard cubic feet)
Year /a      Sylhet    Chhatak    Titas    Habigani    Kailashtila       Total
1960           -           281       -          -             -             281
1961         1,576         761       -          -             -          2,337
1962         3,433        715        -          -             -          4,148
1963         3,642        755        -          -             -          4,397
1964         3,984        562        -          -             -          4,546
1965         3 ,203        547       -          -             -          3,750
1966         3,620        544        -          -             -          4,164
1967         4,342        923        -          -             -          5,265
1968         4,129        697        812        476           -          6,114
1969         3,893         709     1,225      3,301           -          9,128
1970         3,865         799     8,685      5,567           -          18,916
1971         3,456        282      3,688      1,838           -          99264
1972         4,047        491      9,594      3p597           -          17,729
1973         3,431        386    17,427       3,159           -         24,403
1974         4,768        904    14,691       2,550           -         22,913
1975         4,898       1,037    15,383      2,233           -         23,551
1976         5,262         965    22,914      2,198           -         31,339
1977         5,925       1,468    21,829      2,804           -         32,026
1978         4,756      1,738    24,541       5,137           -         36,172
1979         6,139       1,885    29,659      5,272           -         42,975
1980         7,091      2,070    32,253       5,638           -         47,052
1981         7,121       1,979    37,035     10,219           -         56,354
1982         7,062.50   1,657.30 45,033.00  14,437.00         -         68,189.80
1983(proj.)  5,830.00   2,067.00 54,591.00  17,122.00   3,800.00/b    83,410.00
/a  Calendar year.
/b For six months only, i.e., from July 1983 - December 1983.
Source: Petrobangla.
April 1985



- 45 -
ANNEX 3.03
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gas Pipelines
Line flov      Working
Diameter    Length       capacity     pressure
(inches)    (miles)      (NMCFD)       (p8iR)
Existing
A.  Titas System:
1.   Titas-Ashuganj           14          8           200           1,000
1.   Ashuganj-Dhaka           14         51           147          1,000
2.   Habiganj-Shahjibazar      8           1,.5        36             450
3.   Habiganj-Ashuganj        12         35            90           1,000
B.  Jalalabad System:
1.   Sylhet-Fenchuganj         8         33            25             650
2.   Chhatak-Cement Factory   4          12             9             650
3.   Kailashtila-Sylhet        8          8            30             650
4.   Chhatak-Sunamganj         4          12            9             450
C. Bakhrabad System:
1.   Bakhrabad-Chittagong    24         110           350             960
2.   Chittagong Ring Nain 24/20/16       21           350             350
Under Construction:
A.  Titas System:
1.   Habiganj-Sylhet
Tea Estates           6/4         60             7            450
2.   Titas-Narsingdi          16         31           300          1,000
3.   Narsingdi-Joydevpur      14         26        100/60           1,000
4.   Kamta-Joydevpur           8          11           30             450
B.  Jalalabad System:
1.   Kailashtila-Chhatak       6         25            20            650
C.  Bakhrabad System:
1.   Line to Comilla           8         16            10             350
2.   Line to Chandpur          8         30            20             960
April 1985



- 46 -
ANNEX 4.01
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Natural Gas Tariffs, 1980-1983
(Taka per MCF except as noted)
June 7, June 7,  July 1,  June 30,  June 30,
With Effect From               1980     1982      1982      1983      1984
Cost of Gas (ex-field)
Power/Fertilizer             5.98      7.53      9.50    10.00      11.45
(of which excise duty)  (4.50)   ( 6.00)   ( 9.00)  ( 9.50)   (10.45)
Industrial                   6.48     15.48     18.00    22.65      22.65
(of which excise duty)  (5.00)   (14.00)   (17.50)  (21.65)   (21.65)
Comercial                     "'                            "    31.31/36.65
(of which excise duty)                                       (29.41/33.85)
Domestic                                                    "       22.65
(of which excise duty)                                          (21.65)
End-User Price
(inclusive of excise duty)
Bulk Custome:s
Power                    7.75       9.30     10.50    11.50      13.05
Fertilizer               7.75       9.30     10.50    11.50      13.05
Industrial                 18.00      27.75     31.00    36.00      36.00
CommerciaL                  19.00     28.00     31.00    36.00 45.20/51.00
Domestic
Metered                     18.00     20.00     27.00    34.00      34.00
Unmetered/month:
Cooker-one burner          22.00      25.00     35.00    45.00      45.00
Cooker-two burners         40.00      45.00     65.00    80.00      80.00
Average End-User Price 1l  10.30      13.40     15.30    17.40      18.50
1/ Based on 1982/83 consumption pattern.
April 1985



- 47 -
ANNEX 4.02
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Petroleum Products Prices and I!Eort Parity, 1983
(US$/Barrel)
Ex-Refinery Price/i   Ex-Depot Price/I   Import Parity Price/2
Chittagong           Chittagong        c.i.f. Chittagong
Premium Gasoline           107.85                40.77                     98.26
Regular Gasoline            95.19                36.11                     86.27
Jet Fuel                    59.97                35.35                     57.35
Kerosene                    46.83                35.35                     43.82
Automotive
Diesel Oil                46.81                33.55                     42.80
Fuel Oil                    35.04                                          32.42
/1 Effective from March 1983.
/2 July 1983 f.o.b. Singapore prices plus freight to Chittagong (US$1.25/bbl
for clean products and US$1.50/bbl for dirty products).
Note:  Exchange rate as of July 1983: Tk 24.50 = US$1.00.
April 1985



BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Drilling Program
(US dollars - aillion)
6000' Well           10,000' Well            12000' Well               Workover              Total Cost
Local   F/E   Total   Local  F/e  Totel   Local  F/I   Total   Local  F/E   Total   Local  7F/   Total
Site Preparation                 0.34          0.34      0.34          0.34     0.34           0.34     0.20          0.20      3.46          3.46
well Materials
Casing/Tubing, Bits, WelIL.ad          0.60    0.60            1.10    1.10            1.10    1.10                                   9.40    9.40
Chemicals                              0.10    0.10      0.10  0.20    0.30     0.10  0.30    0.40            0.10    0.10      0.80  2.00    2.80
Cement & Additives               0.10  0.20    0.30      0.10  0.20    0.30            0.30    0.30                             0.80  1.90    2.70
Stabilizers/Reaaers and                0.10    0.10            0.10    0.10           0.10    0.10                                    0.90    0.90
Other Well Equipment
Fuel/Lub and Consumable.         0.10  0.10    0.20     0.10  0.10    0.20      0.20  0.20    0.40      0.05          0.05      1.10  1.00    2.10
Subtotal                   0.20 1.10   1        .30   0.30  -1.70    T2.  0.30 2.30  2.00    230   0.V0   0.10    1T.       T  iTT2    17.90 o
Well Services
lRg Iob/Deaob                          0.05    0.05            0.05    o.C5           0.05    0.05            0.05    0.05            0.55    0.55
Drilllng Services A Rig Parts          0.70    0.70            1.17    1.17            1.40    1.40           0.30    0.30           10.89   10.89
Rig/Equip. Trans. to Site        0.12  0.40    0.52     0.16  0.40    0.56      0.11  0.40    0.51      0.10  0.01    0.11      1.55  3.62    5.17
Well Completion 6 Logging              0.60    0.60            0.70    0.70            0.80    0.80           0.10    0.10            6.50    6.50
Cemntation & Stimlation Bar.           0.20    0.20            0.20    0.20           0.30    0.30      0.01           0.01     0.02  1.90    1.92
Mud Serviesa                           0.10    0.10            0.14    0.14            0.20    0.20                                   1.28    1.28
Consultant Services                    0.20    0.20            0.30    0.30           0.40    0.40            0.10    0.10            2.90    2.90
Misc. Services, Equipment,
Rental Etc.                            0.40    0.40            0.40    0.40           0.40    0.40      0.12          0.12      0.24  3.60    3.84
Camp Expenses                    0.10  0.20    0.30      0.10  0.20    0.30     0.30  0.47    0.77      0.05  0.05    0.10      1.20  2.17    3.37
Subtotal                     1T. T-T       =0      0      3.73  0.26 T.   5       6        :       D 0. 4 1 *      .W  4 .42 33.41 3.4     IT
Duties                           0.18   _      0.18     0.24           0.24     0.29           0.29     0.03          0.03      2.21          2.21
TOTAL                 0.94  3.95    4.89      1.14  5.26    6.40      1.34  6.42    7.76      0.56  0.71    1.27    11.38 48.61   59.99
April 1985



- 49 -                     ANNEX 5.02
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Cost of 20-inch Kailashtila-Ashuganj Pipeline
(millions of US dollars at mid-1984 prices)
Local      Foreign     Total
Currency    Exchange    Cost
Material and Equipment
Line Pipe                                    13.2        13.2
Coat and Wrap                     -           1.5         1.5
Valves, Fittings and Others      2.6          2.5         5.1
Communications & Telemetry        -           1.3         1.3
Subtotal                   2.6          18.5       21.1
Construction
Pipelaying Contract              4.5         20.3        24.8
Other Costs
Land and Right-of-Way            1.8           -          1.8
Taxes and Duties                 1.8           -          1.8
Spare Parts                       -           0.5        0.5
Company Overhead                 2.7           -          2.9
Subtotal                   6.3           0.5        6.8
Total Base Cost Estimate             13.4         39.3        52.7
(excl. engineering and
construction supervision)
April 1985



- 50 -
ANNEX 5.03
Page 1 of 2
BANGIADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs of Surface Facilities
1. The surface facilities to be installed will include the following:
Kailashtila
(i)    Well-head separation, heater, treater and dehydration
(silica-gel) facilities and gas disposal arrangements;
(ii)    Storage for NGLs from Beani Bazar;
(iii)    Blending facilities for NGLs from Kailashtila and Beani
Bazar;
(iv)    Connecting lines and pump to NGL process plant;
Cv)    Process plant to refine NGLs into marketable fractions
(i.e. fractionators, stabilizers, etc.);
(vi)    Product storage facilities;
(vii)    Pumping/Marketing facilities at plant terminal;
(viii)    Laboratory facilities for process plant.
Beani Bazar
(i)    Well-head separation, heater, treater and dehydration
(silica-gel) facilities;
(ii)    Gas disposal arrangements;
(iii)    Pressure storage of NGLs for emergency use;
(iv)    Pumping facijities to move NGLs to Kailashtila.;
(v)    Field laboratory facilities; and
(vi)    Condensate line from Beani Bazar to Kailashtila.
Rashidpur
(i)    Well-head separation, gas treatment and dehydration
(glycol) facilities;
(ii)    Gas disposal arrangements;
(iii)    NGL gathering and storage facilities;
(iv)    NGL pumping facilities;
(v)    Laboratory facilities.



_ 51 -                             ANNEX 5.03
Page 2 of 2
2. Cost Estimates
(i)    Kailashtila well-head facilities      US$ 3.1 million
(ii)    Beani Bazar well-head facilities          3.1
(iii)    Condensate line                           0.4
(iv)    NGL processing plant                      5.0
(v)    Rashidpur well-head facilities            3.5
Total                       US$15.1 million
3.        Treatment of condensate from Kailashtila and Beani Bazar would
probably be best undertaken at one single location (preferably
Kailashtila because of the availability of convenient road and river
transport facilities); the project description accordingly provides for a
condensate line between the two fields. The engineering study will have
to confirm this assumption and determine the least-cost method of
transporting condensate from Beani Bazar to Kailashtila.
4.        The condensate fractions presently produced by Petrobangla do
not meet the standard market characteristics as defined by BPC and are as
a result often marketed at a rebate. Accordingly, particular attention
will be given in the design of condensate processing factilities to
ensure that the characteristics of the petroleum fractions are in
accordance with the market requirements and their economic value is
optimized.
April 1985



- 52 -
ANNEX 5.04
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement /
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                                         Cumulative
and Quarter             Amount Disbursed           Amount         x
1985/86
II                 1.6                    1.6           1
III                 2.8                    4.4          4
IV                 3.6                    8.0           7
1986/87
I                 4.9                   12.9         12
II                 5.5                   18.4         17
III                 6.8                   25.2         23
IV                 7.6                   32.8         30
1987/88
I                 8.2                   41.0         37
II                 9.4                   50.4         46
III                10.6                   61.0         55
IV                10.3                   71.3         65
1988/89
X                 9.9                   81.2         74
II                 8.5                   89.7         82
III                 7.7                   97.4         89
11                 6.3                  103.7         94
1989/90
I                 4.6                  108.3         98
II                 1.7                  110.0         100
1/ This disbursement profile essentially conforms with the statistical
profile as of February 1984 for 72 Bank/IDA energy projects (e.g.
petroleum, refineries, energy conservation, etc. but excluding power
projects) approved from FY73 up to FY83.
April 1985



- 53 -                                ANNEX 5.05
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
YEAR   195         19         1987       1988        1989
QUARTER 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1  2 3 4 1 2 13 14  1 1 2-1 3 14
SITE PREPAATION
S~~~~~~~ L X   ----Im
SLURFACE FACILflE
STUDIES
VWell Design
Pipeline EngCine
rAeeofrtoWEng'rt
April 1985
World Bank-26857



ANNEX 6.01
- 54 -
GAS FIELD DEVELOPIIENT
IOlE STATENET
(TI million)
FISCAL YEAR                                 1989     1989     1990     1991     192       1993
Production
Gas ClCF)                                19.8    61.4      61.8     62.5    63.5    64.8
Condensate (Ybl)                          0.0   594.0   566.7   540.6    515.8   492.1
Revenue
Gas                                     367.1  1.107.4  1,227.1  1,365.8  1,526.7  1,714.3
Condensate                                0.0  1,120.9  1,069.4  1,020.2   973;3   928.6
Excise Duty
Gas                                     339.1  1,014.4  1,124.1  1,251.1  1,398.6  1,570.4
Condensate                                0.0     82.0     78.2    74.6      71.2     67.9
Total                                338.1  1,096.4  1,202.3  1,325.9  1,469.8  1,638.4
Net Revenue
Gas                                      29.0     9.0    103.0    114.6   12B.1    143.9
Condensate                                0.0  1,938.9   991.1    945.6   902.!   869.?
Total                                 29.0  1.131.9  1,094.1  1,060.2  1,030.2  1,004.6
Operating Expenses                          24.0     26.4     29.0    31.9      35.1     38.7
Depreciation                               125.4   209.4   IB.5    169.6    152.7    137.4
Aaort. ef Expl. Exp.                         0.0     44.4    38.8      34.0     29.7    2i.0
Operating Income                          (120.4)   851.7    937.e   824.6    812.7   902.5
Interest Payment                             0.0   211.6    201.0    179.9    15B.?    137.5
Morkers Part:cipation Fund                   0.0     16.0     15.      !6.1     16.4     I6.b
Net Profit before Tax                     (120.4)   624.1    620.9   628.6   637.7    646.4
Less Income Ta:                              0.0   277.0   341.5   345.8   35D.7    356.6
Net Profit                                Q12.4)   347.1    279.4   292.9   296.9   291.S
Riate of Return on
Net Fixed Assets                                  ?B.^ 29.1  26.8    22.7    30.?      2.9
April 1985



-  55 -                                              ANNEX  6.02
GAS FIELD DEVELOPHENT
BALANCE SWET
(Tk million)
FISCAL YEAR                                    1986     1937      1988      1989     1990      1991      1992     1993
ASSETS
Cash                                       74.2      73.0      85.6    528.1    875.4  1,202.2  1,511.5  1,806.4
Accounts Receivable                         0.0       0.0      30.6    185.7    191.4    198.8    208.3    220.2
Total Current Assets                       74.2      73.0    116.2    713.8  1,066.8  1,401.0  1,719.9  2,026.6
Exploration Expenses                        0.0       0.0    354.8    310.5    271;b    237.7    208.0    182.0
Gross Fined Assets                        443.0  1,254.1  2,219.8  2.219.B  2,219.E  2,219.8  2,219.8  2,219.8
kAcumulated Depreciation                    0.0       0.0    125.4    334.9    523.3    693.0    845.7    983.1
Net Fixed Assets                 -        443.0  1,254.1  2,094.4  1,885.0  1,696.5  1,526.8  1,374.1  1,236.7
Total Assets                              517.2  1,327.1  2,565.4  2.909.2  3,034.9  3,115.5  3,302.0  3,445.3
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Accounts Receivable                        61.8      60.9      96.8     93.6    102.6    113.1    125.4    139.6
Current Portion of L.T. Debt                0.0       0.0       0.0    162.9    152.8    162.9    162.8    162.8
Total Current Liabilties                   61.8      60.9      96.8    256.3    265.4    275.9    288.2    302.5
Long Term Liabilities                     314.3    930.2  1,627.7  1,627.7  1,464.9  1,302.1  1,139.4    976.6
Less Current Portion                        0.0       0.0       0.0    162.8    162.8    162.8    162.8    162.8
Subtotal                               314.3    930.2  1,627.7  1,464.9  1,302.1  1.139.4    976.6    813.8
Reserve                                       0.0      0.0    354.8    354.8    354.8    354.9    354.8    354.8
Retained Earnings                             0.0      0.0   (120.4)   226.7    50b.0    788.9  1,075.9  1,367.6
Capital                                     141.0    336.1    606.5    606.5    606.5    606.5    606.5    606.5
Total Equity                               141.0    336.1    840.9  1,188.0  1,467.4  1,750.3  2,037.2  :2.329.0
Total Liabilities and Equity               517.2  1,327.1  2,565.4  2,909.2  3,034.9  3,165.5  3,302.0  3,445.3
Current Ratio                                1.20     L.20      1.20     2.79      4.02      5.08     5.97      b.70
Debt Equity Ratio                          69.03    73.46    65.94    55.22    47.02         9.43   23.40    25.9C
April 1985



ANNEX 6.03
- 56 -
bosS FIELi DEVEL0PENEI
SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(Tk aillan)
FISCAL YEAR                                   1985     1986      1987     1988     1989      1990     Iq91      19?2     1993
SOURCES
Net Income before Interest                  0.0      0.0      0.0   (120.4)   558.7    480.4    4t2.E    445.6    429.3
Depreciation                                0.0      0.0      0.0    125.4    209.4   I18.5    1t9.6    152.7    137.4
Amortization of Expl. Exp.                  0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     44.4      38.0     34.0     292.    26.0
Internal Cash generation                   0.0       0.0      0.0       5.0    812.5    707.7    666.4    628.0    592.7
Increase in Long-term Liabilities          ^.2    308.1    615.9    697.5        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Increase in Resene                         0.0       0.0      0.0    354.8       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Increase in Equity                        47.5      93.5    195.0    270.4       0.U      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Sources                             53.7    401.6    610.9  1,327.7    812.5    707.7    666.4    628.0    592.7
USES
Fixed Assets                              50.9    371.0    730.2    799.4        0.0       0.0     f'.0      0.0       0.0
Exploration Expenses                       0.0       0.0      0.0    354.3       (.0       0.Q0     0.0      0.0       0.0
Marking Capital (excl. cash)              !12.7'   (49.1?     1.0      (5.4)   152.3      (3.4     13 .1)    (2.8)   1c.4:
Increase in Zash                          !5.2      59.0     (1.2)    12.5    442.6    347.3    326.8    309.3    294.E
Debt Service
Principal                               0. 0      0.0      0.0       .D0      0.0    I2. 8    I.a     162.2    162.8
Interest                                '.4    20.9       80.9    166.3    211.6    201.0    17?.9    15B.-    137.5
Subtotal                                0.4      20.8     60.9   166 .     L11 . 6    363.2L .6    321.5    3'.10
Total Uses
33.7    401.6    810.9  1 .327.7     1.5          7    666.4    628.';   J5.-
Debt Service Coverace                                                           3.34     1.95      1.9'     i.95      1.37
April 1985



ANNEX 6.04
- 57 -
GAS TRANSHISSION & DISTRIBUTION
INCOME STATEMENT
(Tk million)
FISCAL YEAR                                     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993
Gas Sales (DCFI                                 19.0      61.4      6I.8      62.5      63;5      64.8
Revenue                                        589.8  1,694.6  1,879.5  2,091.3  2,337.?  2,624.6
Cost of Gas                                    3A7.1  1,107.4  1,227.1  1,365.9  1,526.7  1,714.-
Net Revenue                                    222.7    587.2    651.4    725.5    811.0    910.3
Operating Expenses                              28.5      32.0      35.2      38.7      42.6      46.9
Depreciation                                   131.7    251.0    2.833.1    2.8    198.8    170.0
Operating Income                                                                       519.6    69T.4
Interest Payment                                 0.0    210. 6    20'.7    19C.4        5C.2    13B.0
Norkers Participation Fund                        1.6      2.3       4.5       7.4      10.5      13.9
Net Profit Before Tax                           61.1      91.2    176.8    289.1    409.9    E-1.6
Less Income Tax                                  nJ.o     50.2      97. 2    15.0    225.4    297.9
Net Profit                                      2'.5      i1        '9.b    ''0.1    184.4    24L7.7
Rate of Return zn
Net Fixed Assets (;'                              1.4     :0.4      12.7      :5.       19.2      2.6
April 1985



ANNEX 6.05
- 58 -
GAS TR4iMSM1-S0!Ui & N2IrRISUTIJr
8,ALAICE SHEET
(Tk millionu
FISCAL YEM R195                                      1906      1907     1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993.
ASSETS
Cash                                     14.9     12.3    111.5   107.4   232.0   370.3    541.0   744.2   996.7
Accounts Receivable                       0.0      0.0      0.0     49.2   141.2   156.5    174.3   194.8   219.7
Total Current Assets                     14.9     12.3    111.5   156.5   373.2   526.8    715.3   939.0  1,205.4
Gross Fixed Assets                       24.9    148.9  1,316.5  2,641.8  2,714.1  2,714.1  2,714.1  2,714.1  2,714.1
Accumlated Depreciation                   0.0      0.0      0.0   131.7   382.7   615.0   825.6  1,014.5  1,184.5
Net Fixed Assets                         24.9    148.9  1,31h.5  2,510.2  2,331.5  2,098.3  1,BB8.5  1,699.6  1,529.7
Total Assets                             39.8    161.1  1,428.1  2,666.7  2,704.6  2.625.1  2,603.8  2,638.6  2,735.0
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Accounts Payable                         12.4     10.2     92.9   130.4   101.0   105.2    117.0    130.9   146.8
Current Portion of L.T. Debt              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    163.3   163.3    163.3   163.3   163.3
Total Current Liabilites                 12.4     10.2    92.9   130.4   264.3   26B.5   200.3   294.1   310.1
~~~--r--_________
Long Term Liabilities                     0.0     20.3   795.1  1,606.6  1,633.0  1,469.7  1,306.4  1,143.1   979.8
Less Current Portion                      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    163.3   163.3    163.3   163.3   163.3
Subtotal                               0.0     20.3   785.1  1,606.6  1,469.7  1,306.4  1,143.1   979.B    816.5
Retained Earnings                         0.0      0.0      0.0    27.5      68.5   148.1    278.2    462.6   706.3
Capital                                  27.4    130.6    550.0   902.2    902.2   902.2  0_.2    902.2   902. 2
Equity                                   27.4    130.6   550.0   929.6   970.7  1,050.3  1,190.4  1,364.0  1,608.5
Total Liabilities and Equity             39.8    161.1  1,428.1  2,666.7  2,704.6  2,&25.1  2,603.8  2,638.6  2,735.0
Current Ratio                             1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2       1.4     2.0       2.6      3.2      3.9
Debt Equity Ratio                         0.0     13.5    50.8      63.3;    60.2    55.4    49.2    41.8         33.7
AprLl 1985



-  59  -                                                 SU{Naif   6.06
GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIDUTION
SOURCES AND USES U FUNDS
(Tk uillion)
FISCAL YEAR                                     1985      1986      19B7      1988      1989      19?0      1991      1992      1993
SOURCES
Net Incoae before Interest                    0.0       0.0       0.0      27.5    251.6    281.2    310.5    343.6    381.7
Depreciation                                  0.0       0.0       0.0    131.7    251.0    233.1    209.8    188.8    170.0
Internal Cash Generation                      0.0       0.0       0.0    159.1    502.6    514.4    520.4    532.5    551.6
Increase in Long-term Liabilities             0.0      20.3    764.8    821.5        26.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Increase in Equity                           27.4    103.2    419.5    352.1          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Sources                                27.4    123.5  1.184.2  1,332.8    529.0    514.4    520.4    532.5    551.6
USES
Fixed Assets                                 24.9    122.7  1,115.3  1,167.8         72.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Morking Capital (e:cl. cash)                (12.4)      2.2    (82.7)      11.6    121.5       11.1       5.9  -   6.8        7.9
Increase in Cash                             14.9      (2.7)    99.3       (4.1)   124.6    138.3    110.7    203.2    242.5
Debt Service
Principal                                  0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    163.3    163.3    163.3    163.3
Interest                                   0.0       1.3     52.4    155.5    210.6    20,.7    180.4    159.2    138.0
Subtotal                                   0.0       1.3      52.4    155.5    210.6    365.0    343.7    322.5    301.3
Total Uses                                   27.4    123.5  1,184.2  1,332.8    529.0    514.4    520.4    532.5    551.6
Debt Service Coverage                                                                2.39      1.41      1.51      1.65      1.83
April 1985



_ 60 -                           ANNEX 6.07
BANGIADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
Revenue Account
1.       Sales revenues are based on the following pricing assumptions:
Bulk Sales                   1988    1989    1990    1993
__ _--:T-k/MCF- --- 
Wellhead Price             1.33    1.46    1.61    2.14
Excise Duty               13.91   15.30   16.83   22.40
Margin to Distr. Co.       7.31    8.05    8.85   11.78
Consumer Price            22.55   24.81   27.29   36.32
Local Distribution
Wellhead Price             2.23    2.45    2.70    3.59
Excise Duty               35.46   39.00   42.90   57.11
M(argin to Distr. Co.     34.11   37.53   41.28   54.93
Consumer Price            71.80   78.98   86.88  115.63
2.       Depreciation charges have been computed, using the declining balance
method, as 10% of net fixed assets.
3.       Operating costs are inflated by 10% per year, in line with projected
local inflation.
4.       The operating companies incur taxes on net income at the rate of
55%. For income tax purposes, losses can be carried forward up to 5 years.
5.       Interest expense has been taken at 13% on the average balance of
long-term debt outstanding for the year, and the repayment period is 10 years
after 5 years of grace period.
Balance Sheet and Statement of Uses and Applications of Funds
1.       Accounts receivable represent one month of sale.
2.       Cash is assumed to be one month of debt service, local fixed assets
acquisition and operating expenses (including excise duty as appropriate).
3.       Accounts payable represent one month of assets acquisition and
operating expenses.
April 1985



ANNEX 7.01
- 61 -                                         Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
il) Capitel Co0t                                       (llB         TIV            (V)
t .3 '. !    wt. I   c)    Total                Gas                   'alue oi
Field    Transm.   Local                  Oper. Siles    Depletio,,  Energ.         CondernsatE
Devel.               Distr.               Exp.  tBfFi    ilaowance   DiSplaced        Yalue      Cashflon 1/
19B5     48           23                 , O        O      0             t'          u            0           -70
1936    311           57       47     414           0      u             O           0            0         -414
1987    540          777       82    139          O           O 0              0                  0        -1399
1988    217          765       58    1041          19     20           421        1703            0          222
1909       0           0       47       47         29     59          1415        516B          537         4214
1990                                               30     5a          1537        5070          529         4033
1991                                               30     56          1671        5061          52,6        3886
1992                                               30     54          1817        504           522         3725
1993o                                              30     53          1977        5042          519         3555
1994                                               30     51          2152        5039          515         3373
1995                                               30     50         2344         5035          512         3174
1996                                               30     49          2554        4919          501         2836
1997                                               30     47         2784         4BO7          490         2482
1998                                               30     46          2712        4700          479         2439
1999                                               30     46         2643         459B          468         2394
2000                                               30      44         2577        4501          458         2353
2001                                               30      4'o        2514        440B          44B         2313
2002                                               30      42         2454        43u19         4378        2274
2003                                               30     41         24396        4234          429         2237
2004                                               30     40          2341        4153          419         2202
2005                                               30     39          2289        4076          410         2168
2006                                               30     38          2239        4002          401         2135
2007                                               3T     37          2191        3932          393         2103
2008                                               30      36         2146        3664          384         2073
PRESENT VALUE   f12Z)                 1854        136    226         8996        21499         2108        12621
IRR                                                                                                            91
1) Cashflow = IV + V - I - i} - III
April 1985



ANNEX 7.01
- 62 -                                          Page 2 of 2
Sensitivity Analysis
(VI)                                          Cap. Cost                  Condensate
Opportunity Cost of 6as             Base--                                 ------------------
(USS.26/mcf)                   Case I/    +10%      +207.     +50%     +10%      +20Z      +50%
1985                  0                         -70       -77      -84      -105      -70       -70       -70
1986                  0                        -368      -404     -441      -551     -368      -36B      -368
1987                  0                       -1317    -1449    -15B1    -1976    -1317    -1317    -1317
198B                133                        -869      -967    -1065    -1360      -B69      -869      -869
1989                39B                         905       905      905       905      851       798       637
1990                386                         85        885      8B85      885      832       779       621
1991                374                         870       870      870       870      Big       765       607
19922               363                         856       856      856       856       804      751       595
1993                353                         842       842      B42       842      790       738       583
1994                343                         829       829      B29       829      777       726       571
1995                334                         816       816      816       816       765      714       560
1996                325                         796       796      796       796      746       6%        545
1997                316                         776       776       776      776       727      678       531
1998.               308                         757       757      757       757       709      661       518
1999                300                         739       739       739      739       692      645       505
2000                293                         721       721       721      721       675      629       492
2001                285                         704       704       704      704       659      614       480
2002                279                         687       687       687      687       643      600       460
2003                272                         671       671       671      671       62B      585       457
2004                266                         656       656       656      656       614      572       446
2005                2b6                         641       641       641      641       599      55B       435
2006                254                          626      626       626      626       586      546       425
2007                249                         612       612       612      612       573      533       415
2008                244                         598       598      598       598       560      521       406
PRESENT YALUE (12%)                            1771      1600      1429      915      1561     1350       717
IRR                                              26       .24       22        17        24       23        18
1) Cashflow = VI + V - la - Ib - 11
April 1985



ANNEX 7.02
- 63 -                           Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumption Used in Economic Analysis
1. Opportunity Cost and Thermal Equivalence of Energy Displaced.
US$/ton      MMBTU/ton       US$/MCF      Tk/MCF
Kerosene                292          40.9            7.4          189
HSD                     252          40.5            6.4          165
Fuel Oil                189          38.7            5.0          130
Coal                     64          25.4            2.6           67
Firewood                 37          13.1            2.9           75
2. Pattern of Energy Consumption and Gas Value (at 1984 prices)
per -Category of Users
Expected
Pattern of  Kerosene/HSD Fuel Oil   Coal    Firewood   Gas Value
Gas Use (Z)         ----percent-              --    US$/MCF Tk|MCE
Tea Estates       10            -         70          -       30     4.4       114
Brickfields        8            -          -         25       75     2.8        73
Industry           9           70          -         30        -     5.6       144
Comercial          7           50          -          -       50     4.9       126
Domestic           7           50          -          -       50     4.9       126
Power             51            -          -        1L         -     2.6        67
Fertilizer         8            -          -          -        -     3.1        80
Average                       13.3        7.0       55.7     16.0    3.4        88
1/ assumed energy subetitute
3.       The price of petroleum products is indexed on the forecast price of crude
oil. Bank projections have been used for coal. The price of firewood 'ias been
escalated by 2Z p.a. in real terms.



- 64 _                         ANNEX 7.02
Page 2 of 2
.-  4.  Economic Value of Gas (in 1984 Tk/MCF)
1984     1986      1990     1995      2000
Kerosene/HSD    177       164       187      228       228
Fuel Oil         130      120       137      168       168
Coal              67       61        59       63        63
Firewood          75       77        83       92       102
Urea              80       88       113      117       117
Average           88       84        88      101       103
(US$/MCF)       (3.4)    (3.3)    (3.5)    (4.0)    (4.1)
5. Depletion Premium
Current recoverable reserves are expected to be fully committed by 1997.
The vz ae of the depletion premium in 1984 has been estimated on the basis of the
forecast value of coal discounted to 1984 (12% p.a.), takiag into account the
estimated cost of gas production and transmission to large consumers, which is
expected to remain constant in real terms (US$0.26/MCF):
DP = (2.55-0.26)/1.1213 = US$0.53/MCF
or Tkl3.6/MCF
The depletion premium is expected to increase at a rate equal to the social
discount rate until 1997, when it equals the difference between the cost of gas and
that of imported coal, and to remain stable at this level during the following ten
years.
April 1985



IBRD 18571
9                                                     ~~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
GAS TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
Pipelines
-16F w        J        \         \ s        x    .                                      _Proposed Project                        2M.
Existing
t  - "s    V r' 7 i  - -  Under implernentation
ro Jhh_   \          t        t    tNatural Gas Discoveries
Primary Roads
Railways
Rivers
- - *  ---  International Boundaries
ChhatMk                    25S~
>1 > tl n Tit g I ~~~~~~~~N                                                D          I 
525-                                                                                    Sy }  \  cw  - 
ogra                                                        Sylheta SskA
K                                                                       PrLKhulila \Fnchug.nj .
_   pu                                                           Kiheqn       Ho  anlrsl>- \W   -l   & f 
-24-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
-                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
-(                                                                                     -, a                          )asc
_nna. - scr ->ifiM
_231                                                                                                                          23- 5  5_  5    S  RM,
G S ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2?               I' 
r d t  SI FL N0 _                                                                                       .
_  \  v3NKutubdVM                    1984
ta NI D I 
-21'          C~       ~~ 25t       70        5 MlILES                     \    BURMA
. ~ ~~~~~                                    ~      ~~     ~     ~~~~~~~ .:.  O0 KDitLOmtETERS          \?
l  '  518 LfNtA                   ir                         9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'r       92' 
NOVEMBER 1984






