Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2816-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 15, 1980
This document has a restricted distribuon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979                  March 1980
Currency Unit        Yemeni Dinars (YD)             YD
US$1   =   YD 0.345                        0.345
YD1   =   US$ 2.90                        2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31 (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 31 (1975)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1976)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
FAO     -     Food and Agriculture Organization
OPEC    -     Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PDRY    -     People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PWC     -     Public Water Corporation
UNDP    -     United Nations Development Programme
WHO     -     World Health Organization



LNI.2740-MA    MALAYS IRpcTET5                                PfiR
SECOND wESTERN JOHOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
JUNE i9. i986                               CRRD I OF £
\J   .1  JL   -                         L  IL LLL    IJ
(f|AtK a    CEND                                                          W
Ll0U
-x  LJLLJJL






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
A                                   CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY)
Beneficiary:      Public Water Corporation (PWC)
Amount:           $13.2 million, including a $1.2 million engineering credit
(S-21-YDR) to be refinanced under the proposed credit.
Terms:            Standard
Relending
Terms:          Twenty years including 5 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 8.25 percent per annum. Foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the Borrower.
Project
Description:    The project, which constitutes the first construction stage
of a long-term water supply master plan, seeks to increase the
critically short supply of potable water, and meet the maximum
demand up to 1987, in Aden, the capital and largest agglomera-
tion of PDRY, and to rehabilitate the existing system which is
fast deteriorating. It provides for the expansion of the
distribution network into the poorer districts of Greater Aden
to allow low-income residents to be directly connected to the
public system. The project also provides for technical
assistance aimed at improving PWC's management capability.
Part A of the project includes the construction of wells,
rehabilitation works, studies, management assistance to PWC
and training of its staff; Part B covers the well equipment
and water transmission to Aden; and Part C includes the
construction of reservoirs, the installation of water disinfec-
tion equipment, and the expansion of the distribution network.
A total of 328 man-months of consulting services, at an
estimated average cost of $8,200 per man-month, is required.
The project faces some risks stemming from PWC staff's in-
experience in project management, and the possible adverse
impact on PWC's financial condition due to slow payment by
public agencies for water charges. Provisions have been made
in the project to minimize these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: /1                           Local        Foreign         Total
…------     $ Million-----------
Part A
Construction o; Wells                         0.2            0.1           0.3
Rehabilitation Works                          0.1            1.4           1.5
Management Assistance, Training & Studies 0.3                1.4           1.7
Sub-total                         0.6           2.9            3.5
Part B
Equipment for the Wells                       0.3            2.5           2.8
Transmission Pipeline                         1.6           11.9          13.5
Sub-total                         1.9          14.4           16.3
Part C
Reservoirs and Other Equipment                0.3            1.3           1.6
Distribution Network                          0.5            3.8           4.3
Sub-total                         0.8           5.1            5.9
Construction Supervision                      0.1            1.1           1.2
Physical Contingencies                        0.4            3.2           3.6
Price Escalation                              0.7            6.8           7.5
Refinancing of Credit S-21-YDR                 -             1.2           1.2
Total Project Cost                       4.5          34.7          39.2
/1   Not including duties and taxes from which the project is exempt.
Financing Plan:                             Local        Foreign         Total
-----------$ Million-----------
Government                 4.5             -            4.5
IDA                         -           13.2           13.2
Arab Fund                   -            12.0          12.0
Islamic Bank                -            5.5            5.5
OPEC Fund                   -             4.0           4.0
Total                   4.5          34.7           39.2



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:           IDA FY:    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
---------------$ TMillion-------------
Annual                      1.7    3.3    3.2    3.5    1.3    0.2
Cumulative                  1.7    5.0    8.2   11.7   13.0   13.2
Rate of Return:             11 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:                   No. 2910a-YDR of May 7, 1980






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of US$13.2 million equivalent including US$1.2 million to
refinance the Engineering Credit (S-21-YDR) approved on June 29, 1978, on
standard IDA terms, to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY),
to help finance a Greater Aden Water Supply project. The Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development and the OPEC Special Fund, have expressed
their interest, in principle, in co-financing this project together with the
Association and the Government has requested the Islamic Development Bank to
also participate.
PART I - ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission to review the second Five-Year Plan 1/ visited
PDRY in March-April 1979 and its report entitled "People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen: Special Economic Report--The Second Five-Year Plan (1979-83)"
(2683-YDR), dated January 25, 1980, was distributed to the Executive Directors
on February 6, 1980. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.        Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has consistently
pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context of a socialist
society.  The principal objectives of the Government have been (a) to satisfy
the basic needs of the population for food, essential consumer goods, shelter,
employment, health care and other social services; (b) to develop the produc-
tion capacity of the economy, especially in agriculture, fisheries, industry,
construction and minerals; (c) to strengthen the infrastructure sectors, i.e.,
transport, power and telecommunications; (d) to raise education standards,
emphasizing technical and higher education; and (e) to increase exports of
domestic products.
4.        In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily
on a strong public sector and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms
were initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969 which
brought the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden (banking,
insurance, shipping, trading) under Government control. Subsequent investment
in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral exploration has given the
public sector a dominant influence over industrial activities. Two agrarian
reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have fundamentally changed the land
1/   This plan has recently been revised (see paras. 6 and 7).



- 2-
tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal holdings. Simultaneously, new
farm organizations--state farms and production cooperatives--were created to
facilitate the introduction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques.
Fishing and consumer cooperatives were also established. More recently, two
of the remaining foreign-owned installations--the Aden Refinery (British
Petroleum) and an international communications facility (Cable and Wireless)--
were transferred by mutual consent to the Government of PDRY.
5.         Private enterprises have been allowed to exist mainly in trade,
manufacturing and construction. But the private sector was given a subsidiary
role and private entrepreneurs are expected to follow the lead of the public
sector. Cooperation between public and private enterprises is encouraged in
some areas, such as light industries, and a limited number of joint ventures
are now active. Foreign private investors have been encouraged to participate
in oil exploration.
6.         Increasingly comprehensive economic and social planning is being
used as the principal tool to implement PDRY's development objectives. In
1971 the Government launched its first development program, covering the
three-year period of 1971/72-1973/74. The program focussed largely on a
number of public sector projects which were to be carried out with the help of
foreign capital and technical assistance. It was followed by a more detailed
Five-Year Plan (1974/75-1978), which in addition to the investment program,
introduced specific targets for the major economic and social sectors. Work
on the Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) originally envisaged to cover the 1979-83
period had started in early 1979. However following a recommendation by the
Council on A::ab EconoTic Unity asking Arab countries to synchronize their
five-year economic plUns, the SFYP will now cover the 1981-85 period with 1979
and 1980 serving as transitional years. Thus, the revised SFYP is expected to
be finalized and approved by the end of 1980. It consists of a macro-economic
framework, sector analyses and investment objectives. In addition to infra-
structure and productive sectors the Plan covers such areas as foreign and
domestic trade, manpower development, social sectors, and production planning.
While still relying on technical assistance from foreign experts the Government
has substantially strengthened its own planning capability. Plan preparation
and execution has thus become increasingly the responsibility of Yemeni staff
in the Ministry of Planning, in technical ministries, and in public enterprises
and cooperatives.
7.        The revised second Five-Year Plan continues to pursue the overall
development objectives outlined in paragraph 3 above. It proposes a total
investment of $1,200 million (in 1977 prices) for 1981-85 of which 38 percent
is allocated for infrastructure (including electric power), 24 percent for
agriculture and fishing, 14 percent for industry including oil and mineral
exploration, 5 percent for education, 9 percent for housing, and 10 percent
for other services. The Plan assumes that about $948 million (79 percent)
will be financed through foreign capital, and the remaining $252 million from
domestic resources.
8.         In implementing the Plan the Government faces a number of constraints,
the most important ones being limited natural resources, insufficient tech-
nical and managerial skills, and low levels of productivity. A harsh climate



-3-
severely limits the area available for cultivation, although substantial
increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher yields, and
by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The narrow domestic
market and few known raw materials limit the scope for industrial development.
These constraints are compounded by the rugged topography which creates severe
difficulties for internal transportation resulting in increased domestic
transport cost.
9.        Lack of adequately trained manpower is another major constraint.
The Government has tried to fill the gap with bilateral and multilateral
technical assistance, including UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY.
In addition, again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education
and training program was launched and in recent years has become increasingly
technically oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher education abroad,
and the establishment of technical training institutions in PDRY the country
is now generating a growing flow of technically trained people who could
gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower.
10.       Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of
the principal problems faced by the Government. The reasons for this can be
traced largely to inadequate incentive systems, weak management, shortage
of trained manpower, lack of spare parts, and inadequate maintenance. The
revised Plan recognizes these constraints and gives priority to measures aimed
at increasing productivity. In this context, the Government has recently been
engaged in the review of the structure of domestic prices aiming at selective
price increases as incentives for agricultural producers and fishermen.
Following this, farm gate prices of some agricultural products were raised by
up to 50 percent in June 1979 and producer and consumer prices for fish were
increased in September 1979, and the consumer prices again in March, 1980.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment which
increased from $4 million in 1970 to $214 million in 1979. The allocation of
investment funds appears to have been well chosen: half of all public sector
investments during the first Five-Year Plan (1974/75-78) went to the commodity
producing sectors with agriculture and fishing receiving 35 percent, and
industry and mineral exploration 15 percent. A large share (32 percent) was
invested in infrastructure (including electric power) while the remaining 18
percent was spent for education and other social services. The sharp increase
in public investment was accompanied by a major expansion of current government
spending on education, health and other public services.
12.       High levels of investment and other public spending have accelerated
the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices grew at an annual average
rate of about 7 percent during 1973-78, compared with only 2 percent per annum
during 1970-73. The major growth sectors were fishing, industry, construction,
trade, transport and government services. Agricultural output increased only
slowly, reflecting the productivity problems mentioned above. More recently



-4-
industrial production has picked up mainly as a result of increased oil
refining. GNP rose at a faster rate than GDP (12 percent p.a. during 1973-78)
due to a rapid increase in workers' remittances.
13.       Substantial progress has been made in achieving a balanced income
distribution, and in the development of social services. State ownership of
production facilities and egalitarian wage/salary structures have reduced
income differentials in the growing public sector. Supplies of basic food-
stuffs and other essential consumer goods are readily available to the urban
population. School enrollment has risen sharply, and health services have
been significantly improved. However, large differences still persist in the
standard of living between urban and rural areas. Rural incomes are estimated
to be only about one-third of average urban incomes, although in some regions
rural incomes are supplemented by remittances from family members working
abroad. The basic reasons for rural poverty appear to be low productivity of
the agricultural and fisheries sectors and possibly adverse terms of trade
between these sectors and the rest of the economy.  Solutions to the problem
can therefore only be found in tackling these basic issues.
14.       To sustain the massive increase in public spending for development
(para. 11), the Government had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial
resources. With a low per capita income, there were severe limitations on
raising domestic resources. The principal instrument used in mobilizing
domestic funds was taxation and until recently containment of Government
employee salaries. However, these were increased in September 1979. New taxes
have been introduced and tax collection improved. As a result, total govern-
ment receipts rose from a level of 12 percent of GNP in 1969/70 to 21 percent
in 1978. Government revenue continued to increase in 1979, especially self-
financing by public enterprises from their retained profits which increased
from $4.9 million in 1978 to $12.5 million in 1979.
15.       To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries, and
more recently by Arab nations. In addition, PDRY received support from
regional and international organizations, including IDA and the IMF. The
exact amount of all foreign resources put at the disposal of the country is
not known since some of the commodity aid has not been recorded either in the
budget or in the balance of payments. But, on the basis of identifiable
aid, it is estimated that aggregate disbursements including transfers rose
from an average level of some $8 million per annum during 1969/70-1971/72 to
about $131 million in 1978, and is estimated to have further increased to
about $160 million in 1979.
16.       The rapid expansion of the public sector, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. The value
of imports has more than quadrupled since the beginning of the decade, from
an average of $89 million per annum during 1970/71 to an estimated $387 mil-
lion in 1978. Besides the devaluation of the US dollar, this mainly reflects



-5-
price increases for foodstuffs and petroleum products and the growing capital
goods imports necessitated by the country's ambitious development program.
The growth in import value has placed a heavy burden on PDRY's foreign exchange
budget, all the more so as the country exports relatively little and thus bene-
fits only marginally from price rises in the world markets.
17.       Indigenous exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover
only a minor share of the import bill. In 1978, they were estimated to be
about $18 million or some 5 percent of commodity imports. Much more important
than commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by
workers' remittances. The latter rose rapidly since the mid-1970's, increas-
ing from $56 million in 1975 to $258 million in 1978 and an estimated $320
million in 1979. This has been due to rising wage levels in the oil surplus
countries, to some additional emigration, and to new incentives which liberal-
ized "own exchange" imports, allowed the construction of private dwellings,
and offered higher interest rates to non-resident bank depositors.
Foreign Aid and External Debt
18.       Fast growing exchange earnings and increasing disbursements from
foreign aid (para. 15) have enabled PDRY in recent years to cover its import
requirements and to strengthen its foreign reserves. The latter rose from $55
million at end 1975 to $187 million at end 1978, equivalent to almost half of
the imports of that year.
19.       The large inflow of foreign loans led to a rapid accumulation of
PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was provided in the
form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) as of end 1979
amounted to $915 million, of which $372 million was disbursed. Bilateral
sources accounted for $665 million or 73 percent of total commitments with the
USSR providing the bulk ($369 million), followed by China ($142 million),
other Eastern European countries ($104 million), Arab countries ($48 million)
and by Denmark ($2 million). Multilateral aid amounted to $250 million
including $175 million from Arab Funds, and $63 millon from IDA. The average
terms of all loans are highly concessionary giving a grant element of about 58
percent. In addition, PDRY has received about $180 million (until the end of
1979) in grant assistance, mostly from Arab countries.
20.       The soft terms of PDRY's external debt has resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments in 1979 were $5 mil-
lion or 1.4 percent of total exchange earnings from exports of goods and
services (including workers' remittances). However, PDRY's debt service
obligations are projected to increase steadily in future years, which will
exert additional pressure on its balance of payments. Therefore, in view
of the above and the limited resources of the country, the Bank's assistance
to PDRY should continue to be on IDA terms. For the same reason, local
cost financing by IDA is justified.



-6-
21.       In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government nation-
alized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (para. 4). This law provided
for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing interest of
2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits of all the nation-
alized companies were to be used for servicing these bonds. In response, some
of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substantial Yemeni deposits
which they had transferred abroad. Immediately after the promulgation of Law
No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of accountants of international
repute to audit the accounts of all the nationalized companies and evaluate
their assets. The audit report was submitted to the Government in September
1971.  Settlements were reached soon after with three of the foreign banks
involved. Agreements were finalized with three additional banks in 1977, with
the oil companies in late 1977, early 1978, and in 1979 and with a development
finance company in mid-1978. Contacts with other former owners have been
maintained with a view to reaching mutually acceptable settlements. Dialogue
with debtors has, however, been very slow since they have only recently
responded to the Government's efforts to settle claims. The Government
professes its desire to reach a mutually satisfactory solution with all
claimant companies, and has expressed its willingness to consider such settle-
ment outside the terms of the 1969 Nationalization Law.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
22.       To date, the Association has 12 operations 2/ in PDRY, for a total
IDA commitment of $63.2 million. PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in
1970, but is not a member of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971
and, after a hiatus of about two years (February 1976 to February 1978)
because IDA funds allocated to PDRY for this period had been committed more
rapidly than envisaged, resumed again in 1978. Of the present total IDA
commitment, about $20.3 million was for assistance in building up physical
infrastructure and strengthening institutions in the transportation sector,
through the provision of three highway credits and a credit for the reha-
bilitation and modernization of the Aden port. One of the highway projects
was successfully completed in December 1975. An engineering credit was
refinanced under the credit for the second highways (Mukalla-Seiyun road)
project now under way. Agriculture (including fisheries) employs about 43
percent of PDRY's labor force and contributed about 20 percent to the coun-
try's GDP in 1977. Although the cultivable area is severely limited by
difficult terrain and harsh climatic conditions, the potential for increas-
ing agricultural output through use of improved inputs and modern practices
is considerable. IDA has assisted in the development of agriculture and
1/   Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from the previous
President's Report for the Second Fisheries Development project (P-2571-
YDR), considered by the Executive Directors on June 12, 1979.
2/   In addition, a $9 million credit for a Petroleum Exploration Promotion
project is scheduled for consideration by the Executive Directors in June
1980.



-7-
fisheries through the provision of five credits amounting to $27.3 million.
The first fisheries project was beset by cost overruns and as a result a
supplementary credit was approved in FY1975 to provide the additional financ-
ing needs. A second fisheries development project for $10.0 million was
approved in FY1979 which will seek to improve the economic well-being of the
Al Gheida Governorate, one of the poorest and remotest regions in PDRY. Two
agricultural credits approved in FY1976 and FY1978 respectively focus primarily
on increasing yield through the introduction of modern inputs and agricultural
practices in Wadi Hadramout and Wadi Tuban. A credit of $5.0 million was
approved in FY1978 to help finance a power project in Wadi Hadramout which,
upon completion, will provide an impetus to agricultural development by
providing electricity to drive the ground water irrigation pumps. An IDA
credit of $5.4 million approved in FY1975 for an education project will assist
in alleviating the problems of inadequate facilities and shortage of suitably
qualified teachers. Another credit of $4.0 million approved in FY1979 for a
second education project will concentrate on training urgently needed skilled
and semi-skilled workers in the agricultural, industrial and commercial
sectors. An engineering credit of $1.2 million was approved in FY1978 to
finance the preparation of a water supply master plan and feasibility studies
for the rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply systems in the two
largest cities of Aden and Mukalla. The proposed project (Part IV of this
report) is based on these studies. Annex II contains a summary statement of
IDA Credits as of March 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
23.       The Association's lending program in PDRY aims mainly at supporting
the Government's long-range economic objective of broadening the base of a
service-oriented economy centered around Aden, by developing the productive
capacity of the other sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the
outlying regions. Efforts have been directed towards projects in the trans-
port sector, which would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of
PDRY, but, more importantly, link production areas with the main markets.
Other sectors where the Association has assisted and will continue to assist,
are in the fields of agriculture, including the key fisheries subsector, and
education. Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to be
an integral feature in the Association's projects in PDRY.
24.       Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.  A
follow-up agricultural project in Wadi Hadramout is expected to result from
an ongoing study by consultants financed under the first Wadi Hadramout
project. A third highway project prepared with funds provided under the
second highway project has been appraised. A study by consultants, financed
through bilateral assistance, which could possibly lead to an IDA financed
agricultural project in Wadi Beihan, has been completed and project prepara-
tion work started. As in the recent past, the costs of future projects are
expected to be substantially higher than the funds the Association can provide
to PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other development
agencies to join the Association in the financing of suitable projects. The
Association has, between FY1971 and FY1979, successfully played a catalytic
role through its projects in securing about $59 million of co-financing from
other aid donors (UNDP $0.7 million; Kuwait Fund $15.3 million; Arab Fund



-8-
$34.2 million; Islamic Development Bank $5.5 million and EEC $3 million), thus
assisting in increasing the inflow of development aid to the country. 1/
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
25.       Water is a scarce resource in PDRY which is located in one of the
world's most arid regions. The mean annual rainfall does not exceed 50 mm in
the country's coastal areas but is much higher in the interior. The land is
rugged in configuration, with sparse vegetation and few natural resources, and
temperatures in summer peak to 430C. The rate of evaporation is high and
runoff is limited even in the irrigated areas. The majority of the population
resides in the narrow coastal plain along the Gulf of Aden. Farther inland to
the north, the country becomes very mountainous, and beyond the mountains,
flattens again to form the high plateaux and the Northern Desert, which extend
into Yemen Arab Republic and Saudi Arabia.
26.       PDRY relies essentially on underground water resources for its
supply, as few perennial water streams exist in the country. There are seven
major catchment areas which drain into eleven wadis of which the most impor-
tant are the Hadramout with a drainage area of 23,300 km2, the Bana with 9,600
km2, and the Tuban with 5,000 km2. Since 1970 various studies of the major
groundwater aquifers have been made by FAO. The Association has assisted in
this area by financing a study of the underground water resources in Wadi
Hadramout, as part of an agricultural project (Credit 615-YDR). This study was
completed at the end of 1979. The IDA financed Wadi Tuban Agricultural Devel-
opment Project (Credit 768-YDR) also includes a water management study of the
Wadi Tuban Aquifer which supplies water to Greater Aden and irrigation works
in the Tuban Delta. This study is expected to be completed by May 1981. The
proposed project includes a water management study of the Wadi Bana Aquifer
which has been identified as the next supply source for Greater Aden.
27.       The Ministry of Agriculture manages all water resources in the
country.  A national authority, the Public Water Corporation (PWC), is respon-
sible for the planning, design, construction and operation of public water
supply systems in PDRY. Because of the climatic conditions and low and
irregular rainfall, agriculture in PDRY is dependent on irrigation with
groundwater and seasonal floods. Given its objective of bringing additional
land under cultivation, the Ministry of Agriculture has concentrated its
efforts on providing sufficient water for agricultural use. But the increas-
ingly larger claim by the agricultural sector on the scarce groundwater
has resulted in declining quantity and quality available for urban use and in
the overexploitation of the aquifers. This problem has reached an alarming
1/   In addition, $16.0 million is to be obtained for the Second Fisheries
Development project (CR. 932-YDR).



-9 -
proportion in Wadi Tuban which supplies potable water to Greater Aden, and
which will be rapidly depleted unless effective measures are taken soon to
share the resources between urban and agricultural uses. Recognizing this
problem, the Government recently set up a Water Committee whose functions are
to regulate the collection and allocation of water resources, and to establish
usage priorities. This Committee is made up of representatives of the Ministry
of Agriculture, the Ministry of Planning and PWC. The Association is assisting
the Committee in preparing a work agenda and a water code for the country.
Public Water Corporation
28.       The Public Water Corporation (PWC) was created in 1970 by Public Law
No. 19 to replace the Aden Water Authority. The latter was responsible during
the British protectorate for providing public water supply services which
existed only in Greater Aden and Mukalla. PWC is an autonomous public enter-
prise which operates under the tutelage of the Prime Minister's office and
functions as a commercial undertaking. In addition to Greater Aden, PWC
provides water supply services in nine other locations which contribute less
than 20 percent of its revenues. A Board of eight members, chaired by the
General Manager, manages PWC's operations. Six members of the board are
employees of PWC, representing various departments in the corporation and two
members are representatives of the Ministries of Planning and of Finance.
However, the Government exercises strict control over the corporation's
activities. It appoints the General Manager and other departmental chiefs and
also approves PWC's operational budgets, investment program, tariff levels and
borrowings. As a result of a study carried out by consultants financed under
the Water Supply Engineering Credit (S-21-YDR) (para. 371, certain revisions
have been proposed to PWC's organizational structure. PWC's management has
approved the revised structure which would be implemented gradually as staff
for the proposed management positions become available.
Service Levels
29.       PDRY's estimated population of 1.8 million (mid-1978) is one-third
urban and two-thirds rural including nomads. Of the estimated 600,000 urban
population, almost half is concentrated in Greater Aden, the nation's capital
and largest agglomeration. The second largest city Mukalla has a population
of about 55,000. The remaining urban population is distributed in cities with
less than 10,000 people. Of the approximately 1.2 million rural population,
about half resides in scattered places that are not large enough to warrant
the installation of public utilities and would have to continue to rely on
private installations for its water supply. Given this population distribu-
tion, it appears that about two-thirds of the total population comprising all
those who live in urban areas and about half of those in rural areas could be
served by public water systems.
30.       Based on recent data provided by PWC, it is estimated that about 47
percent of the population that could be served by public systems already has
access to them. However, only 20 percent of the people served are supplied
through direct service lines. About 60 percent of the urban population is
served by public systems, while only 20 percent of the rural population is



- 10 -
provided with such services.  In addition to Greater Aden, public water supply
systems exist in nine towns along the coast and in the interior: Mukalla,
Ghail Bawazir, Shihr, Lahej, Jaar, Zinjibar, Dhala, Nisab and Saber. Most of
the population living in the inner limits of these towns have house connec-
tions; but public supply through standpipes is very common in the outskirts
where the absence of sewerage make individual supply undesirable.
31.       The current per capita consumption is very low due to supply short-
ages and is inadequate for the harsh dry climate prevailing in PDRY. It
is estimated that the average household in Greater Aden consumes less than 18
m3/month (less than half of the average consumption observed in countries with
similar climate).  The quality and safety of water served in Greater Aden and
the interior towns are considered satisfactory. The same cannot be said of
the rural areas where open wells and ponds are still being used for supply.
Villagers living in remote areas must still spend substantial time to reach
the nearest watering point to fill a few goat skins. Local Councils which
report to the Ministry of Local Governments are responsible for providing
basic services including water supply to rural areas. With PWC and the
Ministry of Agriculture's assistance, the Local Councils implement and operate
a program of well construction in the rural areas, aiming at progressively
reducing the distances travelled to fetch water. The UNDP has extended assis-
tance for this program by contributing to the installation of about 45 water-
ing points in the Northern Desert.
32.       Collection and disposal of solid and liquid wastes in PDRY are
the responsibility of municipal authorities. Only five of the eight towns
forming Grea;er Aden -re at present sewered. The population in other parts of
the country uses septi.c tanks, dry pits, and in some cases relies on night
soil collection. Sewerage charges are not levied in the towns provided with
such services.
Constraints to Sector Development
33.       The lack of adequate financial resources is a major constraint to
an accelerated development of the sector. Because of lack of funds and the
obvious needs of the country, the Government has until now given priority
to the development of agriculture and transportation. Between 1968 and 1978
investments in potable water supply amounted to only $14 million (about $9
per capita), and were mostly financed by government funds. At the same time
PWC has not been able to generate sufficient funds from its operations to
cover its operating and maintenance expenses, mainly because of both low
tariffs and the small percentage of population served outside of Greater Aden.
The Government had in the past sought to charge low water rates, due to the
low income levels in the country and the social character of water supply
services. Water tariffs which average $0.16/m3 in Aden and about $0.45/m3 in
other towns (compared to $1.26/m3 in Yemen Arab Republic, and $0.80/m3 in
Jordan), have remained unchanged in the last ten years.
34.       Another major constraint to the sector development is the scarcity
of convenient water sources, which are already extensively exploited for
agriculture. This situation is further compounded by the remote and unfavor-
able location of the urban centers from the major aquifers. As examples,



- ii -
Greater Aden is located at more than 50 kms from the Wadi Bana Aquifer, a
possible supply source for the metropolitan area; waters from the Wadi Bana
Aquifer and the Wadi Hadramout Aquifer must be elevated more than 1,200 meters
to reach urban settlements in the high plateaux.
35.       A third constraint stems from the present population distribution
in the country. Most of the agglomerated population of 1.2 million is dis-
tributed in small towns, for which convenient water sources are difficult
to find and high per capita investments are required. There are only two
agglomerations with sizeable populations: Greater Aden with 290,000 inhab-
itants and Mukalla with 55,000.
36.       Finally, a fourth issue related to the sector development is the
acute shortage of adequately qualified personnel. The staff who presently
manages PWC is young, inexperienced and insufficient in number for the entire
country. There are only five engineers in PWC, but no graduate accountants or
administrators. PWC's management weakness is further compounded by the Gov-
ernment's excessive control of its operations and the absence of any require-
ments to achieve given financial goals.
Sector Development Strategy and Program
37.       As a first step in assisting with the improvement of the water
supply situation in PDRY, the Association provided a credit of $1.2 million
(S-21-YDR) in June 1978 to help finance a Water Supply Engineering and Tech-
nical Assistance project, whose objectives were to formulate a phased program
of works to meet long-term urban water needs in Greater Aden, Mukalla and
Laboos. The Association also emphasized the need for the Government to
reorganize PWC and to plan more comprehensively the use of the country's
scarce water resources. The engineering project has now been completed and
the requested work programs established for the above mentioned locations.
38.       Based on the recommendations of the engineering study and the urgent
need to save the fast deteriorating Aden system, the Government has decided
to give its first priority to Greater Aden where the infrastructure to some
extent already exists and where almost half of the urban population resides.
Moreover, it is essential that rehabilitation of the Aden system begin soon
to prevent it from deteriorating to a level beyond which rehabilitation might
prove impossible. Depending on the availability of financial resources, the
Government also intends to improve the water supply systems in the second
largest city, Mukalla, and in other urban locations. Parallel to that, it
will try to pursue its program of well construction in the rural areas. To
meet the 1990 water demand, it is estimated that the Government and PWC need
to invest (at mid-1979 prices) about $60 million in water supply works in
Greater Aden, $17 million in Mukalla and $28 million in the remaining towns.
These are indeed large investments that the Government might not be able to
make without commensurate external financial assistance.
39.       One of the Association's major objectives in formulating the pro-
posed project is to increase awareness among other international aid agencies
of the sector's plight and to encourage them into providing badly needed
financial assistance to PDRY for the sector's development. There is no doubt



- 12 -
that the Government has neither the financial means nor the technical capab-
ility to carry out such development by itself. The proposed IDA financing
would assist the Government in achieving its first logical priority objective
of providing decent water supply services in the nation's capital and largest
city, and in reducing the institutional constraints which have hampered the
sector development, by training PWC's staff, setting out a model ror optimum
use of water resources, and increasing the sector's financial resources
through the implementation of more effective tariffs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed development credit of $13.2 million would be the
Association's second operation in the sector. The project was identified
during the appraisal of the Technical Assistance Project (Credit S-21-YDR)
(para. 37), which included funds for its preparation. A French engineering
consulting firm, SOGREAH, submitted a water supply master plan for Greater
Aden in September 1979, on the basis of which the project was appraised in
November 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1980. The
Yemeni delegation was headed by Dr. Farag Bin Ghanem, the Minister of Planning,
and included representatives of PWC. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Greater Aden Water Supply Project", No. 2910a, dated May 7, 1980, is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. A map of the project area
and a layout of the proposed water supply facilities are attached.
Project Concept and Objectives
41.       Greater Aden is presently supplied with water from three well
fields known as Sheikh Othman, Bir Nasir and Bir Ahmed, located in the Wadi
Tuban Delta. The total maximum available production of 570 1/sec is about
30 percent lower than the present estimated demand of 820 1/sec and cannot be
increased, as the Wadi Tuban Aquifer is already overexploited at the current
rate of extraction for domestic, industrial and agricultural uses. Any
additional mining of the aquifer would only result in faster degradation of
the water quality with intrusion of sea water in the aquifer. Thus,to meet
water requirements in Greater Aden, new supply sources should be identified.
42.       The proposed project constitutes the first construction stage
of a long-term water supply master plan for Greater Aden, involving the
collection and transport of water from a new source, the Wadi Bana Aquifer,
which among various feasible alternatives, including flash distillation of
sea water and reverse osmosis of brackish water, has been identified as
the least-cost solution to increase supply to Greater Aden. The objective
of this stage is to make up the current production deficit and to provide
additional supply to meet the maximum demand of 1000 1/sec up to 1987. The
proposed project also calls for the expansion of the distribution network into
the newly developed districts of Aden and the rehabilitation of the existing
system.



- 13 -
43.       On the institutional side, expert assistance and staff training
would be provided to PWC to help in strengthening management capability.
Management experts will in particular assist PWC in implementing a new orga-
nization structure and improved administrative procedures that management
consultants have designed for PWC under the Association's Technical Assistance
Project (Credit S-21-YDR).
Project Description
44.       The project includes:
Part A
(i)  the construction of wells in Wadi Bana to yield a maximum
flow of 430 1/sec.;
(ii)  a program of immediate improvements in the existing system,
and the supply of operational equipment;
(iii)  final design of the well field in Wadi Bana and transmission
facilities to Greater Aden, and a management study of the
Wadi Bana Aquifer to assess the potential capacity of the water
resources and to determine their allocation between urban supply
and irrigation;
(iv)  management assistance and training of PWC's staffs; and
(v)  refinancing of the water supply engineering and technical assis-
tance credit (S-21-YDR).
Part B
(a)  equipping the Wadi Bana Well Field including the installation
of disinfection equipment and standby generators;
(b)  the supply and laying of a 32-in transmission pipeline
between the new well field and the existing facilities at
Bir Nasir, and the construction of a service track along
this pipeline; and
(c)  consulting services for construction supervision.
Part C
(i)  the construction of reservoirs in Wadi Bana and Bir Nasir,
and the installation of disinfection equipment and pipe
connections at Bir Nasir;
(ii)  the supply and laying of a 32-in pipeline between Bir Nasir
and Sheikh Othman;



- 14 -
(iii) improvement and expansion of the distribution network,
including the installation of a new 12-in and 10-in pipeline
to supply water to ships at the Aden Port; and
(iv) consulting services for construction supervision.
45.       As part of the project, a unit will be set up in PWC to be in charge
of repairing house plumbing systems which are now defective and leaky, particu-
larly in flats that were built prior to the country's independence in 1967.
The Government now owns more than 90 percent of the housing in PDRY. Some
breakdown repairs have been made in such housing by tenants but with no
significant improvement. Under current legislation, PWC is authorized to
enter premises, inspect their plumbing systems for possible leaks and waste,
and summon owners or tenants to make necessary repairs. The Government has
decided that repair charges, in all cases whether owner or tenant occupied,
will be borne by the occupants. Plumbers needed for the repair task will be
trained under the proposed project (para. 52).
46.       The objective of the management study of water resources in Wadi
Bana (para. 44) is to determine the long-term water balance in the aquifer,
the permissible level of water extraction and the optimum allocation of these
resources between domestic, industrial and agricultural uses. Terms of
reference for this study have been prepared by the Association in cooperation
with PWC.
Project Execution
47.       Implementation of Part A (para. 44) of the project started in
January 1980 with the final design of the Wadi Bana Facilities. This design
is being carried out by the same consultants who prepared the master plan for
Greater Aden. The execution of Parts B and C would begin during the second
half of 1981. PWC would be responsible for project execution. Since its
staff has limited construction experience and consequently needs assistance,
PWC has agreed to employ by January 1, 1981 qualified engineering experts
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Project Agreement,
Section 2.02). Except for the Wadi Bana Facilities, bid documents are avail-
able for the other project items. Bidding preparation for the Wadi Bana
Facilities is included in the contract for final design of the production
system in Wadi Bana. The construction of the new production facilities is
scheduled to be completed by the end of 1983. The expansion program of the
distribution network would be completed in 1984.
Project Costs and Financing
48.       The estimated total cost of the project, exclusive of duties and
taxes which are not levied on development projects in PDRY, is $39.2 million,
with a foreign exchange component of $34.7 million or 88.5 percent of the
total cost. Major items of expenditures are $3.1 million for the Wadi Banga
Well Field; $13.5 million for the Wadi Bana-Bir Nasir Transmission Pipelinel
$5.8 million for distribution and improvement works; $1.7 million for studies,
management assistance and staff training; $1.6 million for reservoirs and



- 15 -
equipment; $1.2 million for construction supervision; $3.6 million for physical
contingencies; $7.5 million for price escalation; and $1.2 million to refinance
the engineering credit (S-21-YDR) (para. 37). An estimated 328 man-months
of consulting services is required for the final design of the Wadi Bana
Facilities, management assistance to PWC, staff training, the management study
of water resources in Wadi Bana and construction supervision of the proposed
works, at an average cost of $8,200 per man-month including salary, travel and
subsistence.
49.       The proposed IDA credit of $13.2 million (34 percent of total
project cost) would cover the foreign exchange cost of Parts A and C of the
project, 34 percent of the foreign exchange costs of construction supervision
and the amount of the engineering credit. The Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development and the OPEC Special Fund have expressed interest in
financing respectively $12 million and $4 million of the foreign exchange cost
of Part B of the project including 66 percent of the construction supervision
costs. Further, the Government has requested a loan of $5.5 million from the
Islamic Development Bank to cover the remaining portion of the foreign cost
of Part B. Overall, the additional external financing would cover about 55
percent of the total project cost. The remaining 11 percent or the entire
local cost would be financed by the Government. As expenditures have already
been incurred for the project engineering design and the drilling of test
wells in Wadi Bana, it is proposed that an amount not exceeding $550,000 be
financed under the credit retroactively to cover expenditures made after
January 1, 1980 but before the date of the signing of the development credit
agreement.
Onlending Arrangements
50.       The Government would onlend $12 million from the proceeds of the
proposed credit to PWC, at an interest rate of 8.25 percent for a term
of 20 years including a 5-year grace period (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.01(c)). It is also expected, pending further discussions with
the co-financiers, that similar maturity and grace period would be applied for
their loans, but at lower rates. The foreign exchange risk on the credit and
loans would be borne by the Government. It is estimated that the resulting
average rate of the overall lending for the project would be about 4.6 percent
per annum. The government contribution of $4.5 million equivalent would be
passed to PWC as equity (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)),
which is necessary at this stage of PWC's development to help build its
capital structure. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and PWC, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(a)).
Management Assistance and Staff Training
51.       Like other corporations in PDRY, PWC suffers from a shortage of
qualified experienced staff. There are only five young graduate civil
engineers in the Technical Department and no graduates in the Administrative
and Finance Department. The Government and PWC recognize this staff con-
straint and have agreed to appoint, by not later than January 1, 1981, three



- 16 -
advisors in the fields of water supply planning and engineering, administra-
tion and finance, and operation and maintenance of water supply systems, to
assist the corporation in day-to-day management and operation for a period of
about three years (Project Agreement, Section 3.02(a)).
52.        In addition to the above management assistance, an intensive train-
ing of PWC staff is proposed to be carried out in the years 1981 through 1983.
Some 200 staff members or about one-fourth of the personnel would participate
in the training program which would include seminars and discussions on manage-
ment techniques in general and operation of water supply systems in particular,
in-service training by consultants, and participation in selected specialized
courses abroad. The seminars would be prepared and given by consultants. The
special training in house plumbing (para. 45) would be given by the technical
staff of PWC, with the assistance of a consultant. The foreign exchange cost
of the training program would be financed by the IDA credit. PWC has agreed
to finalize and furnish to the Association for its comments the training
program for its staff by December 31, 1980 and thereafter carry out such a
program with the assistance of consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association (Project Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
Procurement
53.       Except for the well construction and' the purchase of materials and
equipment for the improvement program, all contracts financed by the Associa-
tion will be awarded following international competitive bidding, in accord-
ance with the World Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. The contract for well
construction has been given to a government agency following receipt of
quotations from international drillers, which were twice the price asked by
this agency. Materials and equipment needed for the improvement program,
costing less than $15,000 each and aggregating to not more than $1.2 million,
would be procured through quotations from at least four suppliers in member
countries of the Bank and Switzerland. Items in Part B of the project
financed by the co-financiers would be procured in accordance with their own
guidelines. The construction supervision contract would be financed by the
Association and the co-financiers.
Disbursement
54.       The credit would be disbursed for items of Parts A and C of the
project against: (i) the full CIF cost of all direct imports; (ii) 57 percent
of total expenditures for civil works construction; (iii) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for consulting services other than construction super-
vision; and (iv) 34 percent of foreign expenditures for construction supervi-
sion, which represents the prorata project costs to be financed by the
Association. Disbursements to refinance the engineering credit (S-21-YDR)
would be against 100 percent of foreign expenditures. The first disbursements
for Part A of the project are scheduled for 1980, while those for Parts B and
C are expected in the second half of 1981. Part A of the project is needed in
preparation of Parts B and C and will bring substantial benefits to PWC. It is
estimated that the rehabilitation works, included in this part of the project,
would result in recovering 5 to 8 percent of the volumes of water produced,



- 17 -
which are now lost through the system. The Government has indicated that it
expects the commitment of the co-financing funds by the end of the first
quarter of 1981 and their disbursement by not later than July 1981.
55.       Accordingly, it is proposed that upon effectiveness of the credit,
disbursement be allowed for Part A of the project. Disbursement for Part C
should be conditional upon the effectiveness of the co-financing loan agree-
ments (Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3). Provision for
cross-suspension and cross-cancellation with these loans have also been set
forth in Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Past Finances
56.       PWC's financial performance during the last three years has been
poor. The corporation recorded in 1977 a deficit of about $270,000, which
more than tripled in 1979. The consolidated operating ratio (operating
expenses including depreciation as a percentage of total revenues) increased
from 111 percent in 1977 to 134 percent in 1979, as the operating expenses
continued to rise during that period, while the revenues remained unchanged.
However, PWC operations in Greater Aden during that period, which accounted
for 80 percent of the total revenues, showed a profit which nevertheless was
not enough to cover the deficit of the branches outside Aden. During the same
period, the corporation's effectiveness in revenue collection showed no
improvement. As of June 30, 1979, accounts receivable from private customers
and government agencies stood at seven months of water sales. To lower
receivables from private customers, PWC has promised to strengthen its
collection procedures by disconnecting unpaid services maore rapidly.  With
regard to the public agencies, the Government has agreed that it will take all
actions necessary to ensure that beginning with January 1, 1982, all its
public entities will make full payment for water consumed to PWC within three
months of the billing date (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(a)).
Tariffs
57.       Presently a single rate of $0.16/m3 is applied to all sales in
Greater Aden, irrespective of the type of usage, volume used and class of
customers. Rate schedules distinguishing classes of consumption are applied
in the provincial towns where the domestic tariffs are much higher than in
Aden. The present tariff system in Greater Aden is unfair to low-income
consumers, who by paying the same rate actually subsidize large domestic
customers and other users, as only the latter are responsible for extra
capacity costs incurred by PWC.
58.       To correct this inequitable situation, a tariff schedule which takes
into account the water usage and costs to meet peak demand of special users
is proposed. The new rate structure would have four classes of customers
(domestic, industrial/commercial, public and shipping), and three usage blocks
within the domestic class. Under the proposed schedule the tariff for large
domestic consumption and industrial and public usage would be twice that of
low domestic consumers; the tariff for shipping would be three times higher.



- 18 -
Future Performance
59.       Substantial tariff increases are needed to eliminate PWC's operating
deficit. At this time tariffs can only be increased in Greater Aden and not
in the provincial towns where the standard of living is lower and tariff
levels are alreaay much higher than in Aden. However, Greater Aden is already
subsidizing the provincial towns and it is not realistic to expect tariff to
be increased immediately by the full amount needed. Nevertheless, it is
appropriate to expect the corporation to cover at least its full operating
and maintenance costs. The Government and PWC have agreed that as a minimum
financial performance, PWC,on a consolidated basis, should be able, through
charges for its services, to secure a revenue sufficient to cover not less
than its operating and maintenance costs, including depreciation, interest and
(to the extent not covered by depreciation) PWC's obligations for amortization
of loan debts (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02(b); Project Agree-
ment, Section 4.04).
60.       At negotiations, PWC advised that it expects to increase the average
tariff in Greater Aden to $0.38/m3, which should be sufficient through the end
of 1984 to achieve at least the above performance level. For such an average,
low-income consumers would be charged about $0.23/m3, or about 45 percent
increase over the current rate of $0.16/m3, and water supply services would
account for less than 3 percent of their income, below the internationally
accepted norm of 5 percent. With the proposed tariff PWC is expected to move
from an operating deficit in 1979 to an operating surplus in 1982 which would
result in a -:eturn of about 8 percent on its net fixed assets in operation.
The implemencation of a tariff structure acceptable to the Association and of
an average tariff suf.icient to enable PWC to meet its financial obligations
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(b)). Other technical and financial performance
indicators relating to the efficient operation and management of the water
supply system will also be monitored by PWC during project implementation and
five years thereafter and appropriate actions taken to achieve an agreed upon
level of performance (Project Agreement, Section 3.03(b)).
Justification
61.       The need for improving and increasing water supply to Greater
Aden is critical. The current supply is 30 percent short of the demand
and the system itself is deteriorating rapidly and will soon reach a level
beyond which its rehabilitation might become impossible. The proposed project
aims at rehabilitating the system and increasing water production to the level
required to eliminate the current supply deficit and to meet the 1987 demand.
Moreover, the project would help improve water supply services in the develop-
ing and poor districts of Greater Aden, where the lowest income people live
and where the Government is planning future industrial development. These
people are now inadequately served by standpipes. The proposed distribution
works iould be executed in these districts to allow residents there to connect
their premises to the public network.
62.       The proposed project is the least-cost alternative to provide
urgently needed additional potable water supply in the country's major urban



- 19 -
agglomeration. If the projected water sales accruing from the proposed
project, and those maintained by halting the system's deterioration, which
otherwise would be lost, both based on the proposed average tariff, are taken
as benefits, the internal rate of return on the proposed investments would be
about 11 percent. This is a minimum measure of economic benefits from the
proposed investments. A more meaningful economic rate of return is difficult
to calculate, but is certainly much higher, in view of the unquantifiable
health and environmental benefits which accompany improved water supply.
Since no consumers surplus is taken into account in the calculation of the
rate of return it understates the consumers' willingness to pay for PWC's
water services. The rate of return is significantly sensitive to the levels
of water sales and to substantial increases in capital investments. But even
in the unlikely event of a 10 percent decrease in water sales and a 20 percent
increase in investment costs, the rate of return would be about 7 percent,
which would be still acceptable considering the social character of the
project.
Environmental Impact of the Project
63.       Provision of safe water in adequate quantity to large segments
of the urban poor in Greater Aden should help to reduce the incidence of
waterborne diseases, provide better living conditions in the metropolitan
area and foster its economic growth. It should be noted that as a result of
the project, the volume of wastewaters in Greater Aden would increase. But
the existing sewer system has the capacity to carry the increased volume and
no sewerage works appear to be necessary in the immediate future.
Risks
64.       There are some risks involved in the execution of the proposed
project and in attaining the project goals. Similar work has not previously
been executed in PDRY, and PWC's staff is young and inexperienced. Slow
payment by public agencies for water charges might have an adverse impact on
PWC's financial condition. However, the measures proposed to be taken in
the course of project execution, and the provisions of the credit and project
agreements, such as (i) the services of consultants for management assistance
and construction supervision; (ii) the proposed training of PWC's staff; (iii)
the Government's undertaking to ensure timely payment for water consumed by
public agencies; and (iv) the Association's monitoring of PWC's key performance
indicators, should minimize the project risks. The risk associated with
co-financing not materializing is considered low.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Public Water Corporation (PWC), and the Recommendation of



- 20 -
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
66.       Features of special interest in the Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement are summarized in Section III of Annex IlI. Section 5.01
of the draft Development Credit Agreement sets forth the following additional
conditions of effectiveness: (i) the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement
between the Government and PWC; and (ii) the implementation in Greater Aden of
a tariff structure acceptable to the Association and of an average tariff
sufficient for PWC to meet its financial obligations.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 15, 1980
Washington D.C.



- 21 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
LADAREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)               YEEN PDR                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE ) 
TOTAL            333.0                                                    SAME         SA ME    NEXT 'AIEGHR
AGRICULTURAL      92.3                                  MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       REGION !c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     ..           ..    42O.O            1532.5      209.6       .67.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALEXT)      299.0       463.0     324.0            838.1       83.9        262.1
POPULATION ANt VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION  XID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       1.3         1.5        1.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.0         32.1       34.3            49.0        16.2        24.2
POPULATION PROJECT-ONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (NILLIONS)                           7.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 101.                        4.0         4.5       5.0             19.9        49.4        45.3
PER SQ. Kti. AGRICULTURAL LAND     14.0        16.0       18.0            99.0       252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.3        44.1      45.0             45.6        43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                         54.0         53.2      52.0             51.4       53.2         51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7         2.7        3.0             2.8         3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         1.9/f      1.9/f           3.0         2.4         2.7
URBAN                                *-         3.2        3.2             5.2        4.6          4.3
CRuDE BIRTH RATE (PER TdOUSAND)      50.0        49.0       49.0            43.7        42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      29.0        24.0       19.0            13.5        15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.5        3.5             3.2         2.9         2.7
FA.MILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       ..                         12.2        13.2
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71.100)           94.9        92.0     102.0             90.8       98.2         99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    84.0        84.0      84.0             99.0       93.3         94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           56.3        56.0      57.0             63.6        52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        37.011       ..            16.0        13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      5.0         38.0       31.0            15.9        18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTK (YEARS)    36.0         43.0       47.0            53.8        49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..           ..         ..              ..       105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..      24.0             56.4       26.3         34.4
URBAN                                ..          ..      30.0             83.4       58.5         57.9
RURAL                                *-          *-        5.0            34.3        15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..            59.1        16.0        40.8
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..             78.2       65.1         71.3
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..             26.4         3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..    32380.0    9210.0            3677.0    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..          ..    1650.0           1730.6      5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                *-      1980.0     860.0            577.0     1417.1        726.5
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..      197.3        272.7
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..               ..     2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..         ..            21.8       24.8         27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..              3.8         5.3         5.4
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..             5.5        4.9          5.1
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..             6.0        5.4          5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..      22.0/h           45.1       22.5         28.1
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..            67.9        17.8        45.1
RURAL                                ..          ..        1.6/h            ..          ..         9.9



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                                  Page 2 Of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YZMEN ?DR                      REFZRENCE GROUPS (ADJUS-ZD AVJRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAM.E     NEXT HIGHER
.YOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b EST7IMATE /b       ZEGION /c   GROUP id    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMtRY:     -OTAL                  13.U         61.0       78.0             85.0       63.3         82.7
MALE                  20.0         96.0      107.0            103.7       79.1         87.3
FEMALE                 5.0         24.0       48.0             66.0       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY    TOTAL                   5.0         10.0       19.0             27.6       16.7         21.4
M.ALE                  8.0         15.0       30.0             39.2       22.1         33.0
FEMALE                 2.0          4.0        8.0             20.8       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)   5.0            3.0        2.0              4.3         5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0         31.0       30.0             32.6       61.0         34.1
SECONDARY                           21.0         20.0      23.0              23.4       21.7         Z3.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..           ..       27.1/1           41.4        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           9.0          7.0       6.9              16.7         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          52.0        104.0        ..             147.9       27.2         76.9
rV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         16.0      18.0              36.0        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEPREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..          1.0         ..             17.9         5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            2.4         ..              2.9         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
T0TAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        300.0        310.0     416.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     4.2          4.8       5.0              8.6        24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               70.5         64.7      62.0              43.0       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.6         17.6      20.0              23.7       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 28.2         27.4       26.6             26.7        36.9        37.1
MALE                                  53.4         51.5       49.8             46.4       52.4         48.B
FEMALE                                 2.3          2.7        2.7              5.1        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                2.3          2.1        1.9              1.8         1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             21.4         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PZRCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS    ..             ..        ..              48.6          *-        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS       ..           ..        ..               5.3         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCE2NT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..              15.0         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UR8AN                                 ..           ..         ..            201.3       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..     140.0             134.2       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       90.0            288.6        91.9       179.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..      87.0             170.0       54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPtLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..              22.9       44.1         24.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      20.0              31.2       53.9         37.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-.eighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators dopends on availabiliry of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherrise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year bet.een 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, beteen 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Lov Income (S280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lower Middle Income
($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /f  Due to migration to neighboring countries population sro-th rate is
lower than rate of natural increase;  /R  Av. 1964-66;   /h  2 population;   /i  ages 10 and over.
Mont Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



-23-                                                         ANNEX I
-Page 3of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nots;  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are pnpolatlos-wighted geometric means,  -cluding the otr-ee values of th  indicator and the  o
populaced cun.try in  each  _roup.  lverasg  of  .u. ries eases th  indicators depends  a uvail aility of data sod -s not unifo-o.  Due to .lck of data.,
group ave rags for Capital Surplus Oil Experters and indicators of acc ss to water and ecrets dioprsal, ho-sing, ijcoe distribution and poverty are
oipyl  populartln-weighted geometric sear  aithout tha saclusion of  strme. values.
LAND AREA (thousaad sq. kc)                                                            Paptlatior per hospital hed - natal, urbua. and rural - Popul-tios (total.
Total - Totol surfare area tocprising land area and inland caters.                      urban, and rural) divided by  their rospective naber of hospital beds
Agri-ltural - Mont retest entinate of agriaitureal area used temporarily                av-ilabl in publio and prioate general und specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pa-toree, markt  nd kitobee gurdees or to                   habilit.tioe  ent-es.  Hospitals are estublishments permasootla stuffed by
lie faliaw.                                                                           at least one physician.  Establishme.nt  previding poincipally custodial
iara are  oritclded.  fRcal hospitals, ho  ver, iciude health and mcd,-
GlO  PEI CAPITA (Lol -I GcP par napira ertianes at current machat p-t1as,                cal cecters rat pecranently staffed by a physici- (but by a adinl as-
calc.losed by sace conver-ionts hd as W.orld Bash atias (1975-77 hoste;               esise nc, nurs, =idtife, -tc.) ehiih offer i-paleti-  -c-coeda--oacd
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                            provid. a limited range of =ed-cul facilitis.
Odmnsatocs Per hoepirel had - Tocal -ombsr of udmindoens n or di-chirgac
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual conssurption of cremerciul esergy                 free bosyitals divided by the euhbr of beds.
(coal and lignite, petrlesi, natural gas and hydre-, nuclear and geo-
thermal rielcetrityl Isn kilgrams of cai equivalent per capita.                  hOUSING
Average sie of household (persons per household) - tocal,_urban, ad rural -
POPULATION A.NI VITAL STATISTIC5                                                         A household ce-osits vf a group of individuals rho shore living quartets
Total popsatilor, mid-rear (millEaes  - As of July 1; if sot  vailahle.,                and  their eati reasi.  A boarder or loda rnay or ciay not ho isci,de cl
.vecage of tea  e          nd-pear esttmates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 dana.              the     hoaseld foe st-atstical purposes b  S atstical defo  lons of house-
Urban pupulatiat (cercent ef totul) - Ratio of urban tn  total pepuIw-                  hold v-vy.
rio.; differen  defisitions of urbee ar. sap asffes  -copa-ubiliey                  hoeraemsueber of persons er roor- total, urbun, and curd  - ucerasa nu=-
of data ame=g -oustries.                                                              bar of persors per roe=to all, urban, and rural oc upied carvertional
Pocuaatton dansity                                                                      dellinge, respecrively.  -nvell iegs ec lud  n.o-percareent srucrures srd
Pcr  sq. kh. - pid-year population pear squar  kilometr (100 hectares)                 .nstoupied parts.
Of toral ara.                                                                       Acuess to elsctricity (pfrecet of dwelliegs) - rta.t urbho_ and rural -
Per nq. kh. agriculture land - Cemputed as abov  for agriecltural land                 Conveetional dwellings with electricity is livine  quarters as perceotage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, and rual dellings resp-ctivelv.
Poue-ation ae structure (p Ccest) - Childres  (0-14 years), esrhleg-ag
(15-64 years;, aed retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-            EUCATION
year p_ palation.                                                                  Adjusted enrull=ent  atios
Population arowth eats (cerent) - total. and urban - CoIpound anneal                  Prinary school - total, and female - Total and female  nroll=ent of u1l ageu
gr-ot ratrs of total and urhas mid-year pepulutiaca for 1950-60,                      as the peiherey  evel as percentages of cetpecoiveit  priest7y aho-l age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations;s arally  includes children agad 6-11 tes hut adjusted tor
Crude birth rate (ler  sthessed) - Ana-l live births pee thossand of                   differeet le-gths of primary educotion; fee countci-e  ith -uo -vertul edu-
mid-year popalatioe; nee-year arithmetic averages ending is 1960  -nd                 canios esrelleet mar eceed 100 perce--t sice sacs popils arc beloa cr
1970 wed five-year average ending is 1975 far meat recent estimate.                   abov  rho official school age.
_usde death rate (per thousand) - Ansual deaths per thousaad of mid-                  Secondary school - totul  end fenale - Coeputed as above;  -scoodaro doca-
year population; tee-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tion requiree at least fese years of approved pricary icottiutian; pro-
and five-pear average ending is 1917  far nest rarest estimate,                       video generel vecattoal, or teacher training insrruct-os  tar " upuil
hross reproduoton rate- Averaga number at daughters a w              lmas atll bear     usually of 12 to 17 years cf age; correspondence corses Ott ge-erally
in her carnal reproductive pertsd if she eaperieuces presect age-                     ec,Iuded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,               Yocational e..cilment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, ad 1975.                                                                        clude `atahicai, industrial, oe other p-eg-acs uhich op-rute  -dep-ede-tly
faily claneina - acceptors. annua4  Ithussa ds) - Annual ncmber of                      or as depart.ente of secondary institutions.
acapete-  of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pu-ti-tewoher ratto - erte-ey. and secondart- Toeta   rude- ts d   enolled it
planning program.                                                                     prinary and secondary levels divided by numbars of teachero in thc carte-
'..ill planning - users (percent of earied yemen) - Percentage of                       speeding levels.
married woeno of child-hearing age (15-44 years) whe use birth-control             Adt- literacy eate (Percent) - Literate edulte (able to read and write) as
devices to all married wenr inE same age group.                                       a pere.ntage of total adult populatien aged 15 yours and coer.
FOOD AwIE NUTRITION                                                                  CONSUM5PTION
Indes of teed preduo -tos err -spits (1970-1AE) - Index  unubee ci par              Pessner oars ler thous.nd papulatios) - Passenger cars comprie motor cars
napta anoal productien of all food rcmdities.                                       seating less than eight persons; excluden ambulanoce  hear   and elliro.c
Per -wntia suvPir of calories (peereet of oesairee,sntnf - Computed from              vehiclas.
energy equivale.t of mnt feed supplies available in tountry per  a.pita            Radio receicere (per theousad pocplattoo) - All types of rececvers irt radio
yrr day.  Available supplies cempelse d.e..tic productio, imports less              broadcasts to general public per thousand of popula i         xrludos onlncecsed
enports, and chaeges in stck.  Net supplies exclude anital feed, seeds,             receiers is cr-ntries a-d in years wher  reglatrantie  of rad,c sets tao it
atit!nes used in feed processing,  and lasses ei  distribotion.  RN-              effect; data for recent years may not be -orparable siote moot cuc.trien
qluiremenro were esnimared by FAO based on physilolgica1 needs for ner-             abolished lioensing.
eel activity and health considering envirnmentral teeperatuen, body                TV receivers (per thousand popclaties) - TV receivers fur broadcast no gerorai
-eighto, age end sea distribstiane of popaunion, and allowing 10 per-                 public per  thoussed pepulumian; secludes unlicensed  TVreceicers if coun-
cast for waste at household level.                                                    tries and io years when regisrration tf TV setsownso effeot.
fer ouiri   surely of erotei (srams eeo  day) - Prourn tanest ci par                 N-sper circulation (ear thousand ppcelas-os)   Shise the  -arage circola-
capita net sapply of food per day.  Net supply of foed ia defined we                  tioe  of "daily general interest  newspaper"e defioad as a yridic.l pubic-
abos-.  Requir.ents  for a11 countries established by USDA provide for                catten devoted primarir to recording genera 1  evs. I    Ir i corsidered to
a mieimu=  allowance of 60 grant of total poitein per day and 20 grams                ha  daily  if it appears at least four ti-esaweak.
of animal wad pulse pr-tein, of whibh 10 grums should be animal preoein.           finama annual attendanre per oApitper wyar - Based to tht camber of ticketi
These standards are lever than these of 75 grams of total prctein and                 sold during the year, including admlnsio- u to drive-ic cine_at and mobilo
23 grams cf aninal protein as as average fur the esr1d, proposed by                   units.
FAO in the third World F.ed .Sr.ey.
Per capita protein suppEy from animal and pulae - Protein supply of food            EiMPLOlENT
derived from anissl. and pulses he g.seS  per day.                                Tlaln lahar icrce fthoudel - Ecoecauall y acute yocsus, iucludiog aroed
Child (ages 1-4) mertaliny  rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-              farces and unemployed but e-cluding housewives  stud.ts, etc.  Def(ni-
aed to  ge group 1-A years, to children in chia age groue.                            tiots in var-ous  .ou.tries era net c- eparable.
PeFale (percent) - Fe..le labor fer.. as perase.t.ae I total laboteros.
HEALTH                                                                                Agricultu-e feercen) - Ltabor forte in far=ing. forustry, hocting and fcsihig
Life expectancy at birth (yeers) - Average somber of years of life                      as percentage of  total Eabor force.
remaiong ant birth; usuaIly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (Pe_tent) - Labor force In miuing,   or.ruct-ti, masia. turiog aid
and 1975.                                                                             electrioity, eater and gas as percentage of total Eahor force.
lnfant mertality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under               P'utioleatias  rate (cerceet)  - total, sale   and female - Tocal, mle  and
ane yaea  =f age per  thausaed live hiebte.                                            ema  e lahor  orr- a. percentaget  of their -reyp-ctJI  poyofati'ul.
cAoees to safe water (sercent of mspblahtia) - total. urban, and rural -                these ore  ILOIs adiusted perticipetiin rates retr-co1tr.e.
Comber of pops (total, urban, and r-al) with .easanable baCess no a                    truc-ire of toe populotion. nnd  rop, time crend.
safe wAter supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                Econorio drerndentc ratio -  antio of populat-on und-r 1. urd h5 sod .eve  Lc
uno-ntasinated water sach as that fr-e protected bereheles.  springs.,                the labor forte is age gecup of 15-64 fteat.
and sanitary wells) as percennagee of their rcepective populatioss.
In so urban area a public fountain or standpost lassoed not rece                  INCOME DISTRIBUTtON
thac 200 meters from a bhuse may be considered as being within tea-                Percentage of private income (both is cash and kind) es-etied by richest 5
sasableaccees of that house.  ln rural areas re...sable access would                  peroen, riohent 2D percent, poorast 20 perent, and poorest 40 percent
imply thot the housewife or nembees of ths household de not have to                   of hbuseholds.
spend a disproportionaste part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                      POVERTi TARGET GROUPS
Acesn tno eceets disP.saI (percent of Peoulatien) - total, urban. and                Estimated abselute ceverty income level (US5 pea  capita) - utbh   and rural -
rural - Nber of cpeola (total. urbans  and raral) served by oceeta                      Abseluts poverty i-ose level is thst incme level belov which a  inimal
disposal as percentages of theicr repes tivs pupalationa.  lacceta                    nserinionally adequate  diet plEs essential noo-food cequiremects is eat
disposal ea.   inclode the eallectiss sed disposal, with or without                   affordabl.
t-eta-eet, of human eacreta sad waste-water by waner-borne 5y5t-c5                 Estimated -eIative pove.rt itcore level foil pen -apita) - urban and rural -
ar tha use of pit privies and sieilar installations.                                  Relative poverty in-eme level is that income level less thus use-third
copulation peer phyeeias - Population divided by eumber of practicing                   per capita personal iE.coe of the oo.etry.
physioiaso qualified free a nedisal aehoal at university leveE.                    Estimated pgpelanien below peverty income loyal (Deroent) - urbac and rural -
Poculatioc per narsing person- Population divided by nehber cf                          Persest of population (urban wed nrual) who  are sithee "abelate pose 0r
practicing male and female graduate nurses, prectiEal nusese, and                     "reltice peor" ohithaver is greater.
assistanEt ras...
icnei   nd  Leria  Data Division
fon cOAlyt  and PrJectioa Depur---



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
- 24-
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1978 -
US$ mln        %
GNP at market prices                      792         100
Gross Domestic Investment                 240          30
Gross National Savings                    171          22
Exports of goods & NFS                     93          12  Annual Rate of Growth (%)
Imports of goods & NFS                    427          54       (constant prices)
1973-78           1978
GDP at factor cost                        497         100        7              14
of which:
Agriculture & Fisheries              78          16        3              -1
Industry 2/                          62          12       10              27
Infrastructure 32                   126          25       16              12
Trade, Real Estate, Finance         124          25        7               3
Other Services                      107          22        4              14
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                4/                                  Preliminary
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)              1974/75 -   1975 4/  1976   1977    1978    1979
Total receipts                            23.1      17.0      32.1   43.4    56.0    62.7
Current expenditures                      27.6      25.6      39.2   47.4    61.4    72.0
Current deficit                           -4.5      -8.6      -7.1   -4.0    -5.4    -9.3
Development expenditures                  20.7      19.1      39.2   56.9    59.9    73.9
Overall deficit                         -25.2      -27.7    -46.3  -60.9   -65.3   -83.2
Borrowing from Banking Syst7m             11.4      10.1      15.6   18.5    17.4    25.5
Other Assets and Accounts 6             -15.0       12.5      -2.0   -1.4    -6.7       2.6
External Financing                        28.8       5.1      32.7   43.8    54.6    55.1
MONEY AND CREDIT                            1974       1975     1976   1977    1978    1979
(million Y.D., Outstanding, end Period)
Money and quasi-money                      55         67       98      140      168     217
Bank credit to Government                  24         37       62       72       87     110
Bank credit to non-Gov't. Sector -         19         24       31       49       59      61
1/ Provisional.
2/ Includes petroleum refining and mining.
3/ Includes electricity and water, construction, transport and communications.
4/ The fiscal year was April 1-March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became April 1-
December 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis.
5/ Includes current & development revenues from domestic sources and self-financing
of public enterprises.
6/  Includes the change in the Balance of the Development Fund (-   increase).
7/  Includes public sector agencies.



- 25 -                             ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)         1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
Exports /1                                   8       8      26     25      18
Imports /1                                -190   -179   -268   -364   -387
Trade Deficit                             -182   -171   -242   -339   -369
Non-factor Services, net                    22      17      24     18      17
Factor Services, net                        48      59    122    187    265
Workers' Remittances                    (41)   (56)  (115)  (180)  (258)
Investment Income                        (7)    (3)    (7)    (7)    (7)
Current Account Deficit                   -112    -95    -96   -134    -87
Official Transfers                           1      10      46     55      36
Official M & LT Capital, net                60      47      72     70      94
Gross Disbursements                     (60)   (48)   (74)   (71)   (95)
Repayments                               (-)   (-1)   (-2)   (-1)   (-1)
Miscellaneous Capital (incl. errors
& omissions)                             43     25       5      28      43
Change in Official Reserves
(- = increase)                           8      13    -27    -19    -86
Memo Item:
Gross Official Reserves (end year)          68      55      82    101    187
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                                 Average 1977-78
US$ Million Percent
Fish & Fish Products                             12           60
Agricultural                                       5          25
Industrial                                         1           5
Other                                              2          10
20         100
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1979)                US$ Million
External Public Debt Outstanding                    915
Of which:  Disbursed                              372
Debt Service Payments in 1979                         5
Debt Service Ratio (Exports of Goods   2/
and Services, Including Remittances) -            1.4 Percent
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to December 1971              As of December 1971           As of February 1973
US$ 1.00 = YD 0.42                  US$ 1.00 = YD 0.38            US$ 1.00 = 0.34
YD 1.00 = US$ 2.40                  YD 1.00   US$ 2.61            YD 1.00 = US$ 2.90
/1   Net of re-exports.
/2   Based on preliminary estimates of exports of goods and services.
April 19, 1980



- 26 -                   ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1980)                        /
----------$ Million--------
Credit                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.     Year   Borrower           Purpose            IDA              Undisbursed
Credit 240 YDR fully disbursed                        1.6                  -
370-YDR  1973    PDRY           Fisheries /1          5.1                 0.12
494-YDR  1975    PDRY           Education I           5.4                 1.74
560-YDR  1975    PDRY           Highways II /2       15.5                 2.66
584-YDR  1976    PDRY           Aden Port. Rehab.   3.2                   1.14
615-YDR  1976    PDRY           Wadi Hadramout        7.0                 3.26
768-YDR  1978    PDRY           Wadi Tuban            5.2                 4.50
829-YDR  1978    PDRY           Power                 5.0                 4.73
S21-YDR  1978    PDRY           Water Supply Eng.
Credit              1.2                  0.53
865-YDR  1978    PDRY           Education II          4.0                 4.00
932-YDR  1979    PDRY           Fisheries II /3    10.0                  10.00
Total                                          63.2                 32.68
of which has been repaid                         -                    -
Total now held by IDA                          63.2
Total undisbursed                                                   32.68
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1980)
PDRY is not a member of IFC.
/1   Including Supplementary Credit of $1.6 million of February 6, 1975.
/2   Including $0.6 million of Credit S12-YDR of November 17, 1972 refinanced
under Credit 560-YDR.
/3   Approved June 12, 1979:  Credit not yet effective.
NOTE: Exchange adjustment not included.



- 27 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 370-YDR - Fisheries Project: $3.5 Million Credit of April 12, 1973;
Effective Date: February 14, 1974; and $1.6 Million Supplementary Credit of
February 6, 1975; Effectiveness Date: April 29, 1975; Closing Date: August
31, 1980.
The project is now nearing completion. The major component, the
fish cold store and freezing facility at Mukalla became operational, after
a two-year delay, in June 1978. The delay was primarily due to the difficul-
ties encountered in finding a suitable project manager and cost overruns
requiring supplemental financing, which was approved by the Association in
January 1975. The smaller receiving station at Shihr is now fully opera-
tional, and the 100 fishing vessels financed under the credit have all been
delivered.
Cr. No. 494-YDR - Education Project: $5.4 Million of July 12, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: February 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This credit will assist the Government in making qualitative
improvements in the educational system and meet priority manpower needs.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily but is about 2 years behind
appraisal estimate due to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit effective
and in the negotiations of contracts with UNESCO and the consultant architects
and (ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting design
completion. Civil works on the construction of new premises, and extension
and rehabilitation of the existing schools are expected to be completed by
September 1980 in time for the start of the academic year 1980/81. Deliveries
of furniture and about 80 percent of equipment are completed. The fellowship
program is proceeding well except that three candidates for agricultural
training have yet to be found.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Cr. No. 560-YDR - Second Highway Project: $15.5 Million Credit of June 20,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
This project is financed jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Eco-
nomic Development. Since international competitive bidding for the construc-
tion element of the project produced no responsive bids, arrangements were
made for the works to be carried out by a government construction unit which
is assisted by the UK Crown Agents. Because of the remoteness of the project
area and the concomitant logistic problems, the severe shortage of domestic
skilled manpower and the lower than expected output from construction equip-
ment due to particularly harsh construction conditions, implementation of
the civil works is about 2 years behind the appraisal estimate. However,
considering these difficulties, construction of the road (358 km) started in
March 1976 is making satisfactory progress and is approximately 55 percent
complete. Likewise, total project cost is now estimated to be about 20 per-
cent over the appraisal estimate as a result of the extra quantities of rock
that had to be excavated, the additional drainage and protective works needed
because of floods and the general increase in the price of construction equip-
ment and materials. Construction and road maintenance equipment have been
procured. Consultants (Dorsch-Germany) have completed the economic studies
and the final engineering of the Naqabah-Beihan road. Consultants (Sotechni-
Italy) have completed the technical assistance component and the overseas
training program is underway with six Yemeni engineers having completed 9-12
months training courses (4 in the UK and 2 in West Germany). Candidates
remain to be nominated for the remaining four fellowships programmed.
Cr. No. 584-YDR - Aden Port Rehabilitation Project: $3.2 Million Credit
of September 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 3, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The project which is being co-financed by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development will assist the PDRY Government in rehabilitating
the port of Aden to reattract traffic passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The project provides for (a) the procurement of floating craft, cargo-handling,
workshop and navigation equipment, spares and stocks; (b) rehabilitation of
the slipway for the National Dockyard Company; and (c) technical assistance.
All equipment except some navigational items have been received and most are
already in use. A cost accountant and a marine engineer have been appointed.
Cr. No. 615-YDR - Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project: $7.0 Million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8100
ha of irrigated land in the wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, construc-
tion of feeder roads and extension services. It also includes provision of



- 29 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
a date packaging plant and a rural water supply component. The start of
project implementation was delayed because of the difficulties encountered
in locating suitable expatriate candidates for the position of project
manager, irrigation engineer and an extensionist. The completion of the
project is, therefore, not expected until June 1981, about two years behind
the appraisal estimate. All expatriate staff have now been appointed and are
on site. All agricultural machinery and supplies have been procured.
Cr. No. 768-YDR - Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project: $5.2 Million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project seeks to increase water use efficiency and raise agri-
cultural production and farm income in Wadi Tuban through the use of modern
inputs and improved practices. It provides for credit to cooperatives and
state farms, construction of feeder roads, a village water supply scheme and
improved irrigation system; a water management study; an agricultural policies
study; and technical assistance and training. The Government, with assistance
from FAO has recruited all the expatriate experts except the farm machinery
specialist who will be appointed later. The Arab Fund which is co-financing
this project, approved its loan of $6.1 million in February 1980.
Cr. No. 829-YDR - Wadi Hadramout Power Project: $5.0 Million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 18, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project would provide an impetus to agricultural development
in Wadi Hadramout by electrifying all irrigation water pumping in the Wadi
through the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction
of about 1,000 km of related transmission and distribution networks. Insti-
tution-building objectives would be achieved through technical assistance
comprising training abroad of PCEP's personnel, and consultants' services
for a tariff study, and a power development study. Soil testing of the
project site has been completed, and contracts for equipment and materials
(with the exception of construction equipment) have been awarded. Work on
the tariff study is underway.
Cr. No. S21-YDR - Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project:
$1.2 Million Credit of July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The project consists of studies to assist the Government in the
preparation of water supply master plans for the two largest urban agglomera-
tions, Aden and Mukalla; the assessment of potential water resources in
other populated areas of the country; and the elaboration of the first con-
struction phase of projects for the improvement and expansion of water supply
services in the areas under consideration. Technical assistance comprises



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
the formulation of appropriate administrative structures and financial poli-
cies for the national water authority and a tariff study. The feasibility
study has been completed, with the exception of the water supply master plan
for Mukalla, and as a result, the proposed project to rehabilitate the Aden
water system is being processed.
Cr. No. 865-YDR - Education II Project: $4.0 Million Credit of December 22,
1978; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project will assist the Government in establishing three voca-
tional training centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunner of a number of
additional VTCs to be constructed in other parts of the country to train
urgently needed skilled and semi-skilled workers. The project consists of
construction of an industrial, an agricultural and a commercial training
center, and the procurement of furniture and equipment. Arrangements for
fellowships to be financed from bilateral funds have been completed. In
spite of the project's initial satisfactory progress, implementation is
now about 10 months behind appraisal estimates due mainly to the delay in
finalizing designs and tender documents. Construction is expected to start
by May 1980. Contracts for furniture and equipment are expected to be
awarded around April 1980.
Cr. No. 932-YDR - Fisheries II Project: $10.0 Million Credit and $3 million
EEC Special Action Credit of August 10, 1979; Effectiveness Date: (Not
Effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The project seeks to increase income and economic well being in
the Sixth Governorate, which is one of the poorerst and most remote regions
of PDRY, and consists of the construction of a fisheries-cum-general cargo
port together with supporting infrastructure at Nishtun; the construction of
fish receiving, processing and storage facilities together with the develop-
ment of an efficient system for exploiting fish; and the construction of a 19
km road to provide a link between the new port and the nine fishing villages
which would supply fish under the project. The project also includes tech-
nical assistance comprising consultants' services to assist with project
implementation and operation; experts to assist the Ministry of Fish Wealth in
fleet management, cold store operations and export marketing; and a national
study to assess nutritional deficiencies for a possible future IDA-financed
project. The credit is not yet effective because of delays encountered in
finalizing co-financing arrangements with the cofinancier which had been
identified earlier; alternative arrangements may have to be made.



- 31 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project first presented to IDA:            March 1978
(b) Time taken by PDRY to prepare
the project:                            One Year (September 1978
through September 1979)
(c)  Agency which prepared the project:         Public Water Corporation (PWC)
with the assistance of consultants
(d)  First IDA mission to review project:    August 1979
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:            November 18, 1979
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                April 24, 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             October 31, 1980
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and PWC for onlending $12 million from the proceeds of the IDA
credit, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
(paragraph 50), and
(b) the implementation in Greater Aden of a tariff structure acceptable
to the Association and an average tariff sufficient for PWC to meet
its financial obligations (paragraph 60).
2.   Condition of Disbursement for Part C of the Project:
Effectiveness of the co-financing loan agreements (paragaph 55).



- 32 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
3.   Measures to be Undertaken by the Government and PWC include:
(a) Government contribution of $4.5 million for the project to be passed
to PWC as equity (paragraph 50);
(b) appointment by not later than January 1, 1981 of three advisors to
PWC (paragraph 51);
(c) PWC to finalize training program for its staff by December 31,
1980 (paragraph 52);
(d) payment to PWC for water consumed by all public entities within
three months of the billing date (paragraph 56);
(e) through charges for its services, PWC to earn revenues sufficient
to cover not less than its operating and maintenance costs, includ-
ing depreciation, interest and (to the extent not covered by depre-
ciation) amortization of loan debts (paragraph 59); and
(f) PWC to monitor technical and financial performance indicators and
take appropriate actions to achieve an agreed upon level of per-
formance (paragraph 60).



TURKEY    t46                                                                                 4B°                            50                              52°
IRAQ              RAN,   
$  o¢' IRAQ'.n  RAN  D6 gPEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC OF  YEMEN
NrTAAL ZO                                                            L121\
SAUDIAZNRABIA AR                             GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY  PROJECT                                                                                               0
io 0 t SAUDI ARABIA  <.E > S                                                      Project   Location
/    -                   1~ /                                   at                                                                       _A~
0  {        J                         j  11 |  E~~~0  5  1          1 ^ !B    t         AMuanfi                                       tNENTONLtPR
, J | | | S .9                                     . .z/. f _ _ INTEI ARiESAND NUMIL[ES
01      50       100      150      200      250
KILOMETERS
la-
ARAB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
14                            ~~~                                                                                                                   NARBOR ANA4
2.    .GINTERNATORAL ONAIRIEPAOR      UMER
\tU A L) .Etu/ $00s.o,.ooe 95$h......I 0d.                                                                                                        /'f//4//'201- 1000METERS
*--o,-,,,._ 09/0.00 4B.o of                                                                    48° Ir                                                         10012000 METERS
NSIAO'000 0000 Mgll£0000001 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~20 -100MEES                                                                   3
d000909 OA090<Ro                                                                                                                                               001 -2000 METERS                        oo,
2MI - 300 METEF0






______________________________________________                                                                                            IBRD    l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IB I)   487
888 REP OP  ~EOPE'SDEMOCRATICREULCOYMN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
zU;80                                             General Layout of the Water Supply System
"8'
wwl Fo4.               F,.I&~AlM8kz8
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ME
8/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~T1
~~'88 ~ ~
L tff~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ad- ~ ~ ~   ~         ~         4



