Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY FILE COPY
Report No. 29 1Oa-YDR
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 7, 1980
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of December 1, 1979)
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni Dinar (YD) = 1,000 Fils
YD 1               = US$2.9
US$1               = YD 0.345
YD 1,000,000       = US$2,900,000
ABBREVIATIONS
ft   =  foot                           mm      =  millimeter
Km   =  kilometer                      Mm3    =  million of cubic meters
lcpd =  liters per capita per day    m3/sec =  cubic meters per second
m    =  meter                          min    =  minute
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                                       U.K. System
Kilometer (Km)                          =   0.62 mile (mi)
Hectare (ha)                            =   2.47 acres (a)
Meter (m)      3                             3.28 feet (ft)
Cubic meter (m )                        =   220 gallons (g)
Million cubic meters/year (Mm3/year)         0.603 million gallons per day (mgd)
Liter (1)                               =   0.220 gallon (g)
Liters per second (1/sec)               =   19,000 gallons per day (gd)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
FAO    =   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
PDRY       People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PWC        Public Water Corporation
UNDP   =   United Nations Development Program
PWC's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT.
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE WATER SUPPLY AND  SEWERAGE  SECTOR  .......................                                   I
Background  ............................................                                  1
Water  Resources  .......................................                                 1
Service  Levels  ........................................                                 3
Constraints  to  Sector  Development  .....................                               4
Sector  Development  Strategy  and Program  ....                   ...........            5
The  Sewerage  Subsector  ................................                                6
IDA's  Objectives  for  the  Sector  .......................                              6
II.   THE PROJECT AREA  ...........................................                                     7
General  Features  ......................................                                 7
Existing Production  Facilities  ........................                                 7
Conveyance  System   ....................................                                 8
Isthmus Pumping  Station   ..............................                                 9
Existing  Distribution  Network  .........................                                9
III.  DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS  ..................................                                    10
Water Production  and Consumption  ......................                                10
Composition of  the Demand  .............................                               11
Population Forecast  and Distribution  ..................                                12
Housing  ...............................................                                 12
Forecast  of Consumption  ................................                               13
IV.   THE PROPOSED  PROJECT  .......................................                                   14
Master  Plan for Greater Aden  ..........................                                14
Objectives  of the Project  .............................                                15
Project Description  ...................................                                 15
Cost  Estimates  ........................................                                18
Project  Execution  .....................................                                19
Project  Financing  .....................................                                20
Onlending Arrangements  ................................                                 21
Procurement  ...........................................                                 21
Disbursement  ..........................................                                22
This report was prepared and written by Mr. Fritz Rodriguez, Mr. Aziz
Kassab and Mr. Vitalis Nwaneri.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii --
Table  of Contents  (Continued)                                                                   Page  No.
V.    THE  BENEFICIARY  ............................................                                  23
Background  ......    .....................................                             23
Management  and Organization  ...........................                               23
Staffing  ..............................................                                24
Staff Training  ........................................                                24
Billing  and Collection  ................................                               25
Accounting Practices  and Procedures  ...................                               26
Audit  .................................................                                26
Insurance  .............................................                                26
Taxes  .................................................                                27
VI.   FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS  .........................................                                  27
Past  and Present  Financial  Position  ...................                             27
Revenues  ..............................................                                27
Financing  of PWC's  Investment  Program  .................                             29
Future  Financial  Performance  ..........................                              30
Monitoring  System  .....................................                               30
VII.  ECONONIC  ANALYSIS  ..........................................                                  31
Objectives  of the Proposed  Investments  ....                    ............          31
Least-Cost  Solution  ...................................                               31
Economic  Justification  ................................                               32
Environmental  Impact  of  the Project  ...................                             32
Institution  Building  ..................................                               33
Risks  .................................................                                33
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................                                    33
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1.   Past  and  Proposed  Investments  in Water  Supply
2.   Population,  Service Lines  and Water  Consumption,  Past
and Forecast
3.   Cumulative  Frequency Distribution  of Domestic  Customers
and Consumption
4.   Population  and Water Demand
5.   Terms  of Reference  for Management  Study of Water  Resources  in
the Abyan Delta
6.   Detailed  Cost  Estimates
7.   Annual  Project  Investments
8.   CPM Diagram  for Project  Construction
9.   Bar  Chart  for Design,  Bidding  and Construction
10.   Contract  Schedule  on the Project



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
11. Allocation of the Credit and Loan Proceeds
12. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
13. PWC - Proposed Organization Chart
14. Terms of Reference for Management Assistance to PWC
15. PWC's Income Statements (1977-1986)
16. PWC's Cash Flow Statements (1977-1986)
17. PWC's Balance Sheets (1977-1986)
18. Assumptions for Financial Projections
19. Monitoring Indicators
20. Selected Documents.and Data Available in the Project File
Map No.
14870     Project Location
14871     General Layout of the Project
May 7, 1980






PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Background
1.01       Located in the south-western corner of the Arabian Peninsula,
the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) occupies an area of 338,000
km2 and extends nearly 1,400 km along the Gulf of Aden. It is a semi-arid
land of rugged configuration, with sparse vegetation and few natural resources.
The majority of the population resides in the narrow coastal plain along
the gulf. Farther inland to the north, the country becomes very mountainous,
forming what is known as the "Yemen Frontier" where the mountain elevations
exceed 2,000 meters. Beyond this frontier, the land flattens again to form the
high plateaux and the Northern Desert, which extend into Yemen Arab Republic
and Saudi Arabia (see Map IBRD No. 14870).
1.02      Overall, a harshly dry climate prevails in PDRY, though it is
milder in the interior plateaux. In general, temperatures in the coastal
areas are more uniform and humid throughout the year than in the interior.
The hottest months are May through September; temperatures higher than 43°C
have been recorded in June. Rainfall in the coastal areas is irregular but
more frequent in the winter months; the mean annual rainfall in the coastal
plain is about 50 mm. In the mountainous part of the country, it is more
regular and occurs in summer months; the average annual rainfall is about 500
mm in this part. The rate of evaporation is high and runoff is limited
even in the irrigated areas.
1.03      Administratively PDRY is divided into six governorates or provinces.
Only one-third of the estimated total population of 1.8 million (mid-1978)
can be considered urban. Almost half of the urban population is concentrated
in Greater Aden, the nation's capital and largest agglomeration. The second
largest city, Mukalla, has a population of about 55,000. The remaining urban
population is distributed in cities with less than 10,000 people. About 10%
of the total population is nomadic and more than half of the rural population
lives in scattered places that are not large enough to warrant the installation
of public water supply systems.
Water Resources
1.04      PDRY relies essentially on underground water resources for its
supply, as few perennial water streams exist in the country. There are
seven major catchment areas which drain into eleven wadis of which the most



important are the Hadramout with a drainage area of 23,300 km2, the Bana with
9,600 km2 and the Tuban with 5,000 km2. Since 1970 various studies of the
major groundwater aquifers have been made by FAO. IDA has also assisted in
this area by financing a study of the underground water resources in Wadi
Hadramout as part of an agricultural project 1/ (Credit 615-YDR). This study
was completed at the end of 1979. The IDA financed Wadi Tuban Agricultural
Development Project 2/ (Credit 768-YDR) also includes a water management study
of the Wadi Tuban Aquifer which supplies water to Greater Aden and irrigation
works in the Tuban Delta. The study which will assess the possibilities
of increasing the water extraction rate from the aquifer is expected to be
completed by May 1981.
1.05      Some of the aquifers along the coastal areas have for some time been
overexploited. As a result, sea water has gradually started to intrude into
these aquifers, causing continuing deterioration of the quality of the waters.
A case in point is the Wadi Tuban Delta where some wells have been abandoned
because of the high salinity content of the groundwater. Water demands for
urban and agricultural uses in this delta have already exceeded the available
groundwater resources, and water must be brought in from the adjacent Wadi
Bana to meet increasing potable water requirements in the Greater Aden metro-
politan area, a problem which the proposed project will address (Chapter IV).
But even this additional supply is not expected to meet the long-term demand.
Depending on the reserve capacity of the Wadi Bana Aquifer and future develop-
ment of agriculture in the Bana Delta, it may be necessary, to meet water
demands in the Tuban Delta, to resort to desalination of sea water and recycl-
ing of wastewaters as early as 1990.
1.06      But this situation in Greater Aden is not unique in the country.
Water shortage is chronic in Mukalla, the second largest city, for which
new potable fresh water sources have yet to be found. The same can be said
for the remaining agglomerations. In some of them located in the high
plateaux, their only source of water is scanty rain which is collected and
stored in unsanitary open ditches. Some fresh water does exist in the valley
surrounding the plateaux. But the techniques and cost to elevate the water to
the top of the plateaux are prohibitive and unthinkable for PDRY. An example
is the urban agglomeration of Laboos for which fresh water must be elevated
more than 1,200 meters to reach it.
1.07      The Ministry of Agriculture manages all water resources in the
country.  A national authority, the Public Water Corporation (PWC), which
reports directly to the Prime Minister's Office, is responsible for the
1/   Report No. 847a-YDR, Appraisal of Wadi Hadramout Agricultural Project,
January 12, 1976.
2/   Report No. 1727-YDR, Appraisal of Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development
Project, January 25, 1978.



- 3 -
planning, design, construction and operation of public water supply systems in
the country. 1/ Because of the dry climate and low and irregular rainfall,
agricultural production in PDRY is mostly dependent on irrigation, most of
which relies on groundwater, and in some cases, on surface water from seasonal
floods. Until recently, the Ministry of Agriculture has not been giving its
attention to the problem of sharing scarce water resources between urban and
agricultural uses, and in some instances, to the dire necessity for limiting
agricultural expansion. For example,the unrestricted use of water for irriga-
tion in the Wadi Tuban Delta has been driving at the complete depletion of the
aquifer.
1.08      As a first step in assisting towards the improvement of the water
supply situation in PDRY, the Association provided a credit of US$1.2 million
(S-21 YDR) in June 1978 to help finance a Water Supply Engineering and Tech-
nical Assistance Project whose objectives were to formulate a phased program
of works to meet urban water needs in Greater Aden, Mukalla and Laboos up to
the year 2000. The Association also emphasized the need for the Government to
plan more comprehensively the use of the water resources and to set out their
usage priority. The IDA financed studies mentioned in paragraph 1.04 were
aimed at formulating long range management programs of the two most important
water resources in the country, the Wadi Hadramout and the Wadi Tuban. The
proposed project includes a water management study of another important one,
the Wadi Bana.
1.09      Recently, the Government has set up a Water Committee whose functions
are to regulate the collection and allocation of the water resources, and
to establish usage priorities. This Committee is made up of representatives
of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Planning and PWC. The Associa-
tion is assisting the Committee in the preparation of a work agenda and a
water code for the country.
Service Levels
1.1b      As indicated earlier in this report, a sizeable segment of the rural
population is nomadic or scattered in isolated places which are difficult or
even uneconomical to provide with public water supply systems. Thus, it is
logical to assume that these locations should better continue to rely on
individual wells for their water supply. Based on this assumption, it is
estimated that at present about two-thirds of the total population could be
served by public water supply systems. About 47% of this population already
has access to such systems. However, only 20% of the people served are
supplied through direct service lines. About 60% of the urban population is
served by public systems, while only 20% of the rural population is provided
with such services.
1/   In some small towns, PWC has delegated its operating responsibility
to the towns' local councils. However, some water cooperatives or
associations still function principally in rural areas of the country.



- 4 -
1.11      In addition to Greater Aden, public water supply systems exist
in nine towns along the coast and in the interior:  Mukalla, Ghail Bawazir,
Shihir, Lahej, Gaar, Zinzibar, Dhala, Nisab and Saber. Most of the population
living in the inner limits of these towns have house connections; but public
supply through standpipes is very common in the outskirts where absence
of sewerage make private service lines undesirable. The quality and safety of
water served in Greater Aden and the towns are considered satisfactory. The
same cannot be said of the rural areas where open wells and contaminated ponds
are still being used for supply. Villagers living in remote areas must still
spend substantial time to reach the nearest watering point to fill a few goat
skins of water. Local Councils which report to the Ministry of Local Govern-
ment are responsible for providing basic services, including water supply to
rural areas. With PWC and the Ministry of Agriculture's assistance, the Local
Councils have been implementing a program of well construction in the rural
areas, which is progressively reducing the distances travelled to fetch water.
The UNDP has extended assistance for this program by contributing to the
installation of about 45 watering points in the Northern desert region of the
country.
Constraints to Sector Development
1.12      The lack of adequate financial resources is a major constraint
to an accelerated development of the sector. Lacking the necessary funds,
the Government has until now given priority to the development of agriculture
and transportation. Between 1968 and 1978 investments in potable water supply
amounted to only US$14 million (about $9 per capita), and were mostly financed
by Government funds. At the same time, PWC has not been able to generate
sufficient funds from its operations to finance its maintenance and expansion
works, mainly because of both low tariffs and the small percentage of popula-
tion served outside of Greater Aden.  The Government had in the past sought to
charge low water rates, due to the social character of water supply services.
Water tariffs which average US$0.16/m3 in Aden and about US$0.45/m3 in other
towns have remained unchanged in the last ten years.
1.13      Another major constraint to the sector development is the scarcity
of convenient water sources in PDRY, which are already extensively exploited
for agriculture. This situation is further compounded by the remote and un-
favorable location of the urban centers from the major aquifers. As examples,
Greater Aden is located at more than 50 kms from the Wadi Bana Aquifer, a
possible supply source for the metropolitan area; waters from the Wadi Bana
Aquifer and the Wadi Hadramout Aquifer need to be elevated more than 1,200
meters to reach urban settlements in the high plateaux. The country's rugged
topography further poses severe difficulties in developing an expanded road
network which is needed for the transportation of materials, equipment and
technical staff, all of them now concentrated in Aden. Other communications
means seem to be definitely too expensive for PDRY.
1.14      A third constraint is the present population distribution in the
country. Most of the agglomerated population of 1.2 million live in small
villages of not more than 5,000 people, for which adequate water sources are
difficult to find and high per capita investments are required. There are



only two agglomerations with sizeable populations: Greater Aden with 290,000
inhabitants and Mukalla with 55,000.
1.15      A fourth development issue in the sector relates to PWC's presently
limited management capability. The PWC staff is young, inexperienced and in
insufficient number for the entire country. There are only five engineers in
PWC, but no graduate accountants or administrators. At the same time, PWC
is considered overstaffed with clerical personnel, as it has more than four
employees per 1,000 people served, a ratio three times higher than that of
efficient water supply entities in developing countries. On the other hand,
PWC's routine maintenance of the systems cannot be carried out efficiently, as
skilled laborers are not available in the country.
1.16      As a result of these constraints, PWC has since its creation experi-
enced serious operational difficulties resulting from the bad conditions of
the systems, lack of financial resources and management inexperience.
The country's overall economic situation and more precisely the inadequacy
of workers' salaries, the low living standard of the population, and the
unavailability of foreign exchange needed for the purchase of spare parts,
have further worsened PWC's problems. This situation is particularly critical
in Greater Aden where the existing supply sources are drying up and deteriora-
tion of the system is reaching the point beyond which its rehabilitation
might become impossible.
Sector Development Strategy and Program
1.17      Given the urgent need to save the fast deteriorating Aden system,
the Government has decided to give its first priority to Greater Aden where
the infrastructure to some extent already exists and where almost half of
the urban population resides. Depending on the availability of financial
resources, the Government also intends to improve the water supply systems in
the second largest city, Mukalla, and in other urban locations. Parallel
to that, it will try to pursue its program of well construction in the rural
areas, aiming at reducing the distances travelled to fetch water. To meet
the 1990 water demand, it is estimated that the Government and PWC would need
to invest (at mid-1979 prices) about $60 million in water supply works in
Greater Aden, $17 million in Mukalla and $28 million in the remaining towns.
These are indeed large investments for which the Government does not, at this
stage, have the means to make in the sector.
1.18      Annex 1 gives a breakdown of the investments which have been made
in water supply works in various locations since the country's independence
in 1967. This Annex also shows the proposed investments in the years 1979-1983.
The objective of these investments is to provide the main urban centers and
larger rural agglomerations with the water supply network needed to meet water
requirements in 1985. This investment plan translates the Government's strong
awareness of the necessity for providing safe water supply within easy reach.
While investments during the first 5-year plan (1974-1978) amounted to US$11.2
million, those in the period 1979-1983 are projected at US$59.3 million or
more than three times in absolute amount. But this merely represents a
commitment for the sector, as the financing of these investments relies
heavily on external assistance, which has not yet materialized.



1.19      As equally irmporcant as the above investments, is the reorganization
of PWC. Such administrativ.Ž reform must be carried out in parallel to the
proposed expansion of public water supply services, which are now somewhat
deficiert in the interior towns. Under the Association financed engineering
project (Credit S-21-YDR), management consultants have prepared a new organiza-
tional structure and revised administrative procedures that PWC has started to
implement. The proposed project also provides for the stationing of management
advisors during three years to assist in the reorganization of PWC.
The Sewerage Subsector
1.20      Collection and disposal of solid and liquid wastes in PDRY are
the responsibility of the towns' local councils. Only five of the eight
towns forming Greater Aden, are at present sewered. But sewerage charges are
not at present levied in these towns. The remaining population in the country
uses septic tanks, dry pits and other methods of night soil collection.
As the Government does not, at the moment, have the financial means to
provide this population with more reliable disposal systems, it intends to
further expand the current education health programs to teach the communities
the proper ways to use and maintain the existing systems.
1.21      Given the severely limited availability of financial resources,
provision of adequate water supply should remain a first priority. As the
country's overall economy improves, the installation of more appropriate
waste disposal systems in the agglomerations supplied with water should
be planned progressively by the Government. Wastewaters in Aden are now
discharged without treatment in the harbor. But in view of the shortage of
water resources, their possible reuse in agriculture is being investigated in
the studies included in the Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project (Credit 768-YDR).
IDA's Objectives for the Sector
1.22      One of the Association's major objectives in formulating the proposed
project is to increase awareness among other international aid agencies of the
sector's needs and to encourage them into providing badly needed financial
assistance to PDRY for the sector's development. There is no doubt that the
Government has neither the financial means nor the technical capability to
carry out by itself such development. The proposed IDA financing would assist
the Government in achieving its first logical priority objective of providing
decent water supply services in the nation's capital and largest city, and of
reducing the risks of outbreaks of epidemic diseases in this agglomeration.
1.23      Through its first lending to the sector, IDA has initially assisted
in the carrying out of studies in other populated areas of the country. On
the basis of the results of these studies, various projects have been designed
for the expansion of public water supply in these areas. But financing of
these projects remains to be secured. There is further the need to put in
place a more efficient sector organization and to strengthen the sector's
financial situation. The Association has the expertise required to assist PWC
in achieving the first goal, and is discussing with the Government the measures
to be taken to arrive at the second one (see paragraphs 6.07-6.09).



II. THE PROJECT AREA
General Features
2.01      Situated on the northern coast of the Indian Ocean and not far
from its junction with the Red Sea, Greater Aden extends along a natural and
strategic harbor which is one of the most important commercial ports in this
part of the world. The site of Aden is characterized by two rocky promontories
known as Aden and Little Aden, protruding from the flat and sandy plain formed
by the Wadi Tuban and enclosing the bay of Aden. It is the capital city of
PDRY and dominates the political, economic and cultural life of the country.
With a population of 290,000, growing at an estimated annual rate of 3.1%, it
is by far the largest city. Almost half of the country's urban population
live in Greater Aden that receives large immigration of people from the inland
towns and rural areas. Most industries are in Aden and almost all imports
and exports transit through Aden Port.
2.02    - Greater Aden is made up of six conglomerate districts.  On the
Aden peninsula, an island of volcanic origin linked to the continent by a
sandy tombolo, two districts have been developed: Crater, the oldest residen-
tial area and a former fishing village built on the remains of an extinct
volcano and linked to the rest of the continent by only two roads; and the
Maalla/Tawahi/Steamer Point development. The steepness of the ground in
these two districts restricts urban development to small littoral areas which
are now saturated.
2.03      To the north of Crater and still on the Aden peninsula is another
district, Khormaksar, which is built on the sand linking the island to the
continent. It is a residential district housing embassies and families
of high and medium incomes. As population in the metropolitan area has
been increasing, new developments have taken place on the continent itself
forming the district of Sheikh Othman/Mansura/Dar Saad. Most new residential
and industrial developments have been located in this district. To the
northwest of this district on the way to Little Aden, is a fifth district,
Madinat Al Shaab/Hiswa where not much development has taken place. Finally,
the sixth district, Little Aden, is located on the western rocky promontory.
This part of the peninsula started to be developed in the fifties when for
strategic reasons a huge refinery and large military camps were built by the
British.
Existing Production Facilities
2.04      Greater Aden is presently supplied with water by three systems
known as Sheikh Othman, Bir Nasir and Bir Ahmed, which all draw water from the
aquifer situated in the Wadi Tuban Delta. The location of these systems is
shown in Map No. 14871. The total current production reaches about 18 Mm3/year
which is estimated to be 30% lower than the present demand. At Sheikh Othman,
production has been limited for some time to 2.5 Mm3/year, due to the continu-
ing increase of salinity of the water at this well field. There are five
wells equipped with submersible pumps which were installed in 1972. The pumps



- 8 -
supply water to a masoniry reservoir (2,350 m3) which is in poor condition.
From this reservoir water is pumped directly into the distribution network of
the district of Sheikh Othman/Mansura/Dar Saad and a pipeline (Rubble Mound)
serving the Aden Port.
2.05      The Bir Nasir system includes 38 wells which produce on average 12.5
Mm3/year. The wells located some 20 km from Aden are equipped with submersible
pumps, half of them quite old and in operation since 1961. Operations at Bir
Nasir are frequently interrupted because of overheating of the pump motor
drives and malfunctioning of electrical controls. The Bir Nasir system is
located in an area which is subject to severe sandstorms, resulting in consider-
able accumulation of sand against the facilities. Consequently, regular
cleaning is required to maintain access to the facilities. The well collection
system discharges into two reservoirs which provide a maximum autonomy of 2.5
hours.
2.06      The Bir Ahmed system was built in 1955 to supply water to the
petroleum refinery in Little Aden. It includes 12 wells of design similar
to that of the Bir Nasir system, with a total production of 3 Mm3/year.
The wells discharge into a steel reservoir of 4,500 m3, which in combination
with reserves in Little Aden, is sufficient to assure continuing service for
about a day.
2.07      Groundwater at the three well fields is very corrosive and casings
and screens of the wells are believed to be severely corroded. The salinity
of the water at Bir Nasir, which is farthest from the sea coast, is moderate,
while it is high in the two other systems. The temperature of the waters at
the collection points is fairly high (370 C).  The steel structures of the
production facilities need to be protected against corrosion. But the present
cathodic protection is not effective and some of the structures are now
heavily corroded. Except at Bir Ahmed, water at the other production facili-
ties is chlorinated and is considered safe for consumption. The chlorina-
tion system of Bir Ahmed has been out of service for a year now.
Conveyance System
2.08       A 15-in gravity asbestos-cement pipeline conveys water from the
Sheikh Othman well field to a booster pumping station (Isthmus) located in
the Aden Peninsula. This pipeline is in bad condition and should be replaced
in the near future. Two gravity mains carry water from Bir Nasir to the
Isthmus Station. The first pipeline, a 16-in provides service en route to Dar
Saad, Sheikh Othman and Mansura. This pipeline is also corroded and must be
replaced. The second conveying main, a 24-in gravity pipeline, runs parallel
to the 16-in as far as Sheikh Othman, and then turns south-east to stay
parallel to the 15-in of Sheikh Othman. These pipelines are laid in corrosive
soil and their cast iron joints are now moderately corroded, in spite of a
protective bituminous coating.
2.09      Two pipelines, a 12-in steel and a 24-in asbestos-cement, convey
water from the Bir Ahmed system to the districts of Madinat Al Shaab/Hiswa



- 9 -
and Little Aden. The steel pipeline is not provided with cathodic protection
and is quite corroded in areas where the original pipe coating has been
damaged. The 24-in asbestos-cement pipeline is of more recent construction
and now carries the major part of Bir Ahmed production to a pumping station
and then to reservoirs located in Little Aden. A 6-in pipeline connected to
the 24-in main conveys water to the Madinat Al Shaab/Hiswa district. Some of
the cast iron joints on these two pipelines are now highly corroded.
Isthmus Pumping Station
2.10      This station located on very low ground in the Aden Peninsula,
where the soil is very corrosive, functions as a distribution center for
Greater Aden. All the transmission pipelines from Sheikh Othman and Bir Nasir
carry their waters to this station from where they are pumped into the distri-
bution networks. One steel reservoir and a masonry reservoir, with a total
capacity of 24,750 m3 regulate peak flows into the system. Another steel
reservoir is presently out of service due to high corrosion of its structure.
Two ductile iron pipelines (15-in and 24-in) convey water from the Isthmus
Station to reservoirs (Main Pass) for distribution in Crater, Maalla and
Steamer Point. A 16-in ductile iron pipeline delivers water into the
Khormaksar District.
2.11      The setting of the pump units in the Isthmus Station has undergone
various modifications since its construction in 1930, which have rendered
its operations increasingly difficult. In spite of that, this station is
considered capable of providing some additional years of service and its
renewal is scheduled in the second construction stage in 1985.
Existing Distribution Network
2.12      The distribution system is made up of cast iron and asbestos-
cement pipes of diameters varying from 3" to 16". A 12-in pipeline conveys
water from the Main Pass Reservoir to Crater; a 16-in and a 12-in do the
same for the districts of Maalla and Tawahi. The network in these districts
is mostly in good condition, except in areas close to the coast where the
soil is rapidly corroding the cast iron joints of the asbestos-cement pipes.
In general pressure is satisfactory in these districts, but somewhat too
high in the low lying areas. At the southern end of the network in Crater,
water is repumped to Ras Marshag Cape; this pumping station is in very bad
condition. Another pumping station supplies elevated areas in Steamer Point
and Gold Mohur; operation of this station can be improved by installing
additional control equipment. The networks in the above districts are all
interconnected.
2.13      The Khormaksar District receives its supply directly from the
Isthmus Pumping Station. Two elevated tanks (Jebel Habid) located at the
farthest point of the network provide balancing flows for peak consumption.
Pressure in this district is adequate, but leaks through corroded pipes are
also very frequent.
2.14      The networks in Dar Saad, Sheikh Othman and Mansura are inadequate
to meet the current expansion and future development in these districts.



- 10 -
Pressure is too low and the pipes in Mansura are corroded; in Sheikh Othman
and Dar Saad they are in satisfactory condition. A 9-in cast iron pipeline
conveys water from the Sheikh Othman Pumping Station to the Aden Port for
the supply of boats. This pipeline is now highly corroded and its replacement
is envisaged under the proposed project. Water sales to boats account
for about 10% of PWC's total revenues.
2.15      The Madinat Al Shaab District is served by a 6-in pipeline connected
to the 12-in Bir Ahmed-Little Aden Main. There is no reservoir in this
district and service pressure is low.  It should also be noted that water
currently distributed in Madinat Al Shaab is not disinfected, because of a
breakdown of the chlorination equipment at Bir Ahmed. Two steel reservoirs
of a total capacity of 9,000 m3, erected in the northern part of Little Aden,
provide sufficient reserve for this district. The network in the eastern
part of Little Aden is made up of steel pipes which are now moderately cor-
roded; they would have to be replaced progressively. Pipes in the western
part are made of asbestos-cement and are in good condition.
2.16      To maintain the water supply system of Greater Aden in good condition,
high current expenses are required, due to the characteristics of the water
sources, the corrosiveness of the soil, and the rugged topography of some
areas.  PWC is facing serious financial problems and the system is consequently
suffering from inadequate maintenance.  None of the reservoirs has undergone
any regular cleaning or painting in the last ten years.  Leak repair and
replacement of obsolete pipes have also been seriously impaired because of
lack of spare parts.
III. DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
Water Production and Consumption
3.01      Current available water production for Greater Aden is estimated
at 571 1/sec, which is about 30% below the calculated demand of 809 1/sec.
This production level, which was reached in 1973, declined in 1975 and
1976 to about 476 I/sec, as less water could be pumped at the Bir Nasir well
field, due to lower water levels in the wells and power shortage (paragraphs
1.05 and 2.05). Deepening of some wells and construction of new ones made it
possible to boost again production in 1977 to the original level. Similar to
production, water sales in those years showed the same variations. As the
demand continuously exceeded the available supply, rationing became necessary.
Generally, water services are cut at night in the districts of Crater, Maalla
and Tawahi, in order to fill up the distribution reservoirs.
3.02      In 1979 water sales averaged 12.1 Mm3, resulting in about 33% of the
production unaccounted-for. The same volume of sales was recorded in 1973.
Meanwhile, the percentage of population served decreased from 78% in 1973 to
74% in 1979. In the same order, the average annual per capita consumption,
which reached 64 m3 in 1974, decreased to 56 m3 in 1979. The average yearly
consumption per service line which was 353 m3 in 1974, also declined to 311 m3



- 11 -
in 1979. During that period the percentage of unaccounted-for water remained
unchanged at about 33% of the production.
3.03      The evolution of population, service lines and water consumption
during the last six years is shown in Annex 2. In spite of the water shortage,
the number of service lines increased by 15% in that period. Presently an
average of 5.6 persons are served by a service line. Some 70,000 people,
mostly concentrated in the districts of Dar Saad, Sheikh Othman and Mansura,
are served by standpipes and mosques. The proposed expansion of the distribu-
tion network would take place primarily in these districts, in order to
upgrade the present services.
Composition of the Demand
3.04      A breakdown of the volumes of water consumed during the last five
years apportions the various uses as follows:
Domestic                               62.9
Public                                 26.8
Industrial and Commercial               7.9
Shipping                                2.4
100.0
Essentially, water consumed in Greater Aden is for domestic and public uses 1/
which account for almost 90% of total consumption. The industrial and
commercial sector absorbs less than 8% of the volumes of water distributed,
reflecting the moderate level of industrialization in the metropolitan area.
Presently some 16 industrial and commercial enterprises exist in Greater
Aden, among which PWC's biggest consumers are the Aden Oil Refinery, a textile
factory and a salt manufacturer, which alone account for more than 80% of
industrial and commercial uses. The shipping category corresponds to water
sales to ships which harbor in Aden for resupply before or after crossing the
Read Sea. Probably the present public water usage is on the high side and can
be reduced through better control of leaks in public dwellings (see para-
graph 4.11).
3.05      The cumulative frequency distribution of domestic customers and
consumption is shown in Annex 3. This distribution illustrates the usual
skewness observed for domestic consumption. As expected, the smallest
customers who use less than 4,000 gallons a month but who account for
50% of all domestic customers, consume about 18% of the volumes of water.
The largest customers (10,000 gallons/month or more) accounting for only
1/   They represent less than 60% in industrialized countries where industrial
and commerical uses account for more than 35% of the demand.



- 12 -
12% of the domestic customers, consume more than 35% of the volumes. The
median customers consume not more than 4,000 gallons a month.
Population Forecast and Distribution
3.06      Estimated mid-year populations in Greater Aden in the years 1974
through 1990 are given in Annex 2, and illustrated in Annex 4. They are
based on the only census ever made in PDRY in 1973. In that year, the popula-
tion in Greater Aden was recorded to be 240,370. The Central Board of Statis-
tics in PDRY estimates that the overall population is growing at an average
rate of 2.7% per annum. The annual growth rate in the Greater Aden area is
estimated to have averaged 3.1% during 1973-1979. However, the rate is
expected to decline to 2.7% during the current decade. The population in
Greater Aden is forecast to grow from 290,000 people in 1979 to 386,000 in
1990. The 1973 census recorded 37,842 households in Greater Aden, with an
average occupancy of 5.6 persons per household in that year.   This occupancy
level is assumed to remain unchanged during the next five years.
3.07      The present population density varies widely from less than 50
inhabitants per hectare in the exclusively residential district of Khormaksar
to about 570 inhabitants per hectare in the commercial areas of the Maala
District. With the exception of the districts of Sheikh Othman, Mansura and
Dar Saad, limited space is available in the other districts where few residen-
tial dwellings are expected to be added. Population growth in these districts
is projected not to exceed 1% per annum. Major population increase would take
place in the districts of Mansura and Dar Saad where the population growth
rate would reach about 5% per annum. Industrial development would also be
located in these districts, where most of the proposed network expansion
(paragraph 4.09) would be executed.
Housing
3.08      Four classes of housing can be distinguished in Greater Aden.
The first class corresponds to detached houses used for embassy quarters,
like in the district of Khormaksar, or by expatriate technicians, as found
in Little Aden. The second class includes apartment buildings in Crater,
Maalla and Tawahi. Houses in the first two classes are provided with complete
sanitary facilities. The third class corresponds to old dwellings built prior
to independence, and to recently erected small houses in the Mansura District.
Sanitary facilities in this class of dwellings are generally limited to water
closets and showers. Finally a fourth class refers to temporary dwellings
erected in isolated areas, which are basically supplied with water at public
standposts.
3.09      Housing development since independence has not kept pace with the
demographic growth in Greater Aden and has resulted in built-up slums in some
isolated spots of the city. The Government's objective is to achieve a higher
population density in the presently built-up areas by replacing old dwellings
with modern apartment buildings, and to upgrade dwellings of the fourth class
of housing.



- 13 -
Forecast of Consumption
3.10      Because of the current water shortage in the city, it has not
been possible to use the present water sales to estimate the per capita
consumption and future water requirements, as the present potential demand
largely exceeds available supply. To estimate the required production, an
analysis of consumption in the different classes of housing in 1974 (the most
recent year during which the demand was assumed to have been met) was carried
out. The ensuing per capita average consumption was found for the various
classes of housing:
220 liters/day in dwellings of the first class
101 liters/day in dwellings of the second class
56 liters/day in dwellings of the third class
20 liters/day in dwellings of the fourth class.
3.11      In forecasting future consumption in the Greater Aden area, it
has been assumed that the above per capita daily allowances to the various
classes of housing would remain unchanged. However, some vegetative growth of
the demand, resulting from the proposed housing upgrading in the districts,
is expected to take place. As the population presently living in dwellings
of lower classes move to better quarters with adequate plumbing facilities,
their water usage will necessarily increase. Public usage, which is estimated
at 11.5 lpcd, is projected to decrease slightly to about 11.0 lcpd by 1990.
Future industrial consumption is based on a conservative forecast of industrial
activities in Greater Aden.
3.12      Projections of water consumption up to 1990 are summarized in
Annex 2 and illustrated in Annex 4. It is forecast that by 1990 about 79%
of the population would be directly connected to the distribution network
through some 55,000 service lines, an increase of more than 41% over the 1979
number. Water sales are projected to almost double by 1990 with the yearly
per capita consumption for all usages increasing from a present average of 55
m3 to about 68 m3 in that year. Meanwhile,the annual consumption per service
line, which presently averages 303 m3, is projected to reach 378 m3 in 1990,
reflecting the expected upgrading of living conditions in the metropolitan
area.
3.13      Assuming that the percentage of unaccounted-for water would progres-
sively decline to about 24% by 1987, the required average production in
that year would then be 24 Mm3. As the maximum day demand is calculated to
be 30% higher than the yearly average demand, the maximum production in 1987
is forecast to reach 983 l/sec, a 72% increase over the presently installed
capacity of 571 1/sec, that the proposed facilities should be able to deliver.
The maximum hour consumption is estimated to exceed by 70% the average yearly
demand.



- 14 -
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Master Plan for Greater Aden
4.01      The proposed project constitutes the first construction stage of a
long-term master plan designed to meet potable water supply requirements in
Greater Aden to the year 2000. As described in Chapter II, Greater Aden is
currently supplied with water from some fifty wells sunk in the Wadi Tuban
Aquifer which is also used for irrigation in the Tuban Delta. During the past
decade there has been a steady decline of the water levels in the wells. In
1974 which was considered a dry year, the aquifer recharge was estimated to
reach 26.5 Mm3, while 17 Mm3 of water was extracted for Aden supply and 23.5
Mm3 for irrigation. As about 10 Mm3 was lost through infiltration to the sea,
the aquifer reserves were thus depleted by about 24 Mm3 in that year. A
review of hydrological data collected in the ensuing years has shown that the
aquifer depletion has continued to take place and intrusion of sea water has
been observed in the coastal area of the delta.
4.02      To maintain the 18-Mm3 water supply production, it has been necessary
to construct regularly new wells and to deepen some of the existing ones. But
such course of action has simply resulted in further depletion of the aquifer.
Based on the current level of water extraction, it is foreseen that by 1985
the dynamic water level in the wells at Bir Nasir would be below sea level,
thus setting conditions for rapid intrusion of sea water into the aquifer. It
is further assumed that by that time the Sheikh Othman Well Field would have
to be abandoned in view of the high salinity of the water. The Bir Ahmed Well
Field could be kept in operation at its current level of production. The
Association's Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development Project (Credit 768-YDR)
includes a management study of water resources in the Wadi Tuban Delta. This
study is expected to be completed by May 1981.
4.03      As mentioned in paragraph 3.01, the current maximum available
production of 571 1/sec is about 30% short of the peak demand. Since produc-
tion at Wadi Tuban cannot be increased to meet that deficit and future water
requirements, new supply sources should thus be identified for Greater Aden.
Among various feasible alternatives, including flash distillation of sea water
and reverse osmosis of brackish water, the Wadi Bana Aquifer located some 50
kms away from the existing Bir Nasir headworks offers the least-cost solution
to increase water supply to Greater Aden.
4.04      The general features of the Wadi Bana Aquifer, from which water
is currently extracted for irrigation in the Abyan Delta, are known. Existing
data suggest the availability of 20 Mm3/year or more for water supply. How-
ever, further studies are needed to ascertain the safe yield of the aquifer,
select the best location for the proposed well field and collect data for
the well design and the transmission facilities to Greater Aden. This hydro-
geological study as well as the final design of the wells and transmission
pipeline are included in the proposed project.



- 15 -
4.05      Annex 4 shows the expected evolution of water demand in Greater
Aden during the next ten years. The first stage of the master plan provides
for an average production of 10.5 Mm3/year from wells in Wadi Bana. This
production together with that of the facilities in Wadi Tuban would be only
sufficient to meet the demand up to 1987. The second stage would increase
production from Wadi Bana to the estimated available yield of 20 Mm3/year
or to the amount allocated for water supply, following completion of a
management study of water resources in Wadi Bana (paragraph 4.13). A produc-
tion increase to 20 Mm3/year would be enough to satisfy the demand up to 1996.
Beyond that year potable water requirements would have to be met through
desalination of sea water.
4.06      The water supply master plan for Greater Aden was prepared by a
French engineering consulting firm, SOGREAH. This study was financed by the
Association (Credit S-21 YDR, Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assis-
tance Project, June 1978) and the Government. The project concept was first
discussed during a preparation mission to Aden in March 1979. Subsequently,
some technical changes were suggested and a first stage program of works
was adopted. A mission composed of Messrs. Fritz Rodriguez, Vitalis Nwaneri
and Aziz Kassab appraised the project in November 1979.
Objectives of the Project
4.07      The basic objectives of the project are to make up the current
deficit in water supply to Greater Aden and to provide some rehabilitation
of the existing water supply system. The proposed new facilities would
have the required capacity to meet the maximum day demand up to 1987. It
is estimated that about 20 percent of the current production is now lost
through leaks in the system. The expectation is that the proposed rehabili-
tation work in conjunction with the execution of a leak detection program
would result in reducing the losses to not more than 10%. Under the rehabili-
tation program, measurement and control devices would be installed in the
system, in order to arrive at a more precise account of volumes of water
produced and distributed. On the management side, expert assistance and staff
training would be provided to PWC (paragraph 5.06 to 5.10). The management
experts will assist PWC in implementing the new organizational structure
and improved administrative procedures that the consultants have prepared
under the Association's Technical Assistance Project (Credit S-21 YDR).
Project Description
4.08      The project includes:
Part A
(i)  the construction of wells in Wadi Bana to yield a maximum
flow of 430 1/sec.;
(ii)  a program of immediate improvements in the existing system;



- 16 -
(iii) the supply of operational equipment such as domestic water
meters, leak detectors, hydraulic and workshop tools, cranes,
laboratory materials and vehicles;
(iv)  final design of the well field in Wadi Bana and transmission
facilities to Greater Aden;
(v)  management assistance and training of PWC's staff;
(vi)  a management study of water resources in Wadi Bana to
verify the safe yield of the aquifer and to determine the
allocation of additional resources (beyond 430 1/sec) between
urban supply and irrigation; and
(vii) refinancing of the water supply engineering and technical
assistance Credit S-21 YDR.
Part B
(a)  equipping the Wadi Bana Well Field including the installa-
tion of disinfection equipment and standby generators;
(b)  the supply and laying of a 32-in transmission pipeline
between the new well field and the existing facilities
at Bir Nasir, to carry out the first stage capacity of
430 1/sec;
(c)  the construction of a service track along the new trans-
mission pipeline; and
(d)  consulting services for construction supervision.
Part C
(i)  the construction of two 5,000-m3 reservoirs in Wadi Bana
and one 15,000-m3 at Bir Nasir;
(ii)  the installation of disinfection equipment and pipe connec-
tions at Bir Nasir;
(iii)  the supply and laying of a 32-in pipeline between Bir Nasir
and Sheikh Othman;
(iv)  improvement and expansion of the distribution network,
including the installation of a 12-in and 10-in pipeline to
supply water to ships at the Aden Port; and
(v)  consulting services for construction supervision.
4.09      A general layout of the proposed facilities is illustrated in
Map 14871. The present way of feeding the Aden districts would basically
remain unchanged. The new production facilities would be connected to



- 17 -
the existing system at Bir Nasir from where water would be conveyed to the
Isthmus Pumping Station through the existing transmission system and a new
32-in pipeline. The districts of Sheikh Othman, Mansura and Madinat Al Shaab
would be served en route by these transmission pipelines. Most of the envis-
aged network expansion would be carried out in the above districts where major
housing and industrial developments are projected to take place. Only improve-
ment works covering mainly the replacement of obsolete pipes, and the installa-
tion of regulating valves in the network would be executed in the other
districts.
4.10      The program of immediate improvements listed under Part A (ii) of
the project basically comprises the supply and installation of master meters,
air valves, pressure reducing valves, and cathodic protection equipment. In
addition, in order to keep up the current production level, seven wells would
be constructed at Bir Nasir. The electrical and instrumentation systems at
Bir Nasir would be improved, and an existing steel reservoir at the Isthmus
Pumping Station, would be repaired and put in service.
4.11      As part of the project, a unit will be set up in PWC to be in charge
of repairing house plumbing systems which are now defective and leaky, parti-
cularly in flats that were built prior to the country's independence in 1967.
The Government now owns more than 90% of the housing in PDRY. Some breakdown
repairs have been made by the Government's tenants, but with no significant
improvement. No plumbing stores now exist in the country, and services of
private plumbers can be rarely obtained, except from PWC. In fact, under the
current state monopoly system of PDRY, PWC seems to be the right agency to be
given the responsibility for maintaining stocks of pipe fittings and plumbing
fixtures, and for providing manpower needed to repair the house plumbing
systems.
4.12      Under current legislation, PWC is authorized to enter premises,
inspect their plumbing systems for possible leaks and waste, and summon owners
or tenants to make necessary repairs. The Government has decided that repair
charges should be paid by the few private owners who live in their premises
and are not allowed to rent them; in the case of premises owned by the Govern-
ment, the tenants would pay for the repair charges. Plumbers needed for the
repair task will be trained under the program described in paragraphs 5.09 and
5.10.
4.13      The objective of the management study of water resources in Wadi
Bana (Part A, item vi) is to determine the long-term water balance in the
aquifer, the permissible level of water extraction and the possible optimum
allocation of these resources. Direct measurements of rainfall and runoff in
the delta would be made to estimate the average recharge in the aquifer. The
hydraulic characteristics of the aquifer would also be established through
pumping tests. On the basis of the data collected, the existing mathematical
model of groundwater flows in the delta would be refined. Water needs for
full development of efficient irrigation in the Abyan Delta and for urban
supply would be forecast and ways to meet these needs would be recommended.
Terms of reference for this study are given in Annex 5.



- 18 -
4.14      Preparation of the proposed project and water supply construction
programs in other cities was financed by the Engineering Credit S-21 YDR which
was made in June 1978. The Government and the Association then agreed that the
credit might be refinanced under a subsequent water supply project. Accord-
ingly, it is proposed that the US$1.2 million proceeds of Credit S-21 YDR be
added to the project costs and refunded under the proposed credit. Upon the
effectiveness of the proposed credit, the Association will withdraw and pay to
itself the amount withdrawn and outstanding from Credit S-21 YDR; the unwith-
drawn balance of this credit will be reallocated to the account of the proposed
credit.
Cost Estimates
4.15      The estimated total cost of the project is YD 13.5 million (US$39.2
million), with a foreign exchange component of YD 11.9 million (US$34.7 mil-
lion), or 88.5% of the total cost.  Detailed estimates of the project parts
are given in Annex 6.  Scheduled annual project investments are shown in
Annex 7.  A summary of the cost estimates follows:
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   %
-------YD Million----- ------US$ Million------
Wadi Bana Well Field         0.21   1.07       1.28    0.60   3.11    3.71   12.2
Wadi Bana-Bir Nasir Pipe-
line                        0.53   4.11      4.64    1.54  11.92   13.46   44.2
Works at Bir Nasir           0.05   0.30       0.35    0.15   0.86    1.01    3.3
Bir Nasir-S.Othman Pipe-
line                        0.13   1.06      1.19    0.38   3.06    3.44   11.3
Distribution Network         0.05   0.26       0.31    0.14   0.77    0.91    3.0
Improvement Works            0.01   0.32      0.33    0.04   0.92    0.96    3.1
Meters and Equipment         0.02   0.17       0.19    0.06   0.50    0.56    1.8
Sub-total               1.00   7.29      8.29    2.91  21.14   24.05   78.9
Final Design of Bana         0.01   0.14       0.15    0.03   0.42    0.45    1.5
Management Ass. and
Training                    0.06   0.20      0.26    0.16   0.59    0.75    2.5
Study of Bana Aquifer        0.03   0.12       0.15    0.08   0.34    0.42    1.4
Physical Contingencies       0.15   1.09       1.24    0.44   3.17    3.61   11.8
Construction Supervision   0.05   0.36         0.41    0.14   1.06    1.20    3.9
Total Cost (End 1979
Prices)                    1.30   9.20    10.50    3.76  26.72   30.48  100.0
Price Escalation             0.25   2.34       2.59    0.74   6.78    7.52   24.7
Refinancing of Credit
S-21 YDR                    -     0.41      0.41      -      1.20    1.20    3.9
TOTAL COST (Current
Prices                     1.55  11.95    13.50    4.50  34.70   39.20   128.6



- 19 -
4.16      The cost estimates are based on price levels prevailing at the end
of 1979, and detailed bills of quantities which have been determined for all
the proposed facilities but the Wadi Bana. However, even the latter is
considered sufficiently well defined to allow a reliable cost estimate of the
works. A 15% allowance for physical contingencies has been added to the base
costs. Final design of the Wadi Bana Facilities and construction supervision
are estimated to account for about 7% of the base costs. To provide for price
escalation during the project execution, local expenditures are assumed to
increase annually by 6%, and foreign expenditures by 10%. These estimated
rates of price increases appear appropriate for this type of project in this
part of the world. Price escalation would account for about 25% of the base
costs plus the physical contingencies. The base costs include no provision
for customs duties which are not levied on imported materials and equipment
for development projects such as the proposed water supply project.
4.17      The project provides for an estimated 328 man-months of consultant
services for the final design of the Wadi Bana Facilities, management assis-
tance to PWC, staff training, the management study of water resources in Wadi
Bana and construction supervision of the proposed facilities. The estimated
cost of these services, including salaries, costs, fees, international travel
and subsistence, is US$2.7 million or an average of US$8,200 per man-month.
Project Execution
4.18      Implementation of Part A of the project started in January 1980
with the final design of the Wadi Bana Facilities. This design is being
carried out by the same consultants, who prepared the master plan for Greater
Aden. The contract for the final design which was approved by the Associa-
tion, calls for rapid evaluation of the hydraulic characteristics of the Wadi
Bana Aquifer at the selected site for the well field. As part of this evalua-
tion, geophysical exploration of the site will be made and two test wells will
be drilled to determine the nature of the soil formations, the characteristics
of the aquifer, and the required number and depth of the production wells.
The drilling of the test wells and the construction of the production wells
would be carried out by the Irrigation Department of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. This Department has the equipment, qualified manpower and the experi-
ence required to execute these works properly.
4.19      The execution of Parts B and C would begin during the second half of
1981. PWC would be responsible for project execution. However, its staff has
limited construction experience and consequently needs the assistance of
qualified engineering experts to be retained, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, not later than January 1, 1981. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations. Except for the Wadi Bana
Facilities, bid documents are available for the other project items. Bidding
preparation for the Bana Facilities is included in the contract for final
design of the production system in Wadi Bana (paragraph 4.18).
4.20      A CPM diagram and a bar chart for project execution are illustrated
in Annexes 8 and 9. It is expected that construction of the new production
facilities would be completed by the end of 1983 and that additional water



- 20 -
supply would become available by that time in Greater Aden. The expansion
program of the distribution network would be completed in 1984. During
negotiations the construction schedule was discussed and adopted for the
project. PWC also agreed to review and update it regularly, as part of
its quarterly progress report to IDA.
Project Financing
4.21      An IDA credit of US$13.2 million to finance the foreign exchange
cost of Parts A and C of the project is proposed. The Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development and the OPEC Special Fund have expressed interest in
financing respectively US$12 million and US$4 million of the foreign exchange
cost of Part B of the project. Further, the Government has requested a loan
of US$5.5 million from the Islamic Bank to finance the remaining portion of
the foreign exchange cost of Part B. In addition, the Government is prepared
to finance the local cost of the project. On this basis and according to the
sources of financing for the project parts, the financing plan for the project
is as follows:
1980-1984
Requirements   Financed by  In Amount of    %
---------------US$ Million…-------------
PARTS A and C:
Local                         1.87         Government         1.87       4.8
Foreign                      13.20         IDA              13.20       33.7
Total                        15.07                          15.07       38.5
PART B:
Local                         2.63         Government        2.63        6.7
Foreign                      21.50         Arab Fund        12.00       30.6
Islamic Bank      5.50       14.0
OPEC Fund         4.00       10.2
Total                        24.13                          24.13       61.5
TOTAL PROJECT                     39.20                           39.20      100.0
4.22      About 34% of the total project costs would be financed by the IDA
Credit, while about 55% would be covered by the loans of the Arab Fund,
the OPEC Special Fund and the Islamic Bank, totalling US$21.5 million. The
Government contribution would cover the remaining 11% of the project costs.
It is estimated that of the Government funds, YD 17,200 (US$50,000) would be
needed in 1980, YD 131,000 (US$380,000) in 1981, YD 548,000 (US$1,590,000) in
1982), YD 607,000 (US$1,760,000) in 1983, and YD 248,000 (US$720,000) in 1984.



- 21 -
Moreover, if the project is to be completed at greater costs than the esti-
mates, the Government would be expected to meet the overruns. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Government will promptly provide funds
needed for the project, including those necessary to meet any cost overruns.
4.23      Signing of the credit agreement is expected to take place at the
earliest in July 1980. However, in the first half of 1980, expenditures
would already be incurred for the final design of the Wadi Bana Facilities
and the drilling of test wells in Wadi Bana, in order to be able to start
construction of the new production facilities in 1981. Postponement of
these preliminary works would delay the execution of the entire program,
and would result in a substantial cost increase. Additional expenditures
would be made in improvement works which are urgently needed to keep up the
present production and to provide some minimum services to customers. The
total foreign expenditures in the first half of 1980 are estimated at
US$550,000. It is proposed that expenditures not exceeding this amount,
made after January 1, 1980 and prior to the date of the signing of the credit
agreement, be financed retroactively.
Onlending Arrangements
4.24      The proposed credit would be made to the Government which would
onlend it to PWC, at the current Bank interest rate of 8.25% for a term
of 20 years including a 5-year grace period. It is also expected, pending
further discussions with the other co-financiers, that similar maturity
and grace period would be applied for their loans, but at lower rates.
The foreign exchange risk on the credit and loans would be borne by the
Government. It is estimated that the resulting average rate of the overall
lending for the project would be about 4.6% per annum. 1/ The Government
contribution of US$4.5 million equivalent would be passed to PWC as equity.
Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and PWC, with
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit.
Procurement
4.25      Annex 10 gives a list of contracts to be placed for the project.
Except for the construction of wells, and the purchase of materials and
equipment for the improvement program, all contracts financed by the Associa-
tion will be placed by means of international competitive bidding, in accord-
ance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement. The contract for
construction of the wells has been given to a government agency (paragraph
4.18), following receipt of quotations from international drillers, which came
out twice higher than the price asked by this agency, and is considered eligible
for financing by the credit proceeds. Materials and equipment needed for the
improvement program, such as master meters, control valves, cathodic protection
elements, electric transformers and panels, costing less than US$15,000 each
1/   The current interest rate for long-term loans in PDRY for development
projects is 3%.



- 22 -
and aggregating to not more than US$1.2 million, would be procured through
quotations from at least four suppliers in member countries of the Bank, and
Switzerland. With the exception of sand and aggregate for concrete, all
materials and equipment for the project would be imported. Foreign contractors
are also expected to win the civil works contracts.
4.26      Apart from construction supervision, items of Part B of the project
financed by the co-financiers would be procured in accordance with their own
guidelines. The contract for construction supervision would be jointly
financed by IDA and the co-financiers, as the latter's procurement rules for
engineering consultants are compatible with those of the Bank Group. Such
joint financing should also assure more efficient coordination of project
execution through a single consulting firm for the project. The Association
will cover 34% of the foreign expenditures on this contract, while the co-
lenders will undertake the remaining 66%, reflecting the pro rata construction
costs to be financed respectively by the Association and the co-financiers.
Disbursement
4.27      Annex 11 shows the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the
IDA credit and of the other loans according to types of expenditures. The
credit would be disbursed for items in Parts A and C of the project against:
(i) the full CIF cost of all direct imports; (ii) 57% of total expenditures
for civil works construction; (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures for consul-
ting services other than construction supervision; and (iv) 34% of foreign
expenditures for construction supervision. It is suggested that the loan
proceeds for Part B be disbursed against: (a) the full CIF cost of all direct
imports; (b) 65% of total expenditures for civil works construction; and (c)
66% of foreign expenditures for construction supervision.
4.28      Estimated quarterly disbursements of the IDA credit, and loans
from other external sources are shown in Annex 12. The first disbursements
for Part A of the project are scheduled for 1980, while those for Parts
B and C are expected in the second half of 1981. Part A of the project is
a worthwhile program which will bring substantial benefits to PWC. It
is estimated that the rehabilitating works, included in this part of the
project, would result in recovering 5 to 8% of the volumes of water produced,
which is now lost through the system. The execution of the other works
included in Part A is also urgently needed and should be carried out without
delay, even if implementation of Parts B and C were to be postponed to a later
date.
4.29      Accordingly, it is proposed that upon the effectiveness of the
credit, disbursement be allowed for Part A of the project. Disbursement
for Part C should be conditional upon the effectiveness of the co-financing
loan agreements. Provision for cross-suspension and cross-cancellation with
these loans should be set forth in the credit agreement. The closing date of
the credit would be December 31, 1985.



- 23 -
V. THE BENEFICIARY
Background
5.01      The beneficiary of the proposed credit would be the Public Water
Corporation (PWC), created in 1970 by public law No. 19 to replace the Aden
Water Authority. The latter was responsible during the British protectorate
for providing public water supply services which existed only in Greater Aden
and Mukalla. PWC is owned by the Government and operates under the tutelage
of the Prime Minister's Office. But it has the status of an autonomous public
enterprise and functions as a commercial undertaking. In addition to Greater
Aden, PWC provides water supply services in nine other locations which contri-
bute less than 20 percent of its revenues. PWC was the executing agency
of the Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (Credit
S-21-YDR).
Management and Organization
5.02      A Board of eight members, chaired by the General Manager, manages
PWC's operations. Six members of the Board are employees of PWC, representing
various activities and organizations inside the company. They are, in addi-
tion to the General Manager, the Planning Director, the Chief Engineer, the
Chief Accountant, the Secretary of the Union and the representative of the
Party's base organization in PWC. The other two members are representatives
of the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Finance. The Board exercises
collective management of the company and all important decisions covering
staff appointments and promotions, contract awards, approval of operational
budgets and investment programs, must be discussed and approved by it. Some
of its members, particularly the political appointees such as the representa-
tives of the Party and the Union, are very influential and no decision can
be taken by the Board without their specific approval. As a result of this
situation, important technical and administrative decisions are very often
long delayed, because other members have to spend much time explaining to
these representatives the logics of the Board's propositions.
5.03      The Government exercises much control of the corporation's activi-
ties. In addition to the appointment of the General Manager and other depart-
mental chiefs, the Government reviews and approves PWC's operational budgets,
investment programs, tariff levels and borrowings. Further, any contract
award exceeding YD 9,000 (US$26,100) must be approved by the Government's
Higher Tender Board Committee, which is made up of the Minister of Planning,
the Minister of Construction and the Minister of Finance. The General Manager
is responsible for the day-to-day operations which are presently handled
by four departments: planning, engineering, administration and accounting.
But as pointed out earlier, the General Manager's decision taking authority
is very limited and he must on most occasions convoke the Board to seek its
guidance and decision on most of the managerial problems.
5.04      Under the IDA financed Water Supply Engineering Project, a study of
the organization needed for PWC was carried out by consultants who proposed



- 24 -
the revised organizational structure shown in Annex 13. PWC's management has
approved this structure which would be implemented gradually, as staff for the
proposed management positions becomes available. Administrative procedural
guidelines, that have been established by the management consultants, are also
expected to be implemented by PWC's management.
Staffing
5.05      At the time of appraisal, PWC had a total of 960 employees, of whom
700 were in Greater Aden and the remainder in the provincial branches. This
staff number corresponds to a ratio of 4 employees per 1,000 people served and
is considered too high compared to the ratio of 1.3 normally found in well-
operated utilities. PWC's management concurs with this judgment and is
proposing to start reducing by attrition the number of staff, after the
consultants' report on job descriptions for the posts in PWC becomes available
sometime in June 1980. Salaries offered by PWC are similar to those of other
corporations, government offices and industries and should not constitute a
constraint for hiring competent staff. Last July the Government decreed a
general 50 percent salary increase which brought the monthly average salary in
PWC to YD60 (US$174).
5.06      Like other corporations in PDRY, PWC suffers from a shortage of
qualified experienced staff. There are only five young graduate civil
engineers in the technical department and no graduates in the administrative
and finance departments. The present technical staff is young, unwilling to
take decisions for fear of making mistakes, and unprepared for the task of
carrying out efficient operation and maintenance of the systems. The Govern-
ment and PWC recognize this staff constraint and the necessity for stationing
advisers to assist PWC in the day-to-day management of the company. It is
estimated that three qualified experts would be required: one for the planning
and engineering department; another for the administration/finance department
and the third for the operational department. These advisers are expected to
stay for a period of about 3 years in PWC. Terms of reference for this
management assistance are given in Annex 14. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that PWC will employ, not later than January 1, 1981, qualified
management and engineering experts, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association, to assist it in the management of the corporation for a period of
about three years. Foreign exchange expenses of those experts will be
financed by the proposed credit (paragraph 4.08, Part A, Item v).
Staff Training
5.07      As mentioned earlier, PWC is facing a shortage of qualified staff
that is not in fact presently available in the country. To help overcome this
situation, PWC has been carrying out a sporadic small training program which
has produced some moderate results. PWC has for instance trained about a
hundred employees in clerical and accounting work, and in mechanical and
electrical maintenance procedures. Some employees have also attended post-
graduate courses abroad. However, the current staff training is not con-
sidered sufficient and an expanded program to better cover PWC's activities is
proposed. In addition, the setting up of a training office in PWC to provide
continuous staff training is also recommended.



- 25 -
5.08      It is estimated that about 200 staff members would participate in
the proposed program which would be carried out in the years 1981 through 1983.
The program would basically include:
(i) seminars and work discussions on management techniques in general
and operation of water supply systems in particular;
(ii)  in-service training by'consultants and working on-the-job; and
(iii)  participation in selected specialized courses abroad.
5.09      Six seminars each lasting about three weeks and covering operation
control and leak detection in water distribution systems, water metering,
maintenance of water production facilities and distribution network, chemical
and bacteriological requirements of potable water, and administration, account-
ing and finance of water utilities, would be organized during the next three
years. Specific grouping of the above subjects in each seminar and detail of
the courses would be prepared later. In addition to these seminars, special
courses in plumbing work (paragraph 4.12) would be given at 4-month intervals.
Finally five engineers would be nominated to specialize abroad in sanitary
engineering. It would also be desirable that management staff be given an
opportunity to follow specialized courses of the Economic Development Insti-
tute of the Bank Group and of other advanced institutions.
5.10      The seminars would be prepared and given by consultants.  The
on-the-job training would be provided by the expatriate advisors to PWC. The
special courses in plumbing work would be given by the technical staff of PWC,
with the assistance of a consultant. The estimated cost of the training pro-
gram is US$128,000, with a foreign exchange component of US$108,000 that is
proposed to be financed by the IDA credit. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that: (i) PWC will finalize the training program for IDA approval,
not later than December 31, 1980; and (ii) it will subsequently hire ins-
tructors and consultants acceptable to the Association to execute the training
program.
Billing and Collection
5.11      PWC bills its customers on a rotating basis every two months for
water consumed and a fixed charge for meter rental. At the time of appraisal,
billing was being transferred from a manual Kardex system to an electronic
accounting machine, and was about three months late. Collection from private
customers and government agencies is slow. As of June 30, 1979, accounts
receivable from both classes of consumers stood at 7 months of water sales.
To lower receivables from private customers, PWC has promised to strengthen
its collection procedures by disconnecting unpaid services more rapidly. With
regard to government agencies, assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the Government will take all necessary steps to enable PWC to
receive, beginning with 1982, full payment for water consumed by all public
entities within 90 days of billing.



- 26 -
Accounting Practices and Procedures
5.12      PWC uses an accruals accounting system which shows considerable
weaknesses. As examples, a large part of investment financed by the Govern-
ment under past development plans is not included in the company's books and
financial statements. A physical inventory control is supposedly carried out
at the end of each year, but the recorded levels of the inventories are not
reliable, in view of the disorganized conditions of the stores. The Mukalla
branch maintains its own accounts and processes all its financial transactions.
However, incorporation of these accounts in the company's consolidated state-
ments is made with long delays. Perhaps the most troublesome situation is the
fact that the company's financial results since 1976 have still not been final-
ized, due to difficulties in reconciling a number of accounts and consolidating
the accounts of the branches.  The only updated account is personnel payroll
which is performed on an electronic accounting machine.
5.13      Undoubtedly, the present accounting practices need to be redressed
without delay, so that a clearer picture of the corporation's financial situa-
tion can be obtained. The expectation is that such redress would be made
possible under the guidance of the financial advisor mentioned in paragraph
5.06. The rationalization of PWC's accounting procedures is a major task that
will be addressed in the assistance program of the financial advisor, who will
also set up an internal audit section in the company.
Audit
5.14      Under present arrangements, the accounts of PWC are subject to an
annual audit by the Central Board of Audit, a state audit agency which has
been approved by the Association for previous projects in other sectors.
However, as indicated earlier, the latest audit was for the 1975 accounts, as
PWC has not yet finalized its 1976 accounts. At the time of appraisal, PWC
was taking necessary measures to submit for audit its financial statements for
1976 and following years. PWC has also indicated that the audit of the 1979
accounts would be completed by the end of 1980. At negotiations, agreement
was reached that PWC's annual financial statements, certified by its auditors,
will be submitted to the Association not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year, beginning with 1980.
Insurance
5.15      PWC at present carries insurance covering only motor vehicles.
Management is reviewing other insurance needs, such as protection against
fire damages and third party liability. At negotiations, assurances were
secured that PWC will arrange appropriate insurance coverage in accordance
with good public utility practice. All civil works contracts for the project
will be insured by the National Insurance Company against accidents, civil
liability, fire and property damages; this company is the only legal insurer
in PDRY. Foreign supplies for the project will be insured by outside private
companies against loss and damage in shipment.



- 27 -
Taxes
5.16       Under existing legislation, PWC's net income is taxed at a rate of
37.5%. Law No. 11-1973 also specifies how PWC's net profits should be allo-
cated between the government treasury (75%) and the corporation's capital
investments (25%).
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Present Financial Position
6.01      PWC's unaudited consolidated income statements, cash flow statements
and balance sheets for the years 1977 through 1979, together with projections
for 1980 through 1986, are shown in Annexes 15 to 17. The company's financial
position during the last three years has not been good. PWC recorded in 1977
a deficit of about US$270,000, which more than tripled in 1979. Meanwhile,
the operating ratio (operating expenses including depreciation as a percentage
of total revenues) increased from 111.2% in 1977 to 134.3% in 1979. PWC opera-
tions in Greater Aden, during that period, which accounted for 80% of the
total revenues, showed a cash surplus which nevertheless was not enough to
cover the deficit of the branches.
Revenues
6.02      Essentially, PWC derives its revenues from water sales which are
practically all metered, with the exception of a limited number of customers
in the provincial towns. In addition, PWC draws small revenues from meter
rental and the execution of new service lines. New customers also make on
average a deposit of YD 2.50 (US$7.25) per service line to cover at least two
months of service.
6.03      Presently a single rate of YD 0.055/m3 (US$0.16/m3) is applied to all
sales in Greater Aden, irrespective of the type of usage, volume used and
class of customers. Rate schedules distinguishing classes of consumption are
applied in some provincial towns. In general, domestic rates are much higher
in the provincial towns than in Aden. They are for instance YD 0.110/m3
(US$0.32/m3) in Mukalla (twice higher), and YD 0.220/m3 (US$0.64/m3) in Ghail
Bawazir (four times higher). But in spite of these high tariffs, PWC has not
been able to recover its operating and maintenance expenses in the branches.
In Aden like in most of the towns, a monthly free allowance of 300 gallons
is accorded to domestic customers. This allowance is not considered substan-
tial as it represents less than 10% of the minimum average consumption of the
lowest income family in Greater Aden. In view of the low living standards of
the population in the towns and the poor services presently provided by PWC,
it would not appear reasonable for PWC to request, at this stage, any tariff
increase in the provincial towns, specially as no improvement of their systems
is envisaged in the near future.



- 28 -
6.04      The present tariff system in Greater Aden is unfair to domestic
customers and more particularly to low consumers. In effect, the frequency
distribution of domestic customers (Annex 3 ) shows that the lowest income
customers using not more than 3,000 gallons per month, but accounting for
about 40% of the domestic customers, consume slightly more than 10% of the
total volume distributed. At the other end of the scale, the highest income
customers using more than 10,000 gallons per month and representing about 12%
of the domestic customers, consume more than 35% of the total volume. Thus,it
appears that the lowest consumers to a great extent actually subsidize large
domestic consumers and other users, as only the latter are responsible for
extra capacity costs incurred by PWC.
6.05      To correct this inequitable situation, a tariff schedule which takes
into account the water usage and costs to meet the peak demand of special
users, is proposed. The new rate structure would have four classes of cus-
tomers, and three usage blocks within the domestic class. If "R" is the
minimum rate for the first block of domestic consumption, the proposed tariff
structure would be as follows:
Customer Class              Usage Block               Rate R
(Gallons/month)       (YD/Volume unit)
Domestic                        3,000                  1.0 R
4,500                  1.5 R
Any excess                2.0 R
Industrial/Commercial       Any volume                 2.0 R
Public                      Any volume                 2.0 R
Shipping                    Any volume                 3.0 R
6.06       The proposed tariff schedule would produce an average rate of 1.63
R, meaning that the current single rate can be increased by 63%, without
resulting in any increase for the lowest consumers with a monthly consumption
of less than 3,000 gallons, or 40% of the domestic customers. The progressive
rate would also induce large domestic, industrial and public customers to
restrict their water usage, as they would now be required to pay the real cost
of their supply.
6.07      The poor financial situation of the PWC branches makes it extremely
difficult for PWC to change at once its current deficit into profit by increas-
ing tariffs solely in Greater Aden which already subsidizes the operations in
the provincial towns. However, the company should be expected to be able to
cover at least its full operating and maintenance costs. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government and PWC that as a minimum finan-
cial performance, PWC on a consolidated basis will be able, through charges
for its services, to secure a revenue sufficient to cover not less than its
operating and maintenance costs, including depreciation, interest and (to the
extent not covered by depreciation) amortization of loan debts.
6.08      PWC expects to increase the average tariff in Greater Aden to
YD 0.130/m3 (US$0.38/m3), a level which should be sufficient to achieve the
required performance through the end of 1984. For such an average, low-income



- 29 -
consumers would be charged about YD 0.080/m3 (US$0.23/m3) or a 45% increase
over the current rate of YD 0.055/m3 (US$0.16/m3), while large consumers and
industries would pay YD 0.160/m3 (US$0.46/m3) or about three times higher than
the current rate. Thus, while the financial impact would be minimum on
low-income customers, the higher income bracket would have to pay greater
attention to their consumption, if a substantial increase in the cost of their
water supply is to be avoided. The implementation in Greater Aden of a new
rate structure and of an average tariff sufficient to attain the financial
performance set forth for PWC during the next five years would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
6.09      With the proposed tariff increase, the consolidated average rate for
the PWC system would be about YD 0.119/m3 (US$0.35/m3). In 1985, PWC would
start servicing the debts incurred for the proposed project in Greater Aden
and consequently would be required to increase anew its consolidated average
tariff. This could be accomplished by increasing only the average tariff in
Greater Aden to YD 0.178/m3 (US$0.52/m3), as the debt was contracted to
finance investments in Greater Aden. Or proportional increases could take
place everywhere to bring the consolidated average tariff to YD 0.161/m3
(US$0.47/m3).
Financing of PWC's Investment Program
6.10      The following sets out PWC's overall financing plan for the project
construction period (1980-1984):
/1
Application of Funds                         YD       US$4-    %
-Million--
Proposed Project                           13.5      39.2   61.7
Other Investments                           7.1      20.5   32.3
Interest During Construction                1.3       3.8    6.0
Total Application                          21.9      63.5  100.0
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation                   1.0      2.9      4.6
Decrease in Working Capital                0.9       2.5     3.9
1.9      5.4      8.5
Proposed IDA Credit                        4.5      13.2    20.8
Other Long-Term Loans                      7.4      21.5    33.8
Total Borrowings /2                       11.9     34.7    54.6
Government Contribution                    8.1      23.4    36.9
Total Sources                             21.9      63.5   100.0
/1  Based on a constant rate of exchange of YD 1 = US$2.9.
77 In practice, disbursement of the IDA Credit and the other
loans will continue until the end of 1985.



- 30 -
6.11      The contemplated requirements include YD 7.1 million (US$20.5 mil-
lion) of investments in water supply works in other locations, which are shown
in Annex 1. In addition, the Government would finance interest totalizing
YD 1.3 million (US$3.8 million) on its lending to PWC of the IDA credit and
other external loans for the proposed project. Overall, the Government would
finance about 33% of PWC's investments (excluding capitalized interests)
through an equity contribution of YD 6.8 million (US$19.6 million), which is
essential to help PWC build up its capital structure.
Future Financial Performance
6.12      PWC's forecast financial statements in the years 1980 through 1986
are shown in Annexes 15 to 17. The assumptions made in preparing these state-
ments are outlined in Annex 18.  The future financial performance of PWC
may be conveniently analyzed for two periods: the first one ending in 1984
with the project completion; and the second one beginning in 1985 when PWC
starts servicing the debts incurred for the project. With the proposed tariff
increase (see paragraph 6.08), PWC should collect, during the first period,
enough revenues to cover its consolidated operating expenses including depre-
ciation. From an operating deficit in 1979, it is expected to post in 1982 a
return of about 8% on its net fixed assets in operation. Its operating ratio
is projected to decrease from 134.3% in 1979 to about 86.8% in 1984.
6.13      In 1985 PWC will start servicing its debts and consequently will
need to increase its tariffs as discussed in paragraph 6.09. Thereon its
operating ratio would continue improving to stand around 78% by 1986. The
debt/equity ratio would fluctuate around 48:52 in 1985/86. But the debt
service ratio would drop from 2.7 in 1985 to 1.2 in 1986, which would be still
adequate. However, to preserve PWC's financial soundness, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that PWC will not incur any long-term debt (except
for the proposed project) without the Association's concurrence, unless its
net revenues at the time of incurrence of the debt, before depreciation and
interest, are at least 1.2 times the maximum future annual debt service on the
proposed loan and existing debts.
Monitoring System
6.14      Annex 19 shows the indicators which would be monitored during proj-
ect execution to measure the achievement of the technical and financial
goals set for the project. This Annex also gives the values forecast for
these indicators in the years 1980 through 1986. These values were discussed
and agreed upon during negotiations. Agreement was also reached with PWC that
it will (i) report the evolution of the indicators to the Association on a
quarterly basis during project execution, and on an annual basis for five
years after project completion; and (ii) carry out any reasonable remedial
action suggested by the Association, aiming at meeting the target values of
the indicators.
6.15      At negotiations, assurances were also secured that PWC, within
six months following the closing date of the credit, will prepare and submit



- 31 -
to the Association a completion report on the execution and initial operation
of the project, its costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from it,
the performance and fulfillment by the Government, the Association and PWC of
their respective obligations under the credit agreement and the project agree-
ment, and the accomplishment of the objectives of the Association's credit.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Objectives of the Proposed Investments
7.01      The need for improving and increasing water supply to Greater Aden
is critical. The current supply is 30 percent short of the demand and the
system itself is reaching a degradation state beyond which its rehabilitation
might become impossible. As indicated earlier in this report, water is a
scarce resource in PDRY and enormous financial outlays are required to provide
this essential element to the population. The whole concept of urban develop-
ment rests upon the premises that basic amenities such water supply are avail-
able to this development, and no city can continue existing without some form
of public water supply. Such a prospect is on the verge of becoming a reality
in Greater Aden where public water supply services would gradually disappear,
if nothing is done to rehabilitate the existing system.
7.02      The proposed works would increase water production to the level
required to eliminate the current supply deficit and to meet the 1987 demand.
The project would help meet water supply requirements in the developed dis-
tricts of Greater Aden, and more particularly improve water supply services in
the developing and poorer ones, such as Madinat Al Shaab and Mansura. They
are the districts where the lowest income people live and where the Government
is planning future industrial development. These people are now inadequately
served by standpipes. The proposed distribution works would be executed
in these districts to allow residents there to connect their premises to the
public network. PWC's policy is to encourage the installation of individual
service lines by subsidizing to some extent their cost.
7.03      The proposed project was scaled down to put it in line with other
government priorities. Yet it would meet the most urgent water supply needs,
specially in the lowest income districts of the metropolitan area. The tech-
nical criteria used in the design of the project have been approved by the
Association.
Least-Cost Solution
7.04      An economic analysis of feasible alternatives to increase the supply
to Greater Aden, including desalination of sea water and reverse osmosis of
brackish water, was carried out to determine the most attractive scheme. The
proposed project is the least-cost alternative for discount rates of 6% to
12%. For a rate of 10% the marginal cost per m3 for the project is about
YD 0.122, which is three times lower than that of desalination. Following
development of the Wadi Bana, the next supply would be provided by desalina-
tion which would tremendously increase the cost of water in Greater Aden.



- 32 -
Economic Justification
7.05      The overriding justification for the proposed project is the neces-
sity for providing urgently needed potable water supply in the country's major
urban agglomeration. The proposed project is the least cost alternative to
provide this supply. If the projected revenues from water sales resulting
from the proposed project, and sales maintained by halting the system's
deterioration, which otherwise would be lost, both based on the proposed
average tariff, are taken as a minimum measure of economic benefits from the
proposed investments, the internal rate of return would be about 11%. A more
meaningful economic rate of return is difficult to calculate, but is certainly
much higher, in view of the unquantifiable health and environmental benefits
which accompany improved water supply. As the external benefits are difficult
to quantify, the willingness to pay for PWC's services and hence the consumer's
surplus becomes difficult to assess.
7.06      At a discount rate of 10% which is considered a relevant value of
the opportunity cost of capital in PDRY, the proposed tariff is 7% higher than
the long-run average incremental cost of providing water supply services in
Greater Aden. This demonstrates that the proposed allocation of capital
expenditures is justified, besides the social necessity for the project.
7.07      A sensitivity analysis of the return shows that it is significantly
sensitive to the levels of water sales and to increases in capital investments.
For a 10% decrease in water sales or increase in the capital costs the rate of
return would decrease by about 1.5%.   Variations in the operating and mainte-
nance expenses are not considered, since any increase in these expenses should
be offset by a proportional increase of the tariffs.
7.08      Under the most pessimistic conditions in which the investment costs
would increase by 20% and water sales would fall by 10%, the rate of return
would be about 7%, which is still acceptable considering the social character
of the project. However, it is more probable if not certain that water sales
would be as projected, since the present supply is greatly insufficient. The
forecast per capita consumption is the lowest that can be conceived under the
most restricted living standards. Such consumption should increase as living
conditions of the population improve with increased economic development.
7.09      Under the proposed tariff structure, low-income families would
receive the minimum needed volume of water at less than the average cost,
while large consumers would be charged more than the average cost, in order
to encourage a rational usage of the scarce water resources.
Environmental Impact of the Project
7.10      As mentioned in paragraph 1.11, the unavailability of potable water
in adequate quantity has created deplorable sanitary conditions in PDRY. The
Government is striving hard to improve the environmental conditions by trying
to equip the country's maior urban agglomerations with safe water supply
systems. The proposed project would help the Government meet this objective
in the nation's capital which encompasses almost half of the urban population.
Public water supply would be expanded mainly in the low-income districts of
the city. As a result, sanitary conditions in these districts would substan-
tially improve. Provision of running potable water inside lots and dwellings



- 33 -
in these districts would further enhance living conditions there. This in
turn would push for improved productivity stemming from better environment and
public health.
7.11       Provision of public wastewater disposal systems would require high
capital investments that the Government cannot afford now. In this regard,
it should be noted that, as a result of the proposed project, the volume of
wastewaters in Greater Aden would increase. However, it is expected that the
existing sewer system would be able to evacuate the increased volume. Mean-
while, the Government should continue divulging educational programs on
preventive measures against infectious waterborne diseases, and should also
promote the construction of individual wastewater disposal units, which if
well maintained may result in no adverse effects on the environment.
Institution Building
7.12      The establishment of PWC as an effective national authority with
the capability of efficiently managing the sector is one of the major objec-
tives of the Association. In this regard the project includes management
assistance to PWC (paragraph 5.06) and training of its staff (paragraphs 5.07
to 5.10). Also it is thought that the Association's involvement in the sector
would help provide leverage for the application of proper policies and proce-
dures that are necessary to accomplish the improvement and expansion of public
water supply in PDRY.
Risks
7.13      There are some risks involved in the execution of the proposed proj-
ect and in attaining the project goals. Similar work has not previously
been executed in PDRY, and PWC's staff is young and inexperienced. Slow
payment by public agencies for water charges might further adversely affect
the financial situation of PWC. There is also the risk that the execution of
Part B of the project might be delayed if co-financing is not secured as
presently scheduled. However, the measures proposed to be taken in the
course of project execution, and the provisions of the credit and project
agreements, such as (i) the services of consultants for management assistance
and construction supervision; (ii) the proposed training of PWC's staff; (iii)
the Government's undertaking to enable PWC to receive timely payment for water
consumed by public agencies; and (iv) the Association's monitoring of key
performance indicators in PWC, should minimize the project risks.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement having been reached on the issues referred to in Chapters
IV through VII of this report, and subject to the conditions of effectiveness
and disbursement set forth in paras. 4.24, 4.29 and 6.08, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$13.2 million to the Government of PDRY
which would onlend the proceeds of the credit to PWC for a term of 20 years
including 5 years of grace.
May 7, 1980



PEOPLE'S DEMDCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PAST AND PROPOSED INVESTMENTS IN WATER SUPPLY
(YD Thousands)
Line                  Project             1968-1973/'  1974-1978/3 1968-1978   1979    1980    1981    1982           1983   1979-1983
1    Planning, Studies and Design               -         157          157        450    -        -         -         -         450
2    Aden System  - Improvement                142        980        1,122        264    400      500       500       500     2,164
3    Aden Master Plan - 1st Phase               -           -          -           -     283   3,017    6,852    2,739    12,891
4  Hlawta/Waht                                  19         113         132         -      -       -         -         -          -
5    Khalla Dhala                               12         53           65         -       50      50       -         -          100
6    Saber                                      -         250          250         -      -       _         _         _          -
7    Gaar Zinzibar                              10        359          369         -      -       _         _         _          _
8    Nisab                                      -         198          198         -     -        -         -         -          -
9    Mukalla System                             92        590          682        200    250      300       350       312     1,412
10    Ghail Shahir                              287         192         479         38    120      140        47       -          345
11    Quatun Seiyun                              -           90          90        100    230      450       580       640      2,000
12    Gadeb                                      21          -           21         -      -       -         -         -          -
13    Ghaidah                                    -           85          85        184      96     -         _         _          280
14    Perim Island                               19          39          58         -      -       -         -         _          _
15    Ghail Bawazir                              -           -          -            5      20      15       -         -           40
16    Other Villages                             -         109          109        470    292      -         -         -          762
17    Wadiya                                     -           72           72        -      -       -         _         _          _
18    Mudiya                                     -           85          85         -      -       -         -         -          _
19    North Desert (4th, 5th & 6th Gov.)        110          -          110         -      -       -         -         -          -
20    Chinese Assistance                        178        267          445         -      -       -         -         -          -
21    Other Assistance                          208        237          445         -      _       _         _         _          _
22    GRAND TOTAL                             1.098      3876         4                                    8.329    4.191    20,444
23    Grand Total in US$                     3184       1,2402  5. 049                                    24154  1         2,154    59,288
1/ Expressed in current prices
2/ Corresponds to the two first 3-year investment plans
3/ Corresponds to the first 5-year investment plan
~i Based on a constant exchange rate of YDI=US$2.9
May 7, 1980



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
POPULATION, SERVICE LINES AND WATER CONSUMPTION, PAST AND FORECAST
Population in '0001/       % of        Number of    New          Water                       Per Capita   Consumpt. Per
Population      Service   Service       Sales       Production       Consumpt.    Service Line
Year   Total   Connected        Connected       Lines!/   Lines.2/ 106m3/year    liters/sec.          m3/year         m3/year
(1)     (2)        (3)       (4) =(3)xlOO        (5)        (6)        (7)             (8)          (9)  (7)        (10) = (7)
(2)                                                                    (3)              (5)
1973    240        188            78.3         33,921      1,395         - 
1974    248        192            77.4         34,642         721      12.221          572              64             353
1975    257        196            76.1         35,304         662       9.622          455              49             273
1976    266         200           75.1         36,060         756      10.057          476              50             279
1977    274         204           74.4         36,811         751      12.347          572              60             335
1978    284         208           73.2         37,566         755      12.100          572              58             322
1979    292         215           73.8         38,870      1,304       12.100          572              56             311
1980    299         221           73.8         39,860         990      12.100          572              55             303
1981    307        226            73.7         40,850         990      12.369          574              55             303
1982    315         232           73.6         41,840         990      12.658          576              55             303
1983    323        237            73.5         42,830         990      12.946          579              55             303
1984    331         245           73.9         44,200      1,370       16.181          711              66             366
1985    340         253           74.5         45,700      1,500       16.872          728              67             369
1986    348         263           75.4         47,400      1,700       17.597          746              67             371
1987    357        272            76.2         49,200      1,800       18.351          765              67             373
1988    367         283           77.2         51,100      1,900      19.136           784              67             374
1989    376         294           78.2         53,100      2,000       19.956          804              68             376
1990    386         305           79.2         55,100      2,000       20.811          825              68             378
1/ Refer to mid-year populations and service lines.
2/ Installed during the corresponding year  (July 1-June 30).
M
March 10, 1980



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CUMULATIVE FREQUENCY DISTRIBUTION
OF DOMESTIC CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMPTION
2C                                           20
1                                            18
Customers
16  "O' r  More" __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-
14                                          14
Consumption
s             / "Less Than"         2
o                                                0c
0              27
Irl  10~~~~~~~~~Wol Bn-127
E
0                                                    0
/                ~~~~~~~0
o                                                    00
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~0
Percentage Cumulative Frequency
WNorld Bank - 21273



- 37 -
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                             ANX 4
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
POPULATION AND WATER DEMAND
450                                                                                                           450
C.),
-  35    __________________       Population in GraerAen                                                 3    0
350                                                                                                             35     ,-,
/
.2                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
N ext Stage|____
-~~~~~ 0/
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
o                                            0
1,000                        ~~~~~~~Proposed Project                                                 1,0
1,250                                                                                                             5 0
n                           /              .          ~~~~~~~~~~~~Maximum Day Demand 
O   //.'- W-'- '# , '-E'. C,~- 
B /~~~~~~~~~~ - -... 1-;:B
co
750           ,r-Production Deficit    _                                         -  750
MAverage Demand
C~~~~ -    II                             _
Max. Available Production, 572 Liters/Sec.
500                             I        .                    .                           _500
1975                         1980                         1985                          1990
Years
World Bank - 21272



- 38 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Management Study of
Water Resources in the Abyan Delta
Background
1.        Located some fifty kms to the east of Aden, the Abyan Delta is a
triangular plain with its base on the Indian Ocean coast to the southeast, and
its apex at the foot of the mountains to the north. The base of the triangle
is about 24 miles long and the distance from the base to the apex is about the
same. The catchment area of the Abyan Delta may be divided into four parts:
the Wadi Hassan on the east, the Wadi Bana in the center, the Wadi Suhobiya on
the west, and the delta. All the three wadis come from high land to the north
and feed groundwater in the delta. The Wadi Bana is the more important of the
three wadis and supplies large volumes of flood water at certain periods of
the year.
2.        Groundwater in the delta is presently extensively used for irrigation
in the plain, and has also been retained as a supply source for Greater Aden.
In some isolated parts of the delta the groundwater is somewhat saline due to
soil formations. But in general, the water quality in most of the area has
been found acceptable for urban supply. Sea water intrusion has been observed
in the southern portion of the delta.
3.        A project is under way to supply Greater Aden with groundwater from
the Abyan Delta. It is intended to extract and transport, during a first
phase, about 10.5 Mm3/year. Depending on the volume of water that can be
allocated for urban supply, it is planned to at least double the first stage
installation by 1990.
Objectives of the Study
4.        The basic objectives of the study are to arrive at precise evaluation
of the potential extraction rate of groundwater in the delta and to define the
optimum use of these resources. The study should answer the question of how
much water it may be possible to extract safely and on what conditions. It
should also determine the sharing of the water resources between urban supply
and agricultural use.
5.        A recent hydrological study has been carried out to determine the
characteristics of the aquifer at the proposed site of the well field for
the supply of Greater Aden. A mathematical model of the aquifer has been
prepared on this occasion. The purpose of the requested management study is
to review previous findings and to refine the model, so as to be assured of
safe exploitation of the groundwater resources.



- 39 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Selection of Consultants
6.        To attain the proposed objectives, a consulting firm experienced
in the fields of groundwater exploration, water resource planning and
use, will be appointed. On the basis of the present terms of reference,
selected firms will be asked to submit proposals for carrying out the
management study.
Data Collection and Review
7.        All existing relevant data, reports, maps, and other information
on topography, hydrology, geology land use and groundwater resources in the
Abyan, Delta, will be made available to the Consultants, who will review and
reinterpret these data and reports. They will also collect all additional
data required to make the existing records more comprehensive. They will
carry out a survey of all wells in the delta to determine the present average
extraction rate from the aquifer.
Water Requirements
8.        The consultants will estimate water demand in the urban agglomera-
tions in the delta to the year 2000. Forecast water demand in Greater Aden to
the same year has recently been prepared and will be given to the consultants.
In addition to the urban demand, the consultants will evaluate water needs
for efficient irrigation in the delta. In this regard they will consult with
officials of the Ministry of Agriculture, concerning present land usage and
future expansion of agriculture within the delta. With the water shortage in
PDRY in view, the consultants will advise the Ministry of Agriculture of the
most appropriate irrigation systems in the plain.
Rainfall and Runoff
9.        There are three rainfall stations within the Abyan Delta:  one at El
Kod in the south, another at Dhala in the west and the third one at Mukeiras
in the east. The consultants will propose all necessary improvements to these
stations and will monitor them during the study.
10.       There is a gauging station on the Wadi Bana at Ligma.  The consul-
tants will establish gauging stations on the other wadis and will monitor them
during the study.
Study of the Aquifer
II.       The consultants will review the geology of the catchment area and the
Abyan Delta. They will collect and analyze logs from wells in construction.
The consultants will carry all necessary works to locate the possible various
aquifers and to determine their hydraulic conditions. They will determine the
levels of unconfined and confined aquifers and the static water levels in
different areas of the delta. The consultants will carry out geophysical



ANNEX 5
- 40 -                            Page 3
prospection of the delta through seismic or resistivity methods, gravimetric
surveying or any other approved method. They will also execute electric
logging or gamma-ray logs of uncased boreholes.
12.      The consultants will further carry out physical and chemical analyses
of the groundwater. They will study the conductivity of the waters at various
locations in the delta.
Evaluation of the Groundwater Resources
13.      Based on the above data and their review and interpretation of hydro-
logical records, the consultants will assess the potential groundwater
resources in the delta. To this end, they will:
(i) estimate the rate of recharge into the aquifer from the wadis and
spate irrigation in the delta;
(ii) evaluate the historic changes of water storage in the aquifer
- through an analysis of the piezometric records; and
(iii) update and refine the mathematical model of the aquifer, using the
latest collected data.
Management Plan
14.      After completing the foregoing evaluation, the consultants will indi-
cate the potential extraction rate of the aquifer and its optimum allocation
between urban supply and agricultural use. They will propose optimum area for
spate irrigation both in terms of agricultural production and maximum aquifer
recharge. They will in particular determine the maximum amount of water that
can be transferred to supply Greater Aden.
Timetable and Reports
15.      The management study is envisaged to be carried out in an elapsed
time of not more than 3 years. The consultants will submit:
(a) an inception report within 6 months of the start of the study,
summarizing initial findings after review of existing data, and
detailing the program of data collection, exploration and field
work;
(b) progress reports at quarterly intervals, describing work performed
during the quarter and the work program for the next quarter, and
summarizing findings; and
(c) at the end of the assignment, a final report incorporating all the
findings and outlining the optimum management plan for the use of
water resources in the Abyan Delta. A draft of the final report
will be submitted for review at least three months before its
scheduled release date.



- 41 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 4
16.       The inception report and progress reports are to be submitted in
twenty (20) copies, and the final report in fifty (50) copies.
Proposals
17.       Proposals in 5 copies in the English language should be submitted by
to:
18.       Proposals should contain, inter alia:
(i) a description of the consulting firm (or firms)and its areas of
specialism;
(ii) a description of relevant assignments previously carried out by the
firm;
(iii) an explanation of the way in which the consultants propose to
approach the assignment, including any comment they may wish to make
on the terms of reference or any modifications they may wish to
propose in the interests of better achieving the objectives of the
assignment;
(iv) a brief description of any special methodology to be employed (for
example, use of computers);
(v) a staffing chart for the assignment, showing each specialist to be
employed and indicating the nature and duration of his involvement
(distinguishing time in PDRY from time at the home office);
(vi) an explanation of how supervision of the assignment is to be main-
tained by the firm's principals;
(vii) curricula vitae of key personnel nominated for the assignment;
and
(viii) a statement of any special facilities the consultants may require in
carrying out the assignment.
19.       Proposals will be judged on technical merit and fees.  The consul-
tants should indicate in their offers any assistance that should be provided
to them, such as accomodation, local transportation and other facilities.
March 10, 1980



- 42 -
ANNEX 6
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES1/
Item                                Local      Foreign      Total          Local      Foreign      Total
--------YD Thousands -------          -------US$ Thousands--
PART A
Construction of Wells in Wadi Bana                    79         35          114            228         102         330
Immediate Improvements to System                      15        316          331             45         915         960
Supply of 5,000 1/2-inch Meters                       -          36           36             -          105         105
Supply of Operational Equipment                       20        137          157             57         399         456
Final Design of Bana System                           10        145          155             30         420         450
Management Assistance and Training                    54        205          259            156         594         750
Management Study of Bana Aquifer                      26        118          144             75         342         417
Sub-total Part A                               204        992        1,196            591       2,877       3,468
PART B
Equipping Wells in Wadi Bana                          70        633          703            204       1,836       2,040
Standby Generators for Well Field                     26        233          259             75         675         750
Chlorination System in Wadi Bana                       1          5             6             3          15          18
Supply of 32-in Bana Pipeline                         -       3,130        3,130             -        9,078       9,078
Laying of Bana-B.Nasir Pipeline                      490        813        1,303          1,422       2,358       3,780
Service Track along Pipeline                          42        166          208            120         480         600
Sub-total Part B                               629      4,980         5,609         1,824      14,442      16,266
PART C
Two 5,000-mr3 Reservoirs in Bana                      29        168          197             84         486         570
One 15,000-m3 Reservoir in B.Nasir                    40        229          269            117         663         780
Chlorination System at Bir Nasir                       1          5             6             3          15          18
Pipe Connections at Bir Nasir                         11         63           74             33         183         216
B.Nasir-Sheikh Othman Pipeline                       132      1,056        1,188           384        3,063       3,447
Network in Dar Saad, Sheikh Othman and
Mansura                                             32        179          211             93         519         612
Pipeline to Rubble Mound                              15         86          101             45         249         294
Sub-total Part C                               260      1,786        2,046            759       5,178       5,937
Physical Contingencies                               151      1,093        1,244            438       3,171       3,609
Construction Supervision                              51        364          415            147       1,056       1,203
Total Cost (End 1979 Prices)                 1,295      9,215       10,510          3,759      26,724      30,483
Price Escalation                                     256      2,337        2,593            741       6,776       7,517
Refinancing of Credit S-21 YDR                       -          414          414           -         1,200        1200
TOTAL COST (Current Prices)                  1,551    11,966        13,517          4,500      34,700      39,200
1/ Based on a constant rate of exchange of YD1 = US$2.9
May 7, 1980



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ANNUAL PROJECT INVESTMENTS"1
(YD Thousands)
1980               1981               1982               1983                1984                     TOTAL
Item__                                                                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Item______________________________  Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Total
PART A
Construction of Wells in Wadi Bana            11       4         64        29       25        16        _        _         _         _        100       49        149
Immediate Improvements in System               6      94         13      317        -         -        _         _         _         _         19      411        430
Supply of 5,000 1/2-inch Meters               -       -          -        24        -         27        -        -         _         _         -        51         51
Supply of Operational Equipment               -       -          _        73        13        81        13       44        _         _         26      198        224
Final Design of Bana Facilities               11     152         -         -        -         -         -        -         _         _         11       152       163
Management Assistance and Training            -       -          20        79       21        87        22       95        -         -         63       261        324
Management Study of Bana Aquifer                      -          -         -         10       50        10       55        11        60        31       165        196
Refinancing of Credit S-21 YDR                _      414         -         -        -         -        -         -         -         -        -         414       414
Total Cost                            28     664         97       522       69       261        45      194        11        60       250      1,701     1.951
PART B
Equipping Wells in Wadi Bana                  -       -          -       420        93       462        -        -         -         -         93       882       975
Standby Generators for Well Field             -       -          -         -        -        340        36       _         _         _         36      340        376
Chlorination System in Wadi Bana              -       -          -         -        _          7         1       _         _         _          1         7          8
Supply of 800-mm Bana Pipeline                -       -          -     1,385        -      3,046                 -         -                   -     4,431      4,431
Laying of Bana-B.Nasir Pipeline               -       -          -        360      329       394       347      436        _         _        676    1,190      1,866
Service Track along Pipeline                  -       -          -         -        31       121        29      133        _         _         60       254       314
Total Cost                           _        _         _      2,T16     -Z31    4,370        413       569        _        _        866    7,104
PART C
Two 5,000-i3 Reservoirs in Bana               _       _          -        112       -        122        41       _         _         _         4,       234        275
One 15,000-m3 Reservoir in B. Nasir                    -                   - _               334        57       -         _         _         57       334        391
Chlorination System at Bir Nasir                                 -                            -         -         8         1        -          1         8          9
Pipe Connections at Bir Nasir                                    -                            -         1f      101        -         -         16       101        117
B.Nasir-Sheikh othman Pipeline                _       _          _         _        _        771        93      848        98        -        191    1,619      1,810
Network in Dar Saad, Sheikh Othman
and Mansura                                _        _          _         _        -        130       23       144        24        -         47      274        321
Pipeline to Rubble Mound                          -    _         _         _                  63        10       70        11        -         21       133        154
Total Cost                           _        _         _        112        -     1,20        2      T7=         -T3_               -72T- '   7-3-    T3.77T
Construction Supervision                      1        4          3       118       21       258        29        78        7        _         61       458        519
GRAND TOTAL-                        29      668        100    2,917        543    6,309       727    2,012        152       60    1,551    11,966    3L3517
GRAND TOTAL (US$ Thousands)-/                84     1,938       291    8.457    1,575   18.297    2,109    56835          441       173    4,500    34-700    39,200
1/ All costs are expressed in current prices and already include physical
contingencies and price escalation.
2/ Obtained by summing up the total costs of Parts A, B and C of the
project, and construction supervision.
3/ Based on a constant rate of exchange of YD1 - US$2.9
mqy Z,.-1980



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CPM DIAGRAM FOR CONSTRUCTION OF THE WADI BANA FACILITIES
1980                          1981                         1982                          1983                           1984
1I2           3       4      1       2      3       4      1       2      3      4       1      2       3       4              2       3      4
z                                                                                                                                II
0
w
F-                                                                                             4104    4'12
C-)
FINAL PROJECT DESIGNMY   a                          WVLL ONSUCTION  b
12 MONTHS
0ebruazy 1980
I-~~~~~~~~~9l
_ _ _      _                                 1~~~~~~~~~~~INTL LATO
LGN:EV/ENT   ATVT.,  EVENT                                                                                                       World Bank - 21439 
~~~~ CRITICAL PATH
-  - - -   DUMMY ACTIVITY
S = SLACK
Februarfy 1980



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BAR CHART FOR DESIGN, BIDDING AND CONSTRUCTION
CALENDAR YEAR           1980               1981                1982               1983                1984
ACTIVITY
a   FINALPROJECTDESIGN         _    _        _                               r
WADI BANA WELL FIELD
b   Well Construction _ _ _ .   - _ _ _ _ _
c   Equipment Bidding  -  _   _ _       _
d   Installation Bidding_
e   Equipment Installation_  _    _  _ . _ _  _ .   _    .        ___
WADI BANA PIPELINE
f   Pipe Bidding    - _   _   _  _ _
g   Instaliation Bidding_ -    _  _ _ .
h   Pipeline Layingand Testing_ _      _  _  _         - _  _              - _  _                  m m
STEEL RESERVOIRS
i   Equipment Bidding. - _    _   _  . _
j   Installation Bidding. - _   _  .  _ _  _ _ . _  _
k   Reservoir Construction   _  . _  _  _  . _  _
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
I   Pipe Bidding _       _   _  _  .
m   Installation Bidding   _  _  _  - _   _      - . _
n   Pipe Laying and Testing_ -.  _
IMPROVEMENT WORKS
o   Equipment Bidding _  _  _       _
p   Equipment Installation    _   _              - .   _ _
February 1980                                                                                                   World Bank - 21438



- 46 -                              ANNEX 10
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Contract Schedule
I. CONTRACTS TO BE FINANCED BY IDA
BID NO. 1: SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
Group No. 1 - Well Casings and Screens.
Group No. 2 - Two 12-in, One 16-in, One 21-in and One 24-in Flow Meters;
Two 16-in and Three 12-in Pressure Reducer Valves; and
120 Air Valves.
Group No. 3 - Cathodic Protection for 10 Steel Reservoirs.
Group No. 4 - Five thousands 1/2-in Water Meters.
Group No. 5 - Pumps, Motors, Starters, Transformers, Pipes, Fittings and
Electrical Materials for 7 Wells.
BID NO. 2:  SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
Group No. 6 - One 15,000-m3 and Two 5,COO-m3 Steel Reservoirs, Special Valves
and Connecting Pipes and Fittings.
Group No. 7 - One Chlorinator, Injector, Balance and Accessories.
Group No. 8 - 10,700 m of 32-in pipes
1,700 m of 28-in pipes
2,400 m of 20-in pipes
2,200 m of 16-in pipes
3,600 m of 12-in pipes
3,000 m of 10-in pipes
1,000 m of  8-in pipes
BID NO. 3: CIVIL WORKS AND INSTALLATION
Group No. 9 - Installation of a 15,000-m3 and two 5,000-m3 Steel Reservoirs
and their Accessories, Piping Connections and Special Valves.
- Laying of Pipes Ordered in Bid No. 2, Group No. 8.
- Installation of a Chlorinator and Accessories.



- 47 -                             ANNEX 10
Page 2
II. CONTRACTS TO BE FINANCED BY OTHERS
BID NO. 4: SUPPLY OF EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
Group No. 10 - Pumps, Motors, Starters, Transformers, Connecting Pipes, and
Electrical Materials for 17 Wells.
Group No. 11 - Four Generators and Accessories.
Group No. 12 - 45,000 meters of 32-in pipes.
Group No. 13 - One Chlorinator, Injector, Balance and Accessories.
BID NO. 5 - CIVIL WORKS AND INSTALLATION
Group No. 14 -  Laying and Testing 45,000 meters of 32-in pipes.
-  Construction of a Service Track.
-  Installation of Pumps, Motors and Electrical Appurtenances
on 17 Wells.
-  Laying and Testing of the Piping System between the Wells.
-  Construction of a Shelter for and Installation of 4 Generators
and Related Equipment.
-  Construction of a Chlorination Chamber and Installation of a
Chlorinator and its Accessories.
March 10, 1980



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PRDJECT
l/
ALLOCATION OF THE CREDIT AND LOAN PROCEEDS
(US$ Thousands)
1980               1981                1982               1983                1984
Type of Expenditures                                                                                                                  Total       % of   Total   7. of 2/
Invest.   Total   Alloc.   Total-
Invest.  Alloc.   Invest.  Alloc.    Invest.  Alloc.  Invest.  Alloc.   Invest.  Alloc.
PARTS A AND C
Foreign Purchases                    283       283      1,625   1,625       3,711   3,711    2,298   2,298          -        -        7,917      20.8   7,917   100.0
Civil Works                           50        28        224      128        897      510    1,988   1,133         392      223      3,551        9.4   2,022    57.0
Consulting Services:
Foreign Expenses                  441       441        209      209        375     375       412      412        175      175      1,612       4.2   1,612   100.0
Local Expenses                     31        -          57      -           89      -          95      -           33     -           305       0.8      -        -
II.  PART B
Foreign Purchases                     _         -       5,044   5,044    10,889  10,889          -        -                          15,933      41.9  15,933   100.0
Civil Works                           -         -       1,237      806      3,099   2,023    2,847   1,856                            7,183       18.9   4,685    65.0
TII, CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION
4/      4/
Foreign Expensed/                     12        12        342      115        746      244       225       76          6        2     1,331        3.5      449-   346 0-
-                 227                 502                149                   4                           882-~ 66.0='
Local Expenses                         2        -          10      -           61      -          84      -           11      -          168       0.5      -        -
11. TOTAL EXPENDITURES                    819       764     8,748   8,154    19,867  18,254    7,949   5,924             617      404    38,000    100.0  33,500    88.6
TOTAL IN %                           2.2       2.3       23.0    24.3        52.3    54.5       20.9    17.7         1.6     1.2      100.0        -      100.0      -
ACCUMULATED 7.                       2.2       2.3       25.2    26.6        77.5    81.1       98.4    98.8       100.0   100.0                  -              -
1/ Figures in the first column under each year give total investments in this year ;  figures under the second
column show the portion of the credit or loans allocated in the year for these investments.  Repartition of the IDA credit proceeds is found
in expenditures for Parts A and C of the project, and those of loans from the co-financiers under Part B.
2/ Represent the percentages of the total corresponding expenditures financed by the credit and loan proceeds.
3/ Would be jointly financed by IDA and the co-lenders in the proportion of 66% for the latter and 34% for the Association.
4/ IDA's allocation and share.
5/ Co-lenders' allocation and share.
March 10, 1980



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Thousands)
IDA Credit                  Other Loans                  Government Funds
IDA FY'! and Quarter               In Quarter  Cumulative/2       In Quarter  Cumulative/2    In Quarter    Cumulative/2
1980   3rd Quarter                    _            _                              -                 10             10
4th Quarter                    _                                           -                20              30
1981   1st Quarter                    _      -               -                    -                 10             40
2nd Quarter                    800          800                _           -                10              50
3rd Quarter                    300       1,100                 _           -                40              90
4th Quarter                    550        1,650                _           -                30             120
1982   1st Quarter                    770        2,420                540         540               50            170
2nd Quarter                    980       3,400               1,220       1,760             260            430
3rd Quarter                    800       4,200               2,180       3,940             240            670
4th Quarter                    790       4,990               2,200       6,140             200             870
4.5
1983   1st Quarter                    890        5,880              2,120       8,260              220          1,090                -
2nd Quarter                    860       6,740               2,360      10,620             330          1,420
3rd Quarter                    750       7,490               1,910      12,530             290          1,710
4th Quarter                    720        8,210              1,860      14,390             320          2,030
1984   1st Quarter                    850        9,060              1,470      15,860              340          2,370
2nd Quarter                    920       9,980               1,510      17,370             380          2,750
3rd Quarter                    900      10,880               1,160      18,530             320          3,070
4th Quarter                    790      11,670                 570      19,100             210          3,280
1985   1st Quarter                    700       12,370                830      19,930              300          3,580
2nd Quarter                    220      12,590                 470      20,400             210          3,790
3rd Quarter                    200      12,790                 510      20,910             220          4,010
4th Quarter                    180       12,970                160      21,070             100          4,110
1986   1st Quarter                    150       13,120                100      21,170              280          4,390
2nd Quarter                     80      13,200                 330      21,500             110          4,500
1/ Runs from July 1 of a preceding year to June 30 of the current year.
2/ The figures shown under these columns give estimated accumulated disbursements at the end of the
consecutive quarters.
May 7, 1980



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PUBLIC WATER CORPORATION - PWC
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of
Administration
General
Manager
Traning                                      Plnning
Public
Relation       |dtin
neer ng                    Adviser                             Administration                                                                          ons                 Adviser
Studies                   Works                 Amnistration                                           usinancsRer
Design                                            Pesnnel                                              Srieslm,ac
Drawing                Programming                Secretariat                 General I             Meter Reading               VWell Field             Mech/Elec Shop                 Tawahi
Legal                 Accounting                   BligMal
Surv  _y               Procurement                Personnel                   Cost                 New Customers              Transmission               Meter ShoP                   Crater
Salary/Benefice             Accounting                 Ps n                       eevisK   rmka
{        3ydrolOgV      |Spervision               Procurement                 Treasurv                  Statistics                                            Stores                   Oar Saad
Stastistics                                     20Governorate                  Governorate           Data Processing                                                                  Little?Ad
WVorld Bunk -21271



- 51 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Management Assistance to PWC
Introduction
1.        The Public Water Corporation (PWC), Aden, PDRY, intends to recruit
three advisors in the fields of water supply planning and engineering, admin-
istration and finance, and operation and maintenance of water supply systems,
to assist it in the management and operation of water supply systems in the
country during a period of about three years. PWC is the national authority
responsible for the planning, design, construction,operation and management of
water supply systems in PDRY. Presently PWC provides water supply services in
the nation's capital, Aden, where its headquarters are located, and in seven
provincial towns.
2.        Management consultants have prepared a new organizational structure,
as well as administrative and financial procedures for PWC, that the corpora-
tion is proposing to implement gradually. However, PWC at this stage, lacks
experienced staff to proceed efficiently with this implementation. The
advisors are expected to assist PWC in the carrying out of this administrative
reform. It is anticipated that the advisors' services will begin in January
1981 at the latest.
Scope of Duties
3.        The advisors would be under direct contract with PWC and assigned to
its headquarters. They will provide technical advisory services for the
purpose of assisting and developing the planning, operation and management
capability of PWC. The advisors will be integrated to PWC's staff and will
not act within the PWC organization as independent consultants. They will
report directly to the General Manager.
Duties and Responsibilities
Planning and Engineering Advisor
4.        This advisor will be responsible for:
(i) preparing, in close cooperation with PWC's staff, long-range devel-
opment plans to meet water supply requirements in the country. He
will in particular monitor and update the execution of water supply
projects included in the second 5-year development plan (1981-1985);



- 52 -                              ANNEX 14
Page 2
(ii) assisting the Technical Director and the Planning Director in the
organization of their department and the preparation of required
planning documentation and schedules;
(iii) developing improved procedures for project preparation and design,
surveys, data collection and classification;
(iv) participating in project management and control, preparation of
tender documents, construction schedules, progress reports, etc.;
(v) assessing training needs of the technical staff and advising the
General Manager on the matter; and,
(vi)  assisting the General Manager and the staff in solving day-to-day
technical operational problems.
Administrative/Financial Advisor
5.        This advisor's duties and responsibiiities will cover both man-
agerial and financial aspects of PWC development and will include:
(a) evaluation of progress in the implementation of the proposed orga-
nizational structure for PWC, and of required changes of PWC's
statute;
(b) definition of functions and responsibilities in PWC, and estimation
of staff positions;
(c) establishment of administrative procedures and relations between the
headquarters and the branches, and of the latter's appropriate
degree of independence vis-a-vis PWC's management;
(d) design of an information system within PWC and of the type and
content of information to be directed to management;
(e) review and analysis of the flow of management and financial informa-
tion to the General Manager, and the usefulness and timeliness of
such information;
(f) assistance in the management of accounts, the preparation of finan-
cial statements and budgets, billing and collection procedures;
(g) implementation of a cost accounting system and setting up of an
internal audit section;
(h) establishment of appropriate procedures for budgetary control,
internal financial control, and proper posting of financial tran-
sactions;



- 53 -                           ANNEX 14
Page 3
(i) review of the tariff levels and assessment of the corporation's
current and future financial position;
(j) development of an improved system for stock management; and
(k) assessment of training needs and preparation of a training program
for the administrative and financial staff.
Operation and Maintenance Advisor
6.        Duties and responsibilities of this advisor will be to:
(i) discuss, establish and implement, in cooperation with the staff,
routine procedures for the installation and disconnection of service
lines, leak repairs and maintenance of the distribution network;
(ii) develop maintenance programs of well pumps, booster pumps, mechanical
and electrical equipment of well fields, pumping stations, chlorina-
tion equipment and reservoirs;
(iii) review and analyze flow patterns in the distribution network;
(iv) carry out, in close cooperation with the staff, field studies of
flows and pressure in the transmission pipelines and primary mains
of the distribution network, and ascertain working conditions of
measurement and control devices in the system;
(v) review with the technical staff measures to be taken to assure
equitable repartition of supply between the districts;
(vi) organize and supervise the carrying out of a leak detection program
over the entire metropolitan area of Aden;
(vii) improve the existing system for warehousing and control of materials
and spare parts, and the organization of stores;
(viii) assist in the organization of a mechanical/electrical workshop;
and,
(ix) assess training needs and prepare a training program for the opera-
tional staff.
Qualifications and Experience
7.        The planning/engineering advisor and the operation/maintenance
advisor should be graduate sanitary engineers with at least ten years of
experience at senior levels in water supply authorities. The administrative/
financial advisor should be a graduate accountant or business administrator
with at least ten years of experience at a senior level in public utility



- 54 -                          ANNEX 14
Page 4
companies. Fluency in English is required and a good knowledge of Arabic is
desirable. Work experience with a public utility in a developing country, in
particular in the Middle East, would be an advantage.
Invitation to Apply
8.        PWC hereby invites interested individuals meeting the above qualifi-
cations and experience to apply for the advisory posts described in paragraphs
4 to 7. Candidates should submit biographic data and particularly a detailed
description of previous job positions and assignments. The candidates are
invited to comment on the terms of reference and may propose any modifications
which in their views are in the interest of better achieving the advisory
work. They will indicate salary requirements and other assistance and accom-
modation they wish to receive from PWC.  The portion of the advisors' salaries
and expenses in foreign currencies will be paid by the World Bank.
March 10, 1980



PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
P.W.C  - INCOME STATEMENTS - ACTUAL 11(1977-79) AND PROJECTED (1980-86)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                                               -----Actual   -------           -------------------------------- Projected----------------------
1977       1978      1979      1980        1981        1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
---------------------------------------- YD Thousand ---------------------------------------
Water Sold (million m )                                                                 14.09      14.20    14.37      14.51        14.89      15.30      15.72       19.08      19.91    20.80'-
Water Produced (million m3)                                                             21.79      21.58    21.58    21.78          21.95      22.13      22.33       26.53      27.21    28.40
Number of Connections at Year End (000)                                                 49.63      50.71    52.17    55.52         57.67       59.12      60.57      62.40       64.36    66.52
Average Rate (fils/m3)                                                                  55.91      54.79    55.32      56.72      119.07      119.08     118.77      120.18    161.00   161.00
Operating Revenues
Water Revenues                                                                        788        778       795       823       1,773       1,822      1,867      2,293      3,206    3,349
Meter Rentals                                                                          29         29        30        32          34          35         36         37          38        39
New Connections                                                                         8          4        21        24           17         12         13          18         20        24
Miscellaneous                                                                           9         11        20        15          15          15         15         15          15        15
Total Revenues                                                                    834        822       866       894        1,839      1,884      1,931       2,363      3,279    3,427
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                                                            413         472       572       770         728         711        713        712        745        784
Fuel, Energy and Chemicals                                                            150        180       186       366         397        411         422        611         633       670
Distribution and Maintenance                                                           50         51        51        77          82          87         94        144         154       166
General and Administrative Expenses                                                    50         71        87        96         105         116        127        140         154       170
Total Operating Expenses                                                          663        774       896    1;309         1,312      1,325      1,356       1,607      1,686    1,790
Income Before Depreciation                                                                171         48       -30      -415          527        559        575         756      1,593    1,637
Depreciation                                                                          264        264       267       272         275         279        289        443         736       884
Income Before Interest                                                                    -93       -216      -297      -687          252        280        286         313        857       753
Operational Interests                                                                   0          0         0         0            0          0          0          0         156       494
Income Before Income Tax                                                                  -93       -216      -297      -687          252        280         286        313        701       259
Income Tax (37.5%)                                                                      0          0         0         0         -95       -105        -107       -117       -263       -97
Net Income                                                                        -93       -216      -297       -687         157        175         179        196        438       162
Operating Ratio (%)-2                                                                   111.2      126.3    134.3    176.8           86.3       85.1       85.2        86.8       73.9      78.0
Rate of Return (%)                                                                         -          -         -          -          7.0        8.1         8.1        3.5        4.5       3.2
Totals may not agree due to rounding
1/ Based on Unaudited Accounts
2/ Including Depreciation
May 6, 1980



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
P.W C  - TABLE OF SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS - ACTUAL -1(1977-79) AND PROJECTED (1980-86)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                                            ------- Actual II ------_-- :--------------------- Projected ----------------------------
1977        1978      1979       1980        1981       1982       1983       1984       1985      1986
----------------------------------------- YD Thousand -----------------------______________
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net Incone Before Depreciation and Interest, and
After Tax (37.5%) and Surplus Distribution (75%)                              171          48       -30       -415         314        323        334        492       1,001     1,418
covernment's Contributions                                                        42          16    1,801       1,767       1,838        106      1,959       1,070        314    1,376
Increase in Other Liabilities                                                      6           8         4          6           5          4           4          4          5         6
Increase in Legal Reserve                                                          7           0         0          0           0          0          0           0          0         0
55          24    1,805      1,773       1,843         110      1,963      1,074        319    1,382
IDA Credit                                                                         0           0         0        166         759      1,562      1,197        454           0         0
Other Loans                                                                        0           0         0          7       1,011      5,221      1,757         775        490       157
Total Loans                                                                 0           0         0        173       1,770      6,783       2,954      1,229        490       157
TOTAL SOURCES                                                              226          72    1.775      1,531       3,927       7.216      5251       2.795      1,810    2,957
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Proposed Project                                                                   0           0         0        283       3,017      6,854      2,739         212          0         0
Other Investments                                                                 11          13    I,711       1.465       1,514      1.722       1,916      1,834      1,455    1,519
Total Tnvestments                                                           11          13    1,711      1,748       4,531      8,576       4,655      2,046      1,455    1,519
Amortization of IDA C'redit                                                        0           0         0          0           0           0          0          0        172       276
Amortization of Other Loans                                                        0           0         0          0            0          0          0          0         44       419
Total Amortization                                                           0           0         0          0           0          0          0          0        216       695
Interest                                                                           0           0         0          0           0          0           0          0        156       494
Total Debt Service                                                           C           0        0          0            0          0          0          0        372    1,189
Tncrease/Decrease in Working Capital                                             215          59        64       -217        -604    -1,360         596         749       -17        249
Total Applications                                                        226           72    1,775      1,531       3,927       7,216      5,251      2,795      1,810    2957
Debt Service Coverage                                                             NA          NA        NA        NA          NA         NA          NA        NA          2.7       1.2
Totals may not agree due to rounding
1/ Based on unaudited accounts
May 6, 1980



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
P.WC  - BALANCE SHEETS - ACTUALL ( -7   AND PROJECTED (19
----- Actual --/     -               -----------------Projected----------------------------------
1977     1978      1979         1980        1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                                        -------------------------------------- YD Thousand ----------------------------------_________
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets                                                              9,789    9,802    9,983        10,167    10,225    10,470    10,934    21,845    32,664   32,821
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                                                 5,661    5,926    6,193          6,465      6,740       7,019      7,308      7,749      8,486    9,370
Net Fixed Assets                                                         4,128    3,876    3,790          3,702      3,485      3,450      3,626    14,096    24,178   23,451
Work-in-Progress                                                                  358       358    1,888         3,452      7,924         16,255    20,446    1i.581    2,217    3,579
Total Fixed Assets                                                       4,486    4,234    5,678          7,154    11,409    19,705    24,072    25,677         26,395   27,030
Cash and Equivalent                                                               598       737      738           385        345        275        175        150        150       125
Accounts Receivable                                                               305       219       229          193        278        169        179        263        447       475
Other Receivables                                                                 335       318       367          367        317        267        217        167         60          0
Inventories                                                                       374      417       440          482         399        280        213        210        234       247
Total Current Assets                                                     1,612    1,691    1,774          1,427      1,339        991        784         790        891       847
TOTAL ASSETS                                                             6,098    5,925    7,453          8.581    12,748    20,696    24,856    26,467    27.286   27,877
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital                                                                         2,077    2,077    2,077         2,077       2,077      2,077      2,077      2,077      2,077    2,077           1
Government's Contributions                                                      2,539    2,555    4,356         6,123       7,961      8,067     10,026    11,096    11,410   12,786
Revaluation Reserve                                                               622       622       622          622        622        622        622        622        622       622
Legal Reserve                                                                      28        28        28           28         28         28         28         28         28         28
Earned Surplus (Deficit)                                                         -175      -391     -688       -1,375    -1.336    -1.292    -1.247    -1,198    -1,089   -1,049
Total Equity                                                             5,091    4,891    6,395          7,475      9,352      9,502     11,506    12,625    13,048   14,464
IDA Credit                                                                          0         0        0           166        925      2,487      3,684      3,966      3,690    3,414
Other Loans                                                                         0         0         0            7      1.017      6,238      7.995      8X726        8,797    8,327
Total Long-term Loans                                                        0         0         0          173      1,942      8,725    11,679    12,692    12,487   11,741
Customers' Deposits                                                                83        91        95          101        106        110        114        118        123       129
Total Long-term Loans and Other Liabilities                                 83        91        95          274      2,048      8,835    11,793    12,810    12,610   11,870
Accounts Payable                                                                  589       573       596          336        956      1,590        948        553        807       502
Pension Fund                                                                      335       371      367           367          0          0          0          0          0         0
Contract Retentions                                                                 0         0         0          130        393        771        610        262        126       138
Current Maturities                                                                  0         0         0            0          0          0          0        216        695       904
Total Current Liabilities                                                  924       944       963          833      1,349      2,361      1,558       1,031      1,628     1,544
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                                             6,098    5,925    7,453          8.581    12,748    Z20,         24,856    26.467    278    27,877
Current Ratio                                                                     1.7       1.8      1.8           2.0        1.0       0.4         0.5        0.8        0.6        0.5
Debt/Equity Ratio (/3)                                                             NA        NA      NA           2:98      17:83    48:52        50:50      50:50      49:51    45:55
Totals may not agree due to rounding
1/ Based on una' dited accounts
May 6, 1980



- 58 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Projections of Water Sales
1.        Projected water sales and number of service lines in Greater Aden
are shown in Annex 2. Production and sales in the provincial towns were
calculated and projected separately.
Water Rates
2.        In compliance with the proposed financial covenant for PWC (para-
graph 6.08), the average tariff in Greater Aden is projected as follows:
Year                        1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Average Tariff YD/m3       0.057   0.119   0.119   0.119   0.119   0.161   0.161
In making the projections, it has been assumed that the first tariff increase
would become effective on January 1, 1981. However, it is highly probable
that the new tariff would be effective earlier, which would improve the 1980
results. Meanwhile, the current tariffs in the provincial towns are assumed
to remain unchanged.
Items of the Income Statement
3.   (i)  Meter Rentals - These revenues are calculated on the basis of YD 0.6
per meter per year, and based on the mid-year number of service
lines.
(ii) New Connections - They are installed by PWC and paid by customers.
The average cost of a connection in 1979 was YD 6.7. This cost
in the ensuing years is assumed to increase annually by 5%.
(iii) Miscellaneous - This item includes interest on deposits in banks
and various fees levied for reconnection and other maintenance
works. A fixed lump sum of YD 15,000 is projected in the years
1980 through 1986.
(iv) Personnel - Salaries are projected to increase annually by 5%.
It is further assumed that the number of employees will gradually
decrease to reach by 1984 a ratio of two employees per 1,000 popula-
tion served.



- 59 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2
(v) Fuel, Energy and Chemicals - Fuel cost is projected to increase
annually by 15%. Fuel amount used in pumping stations is estimated
in each year in proportion of volume of water produced. Electrical
cost of pumping is projected at YD 0.016/m3 during the next six
years. Like fuel, chlorine needs (the only chemical used) are
calculated in proportion of water produced, and the unit cost (YD
400/ton) is projected to increase annually by 10%.
(vi) Maintenance - Provision for routine maintenance is estimated to
average 0.8% of the value of existing assets, and 0.2% of that of
facilities put in operation in 1980 and thereafter.
(vii) Depreciation - Calculated at straight-line rates based on the
estimated service lives of the major assets. An annual average
rate of 2.7% is used.
Items of the Cash Flow Statement and Balance Sheet
4.   (a)  Cash and Equivalent - Maintained at levels required to cover PWC's
normal operations.
(b) Accounts Receivable - Arrears from private customers are expected
to decline progressively from their present level of 7 months of
sales to 2 months in 1982 and stay at this level in the ensuing
years. Arrears from public authorities are assumed to decline to
3 months of sales in 1982. The accumulated provision for bad debt
as of December 31, 1979 is substantial and no additional provision
is made during the projection period.
(c) Stocks - Projected to decrease from a level of 5 years of consump-
tion of materials and chemicals in 1980, to 18 months in 1983 and
thereafter.
(d) Accounts Payable - Variously projected as shown below:
(i)  Suppliers:  2 months of total capital expenditures and 4 months
of stocks;
(ii)  Retention Money:  7% of annual investment which is paid back at
the end of guarantee periods;
(iii)  Customers' Deposits:  YD 2.5 per new customer.
(e) Other Foreign Loans - Three other long-term borrowings for the
project are assumed to carry interests varying from 0.75% to 4% per
annum and to be repaid over 15 years after 5 years of grace.
March 10, 1980



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                               1977       1978        1979       1980        1981       1982       1983        1984       1985        1986
- -------------------------------------YD Thousand-----------------------------------------------
Indicators
1. STAFFING
Number of Employ,es                                            910         916        875        874         773        720         683        651         650        650
Staff per 1,000 Population Served                                4           4          4          4           3           3          3           3          3           2
Number of Staff Trained                                         -           -          -           -          50         75          75         -           -           -
2. SYSTEM OPERATIONS
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Water Sold, 10 m3/Year                                         14          14         14          15         15          15         16         19          20          21
Water Produced, 106 m3/Year                                    22          22         22          22         22          22         22         27          27          28
Unaccounted-for Water, %                                       35          34         33         33          32         31          30         28          27          27
Number of Connections, 103                                     50          51         52         56          58         59          61         62          64          66
3. FINANCE
Operating Ratio, %/-                                        111.2      126.3       134.3      176.8         86.3       85.1       85.2       86.8        73.9        78.0
Rate of Return, %/2                                            -           -          -           -          7.0        8.1        8.1        3.5         4.5         3.2
Current Ratio                                                 1.7         1.8        1.8        2.0          1.0        0.4        0.5        0.8         0.6         0.5
Debt/Equity Ratio, %                                         N/A        N/A         N/A        2:98        17:83      48:52     50:50       50:50      49:51        45:55
Average Rate in Fils per m3 Sold                               56          55         55         57          119        119        119        120         161          161
Average Revenue in Fils per m3 Produced                        38          38         40         41           84          85        86         89         121          121
Operating Expenses in Fils per m3 Sold                         47          55         62         90           88          87        86         84          85           86
Operating Effectiveness Index/3                                66          72         66         68           65          74        71         68          70           74
/1  Total Operating Expenses divided by Total Operating Revenues x 100.
/2  Income Before Interest divided by Average Rate Base x 100.
/3  Revenue Collected per m3 Produced divided by Average Revenue Billed per m3.
May 7, 1980



- 61 -
ANNEX 20
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   The Underground Water Resources of Part of the Abyan Delta Catchment
Area, FAO, Technical Report No. 5, 1970.
2.   The Underground Water Resources of the Delta Part of the Wadi Tuban
Catchment Area, FAO, Technical Report No. 6, 1970.
3.   The Underground Water Resources of the Wadi Beihan, FAO, Technical Report
No. 7, 1970.
4.   The Underground Water Resources of the Aden Arab Protectorate and their
Development, FAO, Technical Report No. 8, 1970.
5.   Greater Aden Water Supply Project (14 Volumes), SOGREAH Consulting
Engineers, 1979.
6.   Report on Sewerage Projects in First Governorate, John Taylor and Sons
Consulting Civil Engineers, 1976.
7.   Wadi Hadramout (Seiyun-Al Qatn) Potable Water Supplies Master Plan Study
(2 Volumes), John Taylor and Sons Consulting Civil Engineers, 1979.
8.   Wadi Tuban Water Management Study, Groundwater Development Consultants,
January 1980.
9.   Rapid Assessment Report on Potable Water Supply in PDRY, 1978.
10. Law No. 19 of 1970 - Establishment of PWC.
11. Law No. 13 of 1979 - Organization of Public Corporations.
12. Detailed Assumptions for Financial Projections.
March 10, 1980






TU_RKEY                                                        46i                              48 °                           S0 °                             52 °
d0 ,,ARER   <'S\2                v
REe<"                       4,
IRAQ                                                                DEOCAICO
RAN                                  PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                                     20-
AfiRABIA N4~    ~GREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SAUDI ARAB                                                                  Project   Location
A'  .rUR                                                                                                                                             Ps>
S Uh A  d 1 no l a w n  Snl S     2   O9            m  i  6                                     f   A   D  F  Nr                                                 1 1   2  M T R   
I-  YE ~<~ZK   ARAR;AA'SEA             00100                                     150                              p..
(E5T IOPI   .AI                                                     MILES                                                               / /
0       50       100      150       200      250
KILOINIETERS                                     7 S D 6 8 °  /|
/ /7'                    /                    ~OMAN
o'dah                       7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     /
m           I44,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Al Ayn                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA
r                      ~~~~~~~PRIMARY RiOADS
INTERNATIONAL AIRPOBT
Mukayds ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o HARBOR                                                                                      1
/ /  /  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~2....... GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES AND NUMBERS
-  .INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ahwar                                                                              ELEVATION:
__                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0- 200 METERS
-f  cha                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~201 -lOOD0METERS   
GUIF    OF    AD,~~~~~~FN  ~1001' 2000 METERS>
W..                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~~                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2001, 3000 METERS  O
46     48-                                                                                                         f,4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5






IBRD 14871
--  J                                                                                                                                                                        \AR~  F, E~                 H-   ,    --_JzSP           
5 ' EAC           p RAn,     'FAAGEGH ,,tA,,,;E,                              PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBL C  OF  YEM5N                                           We  F old
IL\2X,1 -- '-;    .                                                         .'<.F  '_UGREATER ADEN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                            ,,,   / lH/
K" cr \s 'v.   t^4- ,>ng,,'General Layout of the  Water  Supply  System
Es.,  Wee  ¾  -                                                                                                                                                     /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z,.
-,  'V/   'nC, ARABIA       -                  \ 
-'eA                Elt \,f.'A//                                                                                                                                 /I. 
W. _
-   r H OF A                                                                            /                                                 o      ,1 V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI Meniseon
k'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
uh-d   I                                                                                                                                                                                            I      ~    ~ I
J \.4 fi                                    well  h           /'        Z
T.-~ ~ ~~~.
N                         \3 5                                                          0    0      ;         0 X       ':      f  ? 0
A'-
/ Ie/                                                                                 ; EeT10                                                            
B           n  Wodc  Loone       F K        r               W/                                       ,0              
'We                 _,Fied/1   /t1                                                                                                        IJtirs\J                         sy1fi
l S   j    x ._  -   2  g  ay  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f            ;          ; L                   -      tzifliFes   :                      z>S;~~~~~~~~~~~~~-5--5
a L \ WH ; Fa_R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~51hF 0$>-   . k O
~~~  v C               t~~~~~~~--n                              4         dr           ,       ^Osk'   X z0 f  
_9                .,<~~~ ;\ ~A'ihof                                                       qhLf tF
Fu9um ~   ~      Wn [' S-  /'I
- L+tte Aden ~>_a>,
J    ;<   u,ofs*FnefFf khffff Ishtft FFfwf/
/ ~ ~             ~ N'                                                                                                                     nuQ                          ; 



