                                                                                52877
                                       DATA SHEET
                                      PROJECT PAPER

Date: January 15, 2010                       Task Team Leader: Svetlana Proskurovska
Country: Republic of Tajikistan              Sector Manager/Director: William Leslie
Project Name: Public Sector Reform           Dorotinsky/Luca Barbone
Project                                      Country Director: Motoo Konishi
Project ID: P096861                          Environmental category: C
Borrower: The Republic of Tajikistan
Responsible agency: the Executive Office of the President
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/USD m*)
*Disbursements in USD are presented using SDR/USD exchange rate at project approval
FY               FY07             FY08             FY09             FY10              FY11
Annual           0.41             0.60             1.20             1.60              1.19
Cumulative 0.41                   1.01             2.21             3.81              5.00
Current closing date: June 1, 2011
Revised closing date [if applicable]: No
Indicate if the restructuring is:

Board approved           Yes

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?            __ Yes X No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                      X Yes __ No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                       __ Yes X No

Revised project development objective: Establish legal and organizational prerequisites
for improved public sector management, improve public access to legislation, and
strengthen regulatory framework in selected areas
Revised outcomes:
1. A transparently managed and increasingly merit-based civil service.
2. A law on Organization of Public Administration and a reform plan for streamlining the
overall central government structure approved; and organizational structures and
management systems in selected core public sector entities improved.
3. A Strategy and Action Plan for modernizing public financial management approved
and under implementation.
4. Enhanced public accessibility to legislation and streamlined legislation in selected
areas.
Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No
                           Revised Financing Plan (in USD m.)
                   Source                          Local        Foreign            Total
Borrower                                             0              0                0
IBRD/IDA                                             0              5                5
Others                                               0              0                0
Total                                                0              5                5
1. Introductory Statement

1.     This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes in the Tajikistan, Public Sector Reform Project, IDA Grant No.H245-
TJ (P096861) and any accompanying amendments to the Project's legal documents. The
proposed changes would amend the Project Development Objective (PDO) and modify
the Main Indicators to realistically reflect (i) expected Project outcomes, (ii) revised
Project implementation arrangements, and (iii) revised disbursement schedule. These
changes are based on the evaluation of progress during the Project mid-term review (May
27, 2009) and prevailing Project implementation environment. This restructuring intends
to align the revised statements of objectives in the Project Paper and the revised
Supplemental Letter No.2 of the Financing Agreement with the intended activities and
planned inputs.

2.      The Project was designed to support the Government's Public Sector Reform
Strategy (PARS, 2006) and the original PDO was formulated on the assumption of strong
leadership and dedicated reform management. The achievement of the approved PDO­
to assist the Recipient in the implementation of PARS through strengthening policy
making and service delivery systems and enhancing transparency of public management
in selected core public sector entities ­ requires strong Government role in coordination
of different elements of public sector reform. However, contrary to the expectation
underlying the Project's original design, no reliable system for the management of public
sector reform has been established so far. In the absence of strong reform leadership
and coordination capacity, various project activities and outputs, designed to contribute to
the CAS objective of sustainable improvements in public sector performance, remain
rather weakly integrated. Likewise, the ad hoc reform management structure has stalled
decision making on implementation of selected reform measures, which has resulted in a
slower pace of reforms and project disbursements, than had been originally expected.

3.      On the other hand, most of the planned activities under the Project have been
either successfully implemented, or initiated. The outputs already achieved are expected
to contribute to achieving key objectives under the PARS. To some extent, the Project
Coordination Team (PCT), comprised of local consultants, guided by the Project Steering
Committee, has compensated for the absence of a central reform management structure in
the Government by facilitating the implementation of public sector reforms supported by
the Project.

4.      Yet it is unlikely for the Project to achieve the originally envisioned strengthening
of policy making and service delivery systems, as stated in the approved PDO.
Realistically, the Project has a fair possibility to help prepare plans for improving service
delivery and transparency of public management in eight policy areas. Even if these
plans are approved before the Project closure, achievement of real improvements in
service delivery would require time and financial resources beyond the scope of the
Project. Therefore, the Project cannot deliver measurable improvements in service
delivery. As for improving policy-making capacity, the proposals for institutional
changes developed under the Project have been put on hold due to uncertain commitment
to this objective. A political decision to change the existing power hierarchy and
embrace change that would strengthen the role of professional civil servants represents a
significant challenge to the political leadership. These previously underestimated factors
form an environment in which swift institutional reforms, as envisaged by the Project at
approval, do not appear feasible.

5.      The World Bank institutional reform program in Tajikistan is also supported by
the European Commission (EC), which has already implemented two projects on civil
service strengthening. Given the importance of reliable and well managed institutions for
achievement of the country's development objectives, the EC plans continued technical
support to the Republic of Tajikistan aimed at improving the civil service management
system, professional training, and building institutions. The EC has agreed to support the
restructuring of ministries that will have been assisted by this Project through the vertical
functional reviews. This coordinated donor support will help assure sustainability of the
achieved Project results after its closure.

2. Background and Reasoning for Restructuring

6.     The Project was approved on July 6, 2006 and became effective on September 8,
2006. The original PDO was to assist the Recipient in the implementation of PARS
through strengthening policy-making and service delivery systems and enhancing
transparency of public management in selected core sector entities.

7.         The original main indicators at Project approval stage included the following:

           The number of civil servants (new entrants) recruited through merit-based
           competitions increases by 50 percent from the baseline level to be established in
           November 2006;
           Reform Plans are implemented for 8 line ministries or central agencies by the end
           of the project and reports on their implementation are published on the
           Government web site;
           The level of deviation between approved and executed central government budget
           decreases by 30% over the project period, from the baseline level which will be
           established on the basis of the Budget Execution Report for 2005;1 and
           Access to information and regulation, norms and procedures by businesses
           increases 40-50 percent from the baseline level to be established by a survey to be
           conducted in early 2007.
While the Project is moving toward the main indicators, their full achievement cannot be
expected during the Project lifetime. Therefore the main indicators are revised as
presented on p.9.

8.      The Project has five Components: (1) Civil Service Management; (2) Public
Administration Reform Strategy; (3) Budget Management; (4) Regulatory Management;
and (5) Governance Reforms Management and Project Management. The Project needs
restructuring because the available time and resources are insufficient to fully achieve the

1
    Subject to the absence of severe external or internal shocks

                                                        2
expected results of Components 2, 3 and 4. Moreover, some results, as explained below,
are not feasible in the prevailing political economy environment. For instance, it is not
feasible to fully implement reform plans in 8 line ministries given that the vertical
functional reviews in 7 ministries are expected to be completed toward the of 2010, thus
leaving insufficient time and no financial resources for implementation proposed
restructuring. Also, achieving a 30% decrease of deviations between the approved and
actual budget, as a result of the project activities, is not feasible, as the Project does not
specifically address improvements in the budget planning and execution processes.

9.      During implementation, project implementation arrangements have changed.
From its launch in September 2006, the Project has experienced problems with
implementation arrangements. In the absence of a dedicated permanent government
structure responsible for implementation of PARS, the Department of Economic Reforms
and Investments (DERI) of the Executive Office of the President (EOP) has been charged
with Project implementation. Having no permanent staff to support PARS, DERI hired a
team of consultants to form a Project Coordination Team (PCT), which has become fully
dysfunctional in January 2007, when the Project Director (staunch PARS champion) was
replaced.

10.     The fiduciary support to the Project has been also discontinued after the Aid
Coordination Unit was abolished by the President's Decree. After four months at a
standstill, Project implementation resumed in May 2007. A new, better qualified Project
Coordination Team was hired and became fully functional by September 2007. For one
year the Project implementation status was Moderately Unsatisfactory, before being
upgraded to Moderately Satisfactory in 2008.

11.     In spite of the good implementation progress since the second part of 2008, when
many activities have been initiated and completed, the original, very ambitious Project
outcome framework is not fully achievable in the prevailing politically complex and
technically challenging environment. Therefore, in recognition of implementation
challenges, the Project should be restructured, keeping the PDO broadly in line with the
original one, but with some revisions of the results framework to render the outcomes
more realistic. As of January 15, 2010, the Project has disbursed 52 percent of the Grant.

3. Proposed Changes

12.     This section presents proposed changes of the Project Development Objective and
Outcomes and records Project achievements as well as explains constraints to achieving
originally stated outcomes.

13.     The revised Project Development Objective (PDO) reflects the reduction in scope
of expected project achievements for institutional restructuring, policy making capacity
and service delivery systems. The reasons for that include: initially stated overambitious
objectives that were not supported by adequate resources and planned activities, later
than expected initiation of the vertical functional reviews for restructuring, the absence of
the central government unit to implement policy coordination reforms, and insufficient


                                              3
time and resources required for achievement of measurable improvements in service
delivery across the public sector.

14.     The new PDO captures the achievement of a strengthened legal regime for
management of meritocratic civil service and for transparent organizational system of
public administration, which are the prerequisites for effective and accountable public
sector management. Also a new transparent civil service remuneration system, and a
more equitable, linked with job descriptions, remuneration system for public health
employees are prerequisites for attraction and retention of skilled specialists in the public
service. Finally, the development of restructuring plans for 7 ministries through the
vertical functional review is also a prerequisite for improving accountability and
efficiency of public administration systems, including public service delivery systems.

15.    At the same time, due to growing importance of exploration of natural minerals
for economy of Tajikistan, the Project shall expand the scope of improvements of
regulatory regime by including the subsoil sector. The new PDO is presented below.

Project Development Objective
             The project development objective is to assist the Recipient in the implementation of
Original     the Public Administration Reform Strategy through strengthening policy making and
             service delivery systems and enhancing transparency of public management in
             selected core public sector entities
             Establish legal and organizational prerequisites for improved public sector
Revised      management, improve public access to legislation, and strengthen regulatory
             framework in selected areas

16.     The proposed changes to definition of Outcomes, which are described in this
section below, are:

               Original Outcomes                                         Revised Outcomes

1. A transparently managed and increasingly merit-       1. A transparently managed and increasingly merit-
based Civil Service                                      based civil service
                                                         2. A law on Organization of Public Administration
2. A rationalized overall central government
                                                         and a reform plan for streamlining the overall
structure and improved organization and
                                                         central government structure approved; and
management systems in selected core public sector
                                                         organizational structures and management systems
entities
                                                         in selected core public sector entities improved
3. Increasingly reliable, comprehensive and              3. A Strategy and Action Plan for modernizing
available public financial management information        public financial management approved and under
                                                         implementation
4. Enhanced transparency and accessibility of the
legal and regulatory framework                           4. Enhanced public accessibility to legislation and
                                                         streamlined legislation in selected areas


17.    The original Financing Agreement defined Main Indicators which have been
revised and renamed as Target Values for Outcome Indicators. The proposed changes
are:

                                                     4
Original Main Indicators                           Target Values for Outcome Indicators

1. The number of civil servants (new entrants)     1. Competitive merit-based recruitment of civil
recruited through merit-based competition          servants for positions below grades 1-2 is
increases by 50 percent from the baseline          institutionalized. At least 80 percent of vacant
level to be established in November 2006           positions are filled either by competitive
                                                   recruitment or promotion.
                                                   2.1 Reform Plans for streamlining of institutions
                                                   structures in 8 ministries and central agencies
2. Reform Plans are implemented for 8 line
                                                   approved and short-term restructuring measures
ministries or central agencies by the end of the
                                                   implemented
project and reports on their implementation
are published on the Government Website            2.2 The law on Organization of Public
                                                   Administration, defining principles of
                                                   organization and accountability of public
                                                   administration bodies, is submitted for adoption
3. The level of deviation between the              3.1 A Public Financial Management Strategy,
approved and executed central government           establishing framework for improvements in
budget decreases by 30 % over the project          management, efficiency and transparency of the
period, from the baseline level established on     use of public resources, is approved
the basis of the Budget Execution Report for
                                                   3.2 A new remuneration system in the health
2005
                                                   system is designed and implemented
4. Access to information and regulation norms      4.1 Access to information on laws and
and procedures by business increased by 40-        regulations for the legal entities is improved
50 percent from the baseline level established
                                                   4.2 Regulations in the area or fire safety,
by a survey to be conducted in early 2007
                                                   sanitary-epidemiological standards and subsoil
                                                   use area streamlined



18.     At the moment of restructuring, the following results have been achieved:

            a. Competitive merit-based recruitment institutionalized;
            b. Civil service remuneration system developed; its approval and piloting
               pending;
            c. Reform plan for the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection developed
               and legal and institutional changes implemented;
            d. First draft law on System of Public Administration drafted (new activity);
            e. The Public Financial Management Strategy approved and being
               implemented;
            f. Classification of posts in the health sector developed, the pay grading
               structure established and is being implemented;




                                                   5
          g. The compilation of the legal data base completed in Russian, Tajik and
             Partially in English languages, and made available to all public and private
             persons on demand subject to subscription fee; and
          h. The regulatory regime in the fire safety and sanitary and epidemiological
             areas reviewed; adoption of the revised regulation partially completed.

19.     Other important activities are on-going. Among them are: conducting the vertical
functional review of seven ministries, drafting the law on Organization of Public
Administration, reviewing the regulatory regime in the subsoil sector, expanding the
network for on line access to the civil service register and legal database Adliya,
developing training modules, introducing performance appraisal system in the civil
service, and other activities. All Project funds have been committed. The Government
realizes that the PSRP Project will not have enough resources to fully implement the
objectives of the Public Administration Reform Strategy. Therefore, presently the
Government discusses possibilities of follow up technical assistance with donors.

20.    Notwithstanding good implementation progress achieved recently, some initially
envisioned activities are not likely to be implemented due to the prevailing technical
capacity or political economy constraints. This will impact the set of Project Outcomes.
Moreover, some of the Outcomes could not be achieved with the planned activities, as
they require more fundamental reforms that are beyond the scope of the PSRP Project.

21.    The Intermediate Outcomes that will not be achieved, and therefore should be
cancelled or amended, include:

        a. Effective reform monitoring and tracking system put in place, as reflected in
           the quality of the Annual Reports on PARS implementation issued by DERI.
           The reason for that is that currently, DERI does not have formal competences
           or devoted staff in the area of public administration reform. The Project
           consultants forming Project Coordination Group are currently asked to
           monitor PARS implementation in the areas linked to project activities. This is
           not a sustainable solution. Implementation of this outcome requires
           institutional changes in the EOP's mandate and structure which so far have
           not been agreed upon.

        b. Public Financial Management Reform Action Plan adopted and capacity of
           budget units to use strategic budget planning tools enhanced, as reflected in
           a 30% reduction of the difference between the approved and executed central
           government budget. The first part of this indicator related to PFM reform
           plan has been fulfilled. However, the PSRP Project activities, as per Project
           design, did not address such issues, as strategic budget planning tools, which
           might improve reliability of the government budget. Therefore, the
           achievement of 30% reduction in difference between approved and executed
           budgets could not be achieved. This policy issue is being addressed through
           other donor supported interventions, including the Public Financial
           Management Modernization Project.


                                           6
22.     During Project implementation, additional activities that support the overall PDO
have been identified and initiated. For example, this Project supports (under Component
2) a new activity of developing a law on public administration that would establish a legal
basis for increased transparency and accountability in the public administration. This
activity helps achieve the revised PDO. Based on sound legal basis and recommendations
of the vertical functional reviews the Government can establish sound management and
accountability arrangements.

23.    The language of the Intermediate Outcome Indicators (as presented in the
Attachment to Supplemental Letter No 2 to the Financing Agreement of July 27, 2006)
has been revised to align with the activities and expected results. The table below
presents the comparison of the original and the revised set of Intermediate Outcome
Indicators.


Original Intermediate Outcome Indicators            Revised Intermediate Outcome Indicators

1. Civil Service Register, as a key tool for        1. The Civil Service Register is automated and
horizontal Civil Service management,                accessible through a network by 47 government
operational, as reflected through annual            bodies. The CSD monitors civil service
reports on Civil Service development issued         development and issues quarterly reports on the
by the CSD                                          status of implementation of the civil service
                                                    policy
2. Consistency in recruitment and promotion
practices achieved in central government, as        2. Consistency in promotion practices achieved
reflected in annual reports on Civil Service        in central government entities, as reflected in
development issued by the CSD and                   annual reports on civil service development
confirmed through Public Officials Surveys at       issued by the CSD and confirmed through
the start and the end of the Project                Public Officials Surveys
3. Recruitment by open competition, based on        3. Recruitment by open competition, based on
public vacancy announcements, is                    public announcements of vacancies, is
institutionalized, as reflected in annual reports   institutionalized, as reflected in annual reports
on Civil Service development issues by the          on civil service development issued by the CSD
CSD and confirmed through Public Officials          and confirmed through Public Officials Surveys
Surveys at the start and end of the Project         at the start and the end of the Project
4. New civil service pay system fully               4. New civil service pay system is approved and
operational, as reflected in annual reports on      introduced on a pilot basis, consistent with the
Civil Service development issued by the CSD         public expenditure framework, as reflected in
and confirmed through Public Officials              annual reports on civil service development
Surveys at the started and end of the Project       issued by the CSD and confirmed through
                                                    Public Officials Surveys conducted at the start
5. Effective reform monitoring and tracking
                                                    and the end of the Project
system put in place, as reflected in the quality
of the Annual Reports on PARS                       5. Functions of different institutions at central
implementation issued by DERI                       government level clarified based on
                                                    recommendations of functional reviews and the
6. Reallocation of functions between
                                                    new law on Organization of Public
institutions at central government level
                                                    Administration, as reflected in Government
completed, as reflected in Government
                                                    Resolutions on the structure of the central state


                                                    7
Resolutions on the structure of the central        administration
state administration
                                                   6. Management and accountability systems for
7. Management and accountability systems for       service delivery in the Ministry of Labor and
service delivery in the Ministry of Labor and      Social Protection streamlined, as reflected in
Social Protection streamlined, as reflected in     Annual Report on PARS implementation and in
Annual Reports on PARS implementation and          Annual reports of the Ministry of Labor and
in Annual reports of the Ministry of Labor and     Social Protection
Social Protection
                                                   7. A Public Financial Management Strategy and
8. Public Financial Management Reform              an Action Plan for improving management,
Action Plan adopted and capacity of budget         efficiency and transparency of the public
units to use strategic budget planning tools       resource have been approved and are under
enhanced, as reflected in a 30% reduction of       implementation
the difference between approved and executed
                                                   8. A new wage and staff planning system for
central government budget
                                                   primary healthcare operational, as reflected in
9. New wage and staff planning systems for         relevant Presidential Decrees and in annual
primary health care operational, as reflected in   reports of the Ministry of Health
relevant Presidential Decrees and in annual
                                                   9. Improved public access to legal norms and
reports of the Ministry of Health
                                                   acts through the official government legal
10. Improved access to legal norms and acts to     database Adliya, which includes all effective
both government and public, as measured            legislation in the Republic of Tajikistan and is
through surveys on accessibility of normative      available to public bodies, the private sector,
acts, as well as specific accessibility to         and the general public (on a subscription basis)
regulations on pilot inspections agencies
                                                   10. Technical regulations of pilot inspection
11. Internal and technical regulations of pilot    agencies updated, streamlined (up to 30%
inspections agencies developed and published,      reduction or substantial amendments in the
with increased understanding of firm level         number of regulations) and made publicly
obligations during public sector inspections,      available, resulting in firms' increased
as well as increased comprehension by              understanding of their obligations with regard to
inspectors of their new roles, as reflected in     fire safety and sanitary-epidemiological
client survey results and FIAS reports             standards, as reflected in survey results
                                                   11. Legislation in the subsoil sector streamlined
                                                   resulting in improved business environment for
                                                   mining of natural minerals



24.       Further changes involve changes in planned activities: under the Civil Service
Reform (Component 1, Subcomponent A), the task of establishment of assessment
centers for civil service recruitment cannot be implemented, due to the lack of adequate
institutional capacity and current low attractiveness of the civil service (fewer than 2
candidates per vacant post on average). The task of establishing the assessment centers is
proposed to be cancelled.

25.    Under Component 2 the Project cannot implement the activity on capacity
building for the EOP structure(s) in charge of public administration reform to introduce
key governance reforms and track their implementation and impact over time. Currently,
there is no dedicated unit in the EOP in charge of public administration reform.

                                                   8
Moreover, the Project funds have been fully committed leaving no space for this activity,
even if such units were created.

26.    Under Component 2, full restructuring of 7 ministries, for which vertical
functional reviews will be conducted during 2010, may not be achieved during the
Project life span. However, under the Project restructuring recommendations will be
developed, and most likely implemented after the Project closure, possibly with
additional donor support, e.g. of the European Union.

27.     The planned achievement of improving policy-making capacity and policy impact
assessment practices at the sector level (Part 2, item (d) of Schedule 1 of the Financing
Agreement) is not likely to happen. Improving policy-making and impact assessment
capacity requires establishing proper structures in ministries, adopting adequate
normative and methodological basis, and building technical capacity of personnel in
charge of sector policy. Implementation of these activities, and more importantly, the
success in improving policy coherence is conditional on the strength of Government's
central policy coordination capacity, which in spite of recommendations developed under
Component 2 has so far not been established. The attainment of this objective at a sector
level would require additional resources and time, but more importantly, will depend on
government commitment. Therefore, a more accurate estimation of available resources,
government commitment and existing capacity suggests the need to revise the
formulation of Project outcomes under this Component.

28.     In light with the proposed revision of the outcome for Component 3, the title of
the component shall be changed from "Budget Management" to "Public Financial
Management". The Component description in PAD identifies major outputs, including a
strategy for the modernization of public financial management, related training activities
and a reform of the remuneration structure in the health service. Clearly, these outputs do
not contribute to attaining the originally formulated outcome ­ improved reliability and
comprehensiveness of public financial information. Moreover, the Project description in
the PAD refers to support for introducing a Medium Term Budget Framework (MTBF).
Some training for supporting MTBF has been provided under the Project; however, the
success in introducing the MTBF is more directly attributable to other Bank and donor-
financed operations, including technical assistance under the Bank's policy lending
program (PDPG) and under a Project of the European Commission. Therefore, the
Project outcome referring to reliability of budget information is changed.

29.    It is also important to clarify that unlike stated in PAD results matrix, the Project
planned to support the development of a Public Financial Management Strategy rather
than to help design an Integrated Public Financial Management System (IPFMS).
Component 3 has produced important outputs that include a Public Financial
Management Strategy, an analytical report on the Review of Public Financial
Management Business Procedures, and a system of classification of health care
employees. The Project also supports a new activity under Component 3 (part b) ­
implementation of the new remuneration system for health care employees. However,
the design of IPFMS has been addressed by the PHRD Grant for preparation of the
PFMMP Project, not the PSRP Project.

                                             9
30.      Under Component 4 Capacity Building in Regulatory Management many
activities have been completed and outputs delivered. The Project has implemented
planned activities and delivered outputs on improving regulatory quality and service
delivery in two selected inspectorates ­ Fire Safety Inspection and Sanitary and
Epidemiological Service. Support to compiling the National electronic legal database ­
Adliya ­ has also been satisfactorily delivered. Plans to make Adliya available on line, so
as to ensure access to the national legislation, are currently being pursued by the Project.
The Project has also strengthened the IT capacity of the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) to
facilitate the review and registration of secondary legal and normative documents.

31.     However, the initial intention of the MOJ to fully revise and update the entire
body of legislation, including secondary acts, has proved to be impossible due to
insufficient Project resources. Under the circumstances, the MOJ has opted for
conducting a review of legislation in the priority area of subsoil use regulation. This
priority emerged with the current expansion of exploration of natural mineral deposits.
As long as the legislation in this area has gaps and inconsistencies, this potentially may
lead to lost revenues for the government. So the proposed activity is in strong demand.

32.     The objective of increasing access to legislation for government entities and
private sector operators is expected to be achieved under the Project. However, in the
absence of a review of the entire legislation internal legal inconsistencies and outdated
norms will not be corrected. It is recommended that the MOJ seek additional technical
assistance in this area from donors within the medium term.

33.     Concerning Project implementation arrangements, this Project Paper
acknowledges that fiduciary support for the Project, including procurement and financial
management functions, is no longer delivered by the Aid Coordination Unit, as originally
foreseen in the PAD. Instead, the Accounting Department of the Executive Office of the
President with support from local consultants of the Project Coordination Team (PCT)
has become in charge of the Project fiduciary function. The Project Coordinator with the
PCT consultants supporting core components continues to administer the Project under
reporting arrangements to the Project Director and steering from the Project Board,
chaired by the State Economic Advisor to the President.

34.     The sustainability of Project results appears uneven, depending on the level of
commitment of various Project beneficiaries. The sustainability of Project results could
improve significantly if a permanent unit responsible for coordination of public
administration reform were established in the Executive Office of the President.
However, there is no clear evidence that such a unit may be established during the
Project. This warrants a conservative approach to defining Project outcomes and impacts.

4. Analysis

35.      The proposed changes in the results framework do not substantially change the
original development objective or deviate from the rationale that informed the Project's
design. Instead, the proposed changes aim to better align expected results with the
institutional capacity and political economy constraints, as well as with available Project

                                            10
resources to ensure that the expected results are attainable within the lifetime of the
Project. The proposed changes will have no major effect on economic, financial,
technical or social aspects.

36.     The assumption that 8 ministries and central agencies will be restructured to
assure better policy coordination and delivery of public services has been revised and
scaled down in line with delayed initiation of the vertical functional reviews. Despite
delays with initiating functional reviews, the Project will deliver reorganization plans for
8 ministries; however, the time for full restructuring will not be sufficient. Only selected
short-term reorganization measures can be achieved and significant improvements in the
social services sector that was revised on a pilot basis. Similarly, the improvements in
policy making and impact assessment practices at the sectoral level would be unrealistic
to achieve due to political economy, capacity, time and resources constraints. The
outputs on regulatory management will have been delivered in line with the project
objectives, albeit on a more limited scale, as resources for a full revision of the entire
legal basis have been insufficient.         Significant improvements are expected in
implementation of the civil service reform, where legal basis will have been developed
and implemented to improve merit based recruitment and civil service attraction.

37.    The proposed changes do not change the environmental category or trigger new
safeguard policies.

38.    The restructuring does not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.

5. Expected Outcomes

39.      As presented in paragraph 23, the expected outcomes will be changed to
realistically reflect possible achievements under the Project's political, organizational and
technical capacity constraints.

6. Benefits and Risks

40.     The most significant remaining risk to the sustainability of Project outcomes is the
absence of a permanent central public administration reform structure. Reliance on
consultants for Project implementation makes the PARS agenda vulnerable especially
after Project closure. Failure to create a relevant Government structure has led to missed
opportunities for strengthening the Government's own capacity to steer and technically
manage reforms beyond the duration of the Project. Potentially, without strong central
monitoring and stewardship, whole-of-government institutional reforms can backslide in
favor of sectoral interests. It is uncertain if the Government will take the steps to
consolidate Project achievements and continue improving public sector performance.




                                             11
Annex . Table of Eligible Expenditures

      Category            Original Amount      Revised Amount of      Percentage of
                           of the Financing       the Financing      Expenditures to
                               Allocated            Allocated         be Financed
                         (expressed in SDR)    (expressed in SDR)

(1) Goods,                   3,075,900            1,536,088.38            100%
consultants' services
and Training
                                                                          100%
(2) Operating Costs           296,000              94,745.74
                                                                    Amount payable
(3) Refund of Project         128,100              19,146.93        pursuant to Section
Preparation Advance                                                 2.07 of the General
                                                                    Conditions
(4) Goods,
consultants' services,                            1,850,018.95            100%
training and
operating costs

      TOTAL                  3,500,000             3,500,000




                                          12
