                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2071



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H2450)




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H2450)

                                      ON AN

                          IDA DEVELOPMENT GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.5 MILLION
                         (US$ 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                        THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                                      FOR A

                      PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROJECT



                                  March 13, 2012




Public Sector and Institutional Reform Group
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Europe and Central Asia Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective as of February 16, 2012)

                           Currency Unit = US$
             Tajikistan Somoni (TJS) 1.00 = US$ .21
                                US$ 1.00 = TJS 4.77

                      FISCAL YEAR = Calendar Year


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ACU     Aid Coordination Unit
ADB     Asian Development Bank
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CIS     Commonwealth of Independent States
CSD     Civil Service Department
CSN     Civil Service Network
DERI    Department of Economic Reform and Investment
DFID    Department for International Development (UK)
EOP     Executive Office of President
EU      European Union
FPI     Fire Prevention Inspectorate
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
HR      Human Resource
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IBTA    Institutional Building Technical Assistance
ICT     Information and Communication Technology
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IHQCS   Institute of Higher Qualification of Civil Servants
IMF     International Monetary Fund
MDG     Millennium Development Goals
MoF     Ministry of Finance
MoJ     Ministry of Justice
MLSP    Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
MTBF    Medium Term Budget Framework
NDS     National development Strategy
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PARS    Public Sector Reform Strategy
PDO     Project Development Objective
PFM     Public Finance Management

                                     ii
PFMMP    Public Finance Management Modernization Project
PCT      Project Coordination Team
PIU      Project Coordination Unit
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategic Paper
PSRP     Public Sector Reform Project
SES      Sanitary-Epidemiology Service




              Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
            Country Director: Saroj Kumar Jha
             Sector Manager: William Dorotinsky
        Project Team Leader: Hassan Aliev
           ICR Team Leader: Hassan Aliev




                                        iii
                                               TAJIKISTAN
                                        Public Sector Reform Project
                                                (IDA-H2450)




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 48
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 49
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 51
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 53
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 54
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 55
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 56
  MAP




                                                             iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Public Sector Reform
Country:                Tajikistan              Project Name:
                                                                          TA
Project ID:             P096861                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H2450
ICR Date:               03/23/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          FINANCE
Original Total
                        XDR 3.50M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 3.49M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 3.50M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Executive Office of President
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/05/2005    Effectiveness:            09/08/2006         09/08/2006
                                                                                  01/21/2010
Appraisal:             02/13/2006    Restructuring(s):                            02/19/2010
                                                                                  05/31/2011
Approval:              07/06/2006    Mid-term Review:                             03/27/2009
                                     Closing:                  06/01/2011         10/01/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     98                  98
Sub-national government administration                                 2                   2


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               33                  30
Health system performance                                             16                  3
Legal institutions for a market economy                               17                  50
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      17                  9
procurement
Social safety nets                                                    17                  8

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Saroj Kumar Jha                      Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:            William Leslie Dorotinsky            Deborah L. Wetzel
Project Team Leader:       Hassan Aliev                         Antonius Verheijen
ICR Team Leader:           Hassan Aliev
ICR Primary Author:        Ronald E. Myers


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to assist the Recipient in the implementation of the
Public Administration Reform Strategy, through strengthening policy making and service




                                                ii
delivery systems and enhancing transparency of public management in selected core
public sector entities

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Establish legal and organizational prerequisites for improved public sector management,
improve public access to legislation, and strengthen regulatory framework in selected
areas.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target        Formally         Actual Value
                                             Values (from          Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target        Completion or
                                              documents)            Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Competitive recruitment for administrative civil service positions implemented
                                                               Competitive
                                          80 percent of all
                                                               merit-based
                                          central
                                                               recruitment of
                                          government
                                                               civil servants
                                          institutions
                                                               for positions
                                          correctly apply
                Merit-based recruitment                        below grades
                                          new recruitment                       The Regulation on
                and promotion system not                       1-2 is
Value                                     procedures, as                        Competitive-Based
                established. No legal                          institutionalize
quantitative or                           identified in data                    Selection is applied
                requirement for                                d. At least 80
Qualitative)                              submitted by the                      throughout the
                competitive merit based                        percent of
                                          Civil Service                         country
                recruitment is in place                        vacant
                                          Agency, and cross-
                                                               positions are
                                          referenced with
                                                               filled either by
                                          survey data as
                                                               competitive
                                          conducted under
                                                               recruitment or
                                          the project.
                                                               promotion.
Date achieved 09/08/2006                  09/08/2006           01/21/2009       09/30/2011
                By the time of the beginning of the project, there was no any competitive based
Comments
                recruitment system. In May, 2009 the Regulation on Competitive Selection was
(incl. %
                signed by the President. Currently up to 92 % of civil servants are selected on
achievement)
                competition.
Indicator 2 : Legal and organizational system for the central public administration improved
                                                               A law on
                                                               Organization The Law on Public
                                                               of Public        Administration has
                                          Reallocation of      Administration been submitted to
                The government structure
                                          functions between and a reform the Parliament on
Value           is fragmented and
                                          institutions at      plan for         August 2011. The
quantitative or ineffective. Horizontal
                                          central              streamlining plan for
Qualitative)    functional review (HFR)
                                          government level the overall          restructuring of 10
                under preparation.
                                          completed            central          minisatries is
                                                               government approved in April
                                                               structure        2011.
                                                               approved; and



                                                 iii
                                                              organizational
                                                              structures and
                                                              management
                                                              systems in
                                                              selected core
                                                              public sector
                                                              entities
                                                              improved.
Date achieved 09/08/2006                     09/08/2006       01/21/2009      09/30/2011
Comments        The draft Law on Organization of Public Administration was approved by the
(incl. %        Government and submitted to the Parliament. This together with the restructuring
achievement) plans would help optimize public administration institutions
                A Strategy and Action Plan for Modernizing public financial management
Indicator 3 :
                approved and under implementation
                                                              A Strategy and
                                                              Action Plan
                                             Increasingly     for
                                                                              A PFM Strategy for
                Public financial             reliable,        modernizing
                                                                              2009-2018 and an
Value           management initiatives comprehensive          public
                                                                              Action Plan for
quantitative or fragmented. Absence of a and available        financial
                                                                              2009-2011
Qualitative)    vision of the future PFM public financial     management
                                                                              approved and being
                system.                      management       approved and
                                                                              implemented.
                                             information      under
                                                              implementatio
                                                              n
Date achieved 09/08/2006                     09/08/2006       01/21/2010      09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        The Strategy is currently implemented by PFMMP Project
achievement)
                Enhanced transparency and accessibility to legislation and streamlined legislation
Indicator 4 :
                in selected areas
                Legal norms and acts                                          Legal database
Value           difficult to access for govt                                  Adliya complete
quantitative or officials and generally                                       and made available
Qualitative)    unavailable for private                                       through web-based
                sector and public                                             access
Date achieved 06/09/2006                                                      09/30/2011
Comments        The legal Dataabase Adliya, which includes all the government legislation, is put
(incl. %        on the Civil Srvice Network, and is accesseble through the Ministry of Justice
achievement) website on subscription basis.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                            Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                      Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Operating Civil Service Register enhances CSD monitoring of the civil service
Value           Manually collected        Civil Service     The Civil     CS Register


                                               iv
(quantitative   information does not        register, as a key    Service        operational and
or Qualitative) support effective           tool for horizontal   Register is    accessible by HR
                horizontal civil service    Civil Service         automated and officials in 47
                management                  management,           accessible     central agencies.
                                            operational           through a      Timely and
                                                                  network by 47 accurate civil
                                                                  government service information
                                                                  bodies. The collected for CS
                                                                  CSD monitors management.
                                                                  civil service
                                                                  development
                                                                  and issues
                                                                  quarterly
                                                                  reports on the
                                                                  status of
                                                                  implementatio
                                                                  n of the civil
                                                                  service policy
Date achieved 06/08/2006                   08/08/2006             01/21/2009     09/30/2011
Comments
                The network infrastructure is completed and the network is put into operation.
(incl. %
                CS Register is connected to the Netw
achievement)
                Consistency in competitive recruitment and promotion practices achieved in
Indicator 2 :
                central government entities
                                                                Competitive
                                                                merit-based
                                                                recruitment of
                                           The number of        civil servants
                                           vivil servants (new for positions
                                                                                 92% of vacant
                                           entrants) recruited below grades
                Competitive selection is                                         positions in the
Value                                      through merit-       1-2 is
                not institutionalized:                                           Civil Service are
(quantitative                              based competition institutionalize
                neither legally nor in                                           filled through
or Qualitative)                            increases by 50% d. At least
                practice                                                         competitive
                                           from the baseline 80% of vacant
                                                                                 recruitment
                                           level of November positions are
                                           2006                 filled either by
                                                                competitive
                                                                recruitment or
                                                                promotion
Date achieved 09/06/2006                   09/06/2006           01/21/2010       09/30/2011
                Open, competitive recruitment procedures are institutionalized, but their impact
Comments
                is constrained by the low attractiveness of civil service employment, which
(incl. %
                reduces the number of applicants per vacant post below the level needed for
achievement)
                competitive selection.
Indicator 3 : New civil service pay system is approved and introduced on a pilot basis
                                                                                 New Wage Grid is
Value           Low and unattractive pay                                         approved and
(quantitative   with low decompression                                           implemented
or Qualitative) rates                                                            throughout the Civil
                                                                                 Service


                                                 v
Date achieved     06/08/2006                                                  09/30/2011
Comments
                  First, 5 ministries were piloted on new Wage Grid. From September 1, 2011 the
(incl. %
                  system was applied throughout the Civil Swrvice.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Streamlining functions and institutions, strengthening accountability
                                                                 Reform plans
                                                                 for
                                             Reform plans are streamlining Restructuring plans
                                             implemeted for 8 of instituions and legislation on
                                             line ministries or structures in 8 organizational
                  Institutional structure    central agencies by ministries and structures for 10
Value             fragmented and the legal the end of the        central         ministries
(quantitative     underpinnings for          project and reports agencies        approved. The Law
or Qualitative)   effective organization of on their             approved. The on Organization of
                  public administration a implementation         Law on          Public
                                             are published on Organization Administration is
                                             the government      of Public       submitted to the
                                             website             Administratio Parliament
                                                                 n, is submitted
                                                                 for adoption
Date achieved     09/08/2006                 09/08/2006          01/21/2010      09/30/2011
Comments          Currently 10 ministries are implemeting their reorganization plans. The Law on
(incl. %          Organization of Public Administration is expected to be adopted by the
achievement)      Parliament by the end 2011.
Indicator 5 :     A new remuneration system in the health sector implemented
                                                                                 A new Public
                  Lack of transparency &                                         Health Care pay
Value
                  uniformity in job                                              and job
(quantitative
                  classification and pay                                         classification
or Qualitative)
                  systems in the health                                          system designed
                                                                                 and implemented
Date achieved     09/08/2006                                                     09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        The new pay system is effective as of July 1, 2009
achievement)
                A Public Financial Management Strategy, establishing framework for
Indicator 6 : improvement in management, efficiency and transparency of the use of public
                resources, is approved
                                         The level of
                                         deviation between
                                         the approved and
                Public financial         executed central
                                                              PFM Strategy
Value           management initiatives budget decreases                    The PFM Strategy
                                                              and Action
(quantitative   fragmented. Absence of a by 30% over the                   and Action Plan
                                                              Plan are
or Qualitative) vision of the future PFM project period,                   were approved.
                                                              approved.
                system.                  from the baseline
                                         level established
                                         on the basis of the
                                         Budget Execution



                                                 vi
                                           report for 2005
Date achieved 09/08/2006                   09/08/2006         01/21/2010      09/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Currently PFM Strategy 2009-2018 is being implemeted under PFMMP project
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Access to information on laws and regulations for the legal entities is improved
                                           Access to
                                           information and
                                           regulation norms Web-based
                                           and procedures by access to the Legal database
                Poor access of legal
Value                                      business increased database        Adliya is accessible
                entities and population to
(quantitative                              by 40-50 percent Adliya for        thorugh the
                the legislation. No web-
or Qualitative)                            from the baseline legal entities Ministry of Justice
                based access.
                                           establsihed by a and population website
                                           survey to be       is effective
                                           conducted in early
                                           2007
Date achieved 09/08/2006                   09/08/2006         01/21/2010      09/30/2011
Comments
                Legal database Adliya is connected to the Civil Service Network. Population at
(incl. %
                large can access the database through the website on subscription basis.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Improved regulatory regime in pilot inspection agencies
                                                                              Revised regulations
                Outdated regulations
Value                                                                         are adopted and
                create administrative
(quantitative                                                                 published for both
                burden for businesses and
or Qualitative)                                                               pilot inspections:
                public entities alike
                                                                              SES and Fire
Date achieved 09/08/2006                                                      09/30/2011
Comments        Four normative acts of fire safety have been cancelled and three new legal acts
(incl. %        have been adopted. Three new legal acts have been adopted in the area of
achievement) sanitary-epidemiology regulation.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     10/16/2006         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                           0.31
                            Moderately              Moderately
  2     10/25/2007                                                                         0.49
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately              Moderately
  3     11/19/2007                                                                         0.49
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  4     06/23/2008     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     1.04
  5     06/24/2009     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     2.36
  6     10/27/2009     Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                            2.59
  7     03/01/2010         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            2.82
  8     12/11/2010         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            4.26
  9     09/06/2011         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            5.22


                                               vii
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 01/21/2010       Y       MS      S           2.82
 02/19/2010       N       MS      S           2.82
                                                     The project orginal closing date
                                                     was extended for additional four
                                                     month until October 1, 2011 to
                                                     complete some uncomplete
                                                     activities, namely, extension of
                                                     the Civil Service Network and
 05/31/2011               S       S           5.07
                                                     completing the interface of the
                                                     legal database Adliya.
                                                     Disbursement rate by the time
                                                     of restructuring was 93% and
                                                     the project rating was
                                                     "satisfactory"


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory




                                            viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Despite significant achievements in poverty reduction, growth, reduction in external debt,
and greater political and macroeconomic stability following the end of the civil war in
1997, by 2004 Tajikistan remained the poorest among Commonwealth of Independent
States (CIS) countries with a per capita GDP of about US$310. The economy depended
heavily on exports of cotton and aluminum, as well as remittances of migrants. Poverty
was high at 64% in 2003 and low social indicators reflected poor public service delivery
and weaknesses in the governance system. While tight monetary policy and strong fiscal
discipline had improved inflation and external performance and contributed to economic
growth averaging 9% during the first half of the decade, the exigencies of political
consolidation complicated key elements of any institutional transition agenda. A
complex political economy environment led the government to focus on managing a
balance of power among different political factions, preventing the transformation of the
public sector from a central planning and state production apparatus into an instrument
for encouraging private investment and growth.

Efforts at public sector reform, including those supported by an Institution Building
Technical Assistance (IBTA) operation over 2000-2005 faltered—laws were enacted,
regulations amended and new institutions established, but done in a fragmented and
inconsistent manner. Reforms were also stymied by collapsing public sector real wages
and weak capacity, which also led to opportunities for corruption and state capture.
Consequently the Government was not very effective in translating better economic
performance into better fundamentals for long term growth and improved social welfare.

By 2005, however, the gradual stabilization of the political system permitted increased
focus on the establishment of a more stable institutional system, opening new
opportunities to address some of the deep-seated governance problems. The Government
approached its development partners to help support a new National Development
Strategy (NDS) for 2006-15 which would focus on public sector management reform,
private sector development, and human capital formation. A key pillar of the NDS was a
Public Administrative Reform Strategy (PARS) which embodied a broad approach to
institutional reform, addressing institutional reorganization, budgeting, the regulatory
framework, human resource management, as well as measures to strengthen
accountability and transparency in the public sector.

The subject project explicitly aimed to assist implementation of the PARS (whose design
was supported by the IBTA) by making available advisory and capacity building support
in the following key areas:

           Civil service wage decompression and consolidation;
           Implementation of the amended Civil Service Law;
           Creation of a merit-based recruitment and career management system in the
            civil service;

                                            1
            Design and implementation of restructuring plans for the Ministry of
             Economy and Trade, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labor and
             Social Protection MLSP), the Ministry of State Revenues and Duties and the
             Civil Service Department, in 2005-2006, as well as for additional selected
             ministries in 2007-2008;
            Wage and job classification reform in the Primary Health Care; and
            Reforming licensing and inspection systems in pilot agencies, in particular
             the Sanitary Epidemiological Service (SES) and the Fire Safety Inspectorate.
.
In addition to the PARS, the proposed project conformed to the country’s Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (2002), which highlighted the need to strengthen public sector
governance, as well as the World Bank Group’s Country Assistance Strategy for FY06-
09, which also listed these as priority cross-cutting issues. Finally, the project was linked
to a Programmatic Development Policy Financing operation, expected to disburse during
FY06-09, which promoted several policy reforms.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The project development objective is to assist the Recipient in the implementation of the
Public Administration Reform Strategy, through strengthening policy making and service
delivery systems and enhancing transparency of public management in selected core
public sector entities.

The PAD presented four outcomes (in its Annex 3 Results Framework table) and four
corresponding key indicators in the PAD text (section B.2):

   1. Outcome: A transparently managed and increasingly merit based Civil Service
      Indicator: The number of civil servants (new entrants) recruited through merit-
      based competitions increases by 50 percent from the baseline level to be
      established in November 2006
   2. Outcome: A rationalized overall central government structure and improved
      organization and management systems in selected core public sector entities
      Indicator: Reform Plans are implemented for 8 line ministries or central agencies
      by the end of the project and reports on their implementation are published on the
      Government web site
   3. Outcome: Increasingly reliable, comprehensive and available public financial
      management information
      Indicator: The level of deviation between approved and executed central
      government budget decreases by 30% over the project period, from the baseline
      level which will be established on the basis of the Budget Execution Report for
      2005; and
   4. Outcome: Enhanced transparency and accessibility of the legal and regulatory
      framework
      Indicator: Access to information and regulation, norms and procedures by
      businesses increases 40-50 percent from the baseline level to be established by a
      survey to be conducted in early 2007.


                                             2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
 In January 2010 the project development objective was revised to “Establish legal and
organizational prerequisites for improved public sector management, improve public
access to legislation, and strengthen regulatory framework in selected areas.?
Outcomes and Target Values for Outcome Indicators were revised as follows:

    1. Outcome: A transparently managed and increasingly merit-based civil service: At
        least 80 percent of vacant positions are filled either by competitive recruitment or
        promotion [unchanged]
Target Value: Competitive merit-based recruitment of civil servants for positions below
grades 1-2 is institutionalized. At least 80 percent of vacant positions are filled either by
competitive recruitment or promotion
    2. Outcome: A law on Organization of Public Administration and a reform plan for
        streamlining the overall central government structure approved; and
        organizational structures and management systems in selected core public sector
        entities improved
Target Value 1: Reform Plans for streamlining of institutions structures in 8 ministries
and central agencies approved and short-term restructuring measures implemented
Target Value 2: The law on Organization of Public Administration, defining principles
of organization and accountability of public administration bodies, is submitted for
adoption
    3. Outcome: A Strategy and Action Plan for modernizing public financial
        management approved and under implementation
Target Value 1: A Public Financial Management Strategy establishing framework for
improvements in management, efficiency and transparency of the use of public resources,
is approved
Target Value 2: A new remuneration system in the health system is designed and
implemented
    4. Outcome: Enhanced public accessibility to legislation and streamlined legislation
        in selected areas
Target Value 1: Access to information on laws and regulations for the legal entities is
improved
Target Value 2: Regulations in the area of fire safety, sanitary-epidemiological standard
and subsoil use area streamlined
(Intermediate outcome indicators were also revised and their results, along with those of
the above outcomes and target values, are presented in Annex 2 of this ICR.)
The PDO was adjusted to better reflect the reduction in scope of expected project
achievements for institutional restructuring, policy making capacity, and service delivery
systems. The change was required, according to the document presented to Executive
Directors, due to: (i) overambitious and inadequately funded original objectives; (ii)
delayed initiation of the vertical functional reviews for government restructuring; (iii) the
absence of a central government unit to implement policy coordination reforms; and (iv)
insufficient time and resources required for achievement of measurable improvements in
service delivery across the public sector. The restructured PDO and indicators essentially
                                             3
stepped down from some unduly ambitious end goals beyond the current capacity of the
country and focused on more incremental building block prerequisites for public sector
reforms. Additionally, due to the growing importance of exploration of natural minerals
for economy of Tajikistan, the project expanded the scope of improvements of regulatory
regime by including the mining sector.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
Beneficiaries were not explicitly identified. By implication, besides the Government of
Tajikistan as a whole, the main beneficiaries were the Civil Service Department, the
Institute for Higher Qualification of Civil Servants, the Ministry of Finance, the
Executive Office of the President, the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, the
Ministry of Justice, the Sanitary Epidemiological Services, and the Fire and Safety
Inspectorate. Ultimately citizens could be presumed to benefit from more efficient and
effective government operations.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The Project had five main components, providing support to key priorities in the National
Development Strategy and directly related to the objectives of the PARS.

Component 1: Civil Service Management (US$0.81million)
The objective was to develop and implement the legal basis and institutional capacity to
apply merit principles in civil service recruitment and promotion. Accompanying
measures on civil service wage reform would make civil service positions more attractive
and provide improved incentives for performance. Grant resources would fund the
following activities:
     training and advisory support to establish and implement merit-based recruitment
       and promotion under the amended Civil Service Law;
     capacity building for the new regional branches of the Civil Service Department;
     preparation of a concept for the medium-term development of the Civil Service
       Systems;
     developing key management tools for the CSD, such as the Civil Service Registry
       system and assessment centers for civil service recruitment;
     modernizing civil service incentives, including continued wage decompression
       and the monetization of benefits; and
     providing networking equipment and software.

This component also financed the implementation of the new in-service training system
at the Institute for Higher Qualification of Civil Servants (IHQCS).

Component 2: Supporting Implementation of Key Reforms under the Public
Administration Reform Strategy (US$2.31million)
The relatively large component aimed to support organizational and management system
reforms in the core public administration, including the elimination of duplication in
government functions, implementation of clear accountability and reporting systems
between executive entities, and the gradual introduction of modern public management


                                           4
processes to enhance transparency and accountability (such as institutionalized
consultation mechanisms, impact assessment and strategic planning).

A two phase approach was contemplated with the first laying the legal, informational,
and administrative basis for expanded implementation in the next period. First phase
priority activities would include:

           a. A horizontal functional review of central state administration bodies to
              identify duplication of functions, redundant and excessive functions as
              well as inefficiencies due to fragmentation in the allocation of functions;
           b. Support to the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection as a pilot for
              service delivery system reform, focusing both on creating clear
              accountability and reporting systems among different entities under the
              Ministry and introduction of citizen feedback to pinpoint problems in
              service delivery;1
           c. Technical assistance and capacity building for the structures in charge of
              public administration reform management in the Executive Office of the
              President (EOP) to strengthen the ability of the Office to introduce key
              governance reforms and track their implementation and impact over time.

Second phase activities would aim at:

        a. Improving administrative efficiency and effectiveness of selected
            government bodies, including: (i) post-government restructuring support
            to those that need to execute new/changed functions; (ii) designing new
            administrative procedures and practices; (iii) conducting pilot vertical
            functional reviews to streamline structures; (iv) improving
            interdepartmental interaction processes: and (v) specific reforms in
            priority agencies.
        b. Improving policy making and policy impact assessment practices at the
            sectoral level, with priority attention to participatory monitoring of
            government programs by non-governmental organizations;
        c. Improving service delivery systems, including: (i) pilot activities related to
            developing minimal service standards; (ii) introducing basic public service
            delivery monitoring; and (iii) improving selected administrative
            procedures related to provision of public services for a limited number of
            ministries/executive bodies in charge of service provision.
Component 3: Capacity-building in Budget Management (US$0.57million)




1
  The Ministry of Labor and Social Protection was selected both because of its expressed
interest in undertaking institutional reform of the service delivery system, and because of
its pivotal role in social service delivery as the entity responsible for employment policy,
social protection policy, pensions, and labor migration issues


                                             5
This component would fund technical support to introduce a Medium Term Budget
Framework (MTBF) in Tajikistan and preparatory work for budget modernization.
Implementation support would come from a Public Financial Management
Modernization Project (PFMMP), then under preparation. The component had two
subcomponents:

       Subcomponent 1 would finance training and advisory activities for the
        development of a PFM Reform Strategy and Action Plan to modernize the Public
        Financial Management (PFM) system.
       Subcomponent 2 would fund advisory support and training to the Ministries of
        Finance and Health to plan and implement health financing reform, in particular
        in the wage system and Ministry staff planning.

Component 4: Capacity Building in Regulatory Management (US$0.66million)
The component sought to enhance transparency and accessibility in regulatory
management through capacity-building and advisory support to the Ministry of Justice
and pilot inspection agencies. The component had two subcomponents:

       Subcomponent 1 would provide consultancy services to the two agencies
        (Sanitary and Epidemiological Services and Fire Safety Inspectorate) to review
        existing normative acts and bring them up to date with internationally accepted
        technical regulations, support the review of internal regulations, and train
        inspectors to follow the new norms and standards in cooperation with the IFC.
        a. Subcomponent 2 would fund: (i) capacity building for the Justice Ministry
            department responsible for legal documentation to assist with the creation of a
            recording procedure to ensure maintenance of a comprehensive record of
            regulatory documents, and a review of existing regulations and norms to
            identify those which were outdated; and (ii) assistance in establishing an
            electronic network to link line ministries, agencies, and other institutions with
            the power of legislative initiative to the MoJ.2 Other governmental bodies
            would be able to efficiently transfer their regulatory instruments to the MoJ,
            better ensure that regulatory drafts would be in line with the Law on
            Normative and Legal Acts (LNA), and provide the capability to make the
            drafts, as well as existing legislative acts, available for access to other
            government entities and businesses.

Component 5: Effective Management of Governance Reforms (US$0.65million)
This component was to orchestrate the distinct reforms undertaken in the other
components, to mitigate the risks of corruption, collusion, fraud and mismanagement
associated with weak institutions and opaque state functioning, and fund a robust results


2
 This was expected to be done by using the existing Civil Service Network, that covered
20 central ministries, and adding additional institutions through a secure modem-based
connection to the network


                                             6
framework to monitor the implementation of the PAR Strategy to keep the reforms on
track and establish transparent project governance arrangements with appropriate checks
and balances. The component had two subcomponents:

      Subcomponent 1 would fund project management arrangements, building project
       management capacity in the Department of Economic Reform and Investment and
       the Project Implementation Unit, including how to address risks of corruption,
       collusion and fraud.
      Subcomponent 2 was expected to enhance government capacity to effectively
       manage and monitor governance reforms. It would be supported by conducting
       surveys on the impact of governance reforms and other outreach activities. In
       addition, a monitoring system for managing reform implementation was expected
       to be designed to effectively track reform impact.

1.6 Revised Components
The project components remained largely unchanged (other than the indicators, as
mentioned above). One activity each was added to components 2 and 4. In 2006 the
Government reorganized the public administration by introducing a three-tier
management system, which separated policy formulation, policy implementation and
supervision functions. To legalize the new organizational structure and explicitly embed
the roles and functions of institutions in the legal framework, a Law on Organization of
Public Administration was to be developed with support from Component 2. Since the
mining sector is a priority for economic growth, the inventorying of mining sector
legislation was added as an activity under component 4.

1.7 Other significant changes
During implementation there was a downsizing in the extent of capacity building and
reform execution contemplated at Grant approval, as well as changes in project
implementation arrangements. As indicated above, the PDO and related outcomes and
indicators were restructured to better reflect country circumstances and more realistic
goals.
Implementation arrangements also changed. The PAD anticipated that an Administrative
Reform Working Group, established under the National Development Council would
oversee the PARS effort and Grant funded project. The Executive Office of the President
(EOP) through its Department for Economic Reforms (DERI) would be the Project
Implementation Agency and a Project Coordination Team (PCT) staffed by consultants
would be created to support the implementation of components by four Technical
Committees composed of government officials in beneficiary organizations.
Unfortunately during a government reshuffling in December 2006, the Aid Coordination
Unit, responsible for fiduciary function of all Bank projects, was abolished by
Presidential decree. The DERI director of the PSRP (a staunch PAR champion) was also
moved to another post. As a result, the PCT lost guidance from the EOP and could not
maintain project implementation. Despite PARS provisions, no dedicated permanent
government structure was established to oversee the PARS. Having no permanent staff
to support PARS, the new Director of DERI, appointed in March 2007, hired new
consultants to form a Project Coordination Team (PCT) to support Technical Committees

                                           7
as well as incorporate project fiduciary responsibilities within the PCT. A new and
energetic PCT Coordinator was hired. Although a revised procurement plan was initiated,
a lack of experience with international procurement caused delays in mobilizing external
consulting services . The project’s implementation status was downgraded to Moderately
Unsatisfactory in 2007. However with improving project implementation and support of
the authorities to the majority of recommendations developed through consulting services
to inform new legislation and government decisions on implementing selected PARS
objectives, project ratings were upgraded to Moderately Satisfactory in 2008, and
ultimately to Satisfactory in 2010.
There was some small reallocation of funds from component 4 to component 1 to
complete the extension of the Civil Service Network (CSN). The project’s closing date
was extended for an additional four months to complete some remaining activities,
namely, the extension of the CSN and upgrade of the interface of Adliya legal database.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The quality at entry was moderately unsatisfactory. On the one hand, the alignment with
the Government’s public administration reform program and coordination of the project
with adjustment lending and ESW work was quite conducive. On the other hand,
overambitious objectives, inadequate funding, and weak management structure
negatively affected the project. The PAD rightly rated overall risks as High, took steps to
minimize the misuse of grant resource, and listed many lessons that had informed project
design, but the design underestimated government’s ability (and perhaps extent of
commitment) to undertake the far reaching reforms contemplated in the project.

Strengths of the program at entry

Leading up to the project and supporting its design was extensive economic and sector
work, including a Governance Assessment prepared by the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), a Public Expenditure and Investment Review, a Country Financial Accountability
Assessment, and a variety of Policy Notes. Two Institution Building Technical
Assistance operations had preceded the grant. In addition several of the components of
the operation were complemented by policy reforms to be encouraged through the Bank’s
development policy lending.

There was dialogue with donor partners, who were providing support in a wide variety of
related areas. Capacity building and advisory support was provided by several donors,
but focused mainly on selected aspects of public sector reform agenda, such as public
expenditure management (Department for International Development-DFID and the
European Union-EU), social sector reforms (Staff Development Center, ADB, World
Bank), and enhancing the investment and business climate (IFC/FIAS/MIGA, United
States Agency for International Development-USAID). However, as there were no
donors that were active in supporting core public administration capacity building, the
World Bank decided to support reforms in that area where it had a strong and long
standing track record in analytical work and advisory support.

                                            8
The PAD noted the complicated political economy of Tajikistan including regional/ethnic
rivalries, a protracted civil war following independence, a government focus on
consolidating the regime and balancing political factions, multiple opportunities for
corruption, etc. Nevertheless it concluded that the political and institutional environment
was favorable for project implementation. By 2006 the Government had stabilized the
post-conflict macroeconomic performance and was looking to diversify the sources of
economic growth. The Government, the PAD reported, realized that the inherited Soviet-
style institutional and legal framework of public administration and its management
structure did not meet the requirements of the market economy and slowed down the
country’s further economic development. The Government’s commitment to the public
administration reform was judged as high.

An extensive list of lessons learned were presented in the PAD. They included:

    a) Country context: Supporting the Government’s own reform Strategy.
    b) Ownership and flexibility: Empowering the executive to manage its own reform
        program and build flexibility into project design to accommodate changes in
        reform priorities over the medium term.
    c) Programmatic approach: Supporting ‘small steps in the right direction’ in
        governance reforms focusing on implementation practicalities with related policy
        issues dealt within the framework of policy-based operations.
    d) Implementation arrangements: Seeking: (i) an approved set of practical actions;
        (ii) adequate implementation arrangements; (iii) built-in mechanisms of
        monitoring and evaluation; and (iv) incentives to implement the reforms. .
    e) Practicality and sustainability of TA: Consulting services should focus on
        practical implementation issues rather than general reform design and should be
        well scheduled and managed by the client with intensive Bank supervision. The
        components were defined to include activities to support implementation and
        ensure sustainability of outcomes.
    f) Partnership: Strong institutional counterpart in the Government, TA operations
        cannot achieve their objective.
Seven major risks to the project were identified, including political, technical, corruption,
implementation and coordination, quality control, and donor coordination risks. All were
rated as High. Some mitigating measures, especially in fiduciary and procurement areas
were extensive, including use of a separate unit (Aid Coordination Unit-ACU) which was
assessed as qualified to handle these responsibilities. Procurement plans and terms of
reference were to be prepared in advance and transparency in contracting, through the use
of publicly accessible project web-site, was proposed. Regarding those risks largely
outside the control of Bank or counterpart project teams, the PAD asserted that the new
Civil Service Law would likely enhance stability in the administration, the close linkage
with the Bank’s development policy operations would reduce ownership and commitment
risk, and capacity building measures would strengthen implementation and coordination
capacity.

Weaknesses of the project at entry

                                             9
Despite the extensive risks identified in the PAD, a list of lessons learned emphasizing a
careful targeted incremental approach to capacity building, plus a record of two
“Unsatisfactory? prior public sector operations, the project plunged ahead with a large
array of components. Some were responding to client demands and needs, others to fill
gaps left by the donor community, and one component to enhance a holistic approach to
state modernization. The scope of the reforms would tax the management capacity of
any government as they covered creating a merit based civil service (where salaries were
low and clientelism was not unknown), horizontal restructuring of government plus
design and implementation of vertical restructurings in line agencies to improve
efficiency, policy making, and service delivery systems, strengthening of budget
management, capacity building in regulatory management, and effective management of
all governance reforms tossed in for good measure. The extent of contemplated reforms
in several components exceeded the institutional, absorptive, and/or political capacity of
a poor post-conflict IDA country. There is no disagreement (at least among government
champions and the donor community) on the desirability or direction of the reforms, but
their ambitiousness seems to contradict the experience of most societies where profound
public sector strengthening takes many years if not decades.

The fact that the PDO, outcome indicators, and intermediate indicators were nearly all
reformulated and reduced attests to the overly ambitious nature of operational design.
The fact that the proposed counterpart governance structure was never created, problems
immediately emerged in project management, and overall oversight of public sector
reform never materialized casts considerable doubt on the PAD’s assertions of
government understanding or willingness to pursue the more fundamental reforms posed
by the operation.

Finally, grand state reform is hard enough without a shoestring budget. At $2.3 million
for component 2 for example, the funding seems rather limited to finance functional
reviews of government as a whole, 10 agencies, the implementation of recommendations,
plus all the training, baseline surveys, and monitoring in other components. The project’s
funding, relative to other public sector reform projects in the region looks modest, despite
the undoubted difficulties to be expected in attracting high quality international
consultants, capacity constraints, training needs, etc.

2.2 Implementation

Project implementation was challenged from the beginning. As indicated in Section 1.7
above the governance structure for the project was not created, undermining timely
decision making, adherence to project objectives and implementation schedules, plus
credibility within the public sector. Unified oversight of all governance reforms was
never achieved. Daily project operations were largely delegated to consultants, with
implementation progress was due to their efforts plus those of dedicated line agency
champions with support from some overstretched senior level officials who recognized
the potential of the project.



                                            10
That said, the fundamental problems of weak institutional capacity, overly ambitious
project goals, and limited funding remained. The ad hoc reform management structure
sometimes slowed decision making on the implementation of selected reform measures
impacting the achievement of project targets as well as disbursements. Following a mid-
term review in 2009 the teams requested Board approval of project restructuring to adjust
the PDO and targets to more realistic levels. With the exception of the civil service
component where progress was deemed satisfactory, the essential change was to focus on
the creation of prerequisites for reforms rather than expect their broad initiation or
implementation. Following the restructuring implementation continued apace and targets
were largely achieved.
The Country Director also approved the project request to extend the project closing date
for an additional four months until October 1, 2011 to complete the extension of the Civil
Service Network and the upgrade of the Adliya legal database.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project monitoring and evaluation arrangements provided for the following activities:
        Tracking progress in public administration reforms overall. This would
            include the design of a monitoring system which would track implementation
            of key activities included in the Public Administration Reform Strategy based
            on objective data;
        Developing mechanisms for efficient communication of key objectives and
            achieved results of the reforms. A clear communication strategy supporting
            the implementation of public administration reform as well as providing
            publicity and on project activities would be developed and implemented.
        Conducting surveys to track project implementation. This would support the
            monitoring and evaluation function of the project and would include the
            design and implementation of service delivery, public officials, and other
            surveys/studies that would allow monitoring and evaluating the progress in
            project implementation.
Originally the project intended the monitoring of the whole PARS implementation.
However, due to lack of proper capacity and funds only PSRP implementation was
followed up. The project did not provide resources sufficient for hiring an international
consultant to help with capacity building, which affected the effectiveness of monitoring
and evaluation in general. During implementation, local staff, enhanced their monitoring
capacity, but, generally, project monitoring and evaluation was rather weak and required
substantial ongoing support from the Bank Task Team.

The project regularly published articles in local newspapers on the project progress.
Series of workshops on PSRP implementation were conducted throughout the country. A
survey conducted by a consulting company at the end of the project showed relatively
high awareness of the PARS among political and business opinion leaders though not
average citizens. Thirty percent of respondents were aware of PARS implementation,
45% were partially aware and 21% were not aware. The highest awareness level was
among deputies: 38% were aware, while 38% were aware partially. Also 35% of civil
servants were aware of the PARS, while another 48% were partially aware.

                                           11
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

No safeguard policy was applied to the project. There were no substantial issues with
regard to procurement and financial management. A few minor discrepancies revealed
during annual audit reviews or supervision missions were effectively resolved in a timely
manner. Audit reports were usually provided on time and were unqualified. However,
the audit report for FY2010 was significantly delayed. The selection of an auditor was
responsibility of the State Committee on Investment and State Property Management.
Unfortunately, the whole process of selection was delayed and this fact unfavorably
affected all Bank’s projects in Tajikistan that were included into the block audit
arrangement. The final project audit will be conducted in February 2012 with the aim of
providing the final audit report by the end of March 2012. No procurement post review
reports were prepared due to a small number of contracts which did not warrant a
separate review.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project has supported some important steps forward in institutional capacity building
and steps have been taken to sustain those reforms. These include:
   a) Assigning the function of coordination and management of public administration
       reform to the DERI by amending its regulation;
   b) Issuing a Government resolution requiring all public organizations connected to
       the Civil Service Network to allocate funds in their budgets for maintaining the
       network. The resolution also put the Center for Information Technology in the
       Executive Office of the President in charge of administering the network, while
       the Civil Service Department is responsible for managing the Civil Service
       Registry;
   c) The maintenance and management of the Adliya legal database was transferred to
       ‘Kafolat’, an autonomous state-owned enterprise subordinated to the Ministry of
       Justice. Information for public at large is accessible on a subscription basis that
       generates sufficient revenues to maintain the database.
   d) A separate IDA credit is supporting public financial management reform
       (P099840) based on the PFM strategy developed by this project

Beyond the PFM operation, there are no current plans for additional Bank support given
the strict limits on IDA resources. To date no other donor has expressed interest in
providing additional funding for the initiatives.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

This project’s restructured objectives are relevant to country priorities. The Government
highlighted its long term vision for achieving the MDGs – the National Development

                                           12
Strategy (NDS) for 2006-15. In collaboration with its development partners, the
Government identified the following medium- and long-term development priorities
achieving the MDGs: (a) reform of public sector management; (b) development of private
sector and attracting investments; and (c) development of human potential. The project is
also consistent with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy for FY10-13 which
highlights the strengthening both governance systems and incentives for better
performance of civil servants as top priorities.

However, as the original design of the project was unduly ambitious and underfunded,
and did not properly mitigate for risks in government capacity and ownership, its PDOs
were at best partially achieved. The restructured operation did largely meet its downsized
objectives, but in the absence of sustained follow-up requiring a level of government
capacity (problematic) and external financing (unidentified thus far) the ultimate
relevance of this investment of scarce grant resources remains to be seen.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

As the project was formally revised in terms of PDOs and key associated outcome targets,
its achievements must be assessed against both original and restructured objectives.
Details on outputs and outcomes as well as a table presenting ratings weighted in
proportion to the share of grant disbursements before and after revision are presented in
Annex 2. As explained below, results achieved against the original PDOs are at best
Moderately Unsatisfactory while the results against the restructured (and reduced) PDOs
and outcome targets appear Satisfactory.

Achievement of Original Project Development Objectives

The original project development objective was to “assist the Recipient in the
implementation of the PARS by strengthening policy making and service delivery
systems and enhancing transparency of public management in selected core public sector
entities.? However, the Project Mid-Term Review Mission concluded that these
benchmarks were too ambitious, some outcomes could not be achieved, and some
activities envisaged in the PAD did not address the areas of proposed measurements. Of
four outcome indicators (and associated four main indicators included in the PAD), only
two can be judged, generously, as having been met. The others two are partially achieved.

Outcome 1: A transparently managed and increasingly merit based Civil Service
Indicator: The number of civil servants (new entrants) recruited through merit-based
competitions increases by 50 percent from the baseline level to be established in
November 2006.

Results: Significant progress has been made in complementing the civil service
legislation approved just prior to project effectiveness. The competitive recruitment of
civil servants has become the norm. Whereas in 2006 there was not competitive
recruitment process in place the majority of civil servants are hired through competition
(including the posting of positions in public offices and newspapers, panel interview of
candidates if more than one, etc.) In 2010, 2514 vacancies in the civil service were filled
                                            13
through a competitive recruitment process, representing 82% out of 3065 vacancies filled.
With project support a civil service registry has been designed, installed and is expected
to be fully functional by April 1, 2012 once some minor information technology issues
are resolved, according to government. A performance appraisal system has been
developed and is being introduced. At present, salary progression is based on length
of service and performance appraisal depends on the Soviet-style attestation
procedure; however, when the performance appraisal system is fully functioning
promotion to a new salary grade (or step) is expected to become contingent on
annual performance appraisals. With the adjustment in salaries the Civil Service
Department is reporting that the Government has been able to fill all vacant positions,
many of which had been open for extended periods. Evidence that the Civil Service is
transparently managed is difficult to determine in the absence of objective indicators or
baseline data, but the thrust of the reforms in recruitment, pay, and performance
appraisals has probably increased the level of transparency of management.


Outcome 2: A rationalized overall central government structure and improved
organization and management systems in selected core public sector entities.
Indicator: Reform Plans are implemented for 8 line ministries or central agencies by the
end of the project and reports on their implementation are published on the Government
web site.

Results: Based in part on recommendations of a rapid horizontal functional review
conducted under the project, the central government was reorganized in late 2006.
A three-tier management system in sectors was established, in which ministries are
responsible for policy formulation, agencies are in charge of policy implementation, and
inspections – for oversight of policy implementation. As a result the number of
ministries and state committees was reduced from 28 to 17. Vertical functional reviews
were conducted in 10 central ministries and agencies. Based on the recommendations
from the reviews and directed by Presidential Resolution #1574 of April 5, 2011, all
ministries have developed and approved organizational restructuring plans. The Ministry
of Labor and Social Protection (including its subordinated Agency on Social Protection,
Employment and Migration, and Agency on Social Security and Pension) presented its
plan at a government round-table conference with participation of NGOs and mass media,
and subsequently implemented the plan. Some advanced ministries, such as the Ministry
of Finance and the Ministry of Economy and Trade, plan to start reorganization in 2012.
Other ministries, with lower capacities, will likely require technical assistance to initiate
and implement reforms.

Outcome 3: Increasingly reliable, comprehensive and available public financial
management information
Indicator: The level of deviation between approved and executed central government
budget decreases by 30% over the project period, from the baseline level which will be
established on the basis of the Budget Execution Report for 2005.




                                            14
Results: The original target was not logically linked with the planned and implemented
activities under this component. Activities did not provide for strengthening budget
planning and execution mechanisms. PSRP resources under component 3 were only
partially utilized in part because advances were being anticipated and achieved through
preparation of a parallel Bank PFM project which began in 2010. A PFM modernization
plan was adopted by the Government in 2009 and the new operation will facilitate
increasingly reliable, comprehensive and available public financial management
information. Since the end of 2009 the Ministry of Finance has published budget
execution information on its website on a quarterly basis. Information from these Central
Treasury reports is judged reasonably reliable and relatively comprehensive. Moreover
the EU was providing separate resources for the development of a Medium Term Budget
Framework and encouraged the Government and Bank to defer specific reforms in
budgeting until that MTBF effort was completed. There was a reduction in deviations
between the approved and executed budget to less than 10% over the recent years,
although the reduction is due to more realistic revenue estimations and expenditure
planning and is unrelated to project activities.

Outcome 4: Enhanced transparency and accessibility of the legal and regulatory
framework
Indicator: Access to information and regulation, norms and procedures by businesses
increases 40-50 percent from the baseline level to be established by a survey to be
conducted in early 2007.

Results: With project support the Ministry of Justice improved the technical
characteristics of its legal database (covering all laws, norms, regulations, and processes
of all government agencies, regulatory agencies, etc. and its interface, designed the
ministry’s website, and put the database on that website. “Database Adliya?
(www.minjust.tj/adliya) is regularly updated, and available free of charge to public sector
agencies and on a subscription basis to enterprises and the general public. A 2007 IFC
survey was not conducted as anticipated in the PAD so no baseline for comparison exists.
Nevertheless, according to a survey conducted at the end of project implementation,
37.9% of respondents (including public sector employees, deputies, mass media
employees, businessmen, and representatives of civil society) had accessed legal
information through the Database Adliya.

Achievement of Revised Project Development Objectives

The revised project development objective was to “Establish legal and organizational
prerequisites for improved public sector management, improve public access to
legislation, and strengthen regulatory framework in selected areas.? More realistic and
narrower in its conception, it focused on prerequisites for improvements rather than
positing full implementation of new (if undefined) management systems eschewed grand
goals in transparency for improvements in public access to information. While the
number of outcomes was maintained at four, more specific target values (main indicators)
were increased to 7 and made more specific. Of the outcomes three were achieved and
one partially achieved. Six of seven target values were achieved.

                                            15
Outcome 1: A transparently managed and increasingly merit-based civil service
Target Value: Competitive merit-based recruitment of civil servants for positions below
grades 1-2 is institutionalized. At least 80 percent of vacant positions are filled either by
competitive recruitment or promotion.

Results: As this outcome is unchanged from the original, its results are described above.
The revised target value which raised the goal for competitive recruitment from 50% of
vacant positions filled to 80% (excepted political level appointments) was overachieved
with 82% of entrants hired using competitive processes. It should be noted that 60
positions had only one applicant, reflecting in the view of government the then
uncompetitive level of civil service salaries.

Outcome 2: A law on Organization of Public Administration and a reform plan for
streamlining the overall central government structure approved; and organizational
structures and management systems in selected core public sector entities improved
Target Value 1: Reform Plans for streamlining of institutions structures in 8 ministries
and central agencies approved and short-term restructuring measures implemented
Target Value 2: The law on Organization of Public Administration, defining principles
of organization and accountability of public administration bodies, is submitted for
adoption.

Results: A new Law on Organization of Public Administration has been approved by
Parliament and awaiting signature by the President. The law defines the types of public
institutions, their form of subordination, coordination and accountability arrangements
consistent with the reorganization of the central public administration conducted in 2006.
It embeds a three-tier management system in public administration sectors, in which
ministries are responsible for policy-formulation, agencies are in charge of policy
implementation, and inspections provide oversight. As noted above vertical functional
reviews were undertaken with project support in 10 central ministries and agencies. The
reviews examined the relationship between a ministry’s central apparatus and related
sector and regional agencies and services, institutes, enterprises, etc.; helped define cross-
cutting issues, hierarchical institutional structures, the role of the center in coordinating
and managing policy and service delivery, as well as accountability provisions; proposed
revised organizational structures and procedures that would allow more effective and less
costly achievement of strategic sector policy objectives including delegation of
responsibilities where appropriate. All recommendations were summarized in the
Government Plan for Implementation of Recommendations of Vertical Functional
Reviews, which was issued on April 5, 2011 (Presidential Resolution #1574). All
ministries have developed and approved their organizational restructuring plans and the
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection has implemented its restructuring plan. Some
advanced ministries such as the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy and
Trade will start reorganization in 2012. Other ministries, with low capacities, may need
technical assistance to initiate reforms.




                                             16
Outcome 3: A Strategy and Action Plan for modernizing public financial management
approved and under implementation
Target Value 1: A Public Financial Management Strategy establishing framework for
improvements in management, efficiency and transparency of the use of public resources,
is approved
Target Value 2: A new remuneration system in the health system is designed and
implemented

Results: As indicated above a PFM modernization strategy and action plan establishing
a framework for improvements in management, efficiency and transparency of the use of
public resources, was adopted by the Government in 2009. An IDA operation (Public
Financial Modernization –P099840) which became effective on May 14, 2009 is
supporting strategy implementation. A new wage grid in the public health sector,
introduced on June 29, 2009, is transparent and performance-based, and consistent with
new job classifications. The system rationalizes additional pay, allowances, and
supplement for doctors and health personnel and establishes a more transparent
mechanism in setting up salaries. The new wage grid reflects qualifications and skills,
the complexity of work and responsibility, and distinguishes the wage grid in two broad
streams - one for "doctors working in primary health care" and one for "doctors working
in hospitals and non-primary health care services"

Outcome 4: Enhanced public accessibility to legislation and streamlined legislation in
selected areas
Target Value 1: Access to information on laws and regulations for the legal entities is
improved
Target Value 2: Regulations in the area of fire safety, sanitary-epidemiological standard
and subsoil use area streamlined

Results: As indicated above the project helped the Ministry of Justice to improve the
technical characteristics of its legal database and its interface, to design the ministry’s
website, and to put the database on the ministry’s website (www.minjust.tj/adliya). All
existing legislation on fire prevention and sanitary-epidemiology safety was reviewed,
and more than 40 technical rules and norms were developed or updated as well as a list of
outdated legislation prepared. A preliminary list of laws and regulations was developed,
which also included issues on regulation of the mining sector. In coordination with the
Ministry of Justice and stakeholders, a methodology was developed to review the
legislation on subsoil management. The legislative review was conducted, including
laws adopted by the former Soviet Union, in order to identify inconsistencies, reveal gaps
in legislation, determine the mechanisms for implementation of laws and regulations, and
classify the laws. Particular attention was paid to procedures on business registration in
subsurface management, and issuance of licenses and permits (land use, permits for
constructions and conducting the works). The entire inventory was approved by the
Ministry of Justice in December 2010. A survey was conducted at the end project asks
entrepreneurs of their knowledge of the inventory of legislation in the areas of fire
prevention and sanitary-epidemiology safety in order to help inform government’s
communication effort. According to the survey conducted in the spring 2011, 56% of

                                            17
respondents-entrepreneurs believed that the regulatory burden improved in the fire
inspection and sanitary-epidemiology areas.

3.3 Efficiency

As an institutional capacity building project, quantitative projections of rates of return are
not applicable and were not developed during project preparation.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Justification for the above rating reflects careful assessment of advances against original
and revised PDO and outcome indicators as weighted by the relative disbursement ratio
under both phases (see Annex 2.a Restructuring). Essentially the first half of the project
(in terms of disbursements if not time) is judged moderately unsatisfactory whereas the
revision of PDO and outcome indicators during the restructuring to more realistic and
feasible levels permitted a Satisfactory rating for that phase. Of course the process is not
a facile arithmetic exercise as the determination of progress is to some extent subjective
especially when the earlier objectives were broad and vaguely worded. (While the final
ISRs rated the project as Satisfactory, those ratings refer to the restructured PDOs and not
the project as a whole.)

Clearly the relevance of public sector capacity building in core systems of civil service,
public finance, organizational structure, and service delivery to Tajikistan is high,
especially given the challenges from legacy systems and capacity constraints. The full or
partial achievement of PDOs is detailed in the previous section and in Annex 2. If
sustained there are real advances—building block prerequisites—for the next phases of
state modernization and contributing to a more effective public sector. Notable advances
include: regulations on competitive recruitment and performance appraisal; new wage
grids for the Civil Service and health workers; a law on the organization of the public
administration; action plan on for implementing recommendations from vertical
functional reviews; and a public finance management reform strategy already in
implementation. The Ministry of Labor and Social Protection has been reorganized with
positive impact on citizens through better service delivery, which has been confirmed by
several online surveys through the ministry’s website as well as the potential as a model
for restructurings in other ministries and agencies. Citizens can now access legal
information from government and benefit from updated fire and sanitation codes. All
these advances, if sustained, would seem to represent an efficient use of a small grant.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

There is no direct poverty, gender or social impact on the population. Indirectly,
however, the project can be judged as helping lay the basis for a strengthening of the
government’s human assets, more efficient management of service delivery and public


                                             18
administration organization, and improved access to information by the public—all of
which should benefit citizens.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Institutional strengthening is the core focus of the project. As indicated above and in
Annex 2 below, it has supported improvements in civil service procedures and
information management, restructuring or regulatory updates in selected agencies, design
of organization reforms in several ministries/agencies, and targeted training. Particular
attention was paid to introducing new regulations and capacity building in the Civil
Service Department given the potential for positive cross-cutting effects in the whole
public sector.       Project-financed activities related to strengthening civil service
management and coordination capacity, introducing modern HR management processes,
improving incentives (pay) systems in the civil service, and strengthening the training
system in the IHQCS. Additionally the project funded investments in data access and
data collection, communications and computer equipment for connecting
ministries/territorial executive bodies to the network, and training for using the civil
service register.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Although the public awareness campaign was conducted properly, the large part of
population did not show interest to the government activities. Public interest to reform is
one of the key success factors in countries with centralized decision making process.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A survey, conducted by a private consulting company funded by the project, with 614
respondents drawn from civil servants, deputies, journalists, entrepreneurs and civil
society was completed in May 2011. The results were largely positive in terms of the
project’s impact. Key findings included the following:

-30% of respondents were familiar with the Public Administration Reform Strategy, 45%
were aware partially; and 21% were not aware of it.

 -27% of respondents believed that the quality of civil service competitive selection had
improved, 48% agreed with this statement partially, while 16% had not noticed any
positive changes in the recruitment process.

-32% of respondents thought that training programs offered by the IHQCS had improved,
33% believed they improved partially, while 11% reported no improvements.

-31% considered the new civil service wage grid as being more transparent than the
previous pay system. Another 31% believed that the given wage grid was somewhat more
transparent. Only 9% of respondents replied that the new wage grid was not transparent.



                                            19
-23% of respondents agreed with that statement that the new civil service wage grid
improved incentives, 38% agreed with the statement partially, while 18% did not agree.

-14% of respondents believed that the recent government reorganization was successful,
45% believed that it was partially successful, while 10% of respondents considered the
reorganization as a failure.

-38% of respondents had access to legal information through the Adliya legal database,
and 28% via the mass media.

-8% of respondents replied that compliance costs of new procedures in FPI and SES had
declined, while 27% believed that costs had declined only modestly, and 11% responded
that their costs did not change.

Further interpretation of the survey suggests that without adequate public awareness, the
reform would have less positive effect. The survey showed that awareness was raised
among elites, but not sufficiently among the general public. Each agency publicizes its
own activities but without linking the changes to the broader public administration reform.
At present, there is no single framework and systemic approach in place to provide
information on the reform.

The survey underlined that successful implementation of the PARS depends, on one side,
on understanding and support of reform objectives by certain parts of the business
community and society as well as interest by citizens in reform outcomes, and, on other
side, the availability of information on reform implementation,. Appropriate actions
should thus be taken aimed at:
• stimulating interaction with the public on the reform implementation issues;
• raising public awareness of goals, objectives and progress of the reform; and
• providing motivation for engagement in reform implementation to different segments of
society.

In the future, survey findings suggested, reform efforts need to address the secretive
mentality of civil servants, which would contribute to their enhanced image. Increasing
salaries of civil servants should be linked to their performance. Citizens should be
involved in discussions on what must be the outcomes of the public administration’s
performance. Public feedback mechanisms should be established. Further work will also
be required to clarify the status and authority of the public administration, with a focus on
the social control over its actions.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

Section 2.5 above details steps taken by Government to consolidate project achievements
and institutionalize and sustain the advances. Nevertheless risks remain, particularly with
regard to follow up on the vertical organizational reforms. The functional reviews of 10
agencies have been completed, but additional funding and technical assistance will be

                                             20
required to support implementation of their recommendations. Similarly the introduction
of update regulations in mining, sanitation and epidemiological services and fire
prevention does not ensure their implementation. There are no current plans for new
Bank financing given the strict limits on IDA resources and no other donor has expressed
interest in providing additional funding for these initiatives. Moreover, the issuance of
new regulations and assignment of new responsibilities will not ensure implementation in
the absence of strong oversight from DERI. Unfortunately that unit did not have the
capacity to provide much support to the project during implementation and no new
qualified staff have been added or overall policy level oversight function established at
the senior level of government. The use of merit in the selection of incoming staff is an
important step forward, however if career progression is not linked quickly to
performance appraisal its benefits could be dissipated, undermining the role of merit
within the civil service.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

As previewed in Section on the quality of entry of the project, the design of the operation
was unduly ambitious given country circumstances, funding and project activities were
inconsistent with several objectives, the high risks and sobering lessons mentioned in the
PAD did not appear to have been learned or utilized in project design. The project
appears to have been a quickly prepared (taking only six months from PCN Review to
Board). The scope was too broad, in some instances filling gaps, with a less than holistic
integrity of approach. Most importantly the design looks like a copy of earlier operations
undertaken in other former Soviet Union republics but without adequate adaptation to the
fractured political economy and especially weak institutional capacity of Tajikistan. The
fact that project implementation arrangements faltered early and a major restructuring
and downsizing of objectives was required underlines the assessment.

Had the project’s original targets and activities been designed in a way more appropriate
to the weak institutional capacity of the country plus high risks identified in the PAD or
stark lessons from earlier operations implementation may have been smoother and real
advances achieved would not be viewed as downsized or somehow less than expected,
but rather as in line with country circumstances and opportunities.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision of the project was intense from the beginning. A new team leader was
tasked with overseeing implementation and, given the design flaws which became
quickly apparent, needed to devote constant attention to the operation. Bank supervision
missions visited the country 3-4 times a year. The project was supported from the early
                                            21
stages by a full-time field based Public Sector Specialist and a strong headquarters based
team including specialists in public sector, public financial management, and
procurement specialists. Detailed Aides Memoire, which were regularly disseminated to
the client and partners, Bank missions focused on key issues and their solutions, and
recommendations for further project implementation. The mid-term review in March
2009 reached agreement on a revised project results framework and decision to
restructure the project. Between missions, the team supported the daily work of the
project by providing considerable advice and recommendations. There was a notably
open and productive dialogue between the team and the Project Director and senior
government officials once the initial problems in project management were overcome.
Significant efforts were made by the team to encourage the creation of the high level
body to oversee the public administration reform effort, but these ultimate foundered on
the perceived (and probably real) political economy constraints on government to
delegate core issues of public sector operations or undertake massive reorganizations
given the continuing weight of legacy systems and attitudes, capacity weaknesses, and
funding constraints. Sector and country management was engaged early and ISR ratings
appear to have been realistic, signaling from the beginning the challenges to the project.

The decision to seek a deep restructuring is entirely appropriate, although earlier
restructuring could have been pursued even if the substantive results would not have been
different.    Additionally it appears that the inclusion of an Information and
Communications Technology expert on the team could have sped some ICT procurement
and strengthen the technical assistance provided to the project. However the need for
frequent missions and daily oversight put real constraints on the supervision budget.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The supervision team demonstrated the strengths of the Bank-- technical and country
expertise, commitment to project goals and the partner, and willingness to go extra
lengths to ensure a successful project. But its satisfactory performance and highly
satisfactory dedication cannot outweigh the design flaws and miscues which impacted the
project and consumed so much of counterpart and supervision effort in seeking to make
the design work and ultimately significantly restructure it. The overall performance must
take into account the overall outcome of the operation as well as less than appropriate
initial design.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government performance improved over the course of the project. Once properly
constituted the project implementation team under the DERI was highly effective and
dedicated. There was a generally high level of Government commitment and ownership
during the later phases of project implementation, although some considered the

                                           22
Government’s earlier approach as essentially neutral (i.e. not opposed to strengthened
public administration but perhaps skeptical about the reach of some components and
dubious about the political feasibility of decentralizing powers relating to career
advancement, agency organization, etc.) Nevertheless technical groups were established
for the main four project components and they provided active assistance in project
implementation by discussing terms of reference and participating in procurement
processes. The failure to establish the planned project board (Administrative Reform
Working Group) or pursue a holistic integration of the PARS undoubtedly reduced the
leverage of the project though.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Thanks to active support of project implementation by all the main beneficiaries (the
Executive Office of the President, the Civil Service Department, the Ministry of Finance,
the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, the Sanitary-Epidemiological Service, the
Fire Prevention Inspectorate, and ‘Tajikgeologiya’) all project activities in those agencies
were completed on time. Capacity-related problems in those agencies were compensated
by beneficiary agencies’ high commitment to reform. Other agencies cooperated with
their own vertical functional reviews and the preparation of reorganization plans,
although it is too early to judge their broader performance as the more difficult phase of
implementation has not yet begun.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Judged against the original and restructured PDOs overall borrower performance is
judged as moderately satisfactory. Like the project, the inadequacies of the original
project design, missteps during the early period of implementation and continuing
absence of an effective high level oversight body are factors which cannot be ignored.
Nevertheless, given the serious capacity constraints the borrower did permit the high
quality and dedicated project team to act, took key decisions (if slowly) when required,
and ensured the necessary extent of legal and procedural changes.

6. Lessons Learned

    1) For any project attempting important reforms and restructuring in core
       government operations, especially in a country with a highly centralized
       decision-making process, the project must involve high level government
       leadership during both project preparation and implementation. Lack of
       such leadership can divert project design into suboptimal or infeasible directions,
       signal a lack of ownership to change resistors, retard and complicate decision-
       making, and lead to wastage of time, money, and opportunities;



                                            23
    2) There should be a single project coordination unit, reporting to senior
       government leadership (and not any one ministry), to oversee such a broad
       cross government operation. In the absence of such unit, in this case, functions
       were divided among the state advisor on economic issues, the project director
       and the PIU, which often affected the timeliness of decision-making process.
       Establishing the unit should have been a prior condition for this operation;
    3) To enhance effectiveness of public administration reform, such technical
       assistance operations should be supplemented by development policy
       operations;
    4) To be achievable, the project development objectives should correspond to
       the available funding and implementation timeframe. In this case the activity
       on reorganization of line ministries and agencies under component 2 provided
       for conducting vertical functional reviews and implementing recommendations
       but the funds allocated for that activity were sufficient only to conduct the
       reviews and make recommendations. Also the project had intended to establish
       capacity for monitoring and evaluation of PARS. However, funds allocated were
       not sufficient for building an effective monitoring system covering whole PARS
       implementation. Only PSRP implementation was monitored and evaluated.
    5) Bank management should better ensure that political economy assessments and
       lessons of earlier applicable operations be incorporated into project design
       and not solely in PAD text.
    6) Avoid project activities tangential to the core project concept. The project
       supported reform in Sanitary-Epidemiology Service and Fire Prevention
       Inspectorate. The survey conducted at project close suggested that the reforms
       had reduced the administrative burden on business. However, the reform might
       have had a larger and more systemic impact by targeting the development of
       regulatory capacity at the center of government. For example, establishing
       capacity for legislative impact assessments and cost-benefit analysis would have
       been more relevant to the objectives of core public administration reforms.
       Alternatively the reforms in SES and FPI might have been pilots for reform
       concepts to be applied more generally rather than stand alone efforts.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Executive Office of the President (EOP) prepared a 39 page Final Report on the
project. The report lists in detail the advances achieved and reports that the government
is positive on the results of the PSRP. The report raises no problematic issues related to
preparation, design, or implementation of the grant requiring further Bank comment.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                           24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                       millions)

            Total Baseline Cost
Component 1.                            0.81                1.05           129.62
Component 2.                            2.31                2.41           104.32
Component 3.                            0.57                0.48           84.21
Component 4.                            0.66                0.52           78.78
Component 5.                            0.65                0.88           135.38
             Total Project Costs        5.00                5.34           106.80
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                0.00             .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                0.00             .00
     Total Financing Required           0.00                0.00




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                    millions)    millions)
Borrower                                         0.00         0.00         .00
IDA Grant                                        5.00         5.34         106.80

Due to positive changes in the exchange rates between SDR and USD, the sum of
funding of the PSRP in USD increased. Additional some was allocated to different
activities. Some savings from components 3 and 4 were reallocated to other components.
The operations expenses under Component 5 were higher than estimated originally.




                                          25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Original PDO, Outcome Indicators and Related Main Indicators, Intermediate
Results Indicators, and Results3
PDO

To assist the Recipient in the implementation of PARS through strengthening policy
making and service delivery systems and enhancing transparency of public management
in selected core public sector entities
PDO Outcome Indicators and Related Main Indicators
Outcome Indicator- A transparently            Achieved
managed and increasingly merit-based          The majority of civil servants are hired
Civil Service.                                through competition, a performance
                                              appraisal system has been developed and is
                                              being introduced; the civil service registry
                                              has been designed, installed and is expected
                                              to be fully functional by April 1, 2012; and
                                              a new transparent civil service salary has
                                              been introduced and salary levels raised to
                                              become more competitive.

Main Indicator - The number of civil         Achieved
servants (new entrants) recruited through    In 2010, 2514 vacancies in the civil service
merit-based competition increases by 50      were filled through a competitive
percent from the baseline level to be        recruitment process, representing 82% out
established in November 2006                 of 3065 vacancies filled. In 2006 there was
                                             no competitive based recruitment system in
                                             place.
Outcome Indicator- A rationalized            Partially Achieved
overall central government structure and     Based on recommendations of the
improved organization and management         horizontal functional review conducted
systems in selected core public sector       under the project, the central government
entities.                                    was reorganized in November 2006. The
                                             three-tier management system in sectors
                                             was established, in which ministries are
                                             responsible for policy formulation, agencies
                                             are in charge of policy implementation, and
                                             inspections – for oversight of policy


3
  This annex is arranged to show the PDO, PDO indicators and their related Main
Indicators, intermediate results indicators for each component, and results. The first
section covers the original Results Framework and the second section - the restructured
Results Framework. Given similarities/duplication of some indicators, information on
some results achieved will be repeated.


                                            26
                                              implementation. Funds allocated and
                                              timeframe established for vertical
                                              functional reviews provided only for
                                              developing restructuring recommendations
                                              and preparing implementation plans.
                                              Implementation plans are being
                                              implemented by the Government after the
                                              project closure. The Ministry of Labor and
                                              Social Protection, selected as a pilot
                                              institution, began its reorganization during
                                              project implementation. It has successfully
                                              completed reorganization within the life of
                                              the project.
Main Indicator - Reform Plans are
                                              Partially Achieved
implemented for 8 line ministries or
                                              Vertical functional reviews were conducted
central agencies by the end of the project
                                              in 10 central ministries and agencies.
and reports on their implementation are
                                              Based on the recommendations from the
published on the Government Website
                                              reviews and directed by Presidential
                                              Resolution #1574 of April 5, 2011, all
                                              ministries have developed and approved
                                              organizational restructuring plans. The
                                              Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
                                              (including its subordinated Agency on
                                              Social Protection, Employment and
                                              Migration, and Agency on Social Security
                                              and Pension) presented its plan at a
                                              government round-table conference with
                                              participation of NGOs and mass media, and
                                              subsequently implemented the plan. Some
                                              advanced ministries, such as the Ministry of
                                              Finance and the Ministry of Economy and
                                              Trade, will start reorganization in 2012.
                                              Other ministries, with low capacities, may
                                              need TA to initiate and implement reforms.
Outcome Indicator- - Increasingly             Partially Achieved
reliable, comprehensive and available         A PFM modernization plan was adopted by
public financial management information.      the Government in 2009 and
                                              implementation under a parallel World
                                              Bank operation started in 2010.
                                              Since the end of 2009 the Ministry of
                                              Finance has published budget execution
                                              information on its website on a quarterly
                                              basis. Information from the Central
                                              Treasury reports is judged reasonably
                                              reliable and relatively comprehensive.

                                             27
Main Indicator - The level of deviation         Partially Achieved
between the approved and executed central       The original target was not logically linked
government budget decreases by 30 %             with the planned and implemented activities
over the project period, from the baseline      under this component. Activities did not
level established on the basis of the Budget    provide for strengthening budget planning
Execution Report for 2005.                      and execution mechanisms. Therefore, it
                                                was impossible to attribute the changes in
                                                reducing budget deviations to project
                                                activities. Nevertheless deviation between
                                                approved and executed budget has been less
                                                than 10% over the recent years, a reduction
                                                due to more realistic revenue estimations
                                                and expenditure planning.
Outcome Indicator-Enhanced                      Practically Achieved
transparency and accessibility of the legal     The component focused on improving
and regulatory framework.                       access to information not only for business,
                                                but also public sector employees and
                                                citizens. Notable achievements include the
                                                fact that the Government now has an
                                                updated official legal database which is
                                                accessible to civil servants free of charge
                                                and to individuals and businesses on a
                                                subscription basis.

Main Indicator - Access to information      Achieved
and regulation norms and procedures by      The expected 2007 IFC survey was not
business increased by 40-50 percent from    conducted so no baseline for comparison
the baseline level established by a survey  exists. Nevertheless, prior to the project
to be conducted in early 2007               there were no official sources of legal
                                            information. Now all businesses have
                                            access to critical information on norms and
                                            procedures through the online legal
                                            database.
Component 1 Intermediate Results Indicators and Results
Indicator- Civil Service register, as a key Partially achieved
tool for horizontal Civil Service           On April 5, 2008 the President approved a
management, operational                     regulation on “Order of Awarding Civil
                                            Servants
                                            Qualification Ranks?. Based on that
                                            regulation, the Civil Service Registry has
                                            been updated and on September 26, 2011,
                                            the extension and rehabilitation of the Civil
                                            Service Network was completed. The
                                            Network connects all 47 government
                                            ministries and agencies in the city of

                                               28
                                             Dushanbe and outside to the Civil Service
                                             Registry database, providing key
                                             information on individual employees, their
                                             qualifications, and employment history.
                                             Although the registry software has been
                                             installed in all agencies, the registry is not
                                             yet operating on an on-line basis. There are
                                             small bugs in the software, which are
                                             currently being fixed. According to the
                                             government’s plan, the Civil Service
                                             Registry will operate on-line by April 1,
                                             2012.
Indicator- Consistency in recruitment and    Partially achieved
promotion practices achieved in central      Recruitment of civil servants takes place
government                                   according to the government regulation on
                                             competitive merit-based recruitment.
                                             Promotion is related to the still effective
                                             attestation and staff reserve procedures. On
                                             February 18, 2011 the President approved
                                             the Regulation “Performance Appraisal of
                                             Civil Servants?. The new system, which
                                             provides a linkage between performance
                                             and promotion, is expected to replace the
                                             attestation system in the medium-term
                                             period.
Indicator-Recruitment by open                Achieved
competition, based on public vacancy         On May 20, 2009, the President approved a
announcements, is institutionalized          new regulation on “Competitive Based
                                             Selection? procedures, which
                                             institutionalized competitive recruitment
                                             throughout the Civil Service. The new
                                             procedures provide for transparency of the
                                             selection process, creation of evaluation
                                             commissions with central agency
                                             participation, different methods of selection
                                             based on types of position within a
                                             framework of competition, etc. The Civil
                                             Service Department monitors the
                                             implementation of this regulation. As
                                             indicated above, 82% of vacancies were
                                             filled through competitive processes in
                                             2010.
Indicator- New civil service pay system      Achieved
fully operational.                           On October 1, 2010, the new Civil Service
                                             Wage Grid was introduced in five central
                                             agencies on a pilot basis. On September 1,

                                            29
                                            2011 the new Civil Service Wage Grid was
                                            extended to the entire Civil Service,
                                            including local governments. The reform
                                            removed all non-transparent bonuses, better
                                            linked pay to outside market compensation,
                                            regularized pay for similar jobs across
                                            government and made the system more
                                            consistent. On average, the salaries of civil
                                            servants increased by 40%, with non-
                                            political staff receiving the highest
                                            adjustments.
Component 2 Intermediate Results Indicators and Results
Indicator- Effective reform monitoring      Not achieved
and tracking system put in place.           While the Government did not establish a
                                            central unit to monitor public
                                            administration reform, the project unit
                                            monitored PSRP activities and reported on
                                            advances through local mass media and
                                            round-tables workshops.
Indicator- Reallocation of functions        Partially achieved
between institutions at central government A Horizontal Functional Review of the
level completed.                            Central Government was conducted under
                                            the project in 2006. It recommended
                                            reorganization of the central government
                                            including the reallocation of functions
                                            among institutions at the central
                                            government level. On November 30, 2006,
                                            the President issued a decree on “Improving
                                            the Structure of Central Executive Bodies?,
                                            which provided for the establishment of a
                                            three-tier administrative system in each
                                            policy sectors. It provides that ministries
                                            are in charge of developing policies,
                                            agencies are responsible for policy
                                            implementation, and inspections are in
                                            charge of supervision. As a result there is a
                                            clearer demarcation of authority, autonomy,
                                            and accountability; the number of ministries
                                            was cut while the number of agencies and
                                            services was increased; and greater
                                            specialization has helped reduce duplication
                                            of responsibilities.
Indicator- Management and                   Achieved
accountability systems for service delivery Based on recommendations of a vertical
in the Ministry of Labor and Social         functional review, the Ministry of Labor
Protection streamlined.                     and Social Protection (MOLSP) developed

                                           30
                                          an Action Plan that was successfully
                                          implemented. The review helped identify
                                          inefficiencies and duplications existing in
                                          the social services delivery system.
                                          Changes to the Regulation on MOLSP and
                                          its subordinated agencies eliminated those
                                          inefficiencies and strengthened
                                          accountability in the sector.

                                          In particular, the adoption of Law on
                                          “Minimal Living Standards “(May 19,
                                          2009), Law on “Social Standards? (May19,
                                          2009), and Law on “Insurance and State
                                          Pensions? (January 12, 2010) have laid
                                          down a solid ground for improving service
                                          delivery. Good implementation of
                                          approved Standards for Provision of Social
                                          Services in Day-Care Centers, Model
                                          Regulation of Day-Stay Institution, and
                                          Model of Regulation of Division of Social
                                          Welfare at Home also contributed to further
                                          improvements.

                                        For the future, clear division of
                                        responsibilities and authorities between
                                        MOLSP and local governments in the issue
                                        of delivery of social services is necessary.
                                        This may be achieved through introducing
                                        proper changes to the Law on Local
                                        Governments and other sectoral legislation.
                                        Second, MOLSP needs to develop and
                                        implement an effective capacity building
                                        and staff retention plan. The functional
                                        review pointed out that there was a lack of
                                        proper capacity in some areas of social
                                        service delivery as well as high staff
                                        turnover at the local level. These issues
                                        will be addressed by the ongoing EC
                                        Technical Assistance to Sector Policy
                                        Support Program in the Social Protection
                                        Sector and Bank Social Safety Net
                                        Strengthening Project.
Component 3 Intermediate Results Indicators and Results
Indicator- Public Financial Management  Partially achieved
Reform Action Plan adopted and capacity A Public Finance Management Reform
of budget units to use strategic budget Strategy for 2009-2018 and Action Plan

                                         31
planning tools enhanced.                  were approved by the Government on
                                          March 20, 2009. The overall objective of
                                          the PFM reform is to improve aggregate
                                          fiscal discipline, allocative effectiveness,
                                          and operational efficiency. In particular,
                                          the reform aims to ensure the budget is
                                          comprehensive and stable, a full Medium-
                                          Term Expenditure Framework is in place,
                                          organizations will be responsible for the
                                          proper execution of their budgets and the
                                          results achieved, the Government will have
                                          an operational financial management
                                          information system covering Treasury
                                          functions across the whole of the country,
                                          the accounting framework approaches
                                          compliance with IPSAS Accrual accounting
                                          standards, and the preparation of the
                                          Annual Financial Statement will be timely
                                          and allow for audit by an independent
                                          External Audit Office which will report its
                                          audit findings to Parliament. The “capacity
                                          of budget units to use strategic budget
                                          planning tools enhanced? will be
                                          implemented and monitored under the
                                          Public Finance Management Modernization
                                          Project (PFMMP).
                                          The capacity of ministries to use budget as
                                          a strategic policy planning tool has been
                                          addressed through other operations,
                                          notably, technical assistance supporting the
                                          series of Policy Development Operation
                                          (PDPG) and EU Project for implementation
                                          of FMIS in the social sector ministries. To
                                          avoid duplication and optimize the use of
                                          resources under PSRP, the TA to improve
                                          budget management was not delivered
                                          under the project in question.
Indicator- New wage and staff planning    Achieved
systems for primary health care           The Ministry of Health approved a new Job
operational.                              Classification of Health Sector Employees
                                          on September 29, 2008. The new job
                                          classification addressed the role and
                                          expected skills of family doctors and
                                          nurses, medical nurses working in the
                                          health/medical homes, and provided clear
                                          separation between existing positions in

                                         32
                                             primary and secondary health care with
                                             some revision of staffing norms.
                                             It formed a basis for the new wage structure
                                             in the health sector, correcting the previous
                                             1993 wage grid in the health sector which
                                             did not reflect the level of complexity and
                                             responsibility of assigned tasks. The new
                                             grid is transparent and performance-based,
                                             consistent with new job classifications, and
                                             rationalizes additional pay, allowances, and
                                             supplements for doctors and health
                                             personnel.
Component 4 Intermediate Results Indicators and Results
Indicator- Improved access to legal norms Achieved
and acts to both government and public.      The project helped the Ministry of Justice to
                                             improve the technical characteristics of the
                                             database and its interface, design the
                                             ministry’s website, and put the database on
                                             the ministry’s website. Database Adliya
                                             (www.minjust.tj/adliya) is regularly
                                             updated, and available free of charge to
                                             public sector agencies and on a subscription
                                             basis to enterprises and the general public.
                                             According to a survey conducted at the end
                                             of the project implementation, 37.9% of
                                             respondents (including public sector
                                             employees, deputies, mass media
                                             employees, businessmen, and
                                             representatives of civil society) had
                                             accessed legal information through the legal
                                             “Database Adliya?.
Indicator- Internal and technical            Achieved
regulations of pilot inspections agencies     In line with sub-component objectives all
developed and published, with increased      existing legislation on the fire prevention
understanding of firm level obligations      and sanitary-epidemiology safety was
during public sector inspections, as well as reviewed, a list of outdated legislation was
increased comprehension by inspectors of prepared, and more than 40 technical rules
their new roles                              and norms were developed and updated.

                                             Key new regulations approved (and
                                             introduced into the legal database Adliya)
                                             include:
                                             Fire Prevention
                                             Rules of State Oversight over Fire Safety
                                             (May 3, 2010);
                                             The Charter of the Fire Prevention

                                           33
 Inspectorate (June 8, 2009);
 Program of Training of Staff of Fire
 Prevention Inspectorate (May 17, 2010);
 Instruction on Gas and Smoke Protection
 (May 25, 2020).

 Sanitary-Epidemiology Safety
 Rules on Organization of Control over
 Compliance with Sanitary and Anti-
 Epidemic Requirements (January 25, 2011);
 On Sanitary-Epidemiology Requirements to
 Trade Enterprises (January 25, 2011);
 On Hygienic Requirements to Expiration
 Date and Storage of Food (January 25,
 2011).

 The following regulations were cancelled:
 Fire Prevention
 Fire Prevention Rules for Industrial and
 Agricultural Sites (May3, 2010);
 Fire Prevention Rules on Residential
 Buildings (May 3, 2010);
 Fire Prevention Rules on Transport (May 3,
 2010).

 IFC provided assistance to increase
 understanding of firm level obligations
 during public sector inspections as well as
 increased comprehension by inspectors of
 their new roles. In particular, IFC
 developed an Inspection Rules Manual,
 which was presented for SES and
 disseminated among inspectors. Also a
 series of broadcast through the national TV
 to increase entrepreneurs understanding of
 their obligations were conducted. IFC also
 developed fire inspection checklists and fire
 safety posters, which were presented to the
 Fire Prevention Department and
 entrepreneurs. The above measures have
 contributed in increased understanding of
 inspectors of their new roles and increased
 understanding of entrepreneurs of their
 obligations.




34
Revised PDO, Outcome Indicators and Related Main Indicators, Intermediate
Results Indicators, and Results

PDO

 Establish legal and organizational prerequisites for improved public sector management,
improve public access to legislation, and strengthen regulatory framework in selected
areas
PDO Outcome Indicators and Related Main Indicators
Outcome Indicator- A transparently             Achieved
managed and increasingly merit based           The majority of civil servants are hired
Civil Service.                                 through competition, a performance
                                               appraisal system has been introduced; the
                                               civil service registry has been designed,
                                               installed and will be fully functional by
                                               April 1, 2012; and civil service salaries
                                               have been raised through introduction of a
                                               new salary grid to be more transparent and
                                               competitive.

Main Indicator - Competitive merit-based        Achieved
recruitment of civil servants for positions     In 2010, 2514 vacancies in the civil service
below grades 1-2 is institutionalized. At       below levels 1-2 (political level positions)
least 80 percent of vacant positions are        were filled through a competitive based
filled either by competitive recruitment or     recruitment process, representing 82% out
promotion.                                      of 3065 vacancies filled. In 2006 there was
                                                no competitive based recruitment system in
                                                place.
Outcome Indicator- A law on                     Achieved
Organization of Public Administration and       A new Law on Organization of Public
a reform plan for streamlining the overall      Administration was approved by the
central government structure approved;          Government and submitted to the
and organizational structures and               Parliament in August 2011. The law has
management systems in selected core             been passed by Parliament and signed by
public sector entities improved.                the President.

Main Indicator - Reform Plans for               Partially Achieved
streamlining of institutions structures in 8    Vertical functional reviews undertaken with
ministries and central agencies approved        project support covered 10 central
and short-term restructuring measures           ministries and agencies. Based on the
implemented.                                    recommendations of reviews and the

                                               35
                                                President Resolution #1574 from April 5,
                                                2011, all ministries have developed and
                                                approved their organizational restructuring
                                                plans. Only the Ministry of Labor and
                                                Social Protection has implemented its
                                                restructuring plan. Some advanced
                                                ministries such as the Ministry of Finance
                                                and the Ministry of Economy and Trade are
                                                expected to start reorganization in 2012.
                                                Other ministries, with low capacities, may
                                                need TA to initiate reforms.

Main Indicator - The Law on                     Achieved
Organization of Public Administration,          The Law on Organization of Public
defining principles of organization and         Administration was approved by Parliament
accountability of public administration         and is awaiting Presidential signature. The
bodies, is submitted for adoption.              law defines the types of public institutions,
                                                their form of subordination, coordination
                                                and accountability arrangements. The law
                                                also embeds a three-tier management
                                                system in public administration sectors, in
                                                which ministries are responsible for policy-
                                                formulation, agencies are in charge of
                                                policy implementation, and inspections
                                                provide oversight. The law is consistent
                                                with the reorganization of the central public
                                                administration conducted in 2006.
Outcome Indicator- A Strategy and               Achieved
Action Plan for modernizing public
financial management approved and under
implementation.

Main Indicator - A Public Financial             Achieved
Management Strategy, establishing               A Public Finance Management Reform
framework for improvements in                   Strategy for 2009-2018 and Action Plan
management, efficiency and transparency         were approved by the Government on
of the use of public resources, is approved.    March 20, 2009. The overall objective of
                                                the PFM reform is to improve aggregate
                                                fiscal discipline, allocative effectiveness,
                                                and operational efficiency. In particular,
                                                the reform aims to ensure the budget is
                                                comprehensive and stable, a full Medium
                                                Term Expenditure Framework is in place,
                                                organizations will be responsible for the
                                                proper execution of their budgets and the
                                                results achieved, the Government will have

                                               36
                                                an operational financial management
                                                information system covering Treasury
                                                functions across the whole of the country,
                                                the accounting framework approaches full
                                                compliance with IPSAS Accrual accounting
                                                standards, and the preparation of the
                                                Annual Financial Statement will be timely
                                                and allow for audit by an independent
                                                External Audit Office which will report its
                                                audit findings to Parliament.

Main Indicator – A new remuneration             Achieved
system in the health system is design and       The new wage grid in the public health
implemented                                     sector, introduced on June 29, 2009, is
                                                transparent and performance-based, and
                                                consistent with new job classifications. The
                                                system rationalizes additional pay,
                                                allowances, and supplement for doctors and
                                                health personnel and establishes a more
                                                transparent mechanism in setting up
                                                salaries. The new wage grid reflects
                                                qualifications and skills, the complexity of
                                                work and responsibility, and distinguishes
                                                the wage grid in two broad streams - one for
                                                "doctors working in primary health care"
                                                and one for "doctors working in hospitals
                                                and non-primary health care services"
Outcome Indicator- Enhanced public              Achieved
accessibility to legislation and streamlined
legislation in selected areas.

Main Indicator - Access to information          Achieved
on laws and regulations for the legal           The project helped the Ministry of Justice to
entities is improved                            improve the technical characteristics of the
                                                database and its interface, design the
                                                ministry’s website, and put the database on
                                                the ministry’s website. Database Adliya
                                                (www.minjust.tj/adliya) is regularly
                                                updated, and available free of charge to
                                                public sector agencies and on a subscription
                                                basis to enterprises and the general public.
                                                According to a survey conducted at the end
                                                of the project implementation, 37.9% of
                                                respondents (including public sector
                                                employees, deputies, mass media
                                                employees, businessmen, and

                                               37
                                              representatives of civil society) had
                                              accessed legal information through the legal
                                              “Database Adliya? before May 2011.

Main Indicator - Regulations in the area      Achieved
or fire safety, sanitary-epidemiological      All existing legislation on fire prevention
standards and subsoil use area streamlined    and sanitary-epidemiology safety was
                                              reviewed, and more than 40 technical rules
                                              and norms were developed or updated as
                                              well as a list of outdated legislation
                                              prepared.
Component 1 Intermediate Results Indicators and Results
Indicator- The Civil Service Register is      Partially achieved
automated and accessible through a            On April 5, 2008 the President approved a
network by 47 government bodies. The          regulation on “Order of Awarding Civil
CSD monitors civil service development        Servants Qualification Ranks?. Based on
and issues quarterly reports on the status of the regulation, the Civil Service Registry
implementation of the civil service policy    has been updated and on September 26,
                                              2011, the extension and rehabilitation of the
                                              Civil Service Network was completed. It
                                              connects all 47 government ministries and
                                              agencies in the city of Dushanbe and
                                              outside to the Civil Service Registry
                                              database, providing key information on
                                              individual employees, their qualifications,
                                              and employment history. Although the
                                              registry software has been installed in all
                                              agencies, the registry is not yet operating on
                                              an on-line basis. There are small bugs in
                                              the software, which are currently being
                                              fixed. According to the government’s plan,
                                              the Civil Service Registry will be put in on-
                                              line operation by April 1, 2012.
Indicator- Consistency in promotion           Partially achieved
practices achieved in central government      On February 18, 2011 the President
entities, as reflected in annual reports on   approved the Regulation “Performance
civil service development issued by the       Appraisal of Civil Servants?. The new
CSD and confirmed through Public              system, which provides a linkage between
Officials Surveys.                            performance and promotion, is expected to
                                              replace the attestation system in the
                                              medium-term period. The survey
                                              conducted at the end of the project in May
                                              2011, found that the majority of
                                              respondents, representing civil service,
                                              Parliament, mass media and civil society,
                                              believed that the current performance

                                             38
                                              appraisal system had a positive impact to
                                              the development of public sector. Their
                                              responses to the below statements were as
                                              follows:
                                              Performance appraisal system is effective:
                                              Yes – 47%; partially yes – 34%; no – 10%;
                                              could not reply – 8%.
                                              Performance appraisal procedures are fair
                                              and transparent:
                                              Yes – 21%; partially yes – 48%; no – 21%;
                                              could not reply – 9%.
                                              The Civil Service Department annually
                                              submits to the Government a Report on
                                              Attestation of Civil Servants. The Report
                                              provides information on the number of civil
                                              servants by organizations, how many of
                                              them were attested, and other relevant data.
                                              In 2010, 50% out of more than 7,000 civil
                                              servants were attested.
Indicator- Recruitment by open                Achieved
competition, based on public                  On May 20, 2009, the President approved a
announcements of vacancies, is                new regulation on “Competitive Based
institutionalized, as reflected in annual     Selection? procedures, which
reports on civil service development issued institutionalized competitive recruitment
by the CSD and confirmed through Public throughout the Civil Service. The new
Officials Surveys at the start and the end of procedures provide for transparency of the
the Project.                                  selection process, creation of evaluation
                                              commissions with central agency
                                              participation, different methods of selection
                                              based on types of position within a
                                              framework of competition, etc.
                                              The survey conducted at the end of the
                                              project found that the majority of
                                              respondents, representing civil service,
                                              Parliament, mass media and civil society
                                              believed that introducing a new
                                              competition-based recruitment procedures
                                              had a positive impact on the development of
                                              the public sector. Their responses to the
                                              statements below were as follows:
                                              The quality of selection has improved after
                                              introducing new competition based
                                              recruitment procedures:
                                              Yes – 27%; partially yes – 48%; no – 17%;
                                              could not reply – 9%.
                                              The procedures of competition based

                                            39
                                              recruitment are fair:
                                              Yes – 27%; partially yes – 47%; no – 16%;
                                              could not reply – 10%.

                                              The data on recruitment by open
                                              competition is summarized in an Annual
                                              Report on Filling Civil Service Vacancies,
                                              which is submitted to the government. The
                                              Report includes information on vacancies
                                              announced, number of candidates who
                                              applied, violation in the selection processes,
                                              and other relevant information. In 2010,
                                              2,514 vacancies were announced, to which
                                              2,838 candidates applied. The low ratio of
                                              applicants per vacancy reflects still
                                              insufficient attraction of the civil service as
                                              an employer of choice.
Indicator- New civil service pay system is    Achieved
approved and introduced on a pilot basis,     On October 1, 2010, the new Civil Service
consistent with the public expenditure        Wage Grid was introduced in five central
framework, as reflected in annual reports     agencies on a pilot basis. On September 1,
on civil service development issued by the    2011 the new Civil Service Wage Grid was
CSD and confirmed through Public              extended to the entire Civil Service,
Officials Surveys conducted at the start      including local governments. The reform
and the end of the Project.                   removed all non-transparent bonuses,
                                              decompressed the wage grid, better linked
                                              pay to outside market compensation,
                                              regularized pay for similar jobs across
                                              government and made the system more
                                              consistent. On average, the salaries of civil
                                              servants increased by 40 %, with non-
                                              political staff receiving the highest
                                              adjustments.

                                              The survey conducted at the end of the
                                              project found that the majority of
                                              respondents, representing civil service,
                                              Parliament, mass media and civil society
                                              believed that introducing a new wage grid
                                              had a positive impact to the development of
                                              public sector. Their responses to the
                                              statements below were as follows:
                                              New wage grid improved the pay system:
                                              Yes – 33%; partially yes – 29%; no – 10%;
                                              could not reply – 28%.



                                             40
                                            New wage grid is more transparent:
                                            Yes – 31%; partially yes – 31%; no – 9%;
                                            could not reply – 20%.

                                          New wage grid provides for higher
                                          motivation for civil servants:
                                          Yes – 23%; partially yes – 38%; no – 18%;
                                          could not reply – 20%.
                                          The report on wage bill is included into the
                                          Annual Budget Execution Report, which is
                                          prepared by the Ministry of Finance.
                                          Budget Execution Report for 9 months of
                                          2011 includes information on wage bill,
                                          which is based on new wage grid
                                          implemented in the civil service throughout
                                          the country.
Component 2 Intermediate Results Indicators and Results
Indicator- Functions of different         Partially achieved
institutions at central government level  The Law on Organization of Public
clarified based on recommendations of     Administration was approved by Parliament
functional reviews and the new law on     and is awaiting Presidential signature. The
Organization of Public Administration, as law defines the types of public institutions,
reflected in Government Resolutions on    their form of subordination, coordination
the structure of the central state        and accountability arrangements. The law
administration.                           also provides for a three-tier management
                                          system in public administration sectors, in
                                          which ministries are responsible for policy-
                                          formulation, agencies are in charge of
                                          policy implementation, and inspections
                                          provide oversight. The law is aligned with
                                          the reorganization of the central public
                                          administration conducted in 2006.

                                            Vertical functional reviews covered 10
                                            central ministries and agencies. Based on
                                            recommendations of the reviews and the
                                            President Resolution #1574 from April 5,
                                            2011, all ministries developed and approved
                                            their organizational restructuring plans.
                                            The reform is expected to include
                                            reorganization of the current organization
                                            structure of each sector under the respective
                                            leading ministry in order to effectively
                                            implement government policies and core
                                            responsibilities for each sector; eliminate
                                            cross-cutting, overlapping or duplicative

                                          41
                                               functions; establishing organizational
                                               structures and procedures that would allow
                                               more effective and less costly strategic
                                               sector policy objectives and achievements;
                                               eliminating functions that are not in the
                                               sphere of state responsibility; delegation of
                                               powers where appropriate and creating
                                               mechanisms that strengthen accountability
                                               between different levels of government;
                                               and, defining institutional optimization
                                               levels and the budget implications (final
                                               consequences to the state budget) for new
                                               staffing levels.
                                               Only the Ministry of Labor and Social
                                               Protection has implemented its restructuring
                                               plan. It is expected that ministries will
                                               begin implementing their restructuring
                                               plans in 2012.
Indicator- Management and                      Achieved
accountability systems for service delivery    Based on recommendations of a vertical
in the Ministry of Labor and Social            functional review, the Ministry of Labor
Protection streamlined.                        and Social Protection (MOLSP) developed
                                               an Action Plan that was successfully
                                               implemented. The review conducted
                                               helped identify inefficiencies and
                                               duplications existing in the social services
                                               delivery system. Changes to the Regulation
                                               on MOLSP and its subordinated agencies
                                               eliminated those inefficiencies and
                                               strengthened accountability in the sector.

                                               In particular, the adoption of Law on
                                               “Minimal Living Standards “(May 19,
                                               2009), Law on “Social Standards? (May 19,
                                               2009), and Law on “Insurance and State
                                               Pensions? (January 12, 2010) have laid
                                               down a solid ground for improving service
                                               delivery. Good implementation of
                                               approved Standards for Provision of Social
                                               Services in Day-Care Centers, Model
                                               Regulation of Day-Stay Institution, and
                                               Model of Regulation of Division of Social
                                               Welfare at Home also contributed to further
                                               improvements.

                                               For the future, clear division of

                                              42
                                         responsibilities and authorities between
                                         MOLSP and local governments in the issue
                                         of delivery of social services is necessary.
                                         This may be achieved through introducing
                                         proper changes to the Law on Local
                                         Governments and other sectoral legislation.
                                         Second, MOLSP needs to develop and
                                         implement an effective capacity building
                                         and staff retention plan. The functional
                                         review pointed out that there was a lack of
                                         proper capacity in some areas of social
                                         service delivery as well as high staff
                                         turnover at local level. These issues will be
                                         addressed by the ongoing EC Technical
                                         Assistance to Sector Policy Support
                                         Program in the Social Protection Sector and
                                         Bank Social Safety Net Strengthening
                                         Project.
Component 3 Intermediate Results Indicators and Results
Indicator- A Public Financial            Achieved
Management Strategy and an Action Plan
for improving management, efficiency and A Public Finance Management Reform
transparency of the public resource have Strategy for 2009-2018 and Action Plan
been approved and are under              were approved by the Government on
implementation.                          March 20, 2009. The overall objective of
                                         the PFM reform is to improve aggregate
                                         fiscal discipline, allocative effectiveness,
                                         and operational efficiencies. In particular,
                                         the reform aims to ensure the budget is
                                         comprehensive and stable, a full Medium-
                                         Term Expenditure Framework is in place,
                                         organizations will be responsible for the
                                         proper execution of their budgets and the
                                         results achieved, the Government will have
                                         an operational financial management
                                         information system covering Treasury
                                         functions across the whole of the country,
                                         the accounting framework approaches full
                                         compliance with IPSAS accrual accounting
                                         standards, and the preparation of the
                                         Annual Financial Statement will be timely
                                         and allow for audit by an independent
                                         External Audit Office which will report its
                                         audit findings to Parliament.

                                           Strategy implementation is underway and

                                          43
                                              coordinated by the PFM Secretariat is led
                                              by the Ministry of Finance. On August 29,
                                              2011 the PFM Council approved an updated
                                              PFM Strategy Implementation Plan for
                                              2012-2014. The ongoing PFM reform,
                                              supported by the PFMMP project and other
                                              donor technical assistance projects, covers
                                              budget preparation and execution,
                                              accounting reform, treasury modernization,
                                              developing IT infrastructure and
                                              technologies, introducing internal and
                                              external audit function.
Indicator- A new wage and staff planning      Achieved
system for primary healthcare operational,    The Ministry of Health approved a new Job
as reflected in relevant Presidential         Classification of Health Sector Employees
Decrees and in annual reports of the          on September 29, 2008. The new job
Ministry of Health.                           classification addressed the role and
                                              expected skills of family doctors and
                                              nurses, medical nurses working in the
                                              health/medical homes, and provided clear
                                              separation between existing positions in
                                              primary and secondary health care with
                                              some revision of staffing norms.
                                              It formed a basis for the new wage structure
                                              introduced on June 29, 2009 in the health
                                              sector, correcting the previous 1993 wage
                                              grid in the health sector which did not
                                              reflect the level of complexity and
                                              responsibility of assigned tasks. The new
                                              grid is transparent and performance-based,
                                              consistent with new job classifications, and
                                              rationalizes additional pay, allowances, and
                                              supplements for doctors and health
                                              personnel.
                                              The Job Classification and Wage Grid,
                                              according to legislation, are approved by
                                              the Minister of Health Resolution and no
                                              President Decree is required.

                                          The new Job Description and Wage Grid
                                          are reflected in annual reports of the
                                          ministry.
Component 4 Intermediate Results Indicators and Results
Indicator - Improved public access to     Achieved
legal norms and acts through the official The project helped the Ministry of Justice to
government legal database Adliya, which   improve the technical characteristics of the

                                             44
includes all effective legislation in the     database and its interface, design the
Republic of Tajikistan and is available to    ministry’s website, and put the database on
public bodies, the private sector, and the    the ministry’s website. The database
general public (on a subscription basis)      Adliya is regularly updated. It is available
                                              free of charge to public sector agencies and
                                              on a subscription basis to enterprises and
                                              the general public. According to a survey
                                              conducted at the end of the project
                                              implementation, 37.9% of respondents
                                              (including public sector employees,
                                              deputies, mass media employees,
                                              businessmen, and representatives of civil
                                              society) had accessed legal information
                                              through the legal database Adliya
                                              (www.minjust.tj/adliya).
Indicator - Technical regulations of pilot    Achieved
inspection agencies updated, streamlined      All existing legislation on the pilot agencies
(up to 30% reduction or substantial           dealing with fire prevention and sanitary-
amendments in the number of regulations)      epidemiology safety was reviewed, a list of
and made publicly available, resulting in     outdated legislation prepared, and more
firms’ increased understanding of their       than 40 technical rules and norms
obligations with regard to fire safety and    developed.
sanitary-epidemiological standards,
 as reflected in survey results               The following new regulations were
                                              approved and introduced into the legal
                                              database Adliya:
                                              Fire Prevention
                                              Rules of State Oversight over Fire Safety
                                              (May 3, 2010);
                                              The Charter of the Fire Prevention
                                              Inspectorate (June 8, 2009);
                                              Program of Training of Staff of Fire
                                              Prevention Inspectorate (May 17, 2010);
                                              Instruction on Gas and Smoke Protection
                                              (May 25, 2020).

                                              Sanitary-Epidemiology Safety
                                              Rules on Organization of Control over
                                              Compliance with Sanitary and Anti-
                                              Epidemic Requirements (January 25, 2011);
                                              On Sanitary-Epidemiology Requirements to
                                              Trade Enterprises (January 25, 2011);
                                              On Hygienic Requirements to Expiration
                                              Date and Storage of Food (January 25,
                                              2011).
                                              The below regulation were cancelled:

                                             45
                                             Fire Prevention
                                             Fire Prevention Rules for Industrial and
                                             Agricultural Sites (May3, 2010);
                                             Fire Prevention Rules on Residential
                                             Buildings (May 3, 2010);
                                             Fire Prevention Rules on Transport (May 3,
                                             2010).

                                           A survey conducted at the end project asks
                                           entrepreneurs if they are aware of ongoing
                                           inventory of legislation in the areas of fire
                                           prevention and sanitary-epidemiology
                                           safety. Their responses were as follows:
                                           Fire prevention
                                           Yes – 10%; partially yes – 36%; no – 46;
                                           could not respond – 7%.
                                           Sanitary-epidemiology safety
                                           Yes – 5%; partially yes – 32; no – 53%;
                                           could not respond – 10%.
Indicator - Legislation in the subsoil     Partially Achieved
sector streamlined resulting in improved   A preliminary list of laws and regulations
business environment for mining of natural was developed, which also included issues
minerals                                   on regulation of the mining sector. In
                                           coordination with the Ministry of Justice
                                           and stakeholders, a methodology was
                                           developed to review the legislation on
                                           subsoil management. The legislative
                                           review was conducted, including laws
                                           adopted by the former Soviet Union, in
                                           order to identify inconsistencies, reveal
                                           gaps in legislation, determine the
                                           mechanisms for implementation of laws and
                                           regulations, and classify the laws (effective;
                                           effective but need to be amended / updated;
                                           to be cancelled). Particular attention was
                                           paid to procedures on business registration
                                           in subsurface management, and issuance of
                                           licenses and permits (land use, permits for
                                           constructions and conducting the works).
                                           The entire inventory was approved by the
                                           Ministry of Justice in December 2010.
                                           The forthcoming World Bank TA on
                                           improving management in the mining
                                           sector of Tajikistan is expected to
                                           implement the recommendation developed
                                           under this sub-component.

                                           46
Annex 2. A
Restructuring
Weighted Attainment of Outcomes against Original and Restructured PDO



                        Against         Against        Overall         Comments
                        Original        Revised
                         PDOs            PDOs
   1     Rating        Moderately      Satisfactory                    Significant
                      Unsatisfactory                                  improvement
                                                                      against more
                                                                     realistic targets
   2     Rating             3               5
          Value
   3   Weight (%          52%             48%            100%
        disbursed
       before/after

        PDO
       change)
   4   Weighted            1.5             2.5             4
        value

         (2 x 3)
   5   Final rating        1.5             2.5        Moderately
                                                      Satisfactory
       (rounded)




                                          47
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                    48
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Norpulat Daniyarov         Financial Management Specialis      ECSO3
Yelena Dobrolyubova        Consultant                          ECSPE
Mehmet Gokay               Consultant                          ECCTJ
Jariya Hoffman             Senior Economist                    AFTP4
Aziz Khaidarov             Country Officer                     ECCU8
Kathy Lalazarian           Senior Public Sector Specialis      LCSPS
Khursheda Nazirova         Temporary                           ECCTJ
Fasliddin Rakhimov         Procurement Specialist              ECSO2
Utkirdjan Umarov           Senior Economist                    ECSP1
Antonius Verheijen         Lead Public Sector Specialist       AFTPR
Supervision/ICR
Hassan Aliev               Public Sector Specialist            ECSP4
James Anderson             Senior Governance Specialist        EASPR
Norpulat Daniyarov         Financial Management Specialis      ECSO3
Cem Dener                  Sr Public Sector Spec.              PRMPS
Yelena Dobrolyubova        Consultant                          ECSPE
Jariya Hoffman             Senior Economist                    AFTP4
Dilshod Karimova           Procurement Analyst                 ECSO2
Shodi Nazarov              Financial Management Analyst        ECSO3
Khursheda Nazirova         Temporary                           ECCTJ
Craig R. Neal              Consultant                          TWICT
John Otieno Ogallo         Sr Financial Management Specia      ECSO3
Svetlana I. Proskurovska   Senior Public Sector Specialis      LCSPP
Fasliddin Rakhimov         Procurement Specialist              ECSO2
Clelia Kalliopi Helena
                           Public Sector Specialist            ECSP4
Rontoyanni


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                                   211.06
  FY07                                                                     0.00
  FY08                                                                     0.00
                           Total:                                        211.06
Supervision/ICR


                                            49
FY06                   0.00
FY07                 119.15
FY08                 105.42
       Total:        224.57




                50
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

During March-May, 2011 the government conducted a survey to measure public
awareness of the implementation of the Public Administration Reform Strategy. Survey
participants were not direct project beneficiaries, but representatives of target groups of
the reform. Key findings included the following:

-30% of respondents were familiar with the Public Administration Reform Strategy, 45%
were aware partially; and 21% were not aware of it.

 -27% of respondents believed that the quality of civil service competitive selection had
improved, 48% agreed with this statement partially, while 16% had not noticed any
positive changes in the recruitment process.

-32% of respondents thought that training programs offered by the IHQCS had improved,
33% believed they improved partially, while 11% reported no improvements.

-31% considered the new civil service wage grid as being more transparent than the
previous pay system. Another 31% believed that the given wage grid was somewhat more
transparent. Only 9% of respondents replied that the new wage grid was not transparent.

-23% of respondents agreed with that statement that the new civil service wage grid
improved incentives, 38% agreed with the statement partially, while 18% did not agree.

-14% of respondents believed that the recent government reorganization was successful,
45% believed that it was partially successful, while 10% of respondents considered the
reorganization as a failure.

-38% of respondents had access to legal information through the Adliya legal database,
and 28% via the mass media.

-8% of respondents replied that compliance costs of new procedures in FPI and SES had
declined, while 27% believed that costs had declined only modestly, and 11% responded
that their costs did not change.

Interpretation of the survey suggests that without adequate public awareness, the reform
would have less positive effect. It concluded that “one of the conditions for efficient
transformation is the availability of public support to decisions to be made. Government
“PR? is essential condition for advancement and implementation of the decisions to be
made. The success of the reform also depends on the character of communication
established between the government and population with a purpose of achieving of public
interest and support for the given reform. Information support for the implementation of
the public administration reform must also be directed to enhancement of interest of the
public servants themselves who must fully realize the goals and objectives of the reform?i.
                                            51
The survey also showed that awareness was raised among elites, but not sufficiently
among the general public. As a result, wide segments of the population did not have a
clear picture of the objectives and principles of the reform and its potential benefits.

Each ministry and department in the economic sectors plus each regional government
authority was aware of their own goals and objectives. While they publicize their own
activities, however, they did not link ongoing changes in their agencies with the broader
public administration reform. At present, there is no single framework and systemic
approach in place to provide information on the reform. As a result, there has been
insufficient interaction between the public authorities and society in this area.

The survey underlined that successful implementation of the PARS depends, on one side,
on understanding and support of reform objectives by certain parts of the business
community and society as well as interest by citizens in reform outcomes, and, on other
side, the availability of information on reform implementation,. Appropriate actions
should thus be taken aimed at:
• stimulating interaction with the public on the reform implementation issues;
• raising public awareness of goals, objectives and progress of the administrative reform;
• providing motivation for engagement in reform implementation to different segments of
society.

In the future, survey findings suggested, reform efforts need to address the secretive
mentality of civil servants, which would contribute to their enhanced image. Increasing
salaries of civil servants should be linked to their performance. Citizens should be
involved in discussions on what must be the outcomes of the public administration’s
performance. For that purpose, public feedback mechanisms should be established.
Further work will also be required to clarify the status and authority of the public
administration, with a focus on the social control over its actions.

1
    Survey on Public Awareness of Public Administration Reform Strategy Implementation, May 2011




                                                   52
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                   53
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Executive Office of the President (EOP) prepared a 39 page Final Report on the
project. The government is positive on the results achieved with the support of the PSRP.
The borrower believes that capacities in the Civil Service Department and IHQCS were
strengthened and the new regulations that were developed and implemented have
contributed to enhanced civil service management. The automated Civil Service Registry
and rehabilitated network are a basis for further introducing modern Information and
Communications Technology in the public administration. The vertical functional
reviews in 10 ministries were successful and the implementation of recommendations is
in train. A reorganization of the EOP has been partially implemented. The Concept Paper
on the Reorganization of the Public Administration has been adopted supporting
subsequent adoption of the Law on Organization of Public Administration. By adopting
the Public Finance Management (PFM) Reform Strategy a solid basis for comprehensive
PFM reform has been established. New job descriptions and wage grid for healthcare
workers have contributed to better management in the sector. Public access to legal
information has been improved thanks to web-based access to the Adliya legal database.
The regulatory regime in the sanitary-epidemiology and fire prevention areas has also
improved as a result of updated legislation and streamlined regulations. The report raises
no problematic issues related to preparation, design, or implementation of the project.




                                           54
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    55
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Project Appraisal Document, No 34924-TJ, May 25, 2006;
Project Operational Manual, April 12, 2006;
Mid-Term Review Report, June 17, 2009;
Project Restructuring Paper, 52877, January 15, 2010;
Project Restructuring Paper, 62216, May 26, 2011;
Implementation and Status of Results Reports (ISRs) for entire project period
Interviews with current and former Task Team Leader and team members




                                           56
                                                 68°E                                                                 70°E                                                                         Rayons
                                                               KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tursunzoda
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Shahrinav
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Murghob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Nosir Khusrav
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 39 Kulob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40 Baljuvon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 41 Moskva
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TAJ IK ISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                    3   Rudaki             22   Shahrituz        42 Shurobod                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                    4   Hissor             23   Qabodiyon        43 Khovaling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AUTONOMOUS OBLAST CENTER*
                                                                                                                                                                                                    5   Varzob             24   Jilikul          44 Muminobod
                                                                                                                                                                                                    6   Fayzobod           25   Khuroson         45 Pandjakent                             OBLAST CENTERS
                                                                                                        To                                                                                          7   Vahdat             26   Qumsangir        46 Ayni
                                                                                                     Tashkent                                                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                  TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                                        8   Roghun             27   Bokhtar          47 Shahriston
                                                                                                                                                                                                    9   Nurobod            28   Kolkhozobod      48 Zafarobod                              MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                    57                                Andijon                      10   Rasht              29   Jomi             49 Istaravshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
                                                                                                                         Fergana                                                                   11   Tojikobod          30   Vakshs           50 Ghonchi
                                                                            To                                             Valley Dary                     UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                      JAMOAT (SUB-DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                                                                                                   12   Tavildara          31   Yovon            51 Spitamen
                                                                         Tashkent                                 Taboshar                r
                                                                                                52                                   Sy                           To                               13   Jirgatol           32   Sarband          52 Matchin
                                                                                                                                                                Andijon                                                                                                                    RAYON (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                55                                                                                 14   Darvoz             33   Panj             53 Jabor Rasulob
                                                                                                                  Kayrakkum                                                                        15   Vanj               34   Danghara         54 Kuhistoni Mastchoh                     AUTONOMOUS OBLAST BOUNDARY*
                                                                                                Khodjand           Reservoir           Konibodom                                                   16   Ishkoshim          35   Farkhor          55 Ghafurov
                                                                                                     Chkolovsk                 56                                                                                                                                                          OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                   17   Roshtqala          36   Norak            56 Konibodom
                                                   To                    48                     51 53                                  58                                                          18   Rushon             37   Vose             57 Asht                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
           40°N                                  Bukhoro
                                                                                   49                                                                                                              19   Shughnon           38   Sovet            58 Isfara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40°N
                                                                                        Ura-                                                                             To                                                                                                      * Area with no oblast-level administrative divisions,
                                        SOGD                                            Tyube                                                                         Kyzyl-Kiya              72°E                                                                                 where rayons are under direct republic jurisdiction.


              To
                                       REGION                                           50                                                                                          KY RGY Z REP.
            Bukhoro                                                       47                                                                                                                                                                                             74°E
                                                                                                                                                                                          To                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                       Sary-Tash                                           Osh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0      20      40       60      80 Kilometers
                                                                                                             an
                                   Pendzhikent                                                       Zeravsh
                                                             Ayni                                           54
                                          45                                                          ge
                                                                        46
                                                                                   i-        Ran                                                          Jirgatal'          13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pik Lenin                                             0           20            40           60 Miles

                                                                               Ala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (7134 m )
                                                                                                                                    10
                                                               Tr   ans                                                        Rasht                                                 Pik Imeni                                           Lake
                                                                                                                                                     11                         Ismail Samani                                          Karakul'
                                                                                                                                                                                   (7495 m )
                                                                                                    Komsomolabad

                                                                               5                7                       9                                       12
                            Region under                            4                                        8
                           direct Republic                                                                 Obigarm                                                                                                         GHORNO-
                                                     1 DUSHANBE                                                                                     14
                           subordination                 2                                       6                                                                                                                     BADAKHSHAN                                                       Rangkul'
                                                                                                                40                            Kalaikhum                                  Pik Revolution
                                                                                                 Nurek                 43                                                    Vanj 15
                                                                                                                                                                                             (6,974 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A.O.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHI N A
            UZ B E K IS TAN                                                                  36                                                                                    P                              ng    Rukhch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20
                                                                3                                                                                                                         a                     ta                                      Murgab Murgab




                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                31
                                                                                                                                                                                                   m




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ba
                                                                                                                                        j
                                                                                                                                    Pan




                                                                                                                         44
                                                                    25                                38                                                                                                    i              Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sarezskoye                                                                                                        38°N
           38°N
                                                                                           34                                                                                                        18            r
                                                                          29                        Kulyab 39                                                                                                          s
                                                                             32                                        42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ak
                                                                        27 Kurgan-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ksu
                                                                                                      37
                   To                                                      Tyube                                                                                                                                                                     Alichur
                  Qarshi                                                                                        41
                                                             24             30                             Moskovskiy
                                              22                                                                                                                                                        19
                                                    Garavuti                               35                                                                                                                                                           Pamir
                                                                         28
                                                                                                                                                                                   Khorog
                                                      23
                                                                                                                                 KHATLON
                                         Shahrtuz                   26              33
                                                                                                                                  REGION
                                                       h




                                                                                        Pyanj
                                                     Vakhs




                                         21                                                                                                                                     Andarob                     Pik Karl Marx
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (6723 m )
                                                                                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Vrang
                                                                                                                                                                                                       nj
                                                                                To                                                                                                                   Pa
                                                                              Baghlan                                                                                                   16
                                                                                                                                                                                   Ishkashim




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33493R
                                                                                          AF GHA NISTA N                                                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
MAY 2007




                                                                                                                                                                                                        PAKISTAN                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                          68°E                                                                       70°E                                                                      72°E                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
