Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H245-TJ 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Public Sector Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 27, 2006  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H245-TJ 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 27, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referenced in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to three 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,500,000) 
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”); 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Page  3
-
2
-
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
–
EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
 
3, Akademic Rajobovkho Street 
 Dushanbe, 
734025 
 Republic 
of 
Tajikistan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(992-372) 213329 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Safarali Najmuddinov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Aziz Khaidarov 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in the implementation of the 
PARS, through strengthening policy making and service delivery systems and enhancing 
transparency of public management in selected core public sector entities. 
 
Part 1
.
Civil Service Management 
(a)  
Strengthening of the legal framework and building of the institutional 
capacity of the Civil Service Department, selected human resources management units in 
line ministries, agencies and local authorities of the Recipient for the application of merit 
principles in civil service recruitment and promotion, through the provision of technical 
assistance, Training, office equipment and development and provision of software. 
 
(b)   
Improvement of the civil service training system of the IHQCS of the 
Recipient. 
 
Part 2
.
Public Administration Reform Strategy
Provision of technical assistance, Training, office equipment and development 
and provision of software to s
trengthen the Recipient’s institutional capacity to 
implement the PARS, including: 
 
(a)  
horizontal functional review of central government executive bodies, 
excluding the military and law enforcement bodies; 
 
(b)  
improvement of administrative procedures of the MoLSP to enhance the 
quality of service delivery in policy areas under the competence of the MoLSP;  
 
(c) 
strengthening capacity and providing policy advice to the EOP; and 
 
(d) 
implementation of the medium-term priorities of the PARS through the 
assistance in the design and implementation of institutional reform plans for Selected 
Government Structures, consisting in the improvement of: (i) their administrative 
efficiency and effectiveness; (ii) policy making and policy impact assessment practices at 
the sectoral level; and (iii) service delivery systems. 
 
Part 3
.
Budget Management
(a)  
Development of an action plan to modernize the public financial 
management system, through provision of technical assistance and Training.  
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b)  
Strengthening of budget management in the health sector to improve per 
capita resource allocation, including the development of wage, staff planning and job 
classification systems, through the provision of technical assistance and Training.  
 
Part 4
.
Regulatory Management 
(a)  
Improving regulatory quality and service delivery of Selected Inspection 
Agencies, through: (i) the review and updating of the legal and regulatory framework; (ii) 
provision of staff Training; and (iii) publication and dissemination of laws and 
regulations and outreach activities. 
 
(b)  
Development of an interactive electronic database of normative acts and 
capacity building of the MoJ and of the Selected Inspection Agencies, through the 
provision of technical assistance, Training, office equipment and the development and 
provision of software.  
 
Part 5
.
Governance Reforms Management and Project Management
(a) 
Strengthening the Recipien
t’s capacity for Project implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation, including audit, procurement, disbursement and financial 
management activities, through the financing of the Operating Costs. 
 
(b)  
Enhancement of the Recipient’s capacity to effectively manage and 
monitor the process of governance system reform, including: (i) conduct of surveys on 
the impact of the reforms; (ii) creation of a website to provide coverage of reform 
initiatives and other outreach activities; and (iii) the design of a monitoring system for 
managing reform implementation.  
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Project Implementation 
1. 
The Recipient, through the EOP, shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
the requirements, criteria, organizational arrangements and operational procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual agreed with the Association  
2. 
The Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provisions of the 
Operational Manual without a prior approval of the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the 
Project: (i) the Project Board; (ii) the PCT; and (iii) the Technical Groups, all with the 
composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and to be set forth in 
the Operational Manual. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports. 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six months prior to the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1.  
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2.  
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report, interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project covering the calendar quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Page  8
-
7
-
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, commencing with 
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was 
made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
.
1.
 Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referenced in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referenced in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods.
1.
 International 
Competitive 
Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Shopping 
 
(b)  Direct Contracting 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Least Cost Selection 
 
(b)   
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(c)   
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of 
the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants 
 
(d)  
Procedure set forth in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants 
 
(e) 
Single Source Selection 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General. 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
Page  10
-
9
-
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1) Goods, consultants
’
services and Training  
(2)  Operating Costs  
(3)  Refund of Project 
Preparation Advance 
3,075,900 
 
296,000 
128,100  
 
100% 
 
100% 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 
2.07 of the General 
Conditions 
TOTAL 
3,500,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period.   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $16,000 equivalent may be 
made for payments made prior to this date, but on or after April 17, 2006, for 
Eligible Expenditures.  
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 1, 2011. 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Aid Coordination Unit” means the unit of the Executive Office of the President 
of the Recipient No. 678 of September 2001, or any successor thereto. 
2. 
“Civil Service Department” means the Civil Service Department established 
under the President of the Recipient by Decree of the President of the Recipient 
No. 475 of January 25, 2001, or any successor thereto. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
4. 
 “EOP” means the Executive Office of the President of the Recipient. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
6. 
“IHQCS” means the Institute for Higher Qualification of Civil Servants of the 
Recipient under the Civil Service Department, established by the Decree of the 
President of the Recipient No. 926 of October 9, 2002, or any successor thereto. 
7. 
“MoF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Recipient, or any successor thereto. 
8. 
“MoJ” means the Ministry of Justice of the Recipient, or any successor thereto. 
9. 
“MoLSP” means the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of Population of the 
Recipient, or any successor thereto. 
10. 
“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by the Recipient 
on account of Project implementation, management, monitoring, audit, 
procurement and financial management, including the provision of consultants’ 
services, Training, office equipment, office space rental, office and equipment 
maintenance and minor repairs, essential travel costs related to the 
implementation of the Project, costs of necessary Project progress monitoring 
surveys, communication, translation and interpretation, bank charges, social 
charges, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project, all 
based on periodic budgets acceptable to the Association.  
11. 
”Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the Recipient, satisfactory 
to the Association, and setting out the operational and administrative procedures 
for the implementation of the Project, as the same may be modified in accordance 
with paragraph 2 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  12
-
11 -
12. 
“PARS" means the Public Administration Reform Strategy of the Recipient, 
adopted by the Presidential Decree of the Recipient No. 1713, dated March 15, 
2006, acceptable to the Association, as it may be amended from time to time.  
13. 
“PCT” means the Project Coordination Team, established within the Department 
for Economic Reforms and Investment of the EOP and responsible for the day-
to-day management of the Project and referred to in paragraph 3 (ii) of Section I 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 2, 2006 and referenced in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
16. 
“Project Board” means the board of high-level officials of the Recipient 
established by the Recipient for the steering and governing of the Project and 
referred to in paragraph 3 (i) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
17. 
“Selected Government Structures” means the MoLSP, the Civil Service 
Department, and the MoF, each as heretofore defined, and five or more such 
other central government structures of the Recipient, as may be agreed between 
the Recipient and the Association. 
18. 
“Selected Inspection Agencies” means: (i) the Republican Center of the State 
Sanitary and Epidemiological Inspectorate under the Ministry of Health of the 
Recipient, established by the Recipient’s Government Resolution No. 575 of 
December 29, 2003, or any successor thereto; and (ii) the Central Directorate of 
the State Fire Inspectorate under the Ministry of Interior of the Recipient, 
established by Recipient’s Government Resolution No. 726 of December 7, 1995 
or any successor thereto. 
19. 
“Technical Groups” means the four groups established by the Recipient and 
responsible for the substantive aspects of the implementation of the Project in the 
areas of: (i) civil service reform; (ii) administrative reform, (iii) budget 
management capacity; and (iv) regulatory management capacity, respectively, 
and referred to in paragraph 3 (iii) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
20. 
“Training” means expenditures for Project related study tours, training courses, 
seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under goods or 
service providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and 
equipment rental, travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers. 
Page  13
-
12 -
