Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                       .
Report No. P-3379-UV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$7.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR A
KOUDOUGOU AGRICULTURAL PILOT PROJECT
September 1, 1982
Western Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
SDR 1.00       =    US$1.12   =  CFAF 336
US$1.00        =    CFAF 300  =  SDR 0.89
CFAF 1000      =    US$3.33   =  SDR 2.97
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
1 metric ton       -     0.98 long ton (2,205 lbs)
1 hectare (ha)     -     2.47 acres
1 kilometer        -     0.62 mile
1 meter            -     3.28 feet
ABBREVIATIONS
AVV:         Volta Valleys Development Authority
BOAD:        West African Development Bank
CNCA:        National Agricultural Credit Bank
FAER:        Rural Equipment Fund
HER:         Water Supply Division
ICRISAT:     International Crops Research Institute for the
Semi-Arid Tropics
IRAT:        Tropical Agronomic Research Institute
IVRAZ:       Voltaic Agronomic and Zootechnical Research Institute
MDR:         Ministry of Rural Development
OFNACER:     National Cereals Agency
ORD:         Regional Development Organization
RDF:         Rural Development Fund
SAFGRAD:     Semi-Arid Food Grain Research and Development
SOFITEX:     Voltaic Textile Fiber Company
FISCAL YEARS
Government:     January 1  -  December 31
ORD Koudougou:  April 1    - March 31
Project:        April 1    - March 31
.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UPPER VOLTA
KOUDOUGOU AGRICULTURAL PILOT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUtAARY
Borrower:        The Republic of Upper Volta.
Amount:          SDR 6.3 million (US$700 million).
Terms:           Standard
Pro ject
Description:   The proposed project has developed out of previous efforts
to design an agricultural development project for the Koudougou
ORD. Previous project proposals had shown low estimated rates
of return because the agricultural techniques to be recommended
to the farmer were insufficiently adapted to the poor soil and
rainifall conditions in the north of the ORD and because of the
assumed low acceptance rate among farmers in the south resulting
from social and demographic factors. The technical package has
meanwhile been enlarged and improved, which should result in
higher returns in the north and which makes it more relevant to
the problems (particularly soil degradation) of the south. The
proposed project would, therefore, test two key hypotheses,
namely:
(a) there exists an economically viable package of agricultural
techniques for the northern half of the ORD; and
(b) the social and demographic factors endangering the accept-
ance of the package in the southern half of the ORD
can be overcome.
The project would consist in strengthening and reorganizing
the extension service according to the training and visit
system and provision of inputs and equipment. The extension
recommendations would be derived from research and neighboring
IDA projects, but modifications would be made and new elements
added, to adopt them to the particular soil and climatic
conditions of the project area. New recommendations would be
the use of local rock phosphate with or without urea, the
introduction of drought-resistant crop varieties, crop associa-
tion methods and fallowing practices, the integration of animal
husbandry and crop cultivation as well as the construction of
contour bunds by means of animal traction.  The extension
recommendations would need further refinement to adapt them as
well as possible to conditions in the project area. The
project would therefore include an adaptive research component,
which would conduct the necessary trials to do so. Because the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii 
pro-ect st-resses the need for integration of animal husbandry
and crop c...ltivation, it would also contain an animal health
component, which would cover the entire ORD to account for
nomadic movel.i,,ts of most of its livestock. A strong nmonitoring
and evaluation unit would determine to what extent the tech-
niques would be successful by conducting a base line survey at
the start of the project and follow-up of key technical para-
meters (particularly fertilizer response rates). Special
emphasis would be placed on the study of farm budgets for
various farming systems.
Benefits:       Because of the project's pilot nature, it is not justified to
evaluate it on the basis of its particular costs and benefits
and therefore no rate of return has been calculated.  However,
if the hypotheses to be tested prove correct, as anticipated,
it should be possible to have ultimately a full-scale agricul-
tural development project in the ORD with a rate of return
similar to that of other projects in the country, i.e. in the
range of 15 to 20 percent. However, the potential impcrtance
of the project would exceed the benefits that accrue tc, the
Koudougou ORD. If the project is successful' i'n the north, it
would ultimately be introduced to other parts of the central
plateau as well.  A slow-down in soil degradation on the
central plateau in general would produce substantial benefits.
Areas outside the central plateau would benefit as well., as any
reduction in soil degradation there would lessen the pressure
to emigrate and reduce the adverse effects t-h2reof on the host
regions.
Risks:          There is an inherent risk that the hypotheses to be tested
will prove incorrect, that no economically  iable package will
emerge for the north and/or that the acceptance rate in. the
south would stay below the minimum required to justify the cost
of the extension effort and inputs. It was exactly because the
risk was considered too great for a full-scale project that it
was decided to minimize risks by limiting the project to two
small pilot regions and by including an adaptive research
component for refining the extension messages to increase their
attractiveness to and chances of adoption by farmers. It is
important that the project not fail for maragerial or admini-
strative reasons. The project would, therefore, contain
a relatively substantial technical assistance component.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:
(net of taxes and duties from which the proJect would be exempted)
(incltuding US$725,000 financed through a Project Preparation Facility)
Local     Forel-n    T3tal
… US $ M.illi _. - 
1.  Extension service                      0o5          0.5       lhi
2.  Inputs and equipment                   05          U.9        1,4
3.  Adaptive research                       0.5         0.5        1))
4.  Animal health                           0.2        0o6         O-'0
5.  Monitoring and evaluation               0.4         0.9
6.  Management and administration           o.5         1.3        1.8
Total Base Costs at 1982 prices         2.6         4,7        7.3
Physical Contingencies                  0.3         0.6        0.9
Price Contingencies                     1.2         1e4        2.6 
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                4.1         6.7       10.8
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign    Total
JUS$ Million …
IDA                                        2.3         407        7.0
Netherlands                                0.9         2.0        2.9
Beneficiaries                              0.3          -         0.3
Domestic Commercial Banks                  0.3                    0.3
Covernment                                 0.3                    o 0.3
TOTAL                                 4.1         6.7      10.8
Estimated Disbursements:
FY83     FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87     FY88      FY89
…US$ Million ----…-------…------
Annual         0.6       1.1       1.3     1.5        1.3       0.8       0.4
Cumulative    0.6        1.7      3.0      4D5        5.8       6.6       7.0
Rate of Return:    Because of their pilot nature, no rate of return has
been calculated for the agricultural activities under
the project.
Appraisal Report:  No appraisal report has been prepared, but working papers
for each component are available.
Map:                No. IBRD-16224






INTERNATioUiAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA FOR A
KOUDOUGOU AGRICULTURAL PILOT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Upper Volta in an amount equivalent
to SDR 6.3 million (US$7.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance
a Koudougou Agricultural Pilot Project. The Kingdom of the Netherlands will
contribute an additional US$2.9 million equivalent towards project costs under
a parallel financing arrangement.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum:  Upper Volta"
(2146-UV) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 14, 1979.
An updating economic memorandum is presently under preparation, based upon
a mission in February, 1982. Information obtained during that mission is
incorporated in the section below.
Socio-Economic Background
3.        Upper Volta is one of the poorest countries in the world with a GNP
per capita of US$210 in 1980. 2/ Over 80 percent of the population depend on
agriculture or livestock for their livelihood. Soil quality and rainfall
vary considerably across the country, in particular between the dry central
plateau and the wetter zone of the southwest. Over half of the population of
6.1 million (1980) is concentrated in this central region, which has resulted
in overcultivation of the already fragile soils and progressive erosion. The
sharp annual fluctuation in rainfall, few mineral resources, scarcity of roads
and other infrastructure, and long distances from the nearest seaports further
constrain the country's development.
4.        The impoverishment of the central region has given rise to net
emigration to the coastal countries, mainly the Ivory Coast, of about 0.6
percent of the population each year, and spontaneous resettlement to the less
densely populated southwest. While internal resettlement and emigration
represent important avenues for many individuals to improve their incomes,
Upper Volta will face for some time a difficult challenge to raise the pro-
ductivity of food cultivation on the central plateau, which will continue to
provide the livelihood for a very large share of the population. The oppor-
tunities for economic growth over the long term will not improve, however,
1/   Parts I, II and III are substantially the same as those in the Volta-Noire
and Hauts-Bassins Reports.
2/   National income and population data quoted here are based on recent
analyses and differ from figures in Annex I.



unless special efforts a e made to accelerate the development of human
capital, in particular by raising the primary school enrollment rate and life
expectancy which are among the lowest in the world, at 20 percent and 43
years, respectively.
Past Economic Performance
5.        Upper Volta's economic performance has in general reflected a
relatively prudent economic management. Government's favorable record,
however, reflects more its inclination against active intervention in the
economy than a strong capability of policy analysis and execution. Indeed,
a problem is that Government has provided only a limited degree of coordina-
tion and oversight of investment planning and budgeting, a weakness which
extends to essential sectoral activities such as agricultural research.
This weak administrative capability has been put under a special strain by
the large inflow of foreign assistance and the proliferation of donor agencies
which have become a feature of the Voltaic scene since the major drought
of the mid-1970s. The present Government, which came to power in 1980,
demonstrates an increasing inclination to proceed with some major investments
which have weak economic justification and will place an undue burden on
domestic financial resources (especially for operating costs). It is also
evident that Government has made only limited progress in implementing
reforms to strengthen financial management.
6.        National Output.  Recently revised estimates of GDP show an annual
increase of 3.7 percent over the 1970-79 period, or about 1.8 percent per
capita. Real output of the primary sector, which contributes almost 40 per-
cent of total value-added, increased by about 1.5 percent annually, a perfor-
mance which compares favorably to that of other semi-arid Sub-Saharan Africa
countries and reflects the effect of development projects and reasonably good
sectoral policies. The livestock subsector showed no overall growth in
value-added from 1970-79. Industrial production, which accounts for about 13
percent of GDP, expanded by 4.1 percent per year over the same period. The
main sources of growth in the economy were public administration and other
services, which increased 6.0 percent annually. The greatest expansion in
these activities reflected the substantial increase in externally-financed
development projects following the drought.
7.        National income fell by 5 percent in 1980 as a result of poor rains,
which caused a decline in crop production of 15 percent, and the general
slowdown in economic activity preceding the military coup. The economy
rebounded in 1981, expanding about 9 percent above the previous year's low.
8.        Total gross investment averaged about 17 percent of GDP over the
past decade. The high incremental capital:output ratio (ICOR), which
amounted to 6.4 percent for 1976-81, reflects the dearth of productive re-
sources besides capital in the country and the lack of coordination cf public
investment which is almost entirely externally financed. The resource gap has
risen from 14 percent of GDP in 1970 to 24 percent in 1981, and domestic
savings have remained strongly negative throughout the decade. Most of



this excess consumption has arisen from the Government sector. Because of
workers' remittances, which largely supported private consumption, gross
national savings have been only slightly negative or zero.
9,        Overall, the economy's performance during the past decade was better
than average for the lowest income countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. However,
the dominant features of the Voltaic economy--the deterioration of soils on
the central plateau, the predominantly illiterate work force, vulnerability to
climatic variation and dependence on foreign capital--make it evident that the
country still has a very weak basis for sustained economic growth.
10.       Balance of Payments.  The balance on the external account has shown
a deficit for most years since 1976, in contrast to the pattern of surplus in
the early decade. The overall shortfall was estimated at CFAF 2.3 billion
(US$8.2 million) in 1981. Wide swings have been apparent in the export of
cotton and sheanuts, the main export crops, partly as a result of variations
in rainfall. Cereals, capital goods, and especially petroleum are the fastest
growing imports - to a great extent, however, these are counter-balanced by
grants (e.g. food aid) and loans for development projects. Although Upper
Volta clearly has a structural imbalance with respect to foreign trade, it is
likely that the availability of aid and remittances has enabled the demand
for imports to grow disproportionately. The balance of payments situation
therefore does not mark a need for policies to tightly restrict domestic
demand, but constraints on petroleum imports and measures to ensure buoyant
export sectors (especially cotton and livestock) will be important to achieve
greater stability of the external account.
11.       Public Finance.  Although Government pursued generally conserva-
tive fiscal policies prior to 1975, this pattern changed with the expansion
of foreign aid at mid-decade. Budget deficits averaging CFAF 3.0 billion
(US$12.6 million) have appeared each year from 1976-80. A much larger gap of
CFAF 8.8 billion (US$31.4 million), or 2.8 percent of GDP, is estimated in
1981, with another shortfall expected in 1982.
12.       The deficitary trend has occurred despite a fairly buoyant perfor-
mance in revenue mobilization. Civil service salary raises have been well
below the rate of inflation, and Government has recently tightened administra-
tive expenditures. Financial losses of the parastatal sector, although they
are beginning to reach an important scale for certain enterprises, have not
been a factor to date in the overall budgetary situation, Although there are
specific areas where tax and expenditure reforms are needed, for the most part
the deficitary trend has arisen from the widespread expansion of government
activities in many sectors as a result of development investments.
13.       As the first generation of development projects financed after the
drought come into their operational phase, Government is going to be faced
increasingly with new recurrent expenditure obligations. Yet at present it
has no consolidated investment budget, nor are the recurrent expenditures of
investment projects taken into account in the preparation of the national
budget. The Government and the Bank have for the past two years been discus-
sing an institutional reform proposed by the Ministry of Plan to bring about
a more systematic accounting for investment expenditure, and a technical



-4-
assistance project to help implement the reform has been under preparation.
Progress on the reform has been slow owing to failure to reach agreement on
the allocation of responsibilities between different ministries. The IMF also
has a Standby Program under discussion with the primary aim of strengthening
the public finance situation.
14.       Foreign Assistance and Investment.  Although three development plans
have been prepared, the latest covering the 1977/81 period, the process of
formulating the investment programs has involved little evaluation and selec-
tion of projects by Government based upon economic criteria and development
priorities. The 1982-86 plan is still in a very early stage of preparation.
Despite the absence of a distinct investment program, foreign aid to Upper
Volta has continued at a high level, with both commitments and disbursements
of official inflows exceeding total budget revenues for the past several years.
Most of this aid is on highly concessional terms. The principal foreign
donors are France, the European Development Fund, Canada, the Netherlands,
Germany, the United States, the Association, and the UNDP. Although a large
degree of informal consultation among the donors exists, especially with
respect to large infrastructural projects, increased coordination will become
more important to improve the efficiency of investment and ensure that the
recurrent costs are sustainable, especially given Government's own limited
capability in planning and analysis. The Bank is discussing these iissues with
the Government.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
15.       The Bank Group's commitments in Upper Volta, as of March 1, 1982,
amount to US$191 million and cover twenty-two IDA credits. IFC has one invest-
ment. About US$87 million have been disbursed. The IDA projects include
eleven agriculture (including two supplementary credits), five transportation
(including one supplementary credit), two education, two telecommunications,
one small and medium scale enterprise, and one urban development project. The
IFC investment is for plastic production. Of total IDA lending, the agricul-
ture and transportation sectors account for 44 and 40 percent, respectively.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC commitments as
of March 1, 1982. It also includes information on the status of ongoing
projects.
16.       A few projects have experienced implementation delays necessitating
extensions of closing dates, and world price inflation in others has led to
cost overruns, requiring supplementary financing or eliminating lower priority
components (Third Highway Project, Cr. 653-UTV, US$20.0 million, 1976, and EEC
Special Action Credit 38, US$3.5 million, 1980; West Volta Agricultural
Development Project, Cr. 706-UV, US$3.6 million (IDA) and Can.$3.0 million
(Canada), 1977, and EEC Special Action Credit 49, US$3.0 million, 1980; Urban
Development Project, Cr. 766-UV, US$8.2 million, 1978). Financial control
on some projects has been weak due in part to a lack of general financial



standards or procedures. Budgets are nominally prepared, approved and con-
trolled by a central authority, but the procedures are insufficiently rigorous.
There are few official standards or procedures for setting expenditure norms.
Furthermore, partly due to fiscal management problems Government has had
difficulty in promptly meeting its counterpart funding obligations. Future
projects will address these issues by the provision of further project-related
technical assistance and training, as well as at the central level through a
proposed Technical Assistance Project to improve the financial management and
investment planning and budgeting process. On the whole, however, past
project performance has been generally satisfactory given the environmental,
institutional and managerial constraints within the country.
17.       Upper Volta's disbursement performance has been normal compared to
other countries in the region. Recently, however, its performance has begun
to deteriorate mainly due to lack of counterpart funds as a result of current
budgetary difficulties and delays in project effectiveness (Highways IV).
The Bank is helping to tackle these problems by ensuring that Government is
aware of forthcoming counterpart obligations and by offering increased assis-
tance from the Bank's Resident Representative during the period prior to
project effectiveness. The proposed Technical Assistance Project would also
help to address disbursement problems.
18.       The Bank Group's lending is in line with Government's priorities
as expressed in its Third Development Plan (1977/81), and will continue to
support Government's efforts to: (a) increase productivity in agriculture,
from which most of the population derives its livelihood; (b) improve the
human resource base; (c) strengthen basic infrastructure facilities; and
(d) mobilize resources from co-donors. Government is currently working on
a Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1982/86) with UNDP assistance. Priori-
ties are, however, not expected to differ from those of the Third Plan.
19.       In the near-term (FY82-84), Bank Group operations are expected to
include a second rail project to be executed with the Ivory Coast; a hydro-
electric power project; a technical assistance project to strengthen Govern-
ment's investment planning and control procedures; and a credit to assist
Government to deal with the policy aspects of fertilizer usage and food
security, while phasing out subsidies on fertilizers. In the medium-term,
Bank assistance strategy toward Upper Volta envisages combining our present
commitment to the promotion of food and export crop production with a new
emphasis on agricultural research, development of human resources through
basic education and health, and the strengthening of aid coordination.
20.       Upper Volta's external public debt at the end of 1980 amounted
to US$508 million (including US$185 million undisbursed) of which IDA credits
accounted for about 25 percent. The ratio of debt service to exports of goods
and non factor services was 9.2 percent in 1980, and the ratio is not expected
to increase significantly over the next several years.



-6-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sector Background
21.       Economic growth in Upper Volta is necessarily closely linked to
progress in the agricultural sector which employs 80-90 percent of the popula-
tion and comprises almost 40 percent of GDP and almost all exports. However,
soils are poor, rainfall is low and uncertain, and the potential for irriga-
tion is economically limited, requiring costly investments to develop.
Improving agricultural productivity, which is necessary for maintaining food
security and increasing national income, is thus a challenging task.
22.       Although the country is relatively flat, there are pronounced
regional differences in climate and soils. The low and erratic rainfall
in the north (600 mm) results in unreliable harvests and greater reliance on
livestock for survival, and consequently low population densities. On the
central plateau, crop farming is at a subsistence level because of population
pressure, over-exploited soils and unreliable rainfall.  In the southwest,
soil and rainfall conditions (reaching 1,200 mm) are more favorable, popula-
tion density lower, and production more market-oriented.
23.       Agricultural production over 1961-79 has performed as well as
could have been expected given the severe constraints. Foodcrop areas, which
account for almost 90 percent of cultivated land, have increased less than
the net annual growth in rural population. In contrast to most other food-
crops, sorghum production has grown more rapidly than population reflecting in
part the residual effects of cotton fertilizer in crop rotation, as well as
direct fertilization. Overall, the country has continued to satisfy all but a
small share (5 percent) of its consumption of foodcrops from local production
in years of normal rainfall. But this has only been achieved through increas-
ing dependence on the southwest as a source of food surplus, which tends to
limit the resources available in that region for growing the country's major
export crop, cotton. This dependence must continue, however, in the short
term, whilst adaptive research attempts to develop improved approaches for
increasing productivity over wide areas of the center.
24.       Cotton yields have risen markedly in the last decade and output
rose from 36,000 tons in 1970 to over 78,000 tons by 1979 due to cultivation
shifting to more fertile areas and to the use of fertilizers and insecticides,
coupled with extension programs. Since 1979, cotton acreage has fallen,
indicating that close attention needs to be paid to the relationship of cotton
and cereals prices, including reviewing whether current taxes on cotton, which
are not high, should nevertheless be reduced. The Association's continuing
policy dialogue with Government includes attention to this.
25.       Because of the population pressure, there is considerable migra-
tion away from the central plateau, partly abroad, but mainly close to
roads in other parts of the country, particularly the area immediately south
of the central plateau, and the southwest. Government has sought to address



migration in an organized fashion through the Volta Valleys Authority (AVV),
which has resettled families, previously at high cost, in areas freed from
onchocerciasis. Government has recently adopted new policies, broadly in
line with recommendations of the Association, aimed at reducing costs of AVV
operations. Under the Hauts-Bassins project approved in July 1982, funds are
included for studies in AVV areas. Outside these areas, a low cost approach
to migration was to have been tested under the West Volta Agricultural Develop-
ment Project (Cr. 706-UV), but terms of reference for preliminary studies were
not agreed between Government and Switzerland, the financing source involved,
in time to permit execution; it is now intended that this component will be
undertaken under the recently approved Volta Noire and Hauts-Bassins projects.
Principal Sectoral Institutions
26.       The Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) is responsible for agricul-
ture and livestock and related national support services, including adaptive
research and seed production. It oversees parastatal marketing organizations
and the eleven decentralized Regional Development Organizations (ORDs).
Except in the case of those ORDs in areas with externally-financed projects,
the ORDs lack adequate budgetary allocations; however, the heavy cost of
maintaining an ORD is most easily justified in areas where economical tech-
nological packages exist readily usable by farmers on a wide scale - that is,
presently only in the southwest.
27.       Agricultural credit is largely the responsibility of the National
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) established in 1980, which in line with
recommendations of the Association, has concentrated upon setting policy norms
for agricultural credit, training, and control of funds, and has successfully
completed its initial program in .hese areas. Day-to-day credit operations
continue to be the responsibility of the ORDs. Commercial banks provide
short-term credit for the purchase of annual inputs and for the marketing of
cotton.
28.       Marketing:  Cereals are marketed mainly by private traders who
purchase grains in producing areas and sell them in the main consumption
points. The system works fairly efficiently, with most farmers being able
to sell any excess production without difficulty. Government sets official
consumer and producer prices, but does not enforce them as such; rather, it
attempts to influence market prices through the National Cereals Agency
(OFNACER) which was able last season to offer to purchase cereals at the
official price throughout the country, and although it did not meet its
purchase quotas, it may have induced traders to offer higher prices than
they would have otherwise. The Association has advised Government that
it considers that the role of private traders should be maintained, as at
present, and that OFNACER's role should be limited to marketing emergency
stocks, selling food aid supplies to drought-stricken areas, and improving
market information. Cotton marketing, ginning and export is competently
undertaken by the Voltaic Textile Fibre Company (SOFITEX), owned by Government
(63 percent), and by the French Textile Fibre Development Company (CFDT) (37
percent) which provide technical support and receive a commission of 1.5
percent on all exports. SOFITEX also imports fertilizers and insecticides



-8-
for sale at subsidized prices, not only for cotton (fertilizers and insec-
ticides) but for cereals (fertilizers) as well. The system which has worked
successfully is under strain, however, especially for areas not producing
cotton, because of delays by Government in reimbursing SOFITEX for the subsidy
element for fertilizers used on cereals.
29.       An active program of agricultural research is undertaken ty exter-
nally-supported specialist institutions for cotton, irrigated crops, sorghum
and millet, and other foodcrops. However, the work has suffered from a lack
of focus upon the need to produce recommendations valid at farmer level, which
has arisen in part because of concentration by the institutions upon specific
crops, and a resultant lack of attention to fa4ming systems research. The
recently created Voltaic Institute for Agronomic and Zootechnical Research
intends to address these problems; the Association is discussing with Govern-
ment possible support to the Institute. Seed production, a Ministry function,
has also encountered problems of pricing policy, inadequate extension atten-
tion and liaison with research, and lack of attention to farmers' preferences.
Under forthcoming Association-financed projects, particular attention is to be
paid to seed production and the factors affecting uptake.
Sector Strategy and Bank Group Lending
30.       The Government's strategy in agriculture has given priority to
(a) improving the productivity of rainfed agriculture; (b) promoting migra-
tion from the densely populated and relatively infertile central plateau
to the more fertile and less densely populated areas in the southwest;
(c) expanding irrigation and swampland production schemes; and (d) ensuring
national food security. In line with this strategy, Bank Group lending for
Upper Volta has emphasized development of rainfed agriculture for food and
cash crops in the southwest, small-scale land development schemes to expand
the agricultural production base in the central plateau, and testing a larger
scale swampland production scheme in the southwest.
31.       Since 1970, IDA has financed eleven projects in the rural sector
of which five have been completed. The Cotton Project (Cr. 225-UV, US$6.2
million, 1970) demonstrated that an improved technology, within the means
of small farmers, could be spread widely and rapidly. The project's Audit
Report noted substantial improvements in farming practices and yields. The
First Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 496-UV, US$8.0 million,
1974) after a slow start also achieved satisfactory results in expanding
cotton and cereal production. The project closed in December 1981 and a
project completion report is being prepared. The Drought Relief Project
(Cr. 442-UV, US$2.0 million, 1973) and the First and Second Rural Development
Fund (RDF) Projects (Cr. 317-UV, US$2.2 million, 1972 and Cr. 640-UV, US$9.4
million, 1976) aimed at financing small discrete works with community par-
ticipation. The Project Audits described the Drought Relief and First RDF
Projects as highly innovative and successful in implementing diversified and
scattered subprojects. The second RDF Project, completed in December 1981,
continued the development of bottomlands, wells and anti-erosion works on the
central plateau. A third RDF Project was approved by the Board on March 30,
1982, while the two Volta Noire and Hauts-Bassins Agricultural Development
Projects were approved on July 27, 1982.



-9--
32.       The ongoing IDA-assisted agricultural projects are:  the West
Volta Agricultural Development Project (Credit 706-UV, US$3.6 million, 1977,
Credit 706-5-IV for Can.$3.0 million and Special Action Credit 49-UV for
US$3.0 million equivalent); the Livestock Development Project (Credit 557-IW,
US$6.0 million, 1975); the Forestry Project (Credit 982-UV; US$14.5 million,
1980); the Niena Dionkele Rice Development Project (Credit 1013-UV, US$6.5
million, 1980); and the Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project
(Credit 1097-dWV, US$16.0 million, 1981). They are being implemented satisfac-
torily, although the swamp drainage Niena Dionkele Pilot Project has run into
technical problems of water availability and rice varieties, and the Livestock
Project had difficulties with its group ranch component which necessitated a
redesign and a reduction in the credit by US$3.0 million.
Future Orientations
33.       The Association is currently discussing with Government an agricul-
tural issues study resulting from recent sector work. The study confirms the
broad orientations of agricultural policy discussed above but seeks to high-
light some of the priority areas that merit attention if the four general
goals are to be achieved. For rainfed agriculture, regional priorities need
defining in order to focus on the major constraints and areas of potential; in
the west, by continued promotion of food and export crop production and in the
center, by encouraging erosion control, better husbandry, and animal traction,
and undertaking research to improve drought-resistant varieties. It will be
appropriate, in the more difficult regions, for pilot projects to be under-
taken to test the suitability of promising approaches for wider adoption. For
migration, the Volta Noire and Hauts-Bassins projects include studies and
implementation of pilot components aimed at testing low cost approaches to
dealing with installation of arriving migrants. For irrigation/swampland
development, a study by the FAO Cooperative Program is currently underway to
collect more data in order to establish whether a potential for economically
attractive investments exists, and if so, the priorities. For national food
security, one of the key issues is how to assure a steady increase in fer-
tilizer use which is forecast to need to rise by some 3,000 tons/year over
the next five years in order to meet foodl production requirements. Government
is finding it increasingly difficult to finance the 64 percent subsidy, which
in turn threatens adequacy of supplies. Recognizing this and in line with
obligations under the Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project,
Government reduced the subsidy in June 1982 from 64 to 57 percent. It has
also confirmed its strong interest to pursue discussions concerning a pro-
posed Fertilizer Credit having an objective of a progressive reduction of the
subsidy over five years to a level supportable without external finance. The
project would need to carefully monitor and take into account effects of price
changes on output and consumer prices. The adjustment process, which needs to
be flexible, will involve difficult political and economic judgments for the
Government, as it seeks to maintain farm output in the face of rising input
costs, whilst restraining to acceptable levels increases in the prices paid
by urban consumers who exercise a considerable degree of political power.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
History
34.       The proposed pilot project has evolved out of a full scale agricul-
tural development project identified in October 1977, appraised in June 1979,
and negotiated in Washington D.C., during November, 1980. The project was not
presented to the Board because further research results which became available
after negotiations in the course of IDA sector work caused uncertainty about
the assumptions on which it was based, in particular the assumed average yield
increases due to the use of fertilizer. Consequent project benefit calcula-
tions based on alternative yield assumptions showed an expected economiic rate
of return of only 6-8 percent. As a result, it was agreed with Government to
suspend the processing of the Koudougou Agricultural Development Project. A
reassessment of the initial approach had also become desirable because of
accumulating evidence of adverse effects of migration on the agricultural base
in the south of the ORD due to depletive farming practices of migrantes and
to erosion resulting from indiscriminate cultivation.
35.       Considering these uncertainties, IDA proposed and Government: accepted
the concept of having a pilot project.  An IDA mission identified and appraised
such a project in October 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
from June 12-15, 1982; the Upper Voltan delegation was led by H.E. the Minister
of Rural Development. Because of the project's pilot nature, no Staff Appraisal
Report was prepared, but working papers for each component are available.
Supplementary Project Data are contained in Annex III.
36.       The proposed project would test the two key hypotheses about: which
both the Government and IDA felt uncertain. In summary, these hypotheses are
that:
-    there exists an economically viable technical package for the
northern half of the ORD which could be applied with reasonable
certainty; and
-    it is possible to overcome the social and demographic factors
endangering the acceptance of the package to be applied in the
southern half of the ORD and which, on purely technical grounds,
seems appropriate.
Because cotton production in the south has virtually disappeared since the
initial appraisal mission, an important objective of the project is a:Lso to
determine whether cotton production can be revived.
Description
37.       The proposed project would consist of providing farmers with equip-
ment, inputs and extension services to test agricultural techniques for their
technical effectiveness and acceptance by farmers in two pilot regions of the
Koudougou ORD chosen on the basis of topography, soil composition, rainfall,



- .i1 -
size, population and infrastructure availability. Since the integration of
animal husbandry and crop cultivation constitutes an essential element of
the project it would also include an animal health component covering the
entire ORD area to account for nomadic movements of much of the area's live-
stock. Furthermore, the project would have a seed production unit for the
entire ORD, an adaptive research component and a strong monitoring and evalua-
tion unit to follow up and evaluate project results. The project would be
funded for five years, but after three full crop years, there would be an
interim evaluation and, if warranted, the pilot regions expanded and a full
scale project prepared which would apply the results elsewhere.
Detailed Features
38.       The proposed project area encompasses the Koudougou Regional Develop-
ment Organization (ORD). The northern half is situated on the central plateau
while the southern half resembles more the southwest (e.g. lower population
density, higher rainfall and somewhat more fertile soils). In the north of
Koudougou the population is mostly Mossi while the south consists mainly of
the Gourounsi tribe, which has not yet been approached with improved agricul-
tural technologies and may not as readily accept them as the Mossi. Migration
from the northern half (and other parts of the central plateau) into the
southern half is quite heavy. Thus in readily accessible areas (around the
Koudougou-Leo highway) population density may be approaching northern levels
with similar problems--shortage of agricultural land, erosion due to overuse
and declining soil fertility. Therefore, in a not too distant future, condi-
tions in large parts of the ORD's southern half may resemble those presently
prevailing in the north.
39.       The main project component would concentrate on increasing agricul-
tural production and farm incomes through extension activity and through
provision of agricultural equipment and inputs to farmers in the two pilot
regions. 1/ This would include:
(a) the reorganization, training and equipment of the extension service
in the two pilot areas following the training and visit system.
About 2,250 farms will receive extension services in each of the
pilot regions. Audio-visual presentations and educative posters and
leaflets will help introduce the extension message;
(b) the supply of agricultural equipment (draft animals and equipment,
stable construction materials) for cash or on credit. Medium-term
credit for these purposes will be financed under the Credit; and
1/   One pilot zone is located in the north of the ORD and consists of the
Yako sub-sector, located on the heavily populated central plateau having
an area of about 1,200 km2 with 80,000 people (8,000-10,000 farms).
The other pilot zone consists of the Kassou sub-sector in the south where
immigration is taking place, comprising about 3,900 km2 with 41,000
people (4,000-5,000 farms).



- 12 -
(c) provision of advice and help to village groups through village
support agents in credit administration, distribution of agricul-
tural inputs and other activities they may wish to engage in (e.g.
construction of village stores).
40.       The effectiveness of reorganizing the extension service according
to the training and visit system has been amply demonstrated in previous IDA
agricultural development projects in Upper Volta. Extension agents are to be
trained so that they become fully conversant with the existing farmitg systems,
the area's problems and constraints and the techniques to be introduced.
Special emphasis would be placed on close links with research and feedback
from farmers.
41.       Some extension recommendations in the north would be available to
farmers from the outset for use on better soils while other recommendations
would need to be refined through research. Those presently available (improved
agricultural practices such as timely seeding, weeding, land preparation, etc.
and the application of inputs like fertilizer, improved seeds, fungicides)
have been derived from other IDA projects and ongoing research, but would
be limited to foodcrop production (sorghum, millet, maize) since conditions
for cotton cultivation are unfavorable. In addition, they would recommend a
number of other techniques that, together with those mentioned above, could
provide a viable package applicable for the remaining area, namely:
(a) the integration of animal husbandry and crop cultivation (:including
forage crops) to increase the availability of organic matter for
improving soil fertility and permit the use of draft animals for
land preparation and weeding, and for the transport of inputs and
crops;
(b) the application of rock phosphate with or without urea, which
would reduce the need for the presently widely used but costly
complex fertilizers;
(c)  the introduction of better fallowing practices and improvement of
crop association methods;
(d) the introduction of more drought-resistant varieties; and
(e)  the application of soil conservation measures (reforestation,
tie-ridges, grass strips) including the construction of contour
bunds by less costly means than those presently used.
While the first three recommendations (except for the cultivation of forage
crops), can be further refined, they are sufficiently advanced to be proposed
from the outset. The other recommendations would need more work and would
initially only be pursued within the context of the adaptive research com-
ponent.



- 13 -
42.       In the south, the extension recommendations presently used in
neighboring parts of the Bougouriba Project would be applied as natural
conditions are similar. In addition, the recommendations listed above will
be used. The main objectives of the southern pilot component would be to
test the willingness of farmers to adopt the proposed recommendations, in
particular, with respect to cotton cultivation which has virtually disappeared
during the last decade due to lack of inputs and competition from foodcrops.
The uncertainty about adoption rates relates to both the indigenous population
and migrants. With respect to the former, low adoption rates by comparable
population groups have been a problem in the Bougouriba I Project. As far as
migrants are concerned, they are mostly poor, have no rights to the land they
cultivate and consider their stay in the south often temporary, so that they
may not have the means or the incentive to follow the extension recommenda-
tions. As in the north, adaptive trials would be carried out to refine and
improve the recommendations.
43.       The project would contain a small seed multiplication unit to
provide farmers with improved seeds of new crop varieties. Base seeds would
be obtained from Voltaic research insitutes, multiplied by contract farmers
and processed at ORD Headquarters by equipment which is already available in
Upper Volta. For reasons of economies of scale, the production of improved
seeds would be sufficient to supply the entire ORD.
44.       Credit would be provided to village groups for oxen, animal traction
equipment and stable construction materials. Medium-term credit recoveries
from village groups have been satisfactory (about 90 percent). Funds for
medium-term credit to be financed under the proposed Credit, would be managed
by the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) separate from its other funds.
Transactions at field level would be the ORD's responsibility, using CNCA
recommended procedures under CNCA supervision. CNCA lending terms, which are
acceptable to the Association, would apply (Section 3.05 of Credit Agreement).
Credit would be extended for 5 years including one year of grace with no down-
payment except for draft animals for which the downpayment would be 20 percent.
Interest rates would be 11 percent, the maximum permitted under the preferen-
tial schedule of the Central Bank's regulations. This rate compares with a
present inflation rate of about 12 percent, forecast to decline to 10 percent
by 1986.
45.       An adaptive research program would provide information to improve
continually the extension message. In particular, it would provide needed
data on fertilizer application rates under varying production systems and soil
conditions, food and forage crop varieties, and bund specifications and con-
struction methods. The program would operate at three levels in both the
north and the south, namely (i) at a small field research substation; (ii) in
test villages; and (iii) in farmers' fields. The adaptive research program
would be guided by an Experimentation Committee headed by the director of the
Voltaic Agronomic and Zootechnical Research Institute (IVRAZ) (a government
research coordinating institution) and composed of staff of the ORD and
other Voltaic research institutes.



- 14 -
46.       Because of the importance of animal husbandry in the ORD and the
intention of integrating it more closely into the farming system, the project
would contain an animal health program. It would provide preventive health
care to cattle in the entire ORD as well as some simple curative care to draft
animals and preventive care for poultry in the pilot regions. To obtain
recovery of distribution charges, Government would apply a mark-up on veteri-
nary drugs which would cover by PY4 all costs directly attributable to delivery
to beneficiaries (Section 3.06 of Credit Agreement) and will exercise strict
financial and physical control of veterinary drugs procured under the project
(Section 3.07 of Credit Agreement).
47.       Because of the project's pilot nature and the need to accurately
record the project's accomplishments, particular attention has been given to
monitoring and evaluation. A strong unit, consisting of an internationally
recruited expert, a Voltaic counterpart and 12 local field agents, would
follow progress and interpret and report results. There would be a base-line
survey which would provide a detailed record of conditions before the start of
the project. Farmer participation and important technical parameters would be
closely followed in farmers' fields. Particular attention would be given to
the study and follow-up of farm budgets for various farming systems. Finally,
special studies on problems that might present themselves during the project
would be undertaken.
Project Implementation
48.       The proposed project would be under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Rural Development and executed by the Koudougou ORD. The ORD
director would be the Project Director. To strengthen the Koudougou ORB's
management capabilities, funds would be provided under the project to finance
an internationally recruited Project Chief who would be assisted by two
Voltaic agronomists (one for each pilot region). The Project Chief would
be responsible to the ORD Director and have supervisory responsibility for
administrative affairs for all project activities--staff, equipment and
materials. He would have technical responsibi-lity for all components except
animal health. Moreover, his technical responsibility for the adaptive
research component would be within the limits of the program adopted by the
Experimentation Committee. Existing ORD staff in the pilot areas and those
involved in the project at ORD Headquarters would be assimilated by the
project and some new staff would be required for the extension service, the
adaptive research component and the monitoring and evaluation unit. The
monitoring and evaluation unit would be directed by an internationally re-
cruited expert as would be initially (during the first two years) the adaptive
research component. It is expected that a Voltaic project accountant can be
found. If this is not possible, he will be internationally recruited. The
appointment of the Project Chief, Accountant, and the heads of the Monitoring
and Evaluation and the Adaptive Research components would be a condition of
effectiveness and the staff selected would need to be satisfactory to IDA
(Sections 3.02 and 6.01(b) of Credit Agreement).
49.       The adaptive research program would be implemented by project staff
under supervision of the research institutes mentioned earlier which would
also assist the internationally recruited expert and his counterpart in



- 15 -
analyzing the results. The collaboration of the research institutes would be
governed by an agreement to be concluded between IVRAZ and the ORD (Section
3.09 of Credit Agreement). The Experimentation Committee would draw up a
program of trials each year before the start of the agricultural team.
50.       To help organize project implementation an IDA Project Preparation
Facility of US$725,000 has been requested to finance the following activities:
(a) training of 28 extension and village group support agents;
(b) soil survey for the establishment of the adaptive research units;
(c) base line survey for the monitoring and evaluation unit;
(d) preparation of educative material for the extension services;
(e) preparation of a system of project accounts;
(f) technical assistance before credit effectiveness; and
(g) construction of three houses and office accommodation for the
technical assistance staff.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       Total project costs (based on mid-1982 prices), net of identifiable
taxes and duties from which the project would be exempted, are estimated at
US$10.8 million, of which US$6.7 million, or 62 percent, are foreign exchange
costs. A summary breakdown of costs is shown in the Credit and Project
Summary. Cost estimates for civil works are based on the experience under
previous agricultural development projects. Local staff salaries and allow-
ances reflect prevailing costs. The cost of internationally recruited con-
sultants and staff is based on US$11,000 per man-month and US$90,000 per
man-year respectively. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 20 per-
cent for agricultural inputs and at 10 percent for all other items, while
price contingencies are based on annual local cost increases of 12 percent in
the first project year declining to 10 percent at the conclusion of the
project. Price contingencies for foreign costs are based on assumed price
increases of 8 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7.0 percent in 1985 and
6 percent in 1986 and 1987.
52.       The proposed IDA credit of US$7.0 million would cover 64 percent of
total costs. The Kingdom of the Netherlands would contribute a grant of
US$2.9 million equivalent covering 27 percent of project costs. The Dutch
finance will be on a parallel basis for monitoring and evaluation, animal
health, and part of the cost of a possible extension of the project after
Project Year 3. The effectiveness of the Dutch grant is a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of Credit Agreement). The Government's con-
tribution of US$0.3 million (3 percent of project cost) would cover civil
servants' salaries. Beneficiaries would contribute US$0.3 million (3 percent
of project cost) in the form of downpayment for draft animals and the purchase
of seasonal inputs. Commercial banks will finance fertilizer purchases,
which, on an incremental basis, amount to US$0.3 million (3 percent of
project cost).



- 16 -
53.       The combined external financing of US$9.9 million would in effect
cover all foreign exchange costs (US$6.7 million) and US$3.2 million or 78
percent of local costs (US$4.1 million); local cost financing is recommended
because Government is facing severe budgetary constraints and is short of
resources for investment, which would also make it difficult for Government
to provide the working capital for project execution. In view of this, it is
recommended that US$150,000 from the IDA Credit be deposited immediately after
Credit effectiveness in a Special Account, under the joint control of the ORD
Director and the Project Chief. The account would be replenished upon receipt
of disbursement requests supported by appropriate documentation (Section
4.01(c) of Credit Agreement). The opening of the Special Account is a condi-
tion of effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of Credit Agreement).
Procurement, Disbursement, Audits
54.       The following procurement procedures would apply:
Project Element                US$ Million    Procurement Procedures
(i)  Civil work contracts                0.3    Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).
(ii)  Materials and equipment             1.0    International Competitive
other than (v) below                       Bidding (ICB) for contracts
greater than CFAF 25 million
(US$83,000); LCB for con-
tracts between CFAF 5-25
million; local competitive
shopping for items under
CFAF 5 million.
(iii)  Houses for extension agents,        0.4    By force account with a large
land development for adaptive              input of voluntary labor.
research and vaccination yards
(iv)  Draft animals                       0.2    Local competitive shopping by
individual farmers.
(v)  Animal traction equipment           0.5    From the partly IDA-financed
parastatal Rural Equipment
Fund, with prior agreement of
IDA that prices remain competi-
tive; otherwise under local
procedures acceptable to IDA.
(vi)  Studies and technical assistance  1.9    Not applicable.
(vii)  Operating Expenditures               1.5     "     "
(viii)  Unallocated                          1.2
7.0



- 17 -
55.       The IDA credit would be disbursed on the following basis:
Project Element                      US$ Million    Percentage
(i)  Civil works contracts                     0.1            100
(ii)  Materials and equipment                   1.7            100
(iii)  Operating expenses                        1.4            100
(iv)  Credit for draft animals                  0.2            100
(v)  Studies and Technical Assistance          1.5           100
(vi)  Project Preparation Facility              0.7            100
(vii)  Deposit in Special Account                0.2            100
(viii)  Unallocated                               1.2
7.0
All disbursements from the credit account would be fully documented except
for local staff salaries and allowances, operating costs and credit for draft
animals which would be against certified statements of expenditures.
56.       The Government would select an independent auditor satisfactory
to the Association to prepare annual audits of the project's accounts. In
addition, the ORD and the Koudougou Livestock Service would be required to
submit the following reports to IDA: (i) quarterly progress reports; (ii)
annual evaluation reports; and (iii) the annual work program and budget.
Economic Justification, Benefits and Risks
57.       Given the project's pilot nature, it is not possible to determine at
this stage the economic justification of the new agricultural techniques to be
promoted. If the hypotheses to be tested prove correct, we would expect to
have eventually a viable full-scale project with a rate of return similar to
that of our other projects, i.e., in the range of 15 or 20 percent. Benefits
would primarily show up in the form of higher yields and increased cotton
production. Higher yields would in part be attributable to a slowdown in soil
degradation, which is a source of great concern for the future of the area.
It may also be expected that the introduction of new and viable agricultural
techniques would relieve the problems caused by over-population and migration
by making it possible for a larger number of people to make a living in their
home region.
58.       There is, of course, an inherent risk that the hypotheses to be
tested will prove incorrect, that- no economically viable technical package
will emerge for the northern half of the ORD, and/or that the acceptance rate



- 18 -
in the south would stay below the minimum level required to justify the cost
of the extension effort and inputs.  It was exactly because the risk was
considered too great for a full-scale project that it was decided to mlinimize
risks by limiting the project to two small pilot areas. Moreover, the project
would include an adaptive research component for improving and refining the
extension recommendations to increase their attractiveness to and chances of
adoption by farmers. It is important, however, that the project not fail for
administrative or managerial reasons. Thus the project contains a relatively
substantial technical assistance component.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Upper
Volta and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special Conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. These include the following conditions of effectiveness:
(a) appointment of technical assistance staff;
(b) opening of the Special Account; and
(c) effectiveness of the Dutch grant.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 1, 1982



- 19 -                                                          ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                                     o 
UPPER VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page  1  of  5
UPPER VOLTA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVlRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            274.2                                  MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     193.9               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0        100.0     180.0                 238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        5.3         15.0      29.1                  70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4164.0        4887.0    5642.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.7            6.8       8.3                  17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         9.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          28.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        15.2        17.8       20.6                  27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      22.0        26.0       28.6                  73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.8        43.9       44.6                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                          54.3        53.2       52.6                  52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9          2.9       2.8                   2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          1.6/c     1.6/c                 2.6                     2.8
'URBAN                               5.7         5.3        3.8                   6.5                     5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.5        48.0       47.8                  46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.5        23.7       21.4                  19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2         3.2        3.2                   3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..
USERS (FERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          101.0       102.0       97.0                  89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    86.0        84.0       79.0                  90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           66.0        65.0       60.0                  52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        18.0        18.0       16.0                  17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      41.0         34.7      31.3                  27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2         40.4       43.0                  45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           263.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         12.0      25.0                  23.9                    27.4
URBAN                                ,         35.0       50.0                  55.0                    74.3
RURAL                                ..         10.0      23.0                  18.5                    12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         4.0        4.0                  26.2
URBAN                                ..        49.0       47.0                  63.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          81647.1     84258.6   49805.6                31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4090.0/d    3839.0    4508.8                 3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            1801.0/d    1518.2    1506.8                 1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                             204.071     259.4      288.0                 272.8                   423.0
RURAL                            1264.071    2350.2    2366.2                 1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            ..           ..      31.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               7.5/e         ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOIAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..



-20 -                                                 ,MNEX I
TABLE 3A
UPPER VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                               ]Page  2  of  5
UPPER VOLTA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV RAGES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MDST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  8.0         12.0      17.0                  56.4                    73.7
MALE                  12.0        16.0       21.0                  70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                 5.0         9.0       12.0                  50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  0.5          1.0       2.0                  10.0                    16.2
HALE                   1.0         2.0        3.0                  13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                 0.3         1.0        1.0                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 21.0           15.0      16.0                   8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIM,ARY                           47.0        44.0       52.0                  46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                          20.0         23.0      20.0/h                25.5                    23.6
ADULr LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         1.5/f        5.0/g       ..                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4          1.3       1.8                   2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7         17.8      20.1                  32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          O.1/e        1.1       1.0                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..          0.3       0.3                   2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           0.2         ..                  1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2379.9       2678.5    2972.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   47.1         46.8      46.6                  34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              92.0         87.0      82.5                  80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.0          8.0      12.4                   8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                57.2         54.8      52.7                  41.7                    37.2
HALE                                 60.8         58.8      56.8                  54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                               53.5         50.9      48.6                  29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.9       0.9                    1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     164.0                 136.0                   381.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..     105.0                  84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ,.           ..        ..                  99.1                   334.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..      53.0                  61.2                   137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  39.7
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                 68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1963;  /e 1964;
/f 1962; /& 1972; /h 1975.
May, 1981



- 21 -                                                                                                  ANNEX I
OEMrTIMS M SWM OWICAr=Page  3  of  5
lae:   lbotsh thedat  are            too  eceea  Peerelip  1"sd          the ast aahrbe -tetio  tee  relable. it dsAsld flee beerdt  the U.,                  ar  be Inter
The refeecoe  groopeare  1) is  eancutyiru,ftesojc   ror  ard(2) a eftr  grop withsoeta  higher arerge  tree-  th-  the ecrr..Iy group
ofth   Z         .j.tourr   (ntoepr 1 fu "1gItre           ilKprragop aher    tdda o Me treh AfIesco-                         tidl  tetIshec aea    f erne
ero-ulca  alo.itta) .  Ia the  WetIree   group detu thIurgsatppltu   aatdaihei                                   a       Its  fu   na tdlero  aud chea  orly abet
ajority  ofthe couttete  ire  grot boa datefur that tI= arr  litefr' the coeaeof cr-ttleeaetgo the lodrterur  d.' rd  00 the ar-tlabillry  II data
aReA  (fh-uiedd ao.k..l                                                                              -olaIOn par -ottllt      ud.ubg    edrrl-  uualo                                htl
-Tota  - Total e.rf-.e area  -octriaog  laud area ard tulrdwta; 1979 dare,                              unbar,adrua) 'dilridodb   hirhe.tletearo                           .upita1 hede
Eg.lt       1- -t tiar   otariutua   are  -ea  t-p-urrily or  -rmnaty                          tleble  In poblie end prtoatr   aea   r    ptilrdbeia 
fur crone, peetures,  -eeke  ad kitehn,,grdata or to lie fallow; 1979 data.                         hbjhl Itrao   e-tar-   Hopitele art taalioheerte  permetetly stffed
by at least .te phyiteiat.-       rhle    taproridiug prlotpallpeu...
IGNP PhR CAPITA (US$)1   GNIP parcpIaetrar -ceroorsak.prtee  ea-                                          ine care art tot  oloidd.  Rural  luptaa    eeor  told:                  har
oulatadb,     aeene.u    aida   ol   okAle(Ott   al)   90 d ly                                                 lea  trro.dtt Crctotlyetafe   bya  hysoe (htb
191,ad 190cst.sdiclaaea ,ttr  .lwfr. the.) thceb offer iu-.,-p ttat
datlut ead pr-lde a laired rage  of .edei   failtie.Forstt
tiflIl eCOttoNTaIOt PiR CAITA - Aouuaa  -oauptino  of  -oaretel  -ery (coa..al  pip-                                    acrarhea.pitl f.it-lda AOlPlPs rtepl/grtar   boeptisle
aud 1 gotre. petroIeum, tatrl. gas sod bydro-. tue1e-  ad geotherma  ele-                             atd rura I     ptel.  local- Ir rutI h.epit.l  au-d  -edIel cud  atruity
Or.ity) tr ilogeaa   of coal  s-oattpe aito; 1961. 1970, and 1919                                     e--era   tpoeilaiiad hoapitala  are  tltdod orly ord-r totl.
data.                                                                                               Admianr   a  tu        tl led - Tota  oc-be  of aelauat  on ditebarges
tre.ositata Iiudd   y  he uueba  of beds.
MPUrLATIo  ADis  VITAL. STATISTICS
Total Poputtio.. ltd-TYar Ih-rerdL     d  of Juip  1; 1960, 1970,. sd 19800                       gttilt
data                                                                                              Aroragr lis   of he...ohold I-arso   Per bhuaahold)  I-toal  crbar. and rural-
llrha Prltiuulreu  ortoa)                      i.att  of arban to total pupulattot;                   A h.-t I  oatt   f      rupo   rdodel   lo  lt  1 totog    --tot
diffarso   doftut tote o  ..ha  aros  ay eff.-  -us-bhltty of data                            au ibnrel   tt,Absdro  ludgr asp or  sy rtbe 1-1iudod to
ameuge...utrtrs; i960, lol. ard 1960 dote.                                                          the  ...ahold for eta.ttettelpuuaa
Popultio Irleir                                                                                     A=osgaucar of -rsoa tar ruostual  abo..adrua   -aratog   no-
Purulettoitto yra   2000 - Curr.te yopua.ttuuprotttoar  base.d 0191bar of peron  Per too11, it all   bau. edrtl    utd   coorior1al
ttlpopultattu  by agp ad er  ard thtr mottaify.and torl                  ae.deaiinge, etapoeti_rly.    e1 tugs ooldaooprerttorna
Pro)Jeeit pIII    etrefor  -otaIt  rae  emri o  three  coral  _aso-cocepi-d perr-
Iltg life otroctecy at birth itoroaa.tig aihtI.. Iot,r'a pa .pl~Ir Ietat e .                   kee..e to  Ec-tnieitl lotnrof dolliua)-  otl  orat sd ral-1
Crut. and Irate  lift epretaucy atbtiliuitgat 77.15oo - _The Par-                          C.rotloeldteliaga ottbh nlatrtet   olro    uroaa
aetn   for foet u    anat   aetbeoe lo1s-                 aotr    aluet                          of total   ebao   u  ttldee Bcl  rePo.tIty
tech cr-yyl,th..ebro  nooud-c  of thoeotoe..tI i-ai-  of mortalIty                           EDPilATIOr
od _feed  ep _ends for pruocto   .purpse.                                                     Adicoted trlet                c
taI...royIIioc-i        ttbor    ouatu                     r  ta to g-uthatcoPimay  eh                            - total . alo eod fal- GI... total  air   nd to-ln
-ec-  cuaat.Th  in tachlr-d only aftor feelliar eat-  d-cl it  to                                   prtsary eehoil-ago  popola-1tots       -11aly irelodeg  ohIldco  agd6-il
rho ruploecso  loolo  cul   - - cpeuduti-t rate, ubo  och 0e-r-ti-                                  foa. tot adjcted for dtfftrou   lo-gebs of pesry eduainft
or __a  reploes   lerlIooatlf        mc statIonar p1opri       latturaionaatins.. euc itea wth  ---orsl odoettur  -re11-at a y -uced 111pror
esoteatd 00 tho baaia of tho peojuct    ehurac trrictteatf thepuplato. to                                  . cor  rutla arc halos or ab- the offito-a  aeboc   ga.
iohbny rae2000,aod thora-toof d-clt-of f-etlpaourlo-betareclttall.yaalaotd fasela-fCopoted  aaabou-; ootdsry
ate  Iron.                                                         odueetioorequtraeat  laaot ~~~~~~~four years of appr-rd peitay IIsotoettir;
Tea statioua,o PorcIstlot Is reoc bd - The year whet atatiotty popatati. to                            rurtdc   goncral , o-ctitotl,or t_ahor teatt.iu  in-tr-cti..a for popilo
aio  atill boro-ebed.                                                                                ...aily of 12 to 17  eoara ofa go; coertePond-.e courses ar  gen-rlly
Per so. ia. - ltd-roar pcoNIatoo  Ire ....e. kilcaror  1101 h-etarca Iof                         Voostlo-tal orol-or   prnee-t of ae-nd-ry   - Veat i-oI Irinittutlo
tota  ama; 196t0.1971Iad179 dat..                                                                 ioelcd  tarhnieal. ind-sriai. or othor pcograa  beboore   ltdrpd-
Peso  k. artiuluta  lard  -Cfsputd .osboo-  for agutei-toral leod                                   eotly or a   oater  ofceidr rt_tai_t
orly; 1960,  1970 and 1979 data.                                                                NPulI-insho  ratIo -,priar. cod o...otday  - To-tat cednt-a--11id to
IPuoat~iur Ag  Itrueturo                  Chre)-ibld-ur  10-tA yecra) .      artgar(15-               peIysd  nodryCrl  diotded by oator   of t-shera  it the
64 Y yer).atdrttt d (Alysorsard  -ca) as porettag..osfuia -yposepopc-                               eropotgao
notu, 1960  1970.eg10   aa                                                                      dl  teaori   nert       ieaeout   a  tt   edagota
PonPlat iot Groe tot         --ee t) - tota   -amuIgi groan  rums. of total sd-                       a.nap.r..ttago  of totlscrpplto   gd1   er   od  ct
yea  poputoetto  for  950-Al. i960-71.t  191M-EC.
Popolatton Growh iatr (P,rai1    t              -      1Ata   groeh eaco  of  rbar popc-         CONtSUMPTION
Cattot  for 1950-A,  .96-70  . ad 1970-80.                                                       Poacoge  ar   (I.I tho....d ey        2ntol-P.....gar cara eoeplau actor
Credo tioth Rate  (p-ethu....d  - Acu-o  lire btrtha put tbooserd of aid-yoar                         cae  rt o  la-  tin   -itht po-no; uteldosas .lson.,bn.....a.og
P."  -tto;1~960, 19710, er otI9 data,                                                               al hler 'cb   Coo
e-do UOrthIto(r toad) - Aco-a  d-att  p-r t...sard  of ad-yoc                                       tadt ce-roor  (pnt thoc...d poptlat-i..- All eyps  of  rctosfoe redto
polulatio; tOll,1071, ao   191dt,bo dcot  toeAurorl  clt  p to                                                                       uao    f  uuslo;m    ofdra c
h   -Iraroedetryeolftrpr                     tot tts   ttaa potage-apte ftor-                     o.ttae   lrol1 foeI;idasforr....Eat yoora afoo II ne~om -rblocttc-
of   oh-cotol           ...en   coe  ec" to  of.. oat toro  folly plaontng progra-                  Aetta  ycit          I rethu d popclelo;  ecI idocl eoo e Irerer
Pcmt2~ly...ot,nU.-ls        onCoot of artcedocrno- Puaeg    fs_nird                                   IIoooootrtooandto yn..aru           fbeoroiotrotorofTlectau
strof ehild-beartrg  e,o (15-4l y-arc)ob   n  btrth-coutot  deoi-oto                          N-wtaut- Irito   (Doe thoces..d ru-ulettou   - Sh-wsthoa-rsegoeti-
all aerLod  -ust  ir  -se   go iroop.                                                               c;tIo   of "datty green Iltee..t ocspp             f'.du-d eas.pue  .iodtcs
tOOt ADia  NUTR1TXON                                                                                    robe  "deity" if ittappoaea   loso-f fucttotu k
Codec of rood Pe-d-ctio  to   Captte 1i969-71,rllC  - bOot, of poe capita a-n-l                    flrp-uiAtoouotPCrIom     Yaa-faa-d 00 the  c                                  of
productot of ull food e7"rdli to.    rdeeiont -udra road ord food ood                               tIcket  oold dunng tho ynae. iocludto d atncto Istdete-Ieio aa
ic or-alodar fue.  basis,   loC.d..... corer pray good   log. ag-r..t.                              god subtleuls
i-tated of uagae( uhtch ao rathln  ad o...aloctern-to  lopg. cuffe god
nutto  eeCded.    ggrgtopeodoettur of eah Io.utry In  asd orL.ABOR FORCE
oatonli-1      geProdoco  yelco alghto; 1961-65. 1971, god 1960 data.                            Total Labor Force(tinceadil-fc-ooal   eto -                    roa    oreludi.g
Pot ctlrto scp   o  ealorioc (pa-o-t of -nootruara   - Cowptd  ra                                     tdfoton au  coopioyedbt roe1ldtot ho.a...o L--  -td-ot,
rcgy   qi-lo-uo  of octfoud aupplins  -ialablo  iccuutryI. pr enite                                  ctgppoalro   l  ego.   Deot tott... in o-ioc   --oti-ose
put day.  Ao-liltbl  acppllet  -cprlae doIstte prod-cei_  inpoets Cr-                               out eumparabl.; 1960. 1970 aug tO9   deco
urif.sdcagat   tuk    o    oy  e   o  uo   ta    od    fd,tel foodno) -Pr                                                    f-t-ahu  to foe   yutorgu  oftta.rbtfoc
qatetcod t   od   recae,od Icoasa it. d.tItuthtlo-    me Iie-                              Agrioclru- fur--tI   Lborfoot    ttg   ortey, Ic-tto  sod
tId    _        .i,                                                                                                             r          .n aut  Iseieaeldly FAl hosed ot phyauloglo-I ocudc foe ocreal ati-  fiahtug aa peoag of totgCIlabor foren. C910_ 1970 urd 1990 data.
otodhath7 coodtrtg taaoaotleaprrro   oyottba  ag"ldu""tey Irur nro     -                                               or feot  slto . ocaee  o,acatotn
sod .c  dteteioo   ooato.adotnn    1encn   o    at   tgd o1rloetetety   -ator urd goo a  p.rroaeo.                                                             eulibefre
h..hoceod   Ioe ;       -161-  ,1970 _od 1977 data.7                                                  1960, 19 70 god980 dsta.
Pseoapctoaotply ofottooiucm                  d,,Oa) - Prot-tocotent of Pcaptc-                     Prtftie ooo- Rot Inercooc) - total  a1- . ad fei-I ParteIrecicot or
eccpy of food Poe day.  tot acyrly  of lod Is dot turd osao.-   to-                          -detlottystuarro-pctd a  toalal,  ned foalo  laor forro
qulo rtofo  all euorrict rotalti:h,d by USDA p-iodo  fur oldtia                              pecuotogo  of tot..   air go .d flueC   popola too of allI  go  enspoctio If;
allro_        f S---I ra   of otal prol  pot day god 20 geaw   of sotci ood                         1961.. 1970.  rd 19 01 date,    oo  at  end  ncItlo  pettlelpettut etnc
Icsupeotuio. of uhfth (U graea  hbcid In artat pr-tit.  Thos  ac-d-                              to fltc Cog ago-aso steutcr  oft           Popcttor  god II.gtt- t-nod.  A
ordaeeuI.- oaehanteh..o  of 75eosoof totI pe-tinradl2graeaf                                         ft-oeaeoeo  feowegit.o.aIt.u.cIs.
aria)porrotanaofehrael,op-ad by PAOtiothtThild                                                   &eoocutDog-d-tydeo        tiog  t-i.ctof Pp.platioo nd-  15 rd 65 odorI
World rue  luts1-; 19.1-h. 171 ad 1971 dta,                                                         to th ~total lhut fonco
Poecatt r. .eot-to 0 rely feIs anal aod pclo- :Prtotit supply of food dn-
nerd fr-   -riato  aud pul... in grass you day, 1961-65, 1970 aed tAl7 dais.                   .tIo   DIRITItUTIOt
Ihld lots _4) DoothOt   rethcuoo.d) - -.tual datha pot tho..cod to                                  Paceai         ,fPrioste 1oern- (both to cah std kind) - Rt-tt-d by  tohe-t
siootoui-d  focs.Itohtldeoo  i thtaggo  gru-p, foeoto-lopiogeror-                             Iptut  rcetllocr.potrlP_ettadpootI                                            ocr
ttodote dori-o   rolIft  -bhleu; 1960, 191  ernd 1980 dat,                                      u   noeol
HEALTH                                                                                              POTUIT TdAlT GROIPS
Lof  oocaoca  tIed  (rascl -dBortg   cober of yearo of lIft  otlg                                   Trfl -itog ogrias -    tro arc  -ceyayorteacusoputy                          ooo
at  Irh;19197tol  ad i961 date.                                                               aod su        ottettdthet  drbteocr
Itfaut N' otestlu  00c  (ocr thocod) - Atuto  deaths of Itfeot   -d-e Ot fast                       tattatud Absolu.t      oot toutLro   Itt-                 aal(S  - ohb  sd r-Il 
of 000 pa e  h_o.o d lioo bIrths; 1960O.1071O sodt1961 da.                                         dAblute puo-rrt  bouty Iur   o  httuoebu                     rrao h a sutel
Artes no Safa tote  luocoo ...    yucale      oa,fra.adrrl- N.-                                        -utetiatally ad,qurodt dl       uo esnoio  ao-udrqultoeot  ta rot
her of Peol Icota1,  rbet, cod!  -Ir) withI....o.ablf. ....s. tosfffordable.
vocespply' fiocotoro.d surf ace notat:            tcrra         butocnalttd                   tttso    eaioPort  oosiol15 totes G                     r pite      t      u   ut
prelgeof the Ir et-p-etio  pupulatiooc.  toa-urbecerospoblic                                 paru-l tutos  of theoruty I...         ebarI,  lao  Is1 derived fry  tbe ruralI
foo_tinceradpostlIo...           edcot htner 200toettrsfr..abuceh ayhel1-olithodJustrnttforehigbccacof Iio    torbsoar_as
re rbla toccacud impiy then  rho houseifeo   obt  of the h-!bahld                                rd rori    P-e-r  ofPP pop ia-o  cbo   n   ual                  r   oslt
do  u  haetoead.a diapruportinoto  pare uf teday  to fothiog  the
Atemtl  swrt  tDs.               t                                   r-
furofpoplf    otl   ee,sdrrl   evdb  eohrcre dIspsl.as
th    alena  sod dtae, -cib or etisow    -reotar. s    ,o   ut
sheocao-teebycann-btaapyam   or the ass of pit prirts  odsii
Psop.ttio. ear Pbrytciso-       ptna   ditidad by  u,bou uf p-acitag phyit-                                                                UogIomt  cd SLo1a flat  DirLiaow
nsa. qoaltfitd from a mdiA-I stitoo  an otanity boLt.                                                                               feseami   -alysa sod Prujataun    mpa- -eo
Pooago  a  latotog  Par. s-.   Po da irlded by s. bor of prautiatg                                                                                      1982tta
ataon  famat  grdsesase 4e-a    oea.patts    oee   o
oatcie    sig    ota



-22-
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA - GNP PER CAPITA
IN 1980 US$ 210-/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980
US$ MILLION              %
GNP at Market Prices                                   1,322.3              100.0
Gross Domestic Investment                                218.2               16.5
Gross National Savings                                    -9.5               -0.7
Current Account Balance                                 -227.7              -17.2
Exportsof Goods, NFS                                     174.6               13.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                                    498.8               37.7
OUTPUT AND ECONOMICALLY ACTIVE POPULATION IN 1980
Value Added               Economically Active Population-/
US$ million      %              ('000)            %
Agriculture                                             454.3      39.6            2472             83.0
Industry                                                204.0      17.8             357             12.0
Services                                                489.8      42.6             149              5.0
Total                                                 1,148.1    100.0             2978            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
CFAF billion                     % of GDP
1980        1981                 1980    1981
Current Revenues                                        39.5        43.3                 15.1    13.8
Current Expenditures                                    35.4        42.5                 13.5    13.5
Current Surplus or Deficit                               4.1         0.8                  1.6      0.3
Capital Expenditure                                     39.8        43.3                 15.2    13.8
Foreign Financed                                        35.6        33.7                 13.6    10.7
Budgetary Savings                                        4.1         0.8                  1.6      0.3
Overall Surplus/Deficit                                 -0.1        -8.8                  0.0      2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                              1976       1977       1978       1979      198a
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                                 31,55      35,58      42.,52     46425   -53.17
Bank credit to Public Sector                          -6.95      -7.74      -3.29      -2.3"    -3.97
Bank credit to Private Sector                         32.41      45.75      54.81      57.15    60.98
PERCENTAGE OR INDEX NUMBERS
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                     20.0       18.9       18.8       18.4      20.3
Low-Income Price Index (        = 100)               126.1      167.7      218.7      204.0    228.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Low Income Price Index                                -7.0       33.0       30.4       -6.7      11.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                         -41.8      -11.3       57.5       28.9    -69.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         50.1       41.2       19.8        4.3       6.7
1/ Atlas method. Based on revised national income and population estimates.
2/ Estimate for 1976-79
May 1982



-23-
Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(In millions of current US$)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1 9 7 9   19 8 i /
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1979-/    1980/l    1981-/    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS--
Exports of Goods, NFS             159.8     174.6      149.3
Imports of Goods, NFS             487.0     498.8      422..2
Resource Gap (deficit = -)       -327.2    -324.2    -272.9        (Average of 1979 - 81)
Workers' Remittances (net)         84.5       89.4       77 7      Livestock           24.3        30.6
Other Factor Payments (net)       -4.6        -6.6       -6.4      Cotton              31.3        39.5
Net Private 'nsfers                11.8       13,7       11.8      Oilseeds            11.4        14.4
Balance on Current Accounts    -235.5    -227.7    -189.8         All other            12.3        15.5
Total               79.3       100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Official Capital Grants           142.0      144.8     106.9
Net MLT Borrowings                 76.0       69.1       54.9      Public Debt, incl.
guaranteed                  508.0
Disbursements                     (80.8)    (78,5)   (67.0)       Non-guaranteed Private
Repayment                         (-4.7)    (-9.4)   (12.1)           Debt
Net IMF Credits                      2.4        2.4      1.8       Total Public Debt
2/                                                      Outstanding and disbursed  323.0
Other items -                       33.0      20.9      18.0
Change in Reserves  7- m increase)-17.9       -9,5       8.2                                     /
3/                                                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980-4/
Memo:  Imports,-  c.i.f.          300.5      357.9    298.8
of which:  Petroleum        34.0      53.5      56.3       Total Public Debt
Outstanding and disbursed    9.2
IBRD/IDA LENDING December 1980
Outstanding and
Disbursed                     77.2
Undisbursed                     52.6
Outstanding incl.
undisbursed                  129.8
Rate of Exchange
1976:   US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1977:   US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1978:   US$1.00 = CFAF 220.00
1979:   US$1.00 = CFAF 212.72
1980:   US$1.00 = CFAF 211.30
1981:   US$1.00 - CFAF 280.70
1/  Provisional
2/  Including errors and omissions, direct investment, short-term capital.
3/  Official trade only
4/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-factor Services
not available
May 1982



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 1, 1982)
(US$ Million) a/
(less cancellations)
Number   Year      Borrower          Purpose                IDA      Undisbursed
Ten Credits fully disbursed                                50.7
557-UV    1975   Republic of   Livestock Develop-           6.0           1.57
Upper Volta   ment Project
579-UV    1975   Republic of   Rural Roads                  7.5           0.78
Upper Volta
640-UV    1976   Republic of   Rural Development            9.4           0.37
Upper Volta   Fund II
706-UV    1977   Republic of   West Volta Agricul-          3.6           0.28
Upper Volta   tural Development
744-UV    1977   Republic of   Railway                      5.2           1.97
Upper Volta
759-UV    1977   Republic of   Small & Medium               4.0           2.59
Upper Volta   Scale Enterprise
766-UV    1978   Republic of   Urban Development            8.2           5.68
Upper Volta
956-UV    1979   Republic of   Education II                14.0          11.85
Upper Volta
982-UV    1980   Republic of   Forestry                    14.5          12.85
Upper Volta
1013-UV   1980   Republic of   Niena Dionkele Rice
Upper Volta   Development                 6.5           5.69
1097-UV   1981   Republic of   Second Bougouriba
Upper Volta   Agricultural Develop-
ment Project              16.0          15.4
1164-UV   1981   Republic of   Fourth Highway Project  46.0 b/           46.0
Upper Volta
TOTAL                                                191.60
of which has been repaid                             0.18
TOTAL now held by IDA a/                             191.42
TOTAL undisbursed                                                  105.03
a/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
b/   Not effective.



- 25 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 1, 1982).
Amount in US$ millions
Year   Obligator    Type Business   Loan        Equity          Totals
1978   Sovoplas         Plastic        .41       .13              .54
D.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (as of March 1, 1982) _/
Credit 557:    Livestock Development Project.  US$6.0 Million Credit of
June 18, 1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is assisting cattle production in the Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs through group ranch development, improvement of veterinary
services, livestock marketing and meat processing facilities and the provision
of technical assistance. The project, which has been extended one year to the
end of 1982, is entering its last year of operation. It is anticipated that
by the end of the year almost all the project's goals would have been achieved.
The cattle market is about to be completed and 30 vaccinations yards will be
completed during the third quarter of 1982; the problem of access to the
holding ground is about to be solved. After a slow start the project's group
ranch component is now progressing well and the three pilot ranches, totalling
about 80,000 ha are fully developed and stocked with 9,000 head of cattle,
owned by 75 families. Two more ranches are about to be created on a BND
credit.
Credit 640:    Rural Development Fund II Project.  US$9.4 Million Credit
of June 21, 1976; Effective Date: January 24, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides a line of credit to the Rural Development
Fund for investment in small-scale rural projects, the main purpose of which
is to increase crop production and improve village water supplies. By the
conclusion   of the last construction campaign (September 30, 1981) the
project had realized: erosion control works (15,050 ha); bottomland develop-
ment (1,885 ha); small scale irrigation and improved bottomland development
(315 ha); construction of 569 wells, 160 tube wells and some 340 village
level buildings including inter alia stores, meeting rooms and training
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any problems which
are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
centers; had provided medium-term credit for agricultural equipment; and,
as part of the unidentified component, financed production of forest tree
seedlings for village woodlots. An appropriate field trial program has been
developed and project results are being closely monitored. The project has
been well managed and the RDF management unit has been used to handle funds
for small scale actions provided by other donors. Not all appraisal targets
were reached, however, because Government priorities and farmers' expectations
have led project management to put more emphasis on erosion control works
(164% of appraisal target) and well construction (109%) and less on bottomland
development (70%) and small-scale irrigation (63%). To allow RDF to maintain
its present rate of activities until the proposed third phase project is
approved, the Government has obtained additional funds from the Netherlands.
Credit 653:    Third Highway Project.  US$20.0 Million Credit of July 15, 1976;
Effective Date: December 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
EEC Special    US$3.5 Million Equivalent; Credit of January 11, 1980;
Action:         Effective Date:  July 30, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Credit 38:
The project consists of:  (a) reconstruction of the Banfora-Bobo-
Dioulasso-Hounde road (183 km); (b) procurement of vehicle weight control
and traffic counting equipment; (c) road maintenance study; (d) preinvest-
ment study of the Ouagadougou-Kaya-Dori road; (e) technical assistance to
the Department of Transport (DOT); and (f) technical assistance to the domes-
tic contracting industry. The Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde section was completed
in June 1978, and the Bobo-Dioulasso-Banfora section in May 1979. Equipment
for vehicle weight control and traffic counting arrived in November 1979.
The technical assistance to the DOT has been in place since January 1977.
The Road Maintenance Study has been completed by BCEOM and reviewed, and has
served as the basis for the Fourth Highway Project. Arrangements for provid-
ing technical assistance to domestic contractors are being finalized. In view
of a project cost overrun due to currency realignments and the need to recon-
struct four bridges, initially not included in the project, supplementary
financing of US$3.5 million is being provided through the EEC Special Action
Account. Delays in the execution of civil works due to contractor problems
has resulted in slower than anticipated implementation. These problems are
now largely resolved and the required civil works are underway.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Credit 706     West Volta Agricultural Development Project.  US$3.6 Million
and 706-5:      (IDA) and Can$3.0 Million (Canada) Credits of May 23, 1977;
Effective Date: December 28, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
EEC Special    US$3.0 Million Equivalent (EEC); Credit of February 8, 1980;
Action          Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Credit 49:
The project sought to strengthen the ORDs of Bobo-Dioulasso and
Dedougou through provision of technical assistance and equipment; establishing
a Financial and Administrative Unit to assist project accounting and financial
control; financing a ginnery and training facilities for project extension
workers; supporting an annual extension program; developing low cost irriga-
tion schemes; and implementing a pilot settlement component and a pilot
women's component. Cumulative incremental production of cotton over the
five years of the project to date is estimated at 63,000 tons, compared to
56,000 tons at appraisal; and for cereals 29,500 tons compared to 32,000 tons
at appraisal. Most of the physical targets have been met, including construc-
tion of 75 village grain stores, a training center, and a new ginnery.
However, execution of the irrigation and women's components has been slow.
The settlement component has not been executed. Aided by favorable weather,
incremental cotton production in 1979/80 (19,000 tons) was double the appraisal
estimate. Cereal production is difficult to assess with accuracy; means of
improving monitoring of cereal output are being discussed. The extension
service, which is adopting the training and visit approach, is improving in
efficiency. The low cost irrigation schemes and women's activities have fared
poorly so far, and no action has been taken on the pilot settlement project.
The Financial and Administrative Unit has established project accounts and
updated cost statements and budgets aimed at keeping future project expendi-
tures in line with available funds.
Credit 744:    Regional Railway Project in the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta
US$5.2 Million Credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
December 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project finances priority items of the 1978-1979 portion of
the Regie Abidjan-Niger (RAN) 1977-1982 investment plan. It includes track
alignment and renewal of track material in the Ivory Coast; track improvement
in Upper Volta; procurement of locomotives; freight cars and track maintenance
equipment, provision of training facilities and consulting services for
technical training and management improvement and to carry out feasibility
studies. Procurement of goods and services provided for in the Project
description has been implemented or carried out. Major civil works were
completed by end December 1981. All other physical components are being
implemented but have experienced delays due to administrative problems. Late
contract awards have caused slow execution of sleeper renewal and embankment
construction. Ballast production is also behind schedule. Remaining funds
in the Credit accounts will be sufficient to complete the components of the



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Regional Railway Project located in Upper Volta. The railway presently
experiences severe financial constraints detrimental to its ability to main-
tain properly its equipments. A survey of RAN's management procedures; will be
undertaken soon by a team of independent experts, under a separate project,
with a view to preparing a plan of action to redress the situation.
Credit 759:    Artisan, Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project.  US$4.0
Million of January 12, 1978; Effective Date: April 12, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project provides a line of credit to the National Development
Bank (BND) for small and medium scale enterprises; technical assistance,
project preparation and follow-up and training for the National Center for
the Promotion of Rural Artisans (CNPAR) and the Organization for the ]'romotion
of Upper Voltan Enterprises (OPEV); technical assistance to the BND; a study
on industrial incentives; and a training program at the Department of External
Debt at the Treasury. The technical assistance financed by the IDA credit
has had little impact on the evolution of BND as a financially sound and
well managed institution and the Association is currently discussing with
Government the best use of the remaining line of credit to BND. OPEV and
CNPAR activities are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit 766:    Urban Development Project US$8.2 Million of March 23, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project consists of upgrading of approximately 7,000 plots in
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso; preparation and servicing of 1,100 lots in
Bobo-Dioulasso; water supply facilities for an additional 2,500 families in
Ouagadougou who are not living in areas to be upgraded; housing construction
and improvement loans; community facilities, social services and technical
assistance to the municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and the
Department of town planning. Project start-up activities were financed under
two Project Preparation Facility advances and the budget of the Ministry
of Public works. Surveys and detailed engineering proceeded very slowly
due in part to the Ministry of Public Works tendency to shift away from
previously agreed upon design standards. An agreement was reached at end
1979: (a) to proceed on a pilot basis with the upgrading in the Cissin
neighborhood with particular attention being paid to affordable standards,
minimizing demolition and relocation, and community participation; and (b)
to hire a municipal engineer as Deputy Project Director. In Bobo-Dioulasso,
the Municipality is constructing roads with force account and a contract
for drainage has been awarded. In Ouagadougou tender documents are being
finalized. Agreement has been reached for starting the Credit Union for
mobilizing saving in the neighborhoods. Rehabilitation of schools and dis-
pensaries and assistance components to Municipalities of Bobo-Dioulasso and
Ouagadougou have been implemented successfully. The project has been slow to
attain the hoped for momentum and should still receive close supervision.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Credit 956:    Second Education Project.  US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 15, 1979; Effective Date: July 30, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
An extension of the First Education Project, the project would
expand the rural education system to youths who formerly had no access to
primary education through expansion, repair and equipping of physical facili-
ties, and training and management support. It would also provide training for
three categories of workers presently in short supply in Upper Volta; agricul-
ture project managers, building construction foremen, and road and equipment
maintenance personnel. Project management has improved, but shortage of
counterpart funds may jeopardize further improvements.  Construction of the
rural youth training centers is proceeding satisfactorily, and the first
deliveries of educational materials are expected in early 1982. Architectural
designwork for two rural development training centers and an administration
building, which are being financed by the African Development Fund, is behind
schedule and requires better control by the project staff. The technical
assistants for the rural youth training component are in post. The partially
completed study on linkages between formal and rural education indicates poor
achievement in literacy and arithmetic skills for the rural youth training
system. Proposals for the strengthening of the national evaluation capacity
are being developed.
Credit 982:    Forestry Project.  US$14.5 Million Credit of April 7, 1980.
Effective Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1984.
The project provides a comprehensive program to strengthen the
operational capacity of the Forestry Administration with staff and equipment
to carry out its assigned functions of protecting, developing and exploiting
the country's forest resources within the framework of the national forestry
plan. The project will also establish 1,600 ha of rainfed tree plantations
and 325 ha of rural woodlots in the Bobo-Dioulasso area, manage on a pilot
basis 1,000 ha of natural forest in the Maro-reserve and maintain previously
established rainfed tree plantations. A Project Preparation Facility advance
financed preliminary works begun in 1979, including a pedological study and
aerial survey of the Maro-reserves and plantation maintenance and protection
works. The Project Management Unit (PMU) in Ouagadougou and the Project
Operation Unit (POU) in Bobo-Dioulasso are almost fully established and are
operating satisfactorily. Although clearing and land preparation were very
late, POU established successfully during the first planting season of 1981,
142 ha of rainfed tree plantation in the Maro reserve, and, in liaison with
the natural forest unit, are carrying out a detailed reconnaissance inventory
of the reserve to select sites to be managed by the project. The project will
commence complementary studies on rural forestry and on a national forestry
fund late in 1982.



-30 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Credit 1013:   Niena Dionkele Rice Development Project.  US$6.5 Million
Credit of May 8, 1980; Effective Date: December 4, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is a pilot phase of a possible three phase program to
convert swampland to more productive use. The main objectives of this phase
would be to test key assumptions regarding future development of swamp areas
and to address price structure, marketing and economic issues of the rice
subsector. The project will also assist Government to promote institution
building in the subsector, define a national rice policy, create a market
structure to ensure farmer confidence in rice production and train future
rice industry managers. The project has had a slow start with respect to
procurement and staffing. There have been significant cost overruns with
the water control structures. In the first cropping year (second project
year) only 150 ha instead of the 300 ha envisaged were developed.  The first
season has disclosed serious technical problems, of which the most fundamental
relates to water availability and appropriate rice variety. The second
cropping season will provide more insight into these difficulties, but it is
questionable whether this pilot project will give rise to a full-scale project
based on the original technical assumptions.
Credit 1097:   Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project:
US$16.0 Million Credit of March 6, 1981; Effective Date:
December 4, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1986
An extension of the First Bougouriba Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 496-UV), the rroject aims at further increasing agricultural
and livestock production in the Bougouriba ORD. Attention will be concen-
trated on the technical management of rainfed agriculture by improved orga-
nization of training, extension, input distribution and credit. The project
also provides for the implementation of modest animal husbandry practices and
increased use of animal traction. Emphasis will be on increasing yields of
main food crops (millet and sorghum) together with recommendations for cash
crops (yams, groundnuts and cotton). The project includes small programs to
encourage more fruit and fuelwood tree planting, and erosion control.
Credit 1164:   Fourth Highway Project:  US$46.0 million Credit of
January 28, 1982; Effective Date: April 26, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The main objectives of this project, which has not yet been signed,
are to improve the Ministry of Public Works' institutional capacity for main-
tenance operations and to provide better access to rural areas. The project
consists of: (i) the renewal of the maintenance equipment fleet; (ii) the
construction of workshops and office building; (iii) the incremental costs of
fuel, spare parts and materials for routine maintenance; (iv) the costs of
fuel, spare parts and materials for the periodic maintenance of about 450 km
of gravel roads; (v) the rehabilitation of about 280 km of gravel roads;
(vi) the resealing of about 320 km or paved roads; (vii) the construction
and initial maintenance of about 1,640 km of new and existing feeder roads;
and (viii) technical assistance, consultants, training and scholarships to
help overcome personnel constraints.



- 31 -                            ANNEX III
Page I of 1
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:  The initially proposed (but not implemented)
agricultural development project from which the presently proposed
pilot project has developed, was identified by RMWA, Abidjan in
October 1977.
(b)  Project preparation of initially proposed project:  Agrar and
Hydrotechnick GmbH, Germany under IDA financing.
(c)  Appraisal mission:  October 1981.
(d)  Negotiations:  June 12-15, 1982.
(e)  Target effectiveness:  March 31, 1983.
Section II: Special Project Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Government through IVRAZ will make arrangements with the research
institutes concerning their participation in the adaptive research
program and the Experimentation Committee (para. 45).
(b)  The mark-up on veterinary supplies will be sufficient to cover
related costs of distribution by the fourth year of the project
(para. 46).
(c)  Government will prepare and furnish to the Association a statement
of its policy regarding cost recovery principles to be implemented
for seeds and for livestock inputs other than veterinary drugs,
will exchange views with the Association concerning such policy by
June 30, 1984, and will apply the policy from the start of the
fourth year of the project (para. 46).
(d)  Government will exercise strict financial and physical control
of its inventory of veterinary drugs procured under the Project
(para. 46).
(e)  Conditions of effectiveness are:
(i)  the appointment of a project chief, an accountant, a chief of
the monitoring and evaluation unit and an adaptive research
specialist (para. 48). Appointment of such personnel
subject to IDA agreement; and
(ii) the opening of the special account (para. 53) and notification
that the grant of the Kingdom of the Netherlands is effective
(para. 52).






IBRD 15224
2. 3c               2'C                                                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PSI 1 19?
UPPER VOL-Ait  V
K-d, ~ ~       ~           ~          ~           ~          ~ 
.3-cc                                                                                                *.,'ri     S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Po PoeCAe
-   -          -~~~~1. 6     97slee
/    >K~~~~~~~~bo         I                                                0PP59 V~~~~~~~~~~OR)/eo,f,e    o,d-e
K                  /                                                       KOUDOUGOKOAGRICULTURA
Goov,t  -                                                                PILOT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ce PR/&,OJeecte
P at Proec Are s'  5a e
/                                1967-1977~~~~Os  Ohe   sohyg,s
-                                              '2 V~ch-   ~ e
B-Y.-.                             f~~~-    -    e-alo   olnb-r -y
Griee d  Secaea
B.g.fubsctrboeore
(  xi    ~~-  ~ ~             10rno50                                 o',eot/e Ce SOuS-Secteit~~~~~
T"--~~~~~~---~~~~KASSOUrten  2  5
FAR                                                                   0-y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ce-iaedprenu
--- -------- ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    o iogicis~                                 Ce- is d  ecen
ABOU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~©AO    etrcptl
1S-A    obsco ICapitols    5 
2:31,        ?b T-        2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sto                            n- i oe



