Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4550
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORTS
BANGLADESH: FIRST AND SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECTS
(CREDITS 409-BD AND 622-BD)
June 15, 1983
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORTS
BANGLADESH: FIRST AND SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECTS
(CREDITS 409-BD AND 622-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS                  Page No.
Preface  ....       ............  i
Basic Data Sheets  .  .. .... .......  .............................    ii
Highlights ......................................................    iv
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT (CR. 409-BD)
1
I.   Project Data ......... . *
II.  Objectives ..............   
III. Results of Credit            .................................  2
IV.  Legal Understandings and their Fulfillment ........             5
V.   Conclusions ...........         ... 00.0   oo*...               5
ANNEXES:
1.   Subprojects Financed Under Credit 409-BD .6.....                6
2.   Description of Subprojects and Their Results
Under the First Technical Assistance Project
for Bangladesh ........ ..o. ...... ..o.*o.........             7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT (CR. 622-BD)
I.   Summary and Conclusions ........ oo..o ... ......o             14
II.  Project Introduction ..o ..... ..... .. .... ...... . ...      15
III. Project Objectives and Results ... ..*...............          16
IV.  Project Implementation .....................o ...              21
Vo   IDA Supervision .......... . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . . .. .  .  24
TABLES:
I.   Distribution of Subprojects by Pre-Investment
Type .............................. .........               25
II.  IDA Follow-Up Investment . .          ........................  26
III. Distribution of Subprojects by Sector .... . ......            27
IV.  (a)  Estimated and Actual Disbursement Rate,
Cr. 409 (First TA Credit) .. .... o      .........       28
(b) Estimated and Actual Disbursement Rate,
Cr. 622 (Second T.A. Credit)           o                 28
ANNEXES:
1.   Subprojects Financed Under Credit 622 ... ...........          29
2.   Subproject Summaries .. ....... ..o...   ........ . ........   30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORTS
BANGLADESH: FIRST AND SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECTS
(CREDITS 409-BD and 622-BD)
PREFACE
The two project completion reports (PCRs) review the experi-
ence with the first and second technical assistance projects in Bangladesh,
supported by Credit 409-BD for US$4.0 million, signed in June 1973, and
Credit 622-BD for US$7.5 million, signed in August 1976. The first credit
was fully disbursed in December 1978, three years behind schedule, and the
second in June 1981, with one year delay.
The PCRs were prepared by the Bank's South Asia Regional
Office on the basis of country visits, the President's Reports, the
credit documents and study of the project files. In both cases the
Borrower provided substantial inputs to the PCRO
The PCRs present a factual review of the use of the credits
and draw the lessons of the experience. The final draft was sent to the
Borrower for comments. No comments have been received.
The projects have not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



I



- ii -
PROJECT C01fT-LEIION REPORT
BANGLADESH: FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 409-BD)
BASIC DATA SHEET
(IJS$ TnLl1ions)
Original   Disbursed  Cancelled  As of 3/31/83
Repaid   Outstanding
Credit 409                          4.0          4.0                    -         4.0
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
FY74   FY75   FY76   FY77    FY78    FY79
(i)  Planned                1.5    3.2    4.0       4.0    4.0      4.0
(ii)  Actual                  .1      .6    1.0      2.0    3.0      4.0
(iii) (ii) as % of (i)         6     19    25        50     75       100
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Credit Date         Actual or
Re-estimated
Board Approval                                6/73                       6/73
Credit Agreement                              6/29/73                 6/29/73
Effectiveness                                 8/20/73                 8/20/73
Credit Closing                               12/31/75                12/31/78
MISSION DATA
Months    No. of   No.of                   Date of
Year      Weeks    Persons   Manweeks   Report
Supervision I                    10/73         3        1            3
Supervision II                    3/76         1        1            1
Supervision III                   2/77         1        1            1
Supervision IV                    4/78         1        1            1
Supvervision V                    5/78         1        1            1
Supervision VI                    1/79         1        1            1
Supervision VII                  12/79          1       1            1
Subtotal                      9                     9
FOLLOW-ON PROJECT(S)
Third Technical Assistance Project, Credit 872-BD, approved on 12/21/78, in the
amount of US$10.0 million.
Fourth Technical Assistance Project, Credit 1124-BD, approved on 3/26/81, in the
amount of US$14e6 million.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH: SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 622-BD)
BASIC DATA SHEET
(US$ millions)                 As of 3/31/83
Original  Disbursed  Cancelled  Repaid  Outstanding
Credit 622                    7.5     7.5            -         -         7.5
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
FY 77   FY 78   FY79   FY80   FY81
(i)    Planned                    2.0    5.5      7.0    7.5    7.5
(ii)   Actual                      .1      .7     2.0    4.8    7.5
(iii)  (ii) as % of (i)            5      13       29      64    100
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Date           Actual or
Re-estimated
Board Approval                              4/6/76               4/6/76
Credit Agreement                            4/8/76               4/8/76
Effectiveness                               4/14/76             4/14/76
Credit Closing                              6/30/80             6/30/81
MISSION DATA
Month,    No. of   No. of                 Date of
Year      weeks    Persons  Manweeks   Report
Supervision I                 3/79        2        1         2         3/16/79
Supervision II               10/79        2        1         2        10/29/79
Supervision III              12/80        3        2         6         1/30/81
PCR - Supervision            10/81        3        1         3         4/30/82
FOLLOW-ON PROJECT
Third Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 872-BD), approved on December
22, 1978, in the amount of US$10.0 million.
OTHER DATA
Borrower:                  Peoples Republic of Bangladesh
Executing Agency:         External Resources Division
Fiscal Year of Borrower:   July 1 - June 30
CURRENCY EQUIVAIENTS
Name of Currency:                     Taka (Tk)
Exchange Rate  4/1976                 TK 15.0
Exchange Rate  6/1981                     16.0
* Dates of other missions that took place during the life of the project
but for which supervision reports were not issued iinclude: 2/77, 4/78
and 5/78.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR TS
BANGLADESH:  FIRST; _LND SECO N.) T-f]CMICAL ASSIST.AA7CE PROJECTS
(CREDK''S 409-BD and o22-T3D)
HIGCHLIGHTS
The principal objective of the two credits was to finance tech-
nical assistance for project preparation. and feasibility studies which
in turn would strengtheni the project pi-elne available to IDA and other
aid agencies.  Secondary objectives have been (i) to strengthen institu-
tions responsible for project planning and implementation, and (ii) to encourage
development of local consultant expert!i.e.  Speciaal emphasis was to be given
to agriculture-related sectors. ('PCR Credlt 409-BD, paras. 2.01-2.04;
PCR Credit 622-BD, paras. 3.01, 3.02, 30h8, 3.20).
Both credits have resulted in substantial development of a
project pipeline in Bangladesh (over US$400.0 million !DA followup invest-
ment so far), largely achieving their principal objectives.  However, the
credits were less successful in fosterinc, lnstitu.tional development, although
some progress has been achieved in this difficult area (PCR Credit 622-BD,
para. 3.10).  It is evident that Baank staff, pressed for time, generally
tend to give priority to the supervrision of project preparation and invest-
ment components. It is reconmeendel that IDA should support its commitment
to institutional development and training with sufficient resources to permit
the special attention these components often require (PCR Credit 409-BD,
para. 3.05; PCR Credit 622-BED, paras. 1.0., 1.05 and 3.17).
Disbursements under the first TA credit were initially slow, but
as the Government became familiar with this type of operation disbursements
accelerated and were more timely under the second TA credit (PCR Credit 622-BD,
paras. 1.04 and 4.05); The closing date for the first credit was extended
twice for a total of three years, and for the second credit once for one
year. Implementation was aided by the active role played by the External
Resources Division (ERD) of the linistry of Finance) the ERD encourages
initiation of subproject proposals and supervises ongoing subprojects as well
as helping eliminate problems impeding progress in project implementation
(PCR Credit 409-BD, para. 4.01).
While most subprojects were carried out within agreed time periods,
considerable delays were experienced in getting some projects started. A
key constraint in this regard was the slow procurement of consultant services.
Some of the problems were subsequently alleviated after the Bank had issued
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants b; World Bank Borrowers" (PCR Credit
622-BD, paras. 4.09-4.12).
The PCRs emphasize that successful delivery of Technical Assistance (TA)
depends heavily, if not entirely, on obvious, but in some cases apparently
elusive, prerequisites. These are:
1. An unecuivocal comnitmenr on the part of the governmental
implementing agency',



2. Carefully defined and agreed upon goals and plan for
implementation, especially important when TA is not auto-
matically defined by its relationship to an investment
project; and
3. Particularly sensitive supervision.
Overall, each TA credit of this nature appears further to confirm
the usefulness of procedures for committing and administering credit funds
that are both simple and flexible permitting the credits to be used to meet
urgent needs which often could not have been foreseen (PCR Credit 409-BD,
para. 5.01; PCR Credit 622-3D, paras 1.05 and 4.04).



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH: FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 409-BD)
I. PROJECT DATA
1.01      Amount of Credit            :  US$4,000,000
Amount Disbursed           :  US$4,000,000
Date of Credit Agreement  :  June 29, 1973
Effective Date                 August 20, 1973
Closing Date               :  December 31, 1978
II. OBJECTIVES
2.01      When Bangladesh became independent, the newly formed Government
inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost much of its academic
and business elite -- and much of the physical infrastructure had been de-
molished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had come to a
standstill. Attempts to revive the economy had put it on a growth path were
complicated by the necessity to fashion a national government out of provin-
cial administration; to establish development institutions serving agricul-
ture, industry, trade, and banking; and to reorient agriculture and industry
after the loss of the West Pakistan market. Implementation of all development
projects was interrupted, and serious technical and financial problems for
carrying out ongoing projects emerged. These events also further compounded
the already difficult development problems facing Bangladesh. As a result,
massive development assistance was needed to alleviate the country's develop-
ment problems and to develop its natural and human resources.
2.02      However, development efforts were seriously constrained by the weak-
ness in technical and institutional capabilities for economic planning, iden-
tification, preparation and implementation of development projects, and even
for carrying on normal Government functions. Bangladesh's difficult develop-
ment problems have always required high levels of technical assistance, and
these problems were aggravated by the disruption caused by the war of inde-
pendence and the need to develop quickly the institutions of a national
government. To assist in overcoming this constraint, IDA agreed to provide
a credit of $4.0 million to provide financing for high priority technical
assistance for project preparation, strengthening institutions responsible
for project planning and implementation, and for more general studies (such
as, for example, hydrological investigations) which may be required prior to
the preparation of specific projects.
2.03      In order to provide flexibility to meet requirements as they were
identified, subprojects to be financed under the credit were not specified
in the President's Report or the Development Credit Agreement. The alloca-
tion of funds for subprojects was to be agreed between the Government and IDA
on a case-by-case basis. Nomination of a subproject for financing under the



- 2 -
credit was to be proposed to the Planning Commission by the agencies concerned,
and the Planning Commission and IDA had to agree on the suitability of the
proposed subproject for financing under the credit. Thereafter, the selec-
tion of consultants, their terms of reference and the final contract between
the Government and the consultants were also subject to agreement between
the Government and IDA. Tne Planning Commission was responsible for ensuring
coordination of the various ministries and agencies concerned with implemen-
tation of the project.
2.04      While it was expected that most of the credit funds would be used
for paying for foreign consultants, services of local consultants were also
eligible for financing under the credit. Such local consultants costs were
financed at 70% of cost, which was estimated to be the percentage of total
costs financed for foreign consultants through financing of their foreign
exchange costs only. In addition to consultants services, the credit also
provided for finance for the foreign exchange costs of trips by Government
personnel to work with consultants in their home offices, overseas training,
and material and equipment required for approved technical assistance sub-
projects procured directly by the Government.
III. RESULTS OF THRE CREDIT
3.01      The subprojects financed under this credit have played a signifi-
cant role in strengthening the Bank Group's project pipeline in Bangladesh.
Some progress was also achieved in improving efficiency of institutions in
project preparation and implementation in several key sectors. Preparation
and engineering work for the Ashuganj Fertilizer Project (Cr. 527-BD), the
Rural Development Project (Cr. 631-BD), the Muhuri ]'rrigation Project
(Cr. 725-BD), the Extension and Research Project (Cr. 729-BD), the Drainage
and Flood Control Project (Cr. 864-BD), the Oxbow Lakes Fisheries Project
(Cr. 890-BD), and the Second Dacca Water and Sewerage Project (Cr. 941-BD),
were all financed at least in part under this Credit. Projects under con-
sideration for gas development, fertilizer industry rehabilitation, jute
industry rehabilitation, agricultural credit, and improving fertilizer dis-
tribution facilities may also result from subprojects financed under this
credit. In addition, one subproject provided assistance to an import control
system study designed to assist in streamlini'ng procedures which have impeded
progress on our projects and those of other donors; one subproject is assisting
the Government in designing procedures to improve the operational efficiency of
its existing fertilizer plants (a condition of our Credit for a new plant); one
subproject assisted the Government in meeting sector conditions under our
Imports Credits for improving the efficiency of the jute industry; one sub-
project assisted in bringing about improvements in foodgrain silo operations
which were a prerequisite for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Cr. 787-BD);
one subproject assisted USAID in designing its fertilizer sector credit; one
subproject led to Swedish financing of the rehabilitation of the Karnafuli
Paper Mill; and one subproject assisted the work of the Bangladesh Transport
Survey, specifically the Inland Water Transport Sector Review and the oil
transfer system at Chittagong, which became a basis for the supplementary
credit for the Inland Water Transport (Cr. 424-BD). It is too early to judge
the final results of the technical assistance provided to identify and prepare
terms of reference for studies to improve the organization and procedures of



- 3 -
the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation and the Ministry of Agri-
culture. However, the Government and IDA have agreed for follow-up assistance
in these fields and progress appears to be being made (see paragraph 3.06
below). For a detailed description of each subproject financed and the results
achieved see Annex I attached.
3.02      Use of Credit funds was initially slow and disappointing, reflect-
ing in part disagreements between the Planning Commission and the line
ministries concerning their respective roles in project preparation (see
paragraphs 3.03 and 3.04) and a feeling among some Government officials
that asking for technical assistance was an admission of incompetence. When
requests for financing studies were received, their progress was impeded by
slow Government procedures for selection of consultants and negotiating con-
sultants contracts. Progress accelerated in 1975 when Government officials
appeared to become more willing to suggest subprojects for financing and
improved procedures were introduced reducing somewhat the number of approvals
required for consultants' contracts. As a result of the improving performance
IDA agreed to two extensions of the original December 31, 1975 closing date
of the credit, first to December 31, 1977 and then to December 31, 1978. By
December 1976, almost the whole US$4 million credit (3.9 million) was com-
mitted. A Second Technical Assistance Credit (622-BD) was approved in April
1976, basically following the same procedures as under the First T.A. credit.
Finally, by the end of 1979, subprojects financed under this credit were
completed and the credit funds were fully disbursed shortly thereafter, taking
account of the time required for processing the final bills. (Some shifting
of later disbursements under 409-BD subprojects to Credit 622-BD and earlier
disbursements under subprojects originally approved under Credit 622-BD to
Credit 409-BD were required to achieve this result).
3.03      Although subprojects were not specified in advance, IDA had been
assisting the Government for some time in working out a program of technical
assistance and studies in the agriculture and water development sector to
enhance the preparation of projects which would result in increased food
production in the short term. This technical assistance and studies program,
which was estimated to require technical assistance expenditures in an amount
of about US$13 million, was presented to the countries and agencies attending
the International Meeting on Development of Bangladesh, held in Dacca on
March 31 and April 1, 1973. It had been expected that proceeds of the IDA
Technical Assistance Credit would complement funds from other sources to
help meet these requirements and that a substantial portion of the credit
would be used in this sector. Toward this end IDA proposed establishment of
a mechanism for coordinating inter-ministerial project preparation efforts in
the agricultural sector through the formation of a Special Project Preparation
Unit (SPPU) in the Planning Ministry. This proposed unit was envisaged as
consisting of Bangladeshi technicians and expatriates working as a team, and
was expected to result in both an improved project pipeline and increase
Bangladeshi capability to identify and prepare projects on their own. This
proposal was formally accepted and a Director of the SPPU was appointed.
Significant amounts of Bank and consultant staff time were devoted to prepar-
ing a program for this unit. However, various line ministries (particularly
the Ministry of Irrigation and Flood Control) raised strong objections to this
transfer of project preparation responsibility to the Planning Commission and
the SPPU was effectively stalemated. Facing the political realities, IDA



- 4 -
agreed to finance more modest project preparation efforts within the Ministries
of Irrigation and Agriculture.
3.04      A case can be made that in many circumstances it would in fact be
preferable to locate assistance for project preparation in the line ministries
that would be responsible for carrying out the work. However, in the case of
Bangladesh, the existence of separate ministries responsible for irrigation
and flood control, agriculture (including extension services), and rural
development (including cooperative credit) made the coordination of project
preparation efforts through the Planning Ministry appear to be preferable, if
politically feasible. Our ability to judge the political acceptability of the
proposal may have been handicapped by the fact that the official channel of
Government communications with the Bank at that time was the Ministry of
Planning. It is difficult in such circumstances to be sure when an agency
is representing its own interests and when iit is presenting the Government's
views.
3.05      While the credit has been effective in assisting Bangladesh in the
preparation and implementation of priority projects and in strengthening
IDA's project pipeline, its effectiveness irt strengthening Bangladesh's
overall project preparation/implementation capacity is more problematical.
As noted above, the SPPU initiative failed. The effort to create an effec-
tive joint Bangladeshi/expatriate project preparation unit in the Ministry
of Irrigation and Flood Control has been more successful, but the training
and institution building portions of this effort appear to be working more
slowly than intended. Greater Bank attenticn may be appropriate in its super-
vision efforts for such subprojects to the institution building portion vis-
a-vis the immediate project preparation aspects.
3.06      The effort under one subproject to identify and prepare terms of
reference for studies to improve the organization and procedures of the
Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation and the Ministry of Agricul-
ture was less successful immediately than had been hoped but appears to have
produced some encouraging results. Follow-up subprojects for particular
studies with respect to BADC (accounting system improvement and irrigation
management) are being pursued under the Third Technical Assistance Credit
(872-BD), and the leader of the original team is being employed in his personal
capacity as an organization/administration advisor to the Secretary of the
Ministry of Agriculture (financed under Credit 622-BD). The evaluation of
this type of assistance is intrinsically difficult. The most significant
contribution of this type of advisor is not the production of reports or
recommendations but rather assistance provided to the relevant officials in
considering key issues and coming up with their own recommendations for
improvement. Such work must be done with the minimum of publicity for the
advisor's role and time must be allowed for the advisor's catalytic role to
assist in producing the intended type of discussions among key officials and
resulting decisions. The recent decisions of the Bangladesh Government to
increase the role of the private sector in the distribution of agricultural
inputs reflects the interplay of various influences and it would be wrong to
give credit to anyone other than the Government officials who took the diffi-
cult decisions involved. Nevertheless, discussions initiated under this
subproject may have played a useful role in helping to focus the issues.



- 5 -
IV. LEGAL UNDERTAKINGS AND THEIR FULFILLMENT
4.01      The specific legal undertakings under this credit were relatively
simple, involving primarily (i) procedures for agreeing on subprojects,
selection of consultants, and approval of their contracts; t,V provision
of adequate funds and facilities; (iii) coordination responsibility of the
Planning Commission; and (iv) maintenance of adequate records. The only
difficulties experienced concerned (ii) and (iii) above. While no difficul-
ties were reported in obtaining the required local currency funds to pay
consultants, some problems did occur in the prompt provision of adequate
office space, telephones, transportation and other facilities required to
ensure that the consultants were maximally productive. These difficulties
were eventually corrected, but discussion of these requirements earlier in
the subproject approval cycle and a more active role by the project coordi-
nating agency would have been useful. Connected with this issue is the rela-
tively passive role taken by the Planning Commission in carrying out its
coordinating responsibilities. Significant improvement in these matters
has occurred under later technical assistance credits, with the External
Resources Division playing a much more active role in encouraging the initia-
tion of subproject proposals and supervising subprojects, including working
to eliminate problems impeding progress under subprojects.
V. CONCLUSIONS
5.01      The subprojects financed under this credit played a very signifi-
cant role in assisting the preparation and implementation of high priority
projects and in strengthening IDA's project pipeline in Bangladesh. The
credit's contribution in encouraging institutional improvement and strength-
ening Bangladesh's project preparation/implementation capacity has been sig-
nificant if limited. The Government's recent requests for further assist-
ance in improving project planning and implementation instititutions are
an encouraging sign. We should not be surprised, however, if progress con-
tinues to be slow in the intrinsically more difficult field of institutional
reform. The simplicity and flexibility of the credit's procedures for commit-
ment and administration of funds permitted the credit to be used to meet urgent
needs which often could not be foreseen in advance. While progress in initial
implementation of this credit was slow and disappointing, the improved polit-
ical support for the use of the credit after 1975 played a significant role in
improving utilization of credit funds.
February 28, 1980



-6-                     ANNEX I
BANGLADESH: SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER CREDIT 409-BD
Approval Date            Subproject Number and Description                  Amount
12/03/74         I  Inland Water Transport Study                       157,564.88
01/07/74        II  High Yielding Variety Survey                        22,025.08
02/14/74       III  Rural Development Engineering Survey                41,336.65
02/07/74        IV  Technical Advisory for Urea Fertilizer Factory  650,000.00
04/25/74         V  Fisheries                                           20,056.98
04/03/74        VI  Karnafuli Paper Mill Rehabilitation                 44,912.71
06/08/75      VII  Import Control System Study                         226,984.87
07/08/75     VIII  Muhuri Engineering                                  172,400.69
07/11/75        IX  Fertilizer Factory Maintienance                    206,234.00
07/23/75         X  Fertilizer Marketing Distribution                  230,000.00
10/09/75       XI  Water Development Board (Proj. Prep. Unit)          779,550.63
01/21/76      XII  Jute Factory Maintenance                            167,767.99
02/19/76     XIII  Grain Storage Management Study                      283,238.08
05/24/76      XIV  Min. of Agriculture/BADC Org. & Management          321,643.31
01/26/78       XV  Reprinting Bangladesh Maps                           59,084.00
06/21/78      XVI  Agriculture Credit Review                           299,884.17
11/03/78     XVII  Dacca WASA II                                       299,315.96
11/22/78    XVIII  Chittagong Gas Marketing                             18,000.00
Total                               4,000,000.00



7                ~~~~~ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
DESCRIPTION OF SUBPROJECTS AND THEIR RESULTS UNDER THE
FIRST TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR BANGLADESH
SUBPROJECT      Inland Water Transport Study
AMOUNT: $157,564.88
MAIN OBJECTIVES: To review design alternatives of the inland water system
deep-draft area terminal and recommend alternatives for future investigation.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: The report was prepared as part of the Bangladesh
Transport Survey which was published in November 1974. Originally, the study
was intended for the formulation of the second Inland Water Transport Project.
The study assisted the inland water transport sector review and designed an oil
transfer system at Chittagong, which became a basis for the Supplementary
Credit for the Inland Water Transport (Cr. 424-BD).
SUBPROJECT II - High Yielding Variety Survey
AMOUNT: $22,025.08
MAIN OBJECTIVES: (1) Delineation of areas suitable for rainfed cultivation
of HYV rice; (2) defining a project for major efforts to support rainfed HYV
rice cultivation; (3) keeping expert in Bangladesh to continue work during
period of UNDP fund scarcity.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: Objective (1) was achieved with very good results.
Consultant's work in identifying areas suitable for rainfed cultivation of
HYV rice and which also covered the development of data on the degree of HYV
cultivation achieved in various parts of Bangladesh is acknowledged by all
concerned. Objective (2) was partially achieved. The Rainfed Rice Project
had been transformed to Minimum Package Project (rainfed rice and wheat) which
gave birth to IDA's Extension and Research Project (Cr. 729-BD) of June 28,
1978, for US$10 million. The Project involved rainfed and irrigated culti-
vation of both rice and wheat but excluded supply of inputs. Objective (3)
was achieved and the Consultant has remained in Bangladesh carrying out follow-
up work now being funded by UNDP/FAO.
SUBPROJECT III - Rural Development Engineering Survey
AMOUNT: $41,336.65
MAIN OBJECTIVES: Undertaking water resources and water works studies for
nine Thanas in the districts of Bogra, Mymensingh, Sylhlet, Barisal, to
prepare data required for Rural Development Project intended to modernize
agriculture, increase employment opportunities, reduce rural poverty, and
improve nutritional standards of the rural poor.



-8-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: The objectives were achieved, leading to the
Rural Development I Project (Cr. 631-BD).
SUBPROJECT IV - Technical Advisory of Urea Fertilizer Factory
AMOUNT: $650,000.00
MAIN OBJECTIVES: To provide (1) technical advisory services for the prepa-
ration of the Ashganj Fertilizer Project (Cr. 527-BD) and (2) the supervision
of tender arrangements up to the date of effectiveness of the proposed
Ashuganj Fertilizer Credit.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: The objectives were achieved, leading to a
fertilizer project financed by IDA and other co-financiers (Cr. 527-BD).
SUBPROJECT V - Fisheries
AMOUNT: $20,056.98
MAIN OBJECTIVES: Preliminary feasibility report on an inland fisheries
project in Jessore District.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: Report was completed in May 1976 leading to
Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project financed by IDA (Cr. 890-BD).
SUBPROJECT VI - Karnafuli Paper Mill Rehabilitation
AMOUNT: $44,912.71
MAIN OBJECTIVES: Carrying out a feasibility study for modernization and
balancing of the Karnafuli Paper Mills.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP:  A draft Final Report was completed by the con-
sultant in December 1977. On the basis of the consultant's general recom-
mendations, GOB applied for a Swedish grant of US$10.0 million (Tk 140.0
million) to implement, over a two-year period, major Balancing, Modernization
and Rehabilitation elements of the rehabilitation program proposed.
SUBPROJECT VII - Import Control System Study
AMOUNT: $226,984.87
MAIN OBJECTIVES: To examine the institutional and administrative constraints
in the import control systems; suggest ways to streamlining at all stages to
ensure quick and better utilization of available foreign aid and foreign
exchange.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: Consultant's report was completed on time. The
report's recommendations were accepted by the Government and implementation
efforts began September 1, 1977. An implementation cell was established in
the Planning Ministry for this purpose. Also, import policy period had been



-9-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
changed from 6 months to 12 months as recommended, and customs classifica-
tion system is to be restructured and streamlined using a consultant.
SUBPROJECT VIII - Muhuri Engineering
AMOUNT: $172,400.69
MAIN OBJECTIVES: To assist in design and preparation of tender documents
for regulators, gates, hoists, and equipment for the Muhuri Irrigation
Project and assist in evaluation of tenders submitted for the construction
of the Muhuri Regulator.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: Objectives were achieved leading to a $21.0
million IDA financed project (Cr. 725-BD).
SUBPROJECT IX - Fertilizer Factory Maintenance
AMOUNT: $206,234.00
MAIN OBJECTIVES: To examine the operations of the fertilizer manufacturing
plants at Fenchuganj, Chittagong, and Ghorasal; make recommendations for
achieving increased output, especially in terms of improved operating and
maintenance procedures, and assist in implementing these recommendations.
This need was identified in the appraisal of the Ashuganj Project.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: An Agreement for consultancy services for
Fertilizer Works Operation Program was signed on June 4, 1977 between BCIC
and Bresler & Associates, Inc., USA (BAI). The Agreement was scheduled to
expire after August 1978. BAI submitted some portions of the completion
report at the end of August 1978, but the submission of the full completion
report was not completed. More time was required than originally expected
to submit the Final Reports. Therefore, the Agreement was mutually extended
to August 1979. As a result, the remainder of the sutdy was financed under
the Second Technical Assistance Credit 622-BD. The recommendations of this
study have led to some improvements in the operations of the fertilizer
factories and to the identification of fertilizer factory balancing and
modernization requirements which are under consideration for financing under
a proposed FY80 fertilizer industry rehabilitation project.
SUBPROJECT X - Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution
AMOUNT: $230,000.00
MAIN OBJECTIVES: (1) To develop phased proposals for improving the fertil-
izer marketing and distribution system, including transport modes and the
role of the public and the private sector in it, as well as all the personnel
and material components. Taking into account costs and benefits, foreign
exchange scarcity and administrative constraints, the resulting system should
be the best achievable for the period 1976 through 1986; and (2) investment
proposals and, to the extent applicable, reorganizational proposal in order
to distribute and market the country's fertilizer requirements by the end of
1978, when the Ashuganj Fertilizer Plant was expected to commence commercial
operations.



- 10 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW: Assisted USAID in designing and appraising fertilizer
storage component of recently agreed fertilizer sector credit. IDA is con-
sidering financing additional investments identified under this study.
SUBPROJECT XI - Water Development Board Project Preparation Unit
AMOUNT: $779,550.63
MAIN OBJECTIVES: To review and update prior studies and complete feasi-
bility studies for selected drainage and flood control projects to a
standard suitable for appraisal by IDA.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: Feasibility studies were completed for the fol-
lowing four subprojects which were appraised by IDA in February 1978:
(1) Chenchuri Beel; (2) Kolabashukhali; (3) Brahmaputra Right Embankment;
(4) Surma-balai. The first three subprojects were financed under the Drainage
and Flood Control Project (Cr. 864-BD). The :Last subproject was not included
for financing under Cr. 864-BD as it did not provide an economic rate of
return acceptable to IDA and could have been a danger to life if the proposed
embankment failed. A contract for preparation of feasibility studies for a
proposed second Drainage and Flood Control Project has been signed with NEDECO,
the original consultant who carried out the studies for the above subprojects.
The consultancy services for these feasibility studies have been financed
under the Second Technical Assistance Credit ('Cr. 622-BD) at $1.5 million.
SUBPROJECT XII - Jute Factory Maintenance
AMOUNT: $167,767.99
MAIN OBJECTIVES: After Bangladesh's independence in 1971, the lack of avail-
ability of spare parts and inadequate maintenance of the machinery in the
jute mills resulted in deterioration in the condition of equipment. The sub-
project was designed to devise and implement a comprehensive program of pre-
ventive maintenance, together with programs of overhauling and rehabilitation
of machinery.  A maintenance task force, consisting initially of expatriate
consultants who were to train local counterparts, was to be established.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: Expatriate consult:ants established a maintenance
program and started its implementation in 16 mills.  The consultants have now
left but the local counterparts whom they trained are continuing satisfactorily
with the implementation of the program for additional mills. This work was
part of an action program for improving the jute industry agreed in connec-
tion with various imports program credits. Based in part on improvements
achieved, a jute industry rehabilitation project was appraised in December
1979.
SUBPROJECT XIII - Grain Storage Management Study
AMOUNT:  $283,238.08



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
MAIN OBJECTIVES: (1) To review existing operations and develop a system to
provide an efficient administration, operation and maintenance for the silos
financed urU, Foodgrain Storage I (Cr. 381-BD); (2) to prepare operation,
maintenance and inventory control manuals; (3) to develop and organize on-
the-job training for all personnel of the existing silos in Bangladesh.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: Objectives (1) and (2) have been implemented.
Various manuals have been prepared and improved systems implemented. For
objective (3), the consultants have submitted a detailed report recommending
a program for local and foreign training of key silos personnel and accord-
ingly local training has begun. Foreign training programs have been drawn
up and approved by the Ministry of Food and IDA for financing under Technical
Assistance II Project (Cr. 622-BD). Implementation of this subproject assisted
in bringing about improvements in silo operations which were a prerequisite
for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Cr. 787-BD of April 12, 1978 for
US$25 million.
SUBPROJECT XIV - Ministry of Agriculture/Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation (BADC) Organization and Management
AMOUNT: $321,643.31
MAIN OBJECTIVES: Designed to identify and prepare terms of reference for
studies required to improve the effectiveness of the Ministry of Agriculture
and the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC).
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: The consultant's work was completed in July 1978,
and a two-volume report was submitted to IDA and the GOB. The report con-
tained inter alia three major recommendations for technical assistance by
IDA for both BADC and the Ministry of Agriculture. For BADC the report
provided terms of reference for further studies for (a) improvement of its
financial management and (b) strengthening of its irrigation/inventory
management. For the Ministry of Agriculture the report recommended a study
of its manpower requirements and resources. The Government requested that
the consultant who had led the team for the above subproject be hired in
his individual capacity to provide general advice to the senior management
of the Ministry of Agriculture on organization and rural policy matters. On
November 21, 1978, IDA agreed to finance the services of the above mentioned
consultant during the calendar year 1979 under the Second Technical Assist-
ance Credit (Cr. 622-BD). He has been visiting Bangladesh periodically in
carrying out his assignment.
SUBPROJECT XV - Reprinting Bangladesh Maps
AMOUNT: $59,084.00
MAIN OBJECTIVES: Updating and reprinting the land-use map and if possible
to update some of the other topical maps (hydrology, transportation, land
capability).



- 12 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: Multiple requests for maps have been received in
the course of the past years since the 1971 Ipublication of the Bank's resource
map series of Bangladesh. The old base map was compiled from topographic
maps of 30 to 40 years of age and is out-of-date due to major changes in the
course of rivers and changes in the shapes of islands and coastlines resulting
from silt deposits. To update the base map it was deemed cost-effective to
utilize satellite computer tapes to produce 14 images covering all of
Bangladesh. Tapes were ordered from NASA covering all of the country for
the dry season of 1977. The last of the tapes arrived October 20, 1978, after
which the Remote Sensing Center in Dacca was notified that processing could
begin. A two-man Bangladeshi technical team [at the computer lab facilities
at ERIM, Ann Arbor, Michigan] spent two weeks in on-the-job training learning
to process the tapes as required for cartographic compilation. The new base
map of Bangladesh will be published during 1980. GOB has requested that the
Bank support a second and third phase of the project which focuses on resource
analysis and staff training.
SUBPROJECT XVI - Agricultural Credit Review
AMOUNT: $299,884.17
MAIN OBJECTIVES: To review existing agricultural credit systems in Bangladesh,
make recommendations to the Government on ways and means to be followed in
initiating a program for reforming the deficiencies of the system, and finally
to prepare an agricultural credit project suitable for consideration for inter-
national financing.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: The consultants, Robert R. Nathan Associate, com-
pleted the first two phases of the study in March 1978. IDA reviewed the
consultants' reports and, on the basis of the review, made recommendations
to the Government in May 1978 for initiating reforms in the agricultural
credit system. In addition, the consultant completed preparations of an
agricultural credit project which included: (a) irrigation related components;
(b) fisheries components; and (c) training for bank personnel. These reports
were reviewed by the Government and IDA and the comments made were reflected
in the consultants' final report issued in November/December 1979. This
study plus further work undertaken by FAO/CP is expected to lead to an Agri-
cultural Credit Project currently scheduled for FY81. (This work was also
partially financed under credit 622-BD).
SUBPROJECT XVII - Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage II
AMOUNT: $299,315.96
MAIN OBJECTIVES: To prepare the Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
Project financed by IDA (Cr. 941-BD).
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: The consultant, Parsons Overseas Company of the
US completed its assignment (partially financed under this credit and par-
tially under the Second Technical Assistance *Credit (622-BD) leading to
Credit 941-BD.



- 13 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
SUBPROJECT XVIII - Chittagong Gas Marketing
AMOUNT: $18,000.00
MAIN OBJECTIVES: To analyze the market for gas in Chittagong, in order to
assist in determining the feasibility of proposed gas pipeline project pro-
posed for IDA financing.
ACHIEVEMENT AND FOLLOW UP: The proposed gas pipeline project was appraised
in January/February 1980. This subproject (partially financed under Credit
622-BD) provided the data on gas demand required for project appraisal.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH: SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDITS 622-B]))
I. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.01      On April 8, 1976, IDA approved the second Technical Assistance
Credit for $7.5 million to provide assistance for the preparation of invest-
ment projects and to strengthen Bangladesh's institutional capacity to plan
and implement projects through institution building and training. In addi-
tion, the subprojects under the open-line of credit were to emphasize develop-
ment in the agriculture and water sectors. The Project was fully disbursed
and closed on June 30, 1981.
1.02      Thirteen subprojects and over 90% of the credit resources provided
investment project preparation which resulted in substantial development of a
project pipeline in Bangladesh.  The investment preparation projects produced
or supported $234.4 million in follow-up investment. As anticipated, over 60%
of the credit resources was channelled into the agriculture and water sectors.
1.03      Institution building and training were explicitly emphasized in
seven subprojects in the credit. Unfortunately, most of these subprojects
did not achieve their primary goals. Reasons for this appear to include
Government reservations about using credit financing (as opposed to grant
financing) for this assistance, especial]Ly for training. Also, in some of
the subprojects there did not appear to be a clear understanding between IDA
and Government on the objectives of the subprojects e.g., Planning Assistance
(subproject 4). Within IDA, there is the impression that not enough resources
were allocated to the design and supervision of these subprojects.
1.04      Overall implementation is improving despite the increasing number
of larger and more complex subprojects. Commitments and disbursements of
funds have improved within the second Technical Assistance Credit as Govern-
ment's interest and capacity in utilizing these funds grew. In addition,
during the life of this credit, several changes in organization and adminis-
tration of the technical assistance crediLt took place. Government also
became more familiar with IDA's procedures and has developed its own proce-
dures as well. Because of a change in approval policy, delay between the
subproject allocation and start of the study is being reduced.
1.05      The special virtue of this form of assistance is the availability
of unallocated funds that can be utilized to meet immediate needs and has
resulted in a valuable contribution toward Bangladesh's development efforts.
However, lack of apparent success with institution building and training
subprojects does raise the question of II)A's attention to this area. Govern-
ment officials now strongly support this kind of assistance from IDA (other
than academic courses of long duration) and specific mention is made in the
appraisal report of IDA's support for these activities. However, since the
World Bank/IDA is first and foremost an investment institution, staff pressed
for time generally view their work on investment projects as top priority
reflecting the belief that the institution puts less of a premium on time
spent on technical assistance in general and institution building/training in
particular. Therefore, perhaps IDA shouLd consider enhancing its financial
support for these activities with specific provision of time and staffing to
permit in-depth attention that these projects particularly require.



- 15 -
II. PROJECT INTRODUCTION
2.01      After the war of independence in 1971, Bangladesh began the struggle
to build an economic base capable of sustaining the physical well being and
the aspirat; ns of its citizens. The nation gained access to financial aid
but lackeu t_.e expertise to utilize the available resources. Bangladesh
required technical and administrative expertise to identify its most impor-
tant needs; to determine the feasibility of development projects intended to
fulfill those needs; to prepare projects for implementation; and to oversee
implementation. In light of this situation, IDA agreed to provide a first
technical assistance credit (Cr. 409-BD) for $4.0 million to provide financing
for high priority technical assistance (TA). This credit provided funds
for project preparation and also for strengthening institutions responsible
for project planning and implementation and general studies.
2.02      The first TA credit to Bangladesh, approved in June 1973, featured
a line of credit to be allocated for subprojects as they were agreed upon by
the Government and IDA. Emphasis was placed on the agricultural and water
development sectors to stimulate projects that would result in increased food
production in the short term. As noted in the Project Completion Report
(PCR), the first TA credit played a significant role in strengthening the
Bank Group's project pipeline in Bangladesh supporting or leading to $175.0
million in World Bank investment as well as investment from other sources.
The credit also encouraged institutional improvements and strengthening but
progress was slow in this intrinsically difficult field.
2.03      Beginning with Credit 409-BD, an ongoing program of TA has developed
which includes the second (the subject of this report), third and fourth
TA credits with a fifth in the pipeline. Credit 622 (Second TA credit) was
approved in April 1976 for $7.5 million and covered 24 subprojects. It was
originally intended to be approved for $5.0 million but the Government asked
for an increase to $7.5 million in light of UNDP cash flow problems at the
time. Credit 872 (Third TA credit) was approved in December 1978 for $10.0
million and includes 35 subprojects. Credit 1124 (Fourth TA credit) was
approved in March 1981 for $16.0 million and subprojects are now being
approved.
2.04      Although Credit 622 consisted of 24 subprojects, four were mainly
financed under other credits. Subproject 19 was completed under Credit
409 but the allocation made in Credit 622 was approved to pay an outstanding
bill after the closing of Credit 409. Subprojects 21, 22, and 23 were funded
primarily under Credit 872; however, they were partially financed under Credit
622 in order to accelerate disbursement (although nothing actually was disbursed
under subproject 23). This Project Completion Report deals with the remaining
20 subprojects.
2.05      The main body of this report is concerned with an overall evaluation
of the credit. A statistical profile and summary of each subproject, includ-
ing background/objectives, description of implementation, follow-up activities
and a brief evaluation can be found in Annex II. The information was derived
from the files of the External Resources Division (ERD) in Dacca, project
files at Headquarters, interviews with representatives of the Government
implementing agencies and ERD, and discussions with IDA operational officers.



- 16 -
III. OBJECTIVES ANI) RESULTS
3.01      The President-s Report stated three main objectives to be achieved
by the TA project. They included (1) building a project pipeline through
the funding of project preparation and feasibility studies; (2) improving
Government capacity to plan and implement projects through institution-building
and training subprojects; and (3) continued emphasis on agriculture-related
sectors. An evaluation of each of these objectives and the associated sub-
projects follows.
Project Preparation
3.02      A principal objective of the credit was to finance project pre-
paration activities and feasibility studies to build a pipeline of projects
for financing by IDA and other agencies. This objective has been met. Out of
20 subprojects reviewed, 13 funded mainly project preparation and feasibility
and $6.6 million was disbursed for this purpose out of the $7.0 million
disbursed on the 20 subprojects (Table I). Out of these 13 subprojects, 7
subprojects have led to or provided support to $234.4 million in IDA invest-
ment so far (Table II). The Bakhrabad-Chittagong Gas Pipeline with IDA
investment of $74.4 million plus $57.6 milLion financing from other sources
is a good example of how readily available TA funds (subproject 24) provided
critical services for an investment project awaiting approval while an
intricate investment financing package was put together. Subproject 2
(Agricultural Credit Review) is a good example of the benefit of unflagging
attention. It was originally intended that a project design should emerge
from this subproject. However, this objective began to be subtly overwhelmed
by other activities. Government officials took incisive action to redirect
the subproject's activities and a project evolved that resulted in investment
support of $40.0 million from IDA. The subproject results were also instru-
mental in supporting the shallow tubewells project (Cr. 724-BD) for $16.0
million.
3.03      Besides evaluating the achievements of the overall objectives of the
credit, an analysis (within Annex II) was made of each individual subproject
dealing with investment preparation to see if the stated objectives of the
individual subproject were met. It was found that investment preparation
subprojects enjoyed a high rate of success. Eighty-five percent were con-
sidered to have achieved all or part of their objectives. Sixty-two percent
were considered to have fully achieved their objectives:



- 17 -
Subproject No.        Subproject Title
Objectives fully achieved:                1           Southwest Region Study
2          Agricultural Credit Review
7          No. Bengal Paper Mills
9          Chittagong Water Supply
13          Drainage/F'  d Control
15          Dacca Water/Sewerage
20          Fertilizer Factory Maint.
24          Gas Pipeline
objectives partially achieved:            8           Architectural Services
3          Jutton Pilot Plant
18          Southwest Region Special
Studies
Objectives mainly not achieved:           5           Rural Dev. Thana Surveys
16          Highway Maintenance
3.04      All of the subprojects that fully achieved their stated objectives,
except Southwest Regional Study (subproject 1), have led to or are leading to
follow-up investment. The Southwest Regional Study achieved its objectives by
identifying further studies financed under the credit.
3.05      Three project preparation studies were considered to have only
partially met their objectives. Architectural Services (subproject 8) did
eventually provide the services and designs specified by the TOR but was
not able to provide services before investment credit approval as was ori-
ginally planned. Nonetheless, it has supported Credit 828-BD ($6.0 million).
Jutton Pilot Plant (subproject 3) suffered from fundamental disagreements
that surfaced tardily within the Government on the subproject-s goals. The
stalemate resulted in a serious delay in implementation; however, the sub-
project-s activities are continuing under Credit 872-BD and the final goal
of testing the viability of producing clothing by combining jute and cotton
should be realized. The consultants for the Southwest Region Special
Studies (subproject 18), which was a followup to the Southwest Region Study
(subproject 1), did submit their reports within the scheduled period of time.
However, because of Government-s restrictions on the confidential documents
IDA did not receive the documents until too late to assist in the supervision
of the study.  As a result, though some studies may eventually result in a
project, additional preparation work will be needed.
3.06      Two projects are considered not to have met their objectives.
The Rural Development Thana Survey (Subproject 5) prepared a replication
of an earlier project concept that was undergoing a thorough design
change. It is now doubtful that the material gathered will be relevant to
the proposed Rural Development II Project which has been greatly delayed. The
outlook for the Highway Maintenance (subproject 16) is also dim. Two phases
were to be completed under this subproject but only Phase I, which was to
review existing road data and future road use, has been completed. IDA and
the Government are in the process of agreeing on the goals and TOR of
the investment project, however Phase II activities that would concentrate
on project preparation are still in limbo.



- 18 -
3.07      The project preparation projects achieved their objectives to a
high degree both at the level of attaining the immediate objectives in the
TOR and the longer term objectives of supporting substantial follow-up
investment. As might be expected the subprojects that did not fulfill or
only partially fulfilled their objectives were mainly associated with invest-
ment projects in the early stage of the project cycle which were not yet
developed, or agreed to, in concept. TA was most efficient where a tightly
defined project determined rather clearly thie preparation activity.
Institutional Building/Training
3.08      Another basic objective of TA II was to provide assistance to
institution-building that would strengthen the Government's capacity for
project planning, preparation and implementation through the provision
of management advice and training. Technical assistance funds were to be
utilized for (1) establishment of effective planning cells within development
ministries; (2) improvement of statistical services; and (3) improvement of
management in public corporations of the industrial sector.  The President's
Report also emphasized IDA's support of the Government's desire to use quali-
fied local consultants to the largest degree possible, either independently
or in collaboration with foreign firms. Under TA II seven subprojects were
specifically aimed at institution-building and training (Table I).
3.09      Institutional assistance is difficult to assess.  An observer can
judge if overt physical objectives were ach:Leved, e.g., did the intended
number of trainees complete the training course?--was a planning cell devel-
oped and functioning?--is there a more efficient, modern billing system than
before?-but it is nearly impossible to say if an increased Government capacity
to implement projects occurred and especial:Ly whether such an occurrence would
be related to a particular IDA-funded TA subproject.
3.10      Unfortunately, even by the simplest criteria, the institution
building and training subprojects did not fare well under Credit 622. A
summnry of the analysis of the individual subprojects gives the following
results:
Subproject No.      Subproject Title
Objectives fully achieved:                 10         Small Industries Training
Objectives partially achieved:             12         Foodgrain Storage Training
14        Sector Corporation Mgt. Tr.
17        Advisor to Min. of Agri.
Objectives mainly not achieved:             4         Planning Assistance
6        Bangladesh Institute for
Devel. Studies Training
11        Pulp and Paper Adviser
3.11      Only one subproject aimed at institution-building is considered to
have fully achieved its objectives. Small Industries Training (subproject
10) did succeed in providing training for the intended number of trainees.
However, there were some complaints from some trainees about their allowances.



- 19 -
3.12      Three institution-building subprojects are considered to have
partially met their objectives. Only a fraction of the intended training
was completed under Foodgrain Storage Training (subproject 12) before the
activity was abandoned for cost reasons and lack of interest in using credit
funds for ~ ..ning. The same reasons underlined the failure of Sector
Corporation Management Training (subproject 14) to complete its training
mandate under Cr. 622 although training was ultimately completed under a UNDP
grant. Activities under the subproject, Advisor to Ministry of Agriculture
(subproject 17), have continued through three TA credits. While these
advisory activities have been considered valuable, some concern has been
expressed both by some elements in the Government and IDA that little infor-
mation has been received on the pattern and direction of the activities with
apparently little forewarning of unanticipated extensions.
3.13      Probably the biggest disappointment was the failure of Planning
Assistance (subproject 4). It is clear that before the credit was signed
there were high hopes that it would strengthen the Government-s development
planning both on a macroeconomic and a microeconomic level. Planning Assist-
ance (subproject 4) could not fulfill these objectives for a variety of
reasons (see discussion in Annex II) the most compelling of which was that
differences concerning objectives and the means to carry them out emerged
between the Government and IDA. At one time this subproject had an allocation
of $2.5 million, but only $120,000 was disbursed.
3.14      Two other subprojects were considered not to have met their objec-
tives. The Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies and Training (subproj-
ect 6) failed principally because of a misunderstanding about what could be
financed by IDA and because it was not provided for within the Government-s
program. As a result no funds were disbursed and the subproject was dropped.
Pulp and Paper Adviser (Subproject 11) failed because of grave problems with
procedural weaknesses, e.g., the consultant selection process, payment to the
consultant in relation to work performed, breakdown in communication (lots
of letters but little communication) and other personal elements. The sub-
project situation deteriorated to termination by the consultant and ultimately
arbitration.
3.15      Why did institution building/training subprojects produce such
a disappointing record? There is the suggestion from interviews and files
that the Government was generally less enthusiastic to use credit funds to
finance this type of assistance vis-a-vis investment preparation. Therefore,
if the particular support for the subproject faltered, that subproject tended
to lose momentum.
3.16      Another problem was the confusion over training and consultant
fees. Occasionally, evaluation of quality and effectiveness of this type of
assistance was sidetracked by disagreement over allowances. Officers from
ERD are participating in a study funded by the third TA credit to determine
appropriate trainee rates and consultants- fees and to study methodology and
administrative techniques in order to resolve recurring problems with these
issues.



- 20 -
3.17      Also the impression is gained that IDA supervision associated with
the institution-building/training subprojects was less intense and consistent
than that connected with investment preparation and that the institution
building/training subprojects were characterized by rather frequent shifts
in supervisory responsibilities. While there are valid reasons for shifts in
supervision responsibilities, there may be room for improvement in the
present briefing and reporting system that would ensure coordination and
continuity. It is probably these subprojects that demand the most careful
supervision coordination because of their more subjective nature. Presently,
there is no formalized reporting system for the supervision of subprojects
under technical assistance credits. Also, supervision on institution-building/
training subprojects might have suffered because project officers often give
high priority to work which is directly related to project preparation and
implementation. This is natural since the primary work of the Bank deals
with the preparation and appraisal of projects and the value of the project
officer's work is sometimes perceived to be measured in terms of the output
of projects.
3.18      It was anticipated that institution building would also be served
by project preparation assistance through the training of Government counter-
parts to assume this responsibility. However, there is little evidence to
indicate follow-up made in this direction by consultants or supervisors. The
consultants for Drainage and Flood Control (subproject 13) apparently did make
an effort but were frustrated by lack of interest within the implementing
agency. By contrast, Fertilizer Maintenance (subproject 20) succeeded beyond
expectations in the transfer of technology and project preparation. While it
is helpful for the consultants and supervision to encourage this outcome, it
is essential that the implementing agency be committed.
3.19      IDA-s intention to help develop local expertise was somewhat frus-
trated in the first credit by a disbursement arrangement that allowed reim-
bursement of 100% foreign exchange cost incurred by foreign firms and 70% of
local cash expenditures which meant that foreign costs incurred by local
firms could not be reimbursed from the credit. In credit 622, the arrangement
was adjusted to permit 100% foreign exchange costs and 70% local currency
costs incurred by either a foreign or local firm. While this arrangement did
not separate cost reimbursement by nationality of firm, it still had the
effect of encouraging foreign expenditures. The problem was resolved in
Credit 872 (third TA credit) where disbursement is permitted for 100% of the
foreign and local costs of both foreign and local consultants. One subproject
(subproject 8, Architectural Services for Agricultural Research) under Credit
622 was executed solely by a local consulting firm involving two contracts.
The firm carried out its assignment in a most satisfactory manner.
Sectoral Emphasis
3.20      Although specific uses of the funds were not identified in detail
in the President's Report for TA II, another objective was to emphasize the
agriculture and water resources development sectors, two sectors considered



- 21 -
crucial to Bangladesh-s overall development strategy. This emphasis was
started under Credit 409 (TA I) and maintained in Credit 622. Eight sub-
projects were associated with the agricultural sector and disbursement of
these projects amounted to US$4.4 million or 63% of the credit (see Table
III). The remainder of the Credit covered various sectors. Six industrial
projects disbursed $0.8 million; other sectors covered includ"e two sub-
projects in water supply/sewerage which disbursed $0.9 million and the other
subprojects spread among transportation, education, planning and energy
disbursed about $0.9 million.
3.21      An analysis was also undertaken to see if project success (meeting
its objectives) was influenced by the sector. However, as shown in Table III
there appears to be little correlation between success and development sector;
instead, the type of assistance (project preparation or institutional build-
ing) rather than the sector was better correlated with subproject-s success
in this credit.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      Besides evaluating achievement of credit objectives, implementation
efficiency was also examined. This involved an analysis of the commitments
and disbursements and subproject execution time.
Commitment and Disbursement
4.02      The entire credit of US$7.5 million was committed in 2-1/2 years.
In contrast it took 3-1/2 years to commit US$4.0 million under the first TA
credit. As noted in the PCR of the first TA credit, after 1975 the Govern-
ment had overcome a certain reluctance to utilize IDA financing for TA in
general. Requests for TA continued to increase under Credit 622 and a pipe-
line of potential subprojects is under consideration for future TA credits.
4.03      Actual disbursements were compared with those estimated during the
preparation of the President's Report (Table IV). First year-s actual dis-
bursements under Credit 622 were 4% of estimated disbursements, second year's
disbursements were 14% of estimated disbursements; third year-s disbursements
were 29% of estimated disbursements and disbursements were 64% of estimated
at the time the credit had originally been expected to close (June 1980).
The credit was extended one year until June 1981 to complete disbursements.
4.04      The pattern of disbursement was affected by both the first and third
TA credits. In the beginning disbursements under TA II were slow because
several of the fast disbursing subprojects under TA II were transferred to
TA I to accelerate its disbursements. Similarly, disbursements of TA II were
accelerated near its end when subproject disbursement from TA III were trans-
ferred to TA II. This system of "overcommitment" has an advantage of accel-
erating the closing of a given TA credit so that they need not be unduly
extended in the case that one or two subprojects have not yet terminated. It
also has the advantage of having funds available on a flexible basis without
interruptions and lengthy overlap periods of several credits. However, the



- 22 -
procedure of "overcommitment" should be taken into account when making a
disbursement projection for future TA credits since the disbursement of funds
in the early life of the credit is usually extremely slow and rapidly accel-
erates to the completion of the project (see Table IV).
4.05      Compared to the first TA credit, disbursements under the second TA
credit rapidly increased. The first TA credit disbursed $4.0 million in
4-1/2 years while the second TA credit disbursed $7.5 million in four years.
This again is probably attributable to Government-s increased familiarization
with this type of credit. In addition, (1) the External Resources Division
of the Government strengthened its role in monitoring TA requests, procedures
and contracts; and (2) in 1978, IDA assigned a TA Coordinator to monitor a
fast-increasing number of projects. Together, ERD and IDA staff have clari-
fied procedures involvi-g the TA request form and in selecting consultants
and have improved coordination in general. The two offices serve as visible
points of contact for Government agency staff and IDA operational staff.
Subproject Execution Time
4.06      The time of execution of the individual subproject was examined.
One measure of success of implementation is the length of time it took between
subproject approval by IDA and the signing of the consultants contract.
Another measure is whether the subproject finished within the original con-
tractual period.
4.07      Normally, after a subproject was approved, procurement of consultant
services was started. This involved:
(i) preparation of terms of reference and budget
(ii) preparation of shortlist of consultants
(iii) invitation of consultants
(iv) preparation of consultants proposals
(v) evaluation and selection of consultants
(vi) negotiation of contract
It would not be unusual for the process to take four to six months.
4.08      As can be seen below, 13 subprojects reached a signed contract
(or implementation) within 6 months of allocation approval (of which 5 had
their origins in the first technical assistance credit), 2 within 1-1/2
years (including 1 contract of 2 in subproject 8 and another which was
connected to the first TA credit), 1 after 3 years, and 1 was cancelled
2 years after approval. Thus, about 40% of the subprojects took more than
six months to reach a signed contract after being approved by IDA. The
extreme case was the Jutton Pilot Plant (subproject 3) which took three
years to start because of a dispute concerning the project concept.



- 23 -
Implementation       Subproject No.     Subproject Title
Within 6 months           5         Rural Development Thana Survey
7         North Bengal Paper Mills
8         Architectural Services for
Agricultural Research (1 of 2)
9         Chittagong Water Supply
10         Small Industries Training
12         Foodgrain Storage Training
14         Sector Corporation Management
Training
15         Dacca Water and Sewerage
16         Highway Maintenance
17         Advisor to Ministry of Agri.
18         Southwest Region Special Studies
20         Fertilizer Factory Maintenance
24         Gas Pipeline
Within 1 year             1         BWDB Southwest Region Study
2         Agriculture Credit Review
4         Planning Assistance
13         BWDB Drainage & Flood Control
Within 1-1/2 years        8         Architectural Services for
Agricultural Research (1 of 2)
11         Pulp and Paper Advisor
Within 3 years            3         Jutton Pilot Plant
Cancelled                 6         Bangladesh Institute for
Devel. Studies Training
4.09      Several factors contributed to the slow procurement of consultant
services. Several agencies had little experience in the procurement of consul-
tant services and with IDA procedures. Moreover, Government officials com-
plained of: difficulty in finding consultants with specific experience to
carry out objectives; difficulties with consultants' payments; misunderstanding
about consultants- expectations for living arrangements; consultants- paucity
of interest in counterpart training; consultants- lack of familiarity with
social, political, cultural and organizational aspects in Bangladesh; confusion
about where and how to look for consultants and especially consultant firms'
fee structures. Agencies also experienced difficulties in evaluating proposals
and negotiating contracts. The recently issued "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" should alleviate a number of problems.
Borrowers may now avail themselves of Bank consultant files and also must
stipulate selection and evaluation methods at the outset of the selection
process. Implementation was also frustrated or delayed when there was no
allocation for a project in the Government's Annual Development Program (ADP).
An implementing agency could not receive government approval to sign a contract
or disburse funds without an ADP allocation. Another significant reason for
delay, as noted above in the case of the jutton project, was that initial
agreement was based on a loosely defined project concept. Later, as TOR were
prepared, initial agreement faded.
4.10      Some steps have been taken by ERD to improve the lapse time between
IDA approval and the start of the consultants. It is during the life of this
credit that ERD developed procedures requiring each implementing agency to



- 24 -
guarantee an approved allocation for its project in the ADP before submitting
a TA request to IDA. The ADP allocation wELs based on a Project Proforma (PP),
i.e., a detailed description of the project and budget, which was reviewed by
various government agencies. The ADP commitment ensured that IDA did not
make an allocation for a subproject that had not been financially sanctioned
by the Government. In turn, this reduced the chances of an IDA allocation
being tied up with no chance of disbursement. The PP would also help contri-
bute to a better definition of the subproject's intended achievements that
would alleviate confusion, for example, over the consultant's TOR.
4.11      IDA has also changed its procedures since the second TA credit.
After IDA reviews a subproject request, approval is given in principle
(assuming the project concept is acceptable) but no subproject allocation
is made. Only after a contract has been negotiated with a consultant is
the subproject allocation actually made. UJnder this system allocated funds
are not tied up during the time of project concept and the procurement of
consultant services. Thus, a proposed subproject is not kept alive in the
"books" if disinterest or a disagreement develops within the Government or
IDA. As a result, future projects should not show a significant lapse time
between IDA approval and start of consultant services.
4.12      The record for completing subprojects within the contracted period
appears to be better than that of starting projects. It was found that most
of the work was completed within the assigned time (or within a short time
after) except for contracts that were extended at the request of the Govern-
ment to fulfill added objectives. Normally, consultants who were hired to
complete their assignments within defined time periods did so since any time
overrun usually would be at their expense.
V. IDA SUPERVISION
5.01      Three supervision reports were submitted for this project by the TA
Unit plus an initial summary in February 1978, a limited supervision report
shortly before its closing in March 1981, and the supervision mission report
to collect data for the PCR in October 1981. The reporting situation is
complicated in that technical responsibility and day-to-day supervision
for each subproject rests with operations officers from various divisions
in the region as well as other areas within the Bank Group. Because each
subproject is not considered a project for supervision form 590 purposes,
the task falls to the TA unit to prepare a supervision report for the entire
project which is actually composed of 24 discrete projects. Perhaps formal-
ized and regular reporting on TA subprojects by individual subproject officers
should be instituted. The TA unit which is responsible for monitoring,
coordinating and supervising the progress of the project as a whole would be
responsible for issuing these reports as part of an overall supervision
report. This procedure should also aid officers to maintain accountable and
consistent supervision of TA subprojects that sometimes fades under pressure
from other, larger projects. The supervision problems discussed in point 3.17
that are especially relevant to institution building subprojects vis-a-vis
project preparation subprojects are applicable to a degree to supervision of
technical assistance in general vis-a-vis supervision of investment.
Whatever solution is found, it is probable that t!hese kinds of TA projects
require different supervision reporting procedures.



TABLE I
DISTRIBUTION OF SUBPROJECTS BY PRE-INVESTMENT TYPE
Pre-investment tie                  Subp. No.                Subp. Title               Allocation             Disbursement
_____________ ___ _  __________              ____________                  US$                     U S$
Project Preparation/Feasibility         1            Southwest Regior, Study             600,000                 543,800
2           Agriculture Credit Review           740,000                 361,000
3           Jutton Pilot Plant                1,400,000                 436,500
5           Rural Development Thana Survey    190,000                   172,200
7           North Bengal Paper Mills            105,000                 102,400
*      8           Architectural Services for          180,000                  83,000
Ln                                                      Agri. Research
cq                                        9           Chittagong Water Supply             529,000                 520,400
13           Drainage and Flood Control        1,500,000               1,331,800
15           Dacca Water and Sewerage            450,000                 421,200
16           Highway Maintenance                 560,000                 218,900
18           SW Region Special Studies         2,200,000               1,801,200
20           Fertilizer Factory Maintenance       94,000                  87,500
24           Gas Pipeline                        600,000                 551,200
9,148,000               6,631,100
Institution Building/Training           4            Planning Assistance              2,500,000                  119,600
6           Bangladesh Institute for            138,000                   nil
Devel. Studies
10           Small Industries Training            17,000                  17,000
11           Pulp and Paper tdviser               48,600                  45,000
12           Fobdgrain Storage Training          100,000                  20,300
14           Sector Corporation Mgt. Trg.        100,100                  91,900
17           Adviser to Min. of.Agri.            112,000                  74,400
3,015,700                 368,200



- 26 -
TABLE II
IDA
FOLLOWUP INVESTMENT
to
credit 622
Sulbp. No.                  Subp. Title                  Credit No.        Amount
______  _________              (Inv.)           US$mil.
2            Agriculture Credit Review                 724-BD            16.0
2             Agriculture Credit Review                1147-BD           40.0
8             Architectural Services for                828-BD             6.0
Agriculture Research
9             Chittagong Water Supply                  1001-BD           20.0
1L3            Drainage and Flood Control, II           1184-BD            27.0
L5             Dacca Water and Sewerage                  941-BD            22.0
20             Fertilizer Factory Maintenance           1023-BD           29.0
24             Gas Pipeline                             1091-BD           74.4
_234.4



H                             DISTRIBUTION OF SUBPROJECT BY SECTOR AND ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Oblectives               Subp. No.        Subproject Title                       Allocation US$          Disbursement US$
Agriculture
Fully Achieved:              1        Southwest Region Study                         600,000               543,800
2        Agriculture Credit Review                      740,000               361,000
13        Drainage & Flood Control                     1,500,000             1,331,800
Partially Achieved:          8        Arch. Services for Agri. Research              180,000                83,000
12        Foodgrain Storage Training                     100,000                20,300
17        Advisor to Ministry of Agriculture             112,000                74,400
18        SW Region Special Studies                    2,200,000             1,801,200
Not Achieved:                5        Rural Development Thana Survey                 190,000               172.200
5,622,000            4,387,700
Industries
i Fully Achieved:               7        North Bengal Paper Mills                       105,000               102,400
10        Small Industries Training                       17,000                17,000
20        Fertilizer Factory Maintenance                  94,000                87,500
Partially Achieved:          3        Jutton Pilot Plant                           1,400,000               436,500
14        Sector Corporation Mgt. Training               100,100                91,900
Not Achieved:               11        Pulp and Paper Adviser                          48,600                45,000
1,764,700               780,300
Water Supply & Sewerage
Fully Achieved:              9        Chittagong Water Supply                        529,000               520,400
15        Dacca Water and Sewerage                       450,000               421,200
979,000              941,600
Education
Not Achieved:                6        Bangladesh Institute for Dev. Studies          138,000                  nil
Cross-Sectoral
Not Achieved;                4        Planning Assistance                          2,500,000               119,600
Energy
Fully Achieved:             24        Gas Pipeline                                   600,000               551.200
Transportation
Not Achieved:               16        Highway Maintenance                            560,000               218,900



TABLE  IV   (a.  -  b.)
DISBURSEMENT RATE (PER CENT)
__  _  _ it; n4)atel                 AND BY DOLLARS PY FISCAL YEAR
At                                                                                                 b. Credit 622-PD
a. Credit 409-PD                                                                                                               7
-))                          I                             /
3.5                              J.f4t   IceJ                                                            
,.5                            .,                                                                      .,
3 o
O c ... , r_n ............................................... _ _ ~~
sS!^d,6<   !4 q 4   I q t   J u e E   S u e   S n e   s^ Ss>e         ,1 s        Ier 1        3 4.'e       f4 4 1 q        W n e       $ ^ tt~ ~ ~ ~



ANNEX I
- 29 -
SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER CREDIT 622-BD
Approval Date                     Subproject                                   Amount
Number                      Name                      (US Dollars)
June, 1976               1       Southwest Region Study                       543,800
January, 1977            2       Agriculture Credit Review                    361,000
January, 1977            3       Jutton Pilot Plant                           436,500
July, 1977               4       Planning Assistance                          119,600
July, 1977               5       Rural Development Thana Survey               172,200
February, 1978           6       Bangladesh Institute of Development            nil
Studies
July, 1977               7       Norih Bengal Paper Mills                     102,400
March, 1978              8       Architectural Services for Agricultural    83,000
larch
March, 1978              9       Chittagong Water Supply                      520,400
June, 1978              10       Small Industries Training                     17,000
July, 1977              11       Pulp and Paper Adviser                        45,000
September, 1978         12       Foodgrain Storage Training                    20,300
December, 1978          13       Drainage and Flood Control                 1,331,800
December, 1978          14       Sector Corporation Mgt. Trg.                  91,900
December, 1978          15       Dacca Water and Sewerage                     421,200
December, 1978          16       Highway Maintenance                          218,900
December, 1978          17       Adviser to Min. of Agriculture                74,400
May, 1979               18       SW Region Special Studies                  1,801,200
May, 1979               19       Chittagong Gas Marketing                      16,600
May, 1979               20       Fertilizer Maintenance                        87,500
February, 1980          21       Chittagong Port                              454,600
February, 1980          22       Pussur River Studies                          29,500
July, 1980              23       Barisal/Patuakhali Irrigation                   nil
August, 1980            24       Gas Pipeline                                 551,200
7,500,000



ANNEX II
-30                     Page  1
Subproject No. .1
Title: Southwest Region Study
Government Implementing Agency: Bangladesh Water Development Board
Date IDA Approved: June 1976 on condition of contract signing
Contract Signed: January 20, 1977
Project Completed: September 19, 1977
Original Allocation: $600,000
Final Disbursement:  $543,800
Background/Objectives
In 1976 a portion of the Ganges River was diverted outside
Bangladesh, decreasing the flow of water to the southwestern region of the
country. Stage I of the subproject provided for a short-term emergency
assessment of the situation to take about 6-8 months. The consultants were
to recommend remedial measures designed to counteract the adverse effects
of the water shortage. Specific requirements were:
1.   To advise and assist in a review of existing data
assessing the effect of low flow in the Ganges.
2.   To identify the need for immediate measures to maintain
operation of existing facilities and development programs
for the Southwest region.
3.   To assess hydrological data and to recommend means of
augmenting the existing waterflow network.
4.   To prepare TOR for further studies of the Southwest region,
making various assumptions about the flow discharge of
the Ganges.
Stage II would study the means of achieving a long-term solution.
Implementation
Funds were allocated in June 1976 to be released on signature of a
contract. On January 20, 1977, the contract was signed with the Interna-
tional Engineering Co. (IECO). Work began in February, 1977 and was com-
pleted in September, 1977. The final report was received by IDA in December,
1977. IECO presented a report of recommendations in four volumes. Consult-
ants recommended that problems be resolved in three stages:
I - An immediate development program
II - Short range development program
III - Long range development program



ANNEX II
-31-                Page  2
Further studies were recommended as a continuation of this study:
I.   Collect additional data.
2.   Continue data collection for long range-planning.
3.   Perform other investigations (surveys, model studies, etc.)
for development planning.
4.   Prepare preliminary studies leading to feasibility studies
and project implementation.
Follow-up Activities
Follow-up activities for the preparation of (a) the Southwest
regional plan and (b) feasibility studies for the Gorai River development and
the Old River revival project along with a program to continue monitoring
the effect of the upst eam withdrawal were continued under subproject 18 of
this credit.
Evaluation
The consultant satisfactorily completed the report within the
prescribed time limit, achieving the objectives of the Bangladesh Water
Development Board.



o 32 -             ANNEX II
-32-           ~~Page  3
Subproject No.: 2
Title: Agriculture Credit Review
Government Implementing Agency: Bangladesh Bank
Date IDA Approved: January, 1977
Contract Signed: August 7, 1977
Project Completed: October, 1979
Original Allocation: $740,000
Final Disbursement: $361,000 (plus $140,000 from Cr. 409-BD)
Background/Objectives
In November 1976 the Government drew up TOR for a thorough review
of the agricultural situation with the assistance of IDA. Phases I and 2
were to be completed in 2-1/2 to 4 months. They were intended to accomplish:
a.   Review of all data;
b.   Examination of extension services;
c.   Introduction of a credit system with satisfactory
lending terms;
d.   An effective recovery system;
e.   Satisfactory arrangement for credit to small farmers.
It was anticipated that 12 to 18 months would be needed to complete
phase 3 which involved a study of the agricultural credit department of the
Bangladesh Bank (project preparation).
Implementation
In February 1977 invitation-for--proposal letters were sent to five
firms suggested by IDA. Two proposals were received. Robert Nathan
Assciates (U.S.) was selected in April 1977. By the end of July 1977 a
contract was negotiated and reviewed by IDA and it was signed on August 7,
1977.
In December 1977 the firm submitted its report on interest rate
policy.
In June 1978 the Ministry of Finance approved a study tour for
top-level officials, acting on the basis of the consultant's recommendation
and a letter from the IBRD field mission despite the advice of the IDA head-
quarters. Because of the misunderstanding between headquarters and the
field, headquarters granted permission reluctantly.
By summer 1978 the consultants produced key policy recommendations.
They proposed:



ANNEX II
- 33 -                Page  4
a.   Separation of agricultural credit operations from other
financial activities that served welfare needs rather
than production credit.
b.   Establishment of a reasonable interest rate structure
at a higher rate.
In February 1979 the Minister of Finance expressed grave concern
over the absence of specific project preparation and the paucity of technical
data available for complete analysis.
An agreement was reached on the components to be subjected to
analysis, and vigorous efforts were made to speed project preparation. This
activity involved the services of a IDA expert who helped to prepare a
framework for possible agricultural credit projects and to arrange for the
Bangladesh Bank to appoint a local engineering firm that would provide neces-
sary technical expertise.
Follow-up Activity
The subproject prepared an agricultural credit program to which
IDA lent $40 million (Cr. 1147-BD). It was also instrumental in supporting
the Shallow Tubewell Project (Cr. 724-BD) with IDA investment of US$16.0
million.
Evaluation
The subproject achieved its principal objective--to prepare an
investment project--although it occasionally wandered off course.  After IDA
and the Government noted problems, the project was put back firmly on track.
Strong interest and support from the Government enabled the consultants to
produce a report that served its purposes, even though it offended institu-
tions. that experienced negative effects. Some delay took place between the
review of the draft contract and its signature. This delay occurred while
the parties ironed out the linkages between acceptability of consultants'
reports and payments and arranged the means of financing study tours. Other-
wise the original time framework appears to have been observed.
Some funds were shifted to Cr. 409-BD, to help disbursement of that
credit.



ANNEX II
-34 -                 Page  5
Subproject No. 3
Title: Jutton Pilot Plant Study
Government Implementing Agency: Bangladesh Council of Scientific and
Industrial Research
Date IDA Approved: January 28, 1977
Contract Signed: December 31, 1979
Project Completion: Moved to Cr. 872-BD
Original Allocation: $20,000 with increases up to $1.4 million
Final Disbursement: $436,500 (Funds moved to Third TA Credit
increased to a total allocation of $2.4 million)
Background/Objectives
Even before 1970 scientists at the Council of Scientific and
Industrial Research experimented with the diversification of uses for jute.
They developed a process for blending jute with cotton to make "jutton." If
this product were marketable, it would reduce Bangladeshi dependence on
cotton imports. In September 1973 the Government set up a committee to
evaluate production of jutton. It decided that a pilot plant study was
required to measure production and marketing feasibility. Tentative alloca-
tion was about $500,000. Early in 1976 a IDA mission for the Fifth Import
Credit expressed interest in BCSIR's technology and suggested an application
for assistance be sent to IDA. In October 1976 the Project Proforma was
submitted for approval and it was decided that IDA would be asked for funds
from Cr. 622 to provide expatriate expertise. In December 1976 IDA sug-
gested that discussions with established textile industries abroad take
place, e.g., the Shirley Institute in U.K.
Implementation
At the Government's request IDA, in January 1977, allocated $20,000
from 622-BD for the investigatory trips. The Project Manager's report,
submitted in June 1977, included the Shirley Institute's foreign exchange
estimates of costs for a jutton "model" plant at $600,000. Also, the
Institute estimated that a full-scale commercial plant would cost $1.4 mil-
lion.
In July 1977 ERD requested that IDA allocate $604,500 for a model
plant.
In November 19, 1977, the Shirley Institute's services were accepted
to acquire, set up, and commission a jutton p:ilot plant ($18,500 contract).
The consultants' work was to begin in November 1977, but tenders were not
floated until July 1978 because of a delay in settling details. Meanwhile,
in February 1978 IDA made a formal allocation of $605,000 after determining
that the model plant was intended for research to prove the feasibility of
the process rather than for commercial production, a purpose that qualified
the project as technical assistance rather than as capital investment. No
plausible bids were made, so it was necessary to float tenders again in
October 1978 with assistance from IDA. Closing for tenders occurred in
January 1979. Only Associated Agencies (U.K.) quoted completely at



ANNEX II
Page 6
$1,936,000 f.e. On October 24, 1979, IDA formally approved an additional sum
of $331,000 under 622 and $1,000,000 under 872-BD to meet the increase over
the original estimate.
Associated Agencies extended the bid validity date several times
until negotiations began on November 15-16, 1979, with the Shirley Institute
advising. Eventually, after negotiation by telex the contract for $1,411,432
was signed on December 31, 1979. The contract was submitted to IDA for
review; procurement was to begin thirty days after IDA approval.
On January 12, 1980 BCSIR sent the contract to the Science and
Technology Division (DST). DST refused all requests to respond before April
1, 1980. By this time the bid validity had expired and prices went up by 20%
(increase of $.282 million).
On May 16, 1980, the Minister of the Science and Technology Division
informed the Minister of Finance that the project was wasteful because the
laboratory stage was not completed. Although ECNEC had approved the project
and a contract had been awarded, the Minister refused to approve the arrange-
ment. Meanwhile, the contractors had revalidated their prices several times.
IDA officials made inquiries at the highest levels and followed with a telex
that noted the large amount allocated for the project and the absence of
disbursement could jeopardize TA IV.
On July 15, 1980, following receipt of IDA's telex, an interminis-
terial group reviewed the project. The meeting considered the basic concepts
of the project, including the need for a pilot plant, local vs foreign
fabrication of the plant, and cost estimates. Against this background, the
meeting considered the following options: (a) to proceed with the pilot
plant and to evelop a commercial plant at the same time; (b) to abandon the
project and attempt commercial production via another path in one year; and
(c) to set up both the experimental-cum-pilot plant envisioned in the project
and a larger semi-commercial plant afterward.
From the minutes of this meeting it is clear that although the
project had been under review within GOB for several years, the objectives,
mode of implementation and responsibility for the overall success of the
project had not been agreed at a Ministerial level, notwithstanding that a PP
had been approved by GOB and a formal application made to IDA for Technical
Assistance.
In August 1980, IDA again expressed concern about the failure to
utilize allocated IDA funds and emphasized its support for a model plant
before commercial production.
Also in August 1980 Associated Industries advised GOB and IDA of its
distress and contemplated action to hold the Government to the contract. At
this point ERD was able to sort out the problem with the relevant
authorities. The Government asked that the credit be extended to June 30,
1981. The IDA agreed, noting that the length of the extension took into
account the uncertainties of this particular subproject. On September 10,
1980 the contract was again sent to IDA. On September 19, 1980, ERD informed



ANNEX II
- 36 -               Page  7
IDA that GOB had no objection to the penalty increase in price that enlarged
the contract by $282,286. The Science and Technology Division finally gave
its approval. On October 13, 1980, formal allocation for the project was
$2.08 million (total from both 872 and 622). By January 1981 the sum of
$436,497 had been disbursed under 622 and the remaining allocation ($1.7
million) was transferred to 872. On March 12, 1981, the total allocation was
increased to $2.4 million total to cover equipment not included in the con-
tract, training, other consultancy costs and currency exchange fluctuations.
Follow-up Activities
The project proceeds satisfactorily under the third technical assis-
tance credit.
Evaluation
The objectives of this project were admirable - to develop and
market a product which would utilize one of Bangladesh's few resources while
reducing the level of imports of raw cotton which imposed a heavy burden upon
the country's weak foreign exchange position. However, the final implementa-
tion of the project was only achieved after resolution of a catalogue of
problems arising from poor communications between GOB/IDA and within the GOB,
and a lack of clearly defined responsibility for evaluation and supervision
within GOB/Ministry of Science and Technolcgy and within IDA. Within GOB
insufficient attention was given to securing clear agreement from all the
relevant governmental entities needed to support a project of this technical
complexity. The Science and Technology Division saw the contract for the
first time in January 1980, after signature. The Division manifested its
disapproval by simply failing to respond.  The failure to communicate and to
cooperate resulted in hardship for the contractor and the tying up of a large
sum of technical assistance funds. When the issues were finally resolved, a
more expensive contract materialized as well as an extended delay in project
implementation. However, it is possible that the differences might not ever
have been resolved without the aid of ERD acting as mediator.
On the issue of cost escalation, it is difficult to explain how the
Shirley Institute's F.E. estimate expanded from the original $600,000 to $1.9
million in the accepted bid. BCSIR and GOB officials explained the increase
as a consequence of the expanded project. However, revised project profor-
mas, received by IDA late in 1977 and in October 1978 after approval by ECNEC
did not suggest a significant change in prcject size. Either the original
estimates were under-costed or significant changes had been made in the size
of the project. Nevertheless, IDA agreed to increase the subproject alloca-
tion to meet the bid of $1.9 million. The contract subsequently was signed
for US$1.4 million following detailed negotiations. TA credit allocation
procedures have now been revised to ensure that allocation of funds to sub-
projects is made only after contract negotiations have been concluded.
A major issue emerged in IDA's hardling of the project. While IDA
staff provided technical advice at different intervals, there was a general
failure to take the larger context into account. Potential delays, inconsis-
tencies, and conflicts within the subproject went unrecognized until they



ANNEX II
- 37 -                      Page  8
surfaced. This situation stemmed somewhat from the lack of continuity of
responsibility for the subproject, or perhaps from a lack of understanding as
to where certain kinds of responsibilities lay, thus, the project was not
monitored on the basis of continuous or coordinated experience that would
have permitted one to act quickly to resolve the delays in tendering, analyze
cost estimate increases and, most importantly of all, detect rhe first signs
of conflict within the Government which ultimately resulted in increased
project costs. Thus while the objectives of the project may ultimately be
achieved, they were not achieved, as intended, under the Second TA Credit.



- 38 -            ANNEX II
Page  9
Subproject No.: 4
Title: Planning Assistance
Government Implementing Agency: Bangladesh Planning Commission
Date IDA Approved: July 12, 1977
Contract Signed: June, 1978
Project Completed: November, 1979
Original Allocation: $2.5 million
Final Disbursement: $119,600
Background Objectives
In 1973 IDA proposed creation of a special planning unit in the
Planning Commission to be comprised of six expatriate consultants who would
concern themselves with agriculture, water, agronomy, and forest and
fisheries. In 1976 the Government requested the Bank's assistance in creat-
ing a unit in the Ministry of Planning to assist the planning cells in dif-
ferent development ministries and divisions to raise standards of projects
prepared in different cells. An agreement was reached on a project that
would have the following objectives.
(a) Development of standard methodology in preparation
of different projects;
(b) Development of training facilities;
(c) Development of project monitoring and evaluation;
(d) Coordination of working groups engaged in preparation;
(e) Evaluation of project preparation process.
Meanwhile when the President of the IDA visited Bangladesh the
Minister of Planning requested IDA assistance on their five-year plan. As a
result, IDA suggested a more ambitious programn for assistance which would
involve putting into place a high-powered team of macro-level advisers work-
ing with sectoral-project specialists with an overall coordinator.
The Government's response was to place more emphasis on project
preparation and less on monitoring and coordinating assistance which could be
performed by the Government. The Government also preferred individual
recruitment whereas IDA encouraged team recruitment through a firm. Between
the time that GOB requested funds for this project (March 1977) and the
approval of funds (July 1977) considerable discussion took place within IDA
and between IDA and the Government. The Government continued to minimize the
larger macro-role directed at coordination and policy, preferring that macro
assistance be kept at a technical level. In response, IDA revised its assis-
tance to limit funding to six advisers to the Planning Commission and two to
the Planning Cell of the Ministry of Agriculture. Meanwhile IDA initiated
inquiries to firms thought suitable to submit tenders for the subproject.



ANNEX II
- 39-                      Page  10
Implementation
On July 12, 1977, IDA allocated $2.5 million to the subproject.
By September, at the request of the Government, IDA had asked for proposals
from eight firms to be responsible for hiring advisers. IDA analyzed six
proposals, finding three acceptable, and asked for GOB views by the end of
the year. By October the Government indicated interest in two proposals. In
January 1978 one of the potential consultant firms manifested-confusion about
the responsible employer. It was pointed out that IDA's involvement in
preparation of the short list was an exception; the Government was the
responsible authority.
Further misunderstandings were noted in a letter from GOB to one
of the firms in January 1978; staffing and administrative arrangements in
the firm's proposal did not match the expressed needs of GOB. These misun-
derstandings were apparently ironed out and GOB selected Economic Consultants
Ltd. (U.K.) in March 1978. Contract signature was delayed until clarifica-
tion of further points between GOB and ECL.
A contract was signed on June 27, 1978, for $1.05 million, and an
information copy was sent to IDA. Unable to review the contract before
signature, IDA sent a Letter of Understanding between IDA and GOB regarding
TOR, terms of payment, and other issues that IDA had been precluded from
raising earlier. The first disbursement was made in August 1978.
In December IDA reduced the subproject allocation to $1.25 million
in view of the reduced contract amount. The Government insisted on lower
salaries for the consultants than proposed by ECL, but ECL agreed and adver-
tised for positions at these salaries. Individuals were selected and inter-
views took place with Government officials and IDA staff participation.
While candidates were acceptable by IDA staff members, they were not con-
sidered by the Government representatives to be adequately qualified or
experienced. The Government finally agreed to accept only two of the eight
candidates. ECL reported that it could not administer a project composed of
only two consultants.
While inquiries were made to determine whether the consultants were
prepared to work under individual contracts with GOB, the Government made it
clear that it would not accept one of the consultants past April 1979.
Because the candidate was not available until after May the Government hired
only one consultant, a physical planner in the housing sector of the Planning
Commission. When ECL requested contract cancellation and submitted a bill
for contract cancellation, the GOB firmly objected. After several months
of correspondence between GOB and ECL, an agreed-upon sum was returned to
IDA out of the advance that ECL had agreed earlier. The physical planner
signed a contract for two years to begin in April 1979. Subsequently he
received another appointment offer. He resigned his post after seventeen
months of service with the agreement of GOB. The GOB reported that his work
had been useful and beneficial.



ANNEX II
- 40 -                  Page  11
Follow-up Activities
None.
Evaluation
The larger proposal was frustrated by different perceptions and
concerns of the Government and IDA. IDA envisioned emphasis on developing an
integrated, coordinated planning function; Government felt its need lay in
developing the individual components of planning. Another serious misun-
derstanding developed when apparently some Government officials concurred
with IDA's recommendations to hire a firm while other government officials
maintained in correspondence to IDA that individual recruitment was
preferable. The situation deteriorated rapidly as IDA, consulting firm and
the Government could not get on the same track thus defeating objectives of
both IDA and the Government.
With the benefit of hindsight, it would have appeared preferable for
IDA to have agreed to the original 1976 request from the Government for
project preparation assistance while proceeding to see if arrangements could
be worked out for a more ambitious proposal.  The original proposal had merit
on its own and could have helped to improve the project content of the 5-year
plan with or without the additional assistance.



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Subproject No. 5
Title: Rural Development Thana Survey
Government Implementing Agency: Central Project Executive Committee (CPEC)
Date IDA Approved: July 11, 1977
Contract Signed: June-July, 1977
Project Completed: March 1978
Original Allocation: $190,000 (other funds allocated under Cr. 409)
Final Disbursement: $172,200
Background/Objectives
The GOB recognized that the new nation's economy must rest on the
cornerstone of rural development. Late in the 1960s, experiments in the
Comilla district produced a model that successfully provided an integrated
approach to rural development at the level of the thana. The Comilla model
consisted of a combination of labor-intensive rural works, minor irrigation,
the technology of "high-yielding varieties," rationalization of interest
rates, and strong village cooperatives grouped in a Thana association.
Cooperatives would provide a channel for farm inputs, credit and procurement.
In 1970 the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) was created to turn
the programs developed in Comilla into a national program. Rural Development
I, an IDA-assisted project approved in May 1976, applied this model in a
7-thana area. Subsequently, the Government, in consultation with IDA
enunciated a strategy designed to apply the model throughout the country and
thereby (1) increase the rate of agricultural production and (2) create
opportunities for employment of the poor. IDA worked out with the Government
a sequel program for the preparation of a follow-up Rural Development II
Project to cover 29 thanas.
Criticism of the model materialized early in 1977. It was alleged
that the model was oriented more to production than to poverty and that Rural
Development I (RD-I) was not achieving its goals. The most serious charge
was that the cooperative system had been subverted so as to benefit vested
interests rather than the poor.
In April 1977, in accordance with the plan worked out with the IDA
project preparation mission, the Government requested assistance from IDA
technical assistance funds to make an engineering and socio-economic survey
of twenty-nine thanas to prepare the proposed Rural Development II (RD-II).
At that time a tender committee met to award contracts for the survey.
In May 1977 the Resident Mission reported that after repeated
overtures to the Government, an official request "in principle" for technical
assistance was received to perform a survey intended to prepare the basic



ANNEX II
- 42 -.                   Page  13
data needed for preparation of RD-II. At that time draft TOR and the survey
proposal were still under Government review.
Implementation
On July 11, 1977, the sum of $190,000 was allocated for the study
from Cr. 622-BD, along with funds from subproject 3 in Cr. 409-BD (first TA
credit). At this time contracts were awarded to six local consultant firms.
That summer IDA received reports that IRDP had lost its primary
role in supporting rural development. Instead, locally elected bodies had
assumed increased importance as channels of implementation for rural develop-
ment. It was observed that the Government was divided in its support of the
model. Also, a massive credit program undertaken by the Government appeared
to undercut the model seriously. It allowed farmers in thanas not included
in the model to borrow at substantially lower rates of interest than their
counterparts in the RD-I thanas.
Late 1977, Bank supervision missions noted problems with RD-I in
the administration of the project and the supervision of cooperatives as well
as problems caused by interministerial differences. IDA began to work out
proposals to restructure the RD-I project, to tighten supervision and to
reduce requirements for interminsterial cooperation. Some cooperative sys-
tems were observed to constitute a bottleneck in some situations, such as
procurement, where interministerial differences appeared to delay progress.
By December 1977 IDA agreed with the Government on the need to begin a
restruc- turing of RD-I. Meanwhile, approval of the proposed RD-II was
postponed.
In December 1977, IDA had received a set of reports in thirty-nine
volumes from the consultants. Although IDA had provided a format for project
preparation that specified the type of data and information to be collected
as well as the methodology, the reports were incomplete. As the employer,
the Government was informed of this problem and was asked to review the
reports before forwarding them to IDA. IDA began to review amended reports
in the spring of 1978, but the Central Project Executive Committee did not
send comments on the reports. Benefits might have flowed from a higher
degree of cooperation between CPEC and IRDE.
The study was completed in March 1978, but slow procedures in the
Government precluded disbursement to reimburse payments for consultants costs
until late in 1979.
Follow-up Activities
The report in thirty-nine volumes was to support the appraisal of
RD-II which has not yet taken place.
Evaluation



43                      ANNEX II
Page 14
To date the subproject has not achieved its objectives. The longer
implementation of RD-II is delayed, the more likely that the data will become
obsolete. Early in spring 1977 the Government exhibited positive interest in
this subproject, but only a month or so later it had to be urged to make a
formal request for assistance. Further indications of declining Government
interest were: (1) failure to comment on reports of consultants; (2)
decreasing cooperation among agencies; and (3) neglect of the allocation for
more than two years most certainly reflecting the disappointment with RD-I.
In hindsight it would have been better to have postponed the subproject at
the first indications of serious problems with RD-I so that it could have
corresponded more closely to the new timing and design for RD-II.



-44 -ANNEX II
Page 15
Subproject No. 6
Title: Bangladesh Institute for Development Studies (BIDS) Training
Government Implementing Agency: BIDS
Date IDA Approved: February 8, 1978
Original Allocation: $138,000
Final Disbursement: Nil. Project cancelled March 1980
Background/Objectives
Officials in various ministries, development/implementation agen-
cies, sector corporations, banks and other government organization wished
to improve their ability to formulate, appraise, execute and evaluate various
project and, more generally to understand economic and planning problems.
To meet this need, BIDS undertook to provide such training in 1973,
and shortly thereafter arrangements were worked out with EDI under which BIDS
and EDI would jointly sponsor training courses, initially for Bangladeshi
officials and later broadened to include participants from other countries in
the region. In December 1977 BIDS prepared for the establishment of a train-
ing center to meet national needs and possibly regional training needs. BIDS
proposed to utilize TA funds as a way of providing necessary equipment for
training activities, estimating the cost at $120,000. EDI estimates revised
the figure to $138,000.
Implementation
In February 1978 the sum of $138,000 was allocated to the sub-
project. However, BIDS did not realize that it would have to pay taxes for
imported equipment. No budget allocation had been requested to cover the
import taxes and duties. Attempts to obtain funds from the Government budget
to cover the taxes and duties were not successful. The Planning Commission
did not approve a project proforma for this project submitted in July 1979.
Also, the subproject was not included in the Annual Development Program. At
the suggestion of ERD the allocation was cancelled in March 1980.
Follow-up Activities
EDI continues to assist BIDS in its courses for Bangladesh offi-
cials and, in the case of transportation project courses, for officials of
other countries in the region. EDI provides some equipment (calculators,
curriculum materials) as part of assistance for such courses.
Evaluation
The lack of sound procedural safeguards doomed this subproject and
tied up allocated funds for two years. BIDS officials did not realize that
the TA credit would not cover taxes and duties, and lack of Government inter-
est in the subproject prevented access by BIDS to funds for this purpose.
Government TA processing procedure now requires that a project be included in
the current ADP or at least a commitment be made by the Executing Agency that
the project would be included in the revised next Annual Development Program.



ANNEX II
Page 16
Subproject No. 7
Title: North Bengal Paper Mills
Government Implementing Agency: Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
(BCIC)
Date IDA Approved: July 1977
Contract Signed: December 27, 1977
Project Completed: April 1979
Original Allocation: $105,000
Final Disbursement: $102,400
Background/Objectives
This subproject financed consultant services to assess the opera-
tional difficulties (including pricing policies, power and raw material
availability) of the North Bengal Paper Mill and to develop measures to
overcome them. Signing of a consultants contract was a condition of effec-
tiveness for the IDA Fifth Imports Program Credit and the Subproject was to
start in June 1977.
Implementation
Because the required GOB project proforma was not completed on
schedule GOB/BCIC were unable to hire a consultant by June 1977, and
requested an extension of the effectiveness deadline which was agreed to by
IDA. Although IDA allocated $105,000 in July 1977 to finance the subproject,
it was not until October 1977 that BCIC received proposals, and it did not
sign a consulting contract until late in December 1977 when it appointed
CELPAP Engineering, Swedish firm. The consultant's report was received late
in July 1978 and was reviewed by GOB and IDA in August, 1978. Comments on
the draft report deemed it inadequate in (i) fulfilling the stated TOR, (ii)
in formulating a rehabilitation scheme, and (iii) in analyzing the problems
of the Mill in sufficient depth. After revisions these deficiencies were
removed and GOB and IDA found the final report acceptable.
Follow-up Activities
Based partly on the consultant's recommendation, a scheme was drawn
up to rehabilitate the mills. GOB now has this proposal under consideration
as part of an overall program to rehabilitate the Pulp and Paper Sector. The
total cost of the project being prepared is taka 153.56 million of which taka
114.064 million (US$7.5 million) is foreign exchange.
Evaluation
Allocation of funds was made too soon before implementation and did
not recognize the delays occurring before signature of the contract.
However, according to BCIC and IDA staff, the subproject has met its objec-
tives. GOB officials considered supervision satisfactory and noted the
helpfulness of the close GOB/IDA relationship to the development of a poten-
tial rehabilitation project.



-46 -                 ANNEX II
Page 17
Subproject No. 8
Title: Architectural Services for Agriculture Research Building
Government Implementing Agency: Bangladesh Agriculture Research Council and
Bangladesh Agriculture Research Institute
(BARC and BARI)
Date IDA Approved: March 14, 1978
Contract Signed: May 26, 1978 (BARC); April 1979 (BARI)
Project Completed: Transferred to TA III
Original Allocation: $180,000
Final Disbursement: $83,000 (funds transferred to TA III)
Background/Objectives
The project was recommended by the appraisal mission for credit
828--Agricultural Research--to enable architectural work to proceed on the
design of facilities to be constructed under that project. In December 1977
the Government asked the bank to consider a request for TA funding to finance
the services of a local architect who would prepare site and building plans
together with tender documents for BARC and BARI, working during a period of
ten months before implementation of the project. The appraisal mission of
the IDA believed that this measure would speed investment project implementa-
tion significantly.
Implementation
The local architectural/engineering firm of Shaheedullah and
Associates was tentatively selected, subject to approval by IDA, with the
expectation that services would be performed in January-June 1978. However,
in March 1978 the Project Proforma was still in preparation and had not yet
been submitted to the Planning Commission.
During the same month the Bank staff recommended allocation of
funds to the project. An allocation of $180,000 ($45,000 for BARC and
$135,000 for BARI) was made on March 15, 1978. The contract between BARC and
the consultant was signed in October 1978. However, technical changes were
needed before signature of the BARI contract. The BARI contract was not
submitted to IDA until April 1979. Meanwhile Credit 872-BD was approved June
13, 1978 (effective November 1978).
Because of a misunderstanding as to the type of expenditures nor-
mally financed under the TA credit, the provision for financing architectural
services for supervision of construction was included in the contract
financed under the TA project instead of being financed under investment
credit 828-BD. The supervision services are still being provided under TA
:[II (872-BD) since the construction work has not been completed.



ANNEX II
- 47 -            ~~Page  18
Follow-up Activities
The investment credit (Cr. 828-BD) for the construction of the
facilities which was supported by this subproject was approved in June 13,
1978 (effective 1978) for US$6.0 million.
Evaluation
The primary reason for this subproject was to provide preliminary
services that would speed implementation of the investment project. This
objective was only partly met. The investment credit was in fact approved
before work started on the subproject because of delays in the appointment of
consultants. However, some success was achieved in the sense that total
project implementation might have been even longer had the appointment of
consultants not started under the TA subproject. This subproject is par-
ticularly noteworthy for its successful utilization of local consultant
services.



ANNEX II
- 48 -                Page  19
Subproject No. 9
Title: Chittagong Water Supply
Government Implementing Agency:  Chittagong Water Supply and Sewerage
Authority
Date IDA Approved: March 15, 1978
Contract Signed: March 15, 1978
Project Completed: December 17, 1979
Original Allocation: $529,000
Final Disbursement: $520,400
Background/ Objectives
In 1974 discussions took place between the Government and IDA
concerning preparation of a Second Chittagong Water Supply Project.  It was
agreed that WASA's organization should be strengthened. However, two issues
of importance required resolution. The Government was in arrears on payment
for water usage by Government agencies, and it had not completed revision of
the tariff structure.
Because of delays in executing the first iinvestment project, TOR
for the preparation of the second project were not written until November
1976. In January 1977 the Government submitted a TA request for a combina-
tion water and sewerage project; however, IDA advised that the Government
should separate sewerage and water supply projects. Contract negotiations
scheduled for the latter half of 1977 were delayed because of failure to
settle the debt-repayment question--eventually resolved.
The Bank reviewed the draft contract, and the Government made
suggested revisions. The consultants were to prepare the second Chittagong
Water Supply Project based on the needs of the community and its ability to
pay.
Implementation
The contract with Parsons (U.S.) wEas signed in March 1978, and the
allocation was made at the same time. By December 1979 the consultants
completed their work to the satisfaction of the IDA and the Government.
Follow-up Activities
The project prepared the Second Chittagong Water Supply project,
for which IDA assistance of $20.0 million was approved on March 25, 1980 (Cr.
1001-BD).
Evaluation
Allocation might have occurred sooner except for the lengthy time
it took the Government to resolve issues associated with the first investment
credit. Once these matters were resolved, preparation for the second water
supply project proceeded smoothly, and the objective of the subproject was
satisfactorily achieved.



ANNEX II
- 49 -                   Page  20
Subproject No. 10
Title: Small Industries Training
Government Implementing Agency: Sonali Bank and Janata Bank
Date IDA Approved: June 1978
Project Completed: December 1978
Original Allocation: $17,000
Final Disbursement: $17,000
Background/Objectives
The Janata and Sonali Banks were designated to implement the Second
Small Industries Project for growth and development of small and cottage
industries, making use of a $7.0 million credit (Cr. 825). A condition of
the credit was the requirement that the Janata- and Sonali Banks set up a
separate "Small Scale Industries Department" at their headquarters. Four
officials from each financing bank were scheduled to begin training by
mid-July 1978 with the State Bank of India and the United Bank of India.
They were to be trained in the methods of financing small-scale industries.
Implementation
In June 1978 IDA allocated $17,000 ($8,500 for each bank). By July
25 eight officials had been selected. In September 1978, during the training
period August 8, 1978, to November 15, 1978, the Sonali Bank requested an
increase in allowance. ERD did not agree to this. The Sonali Bank pursued
the matter, seeking an increase from $17,000 to $26,000, but ERD remained
adamant, stating that (1) the training period was too long a time to pay a
per diem; (2) that the allowance was quite in line with allocations to other
organizations, especially given the cost of living in India; and (3) that the
money was not a grant. ERD did not receive a complaint from the Janata Bank.
Follow-up Activities
Besides helping fulfill a condition of credit 825 (approved June
1978 and declared effective November 1978), the third small scale industry
project, Cr. 1065-BD approved September 1980 for $30.7 million, is making use
of staff trained under the project.
Evaluation
While neither ERD nor IDA has a formal report of the training
process and its results, the Janata and Sonali Bank officials interviewed
indicated that participants utilizing their acquired skill and experience
have been effective in project identification, appraisal technique, implemen-
tation, supervision and monitoring and were crucial to speedy implementation
of Credits 825 and 1065. The objectives have apparently been well achieved.
ERD experienced difficulties with complaints from participants
about-inadequate allowances. This development prompted ERD to suggest an
investigation of training costs and subsequently to develop guidelines for
training allowances and also to question the use of borrowed funds for
training.



- 50 -                  ANNEX II
Page 21
Subproject No. 11
Title: Pulp and Paper Adviser
Government Implementing Agency: Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
Date IDA Approved: July 24, 1977
Contract Signed: August 29, 1978
Project Completed: Terminated December 4, 1978
Original Allocation: $48,600
Final Disbursement: $45,000
Background/ Objectives
As a condition to IDA credit 676-BD the Government was expected to
hire a consultant no later than December 1977 who, over a period of six
months, would (a) advise the Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation on
long-term prospects and measures needed to develop the pulp and paper
industry and (b) assist the evaluation of studies on paper mills. The con-
sultant was expected to produce a coordinated action plan in detail and to
undertake definitive schemes for improving existing facilities and a
long-term program of capital financing for the sector. The original PCII was
modified to reflect IDA's request that the TOR should cover a review of
long-term development prospects for the pulp and paper industry in addition
to a review of the operational aspects of individual enterprises.  On June
30, 1977, ERD submitted the project to IDA.
Implementation
On July 23, 1977, IDA allocated $48,600 to the subproject. On
August 10, 1977, GOB sent invitation letters to firms that IDA had suggested,
soliciting the services of an individual as set out in the Conditions of
Effectiveness for Cr. 676-BD. Only three responded, and none proved accept-
able because they offered group services instead of individual consultant
services. GOB was informed that it is not normal practice to select an
individual consultant through any tendering process or to select anyone who
is on a payroll of a consulting engineering firm.
On February 23, 1978, the Government/BCIC advised IDA of this
situation. Meanwhile the deadline had passed and a senior pulp and paper
adviser working in the country was nominated and his biodata sent to IDA.
The Government urged that IDA agree to a contract with the consultant.
The deadline to find a consultant was extended to March 31, 1978.
On March 30 the Government wrote again, asking for concurrence to contract
with the consultant. On April 7 Government once more asked IDA for advice in
writing. On April 11, 1978 IDA sent its concurrence with the suggestion that
the Government negotiate a lower monthly salary rate. On April 12, 1978, the
Government offered the consultant the position in a letter of intent.
The contract was not signed until August 29, 1978, because of the
need to deal with tax exemption problems. From June 1978 onwards, little
progress was made on the assignment because of a growing strain in the
relationship between the consultant and BCIC resulting from alleged breaches



ANNEX II
51 -                 Page  22
of contract by both parties. The assignment was terminated by the consultant
on December 4, 1978. Subsequently the performance obligations of the con-
sultant and BCIC were the subject of an arbitration review by the ICC, Paris.
The verdict upheld the consultant's right to terminate the contract but
dismissed his claim for compensation.
Follow-up Activities
No formal report was prepared by the consultant, and subsequently,
BCIC initiated another review of the pulp and paper sector using in-house
staff resources. A draft report was under preparation in August 1981 but has
yet to be submitted to GOB/IDA for comments.
Evaluation
This subproject did not achieve any of its objectives. Initially
there was a misunderstanding on the type of consultancy services required--a
misunderstanding which apparently arose out of the wording of two different
Conditions of Effectiveness for Cr. 676.  One Condition stated that consult-
ants were to be hired to perform a study on the operational difficulties of
North Bengal Mills (see subproject 7). Another Condition stated explicitly
that a consultant was to be hired for 6 months to advise on the sector.
However, IDA suggested firms for GOB to contact where individuals should have
been suggested as per the Condition of Effectiveness relating to this par-
ticular subproject. GOB, apparently aware that they were to recruit an
individual, solicited these firms for an individual with no success. By the
time this situation had been resolved, the covenant deadline had passed.
Finally, following the selection of the consultant, operational and
administrative difficulties arose which suggest that procedures should be
established for making payments to consultants with a clearly understood
relationship to work performed.
Also, at one point in the arbitration process the arbitration
authorities were persuaded by the plaintiff that IBRD could be considered
a co-defendant. Although this position was ultimately rejected, it might be
politic for IBRD to scrutinize regularly its relationship to the contracting
procedure.



- 52 -              ANN'EX II
Page 23
Subproject No. 12
Title: Foodgrain Storage Training
Government Implementing Agency: Directorate of Silos
Date IDA Approved: September 21, 1978
Contract Signed: September 1978 (Buhler Miag of West Germany)
Project Completed: October, 1980
Original Allocation: $100,000
Final Disbursement: $20,300
Background/Objectives
This subproject represented a fina]. phase of the Grain Storage
Management Study begun under Cr. 409, the first TA Credit. The objectives of
the original study were: (1) to review existing operations and develop a
system that would provide efficient administration, operation, and main-
tenance for the silos financed under the first Foodgrain Storage Project (Cr.
381-BD); (2) to prepare manuals for operation, maintenance, and inventory
control; and (3) to develop and organize on-the-job training for all person-
nel attached to existing silos in Bangladesh. The first two objectives were
achieved under Cr. 409. The third objective was to be financed under Cr.
622-BD. IDA and Ministry of Food drew up and agreed to the foreign training
programs.
Implementation
Allocation of $100,000 was made in September 1978, and in October
1978 a program was formulated to provide training in Germany for an officer
of the Directorate and training in England, Germany, the Netherlands, and
Switzerland for fourteen silo officers, in four groups, in the fields of
maintenance, procurement, infection control, and quality control, and train-
ing for five silo officers in buffer stock operation, procurement, and rice
storage.
In September 1978, the Ministry of Food signed an agreement with
consultants Buhler Miag of Germany to act as disbursing agent and coor-
dinator.
One officer of the Directorate completed four weeks of training in
Germany during October/November 1978. A group of four trainees began train-
ing in January 1979. The second group was expected to leave by July 1979,
and the third and fourth groups were to begin their training in January and
July 1980. However, the second, third, and fourth groups did not receive
training. The first group of trainees reported that their subsistence
allowances were too low and that an increase in the funding for the project
was necessary to support the remainder of the anticipated training.
The subproject was dropped in October 1980 after disbursement of
$20,316. Government sources indicate that the project was cancelled because
no provision had been made for it in the AnntLal Development Program. A major



ANNEX II
Page 24
factor may have been the lack of interest of Silo Department staff in par-
ticipating in the program without an increase in subsistence allowance stand-
ards which would have had implications on overall Government policies on such
allowances.
Follow-up Activities
The portion of the training occurred helped to improve management
of silos constructed under the first Foodgrain Storage Project.
Evaluation
This subproject did not achieve all its objectives. Only five
officers of twenty received the intended training. Early on, a dispute
occurred over the appropriate level of subsistence allowances. Later the
project was dropped from the Annual Development Program; however, well over a
year elapsed between the last training and reallocation of the undisbursed
funds, tying up approximately $80,000 for that period. No evaluation of the
completed training was located. IDA supervision shifted between two projects
divisions.



ANNEX II
- 54                 Page  25
Subproject No. 13
Title: Drainage and Flood Control - Phase II
Government Implementing Agency: Bangladesh Wiater Development Board
Date IDA Approved: December 1978
Contract Signedz September 1979
Project Completediz June 30, 1981
Original Allocation: 1.5 million
Final Disbursement: 1.3 million
Background/Objectives
In its first five year plan in 1973 the Government emphasized the
goal of self-sufficiency through higher agricultural production. Priority
was given to implementation of short-term, qu-'Ick-yielding water development
projects. Accordingly, a Special Project Preparation Cell in the Water
Development Board was established to update old feasibility reports to a
standard acceptable to the World Bank. Subproject XI of the first TA project
helped finance this cell, which began to funct:ion in November 1976. The
consultants, NEDECO (The Netherlands) completed work on four projects under
the first TA credit, subsequently appraised by the World Bank. This sub-
project under the second TA credit took up preparation of a second series of
subprojects selected earlier by the Government and agreed to by the Bank.
The project concept was one of teamwork between consultants and BWDB
engineers. The results were to produce projects and simultaneously to train
the BWDB engineers to take on the major responsibility for preparing future
projects.
'Implementation
Although $1.5 million was available to this subproject in December
1978, the new contract with NEDECO was not signed until September 1979. The
draft contract was approved in IDA headquarters in March 1979. In August
1979 the Bank inquired as to the reasons for the delay in signature of the
contract. The consultants were of the opinion that lack of cooperation
between BWDB and the Directorate of Planning plus lack of adequate follow-up
pressure by BWDB officials accounted for the dlelay.
The subproject faced some difficulties in the beginning from (a)
austere counterpart support stemming from frequent involvement in other
assignments; (b) slow reaction to reports, resulting in inadequate guidance
given to the consultant; and (c) insufficient number of vehicles. However,
BWDB at the urging of Bank officials attemptedL to remedy most of these
problems. The feasibility studies were completed and although there was an
initial lag in disbursement, the total allocation was nearly disbursed by
work's end.



ANNEX II
Page 26
Follow-up Activities
Preparation led eventually to an appraisal and an IDA credit was
approved October 27, 1981 for $27.0 million. The completed feasibility
report was updated and revised under TA II (Cr. 872). Preparation for Flood
and Drainage Control III has been proposed in TA IV, Cr. 1124-BD.
Evaluation
This subproject failed on the institution building level but even-
tually succeeded in preparing a project. The teamwork concept did not work.
BWDB engineers preferred to work in the field to working in Dacca; therefore,
the consultants attempted to prepare the projects largely by themselves,
often on the basis of inadequate data. Some of the subproject areas were
more deeply flooded than originally expected and probably were not the best
areas to have selected for project preparation. Other areas originally
chosen proved not to need further drainage or flood control works on a scale
requiring IDA assistance. Consultants prepared proposed subprojects based
upon average rainfall, but daily rainfall data was needed to determine the
adverse effects of individual intensive storms which may be critical to a
rice crop. The appraisal mission could not complete appraisal and had to
request additional data. A second appraisal mission of a revised project
took place leading eventually to Drainage and Flood Control II assisted by
IDA credit 1184 ($27.0 million) approved October 27, 1981.



- 56 -                ANNEX II
Page 27
Subproject No. 14
Title: Sector Corporation Management
Government Implementing Agency: Ministry of Industries
Date IDA Approved: December 1978
Contract Signed: Arrangement with ILO December 1978
Project Completed: December 1979
Original Allocation: $92,000 increased to $100,100
Final Disbursement: $91,900
Background/Objectives
Late in 1977 the Ministry of Industries and the Bank resident
mission discussed the possibility of a training course for managers in the
public sector industries. In a letter to the Ministry IDA suggested that a
consultant be sent to review training needs and to design training programs
to take place both in Bangladesh and abroad but later decided to send a
review mission (apparently, however, no mission was sent). In June 1978, IDA
agreed that twenty managers would receive training in international institu-
tions located in U.K. and Manila to acquaint them with modern management
techniques. They would also gain knowledge and experience that could be used
to provide efficient management of domestic sector corporations and
enterprises. It was also agreed to contact t;he Management Development Center
of ILO to arrange the training.  The training was set up in two phases.  Ten
officials were to be trained in 1979 and ten in 1980.
Implementation
IDA approved an allocation of $92,000 in December 1978, based on
the Management Development Center's estimate of the total costs for the first
phase. At that time the Center was unable to provide a detailed breakdown of
the costs. During the first phase the GoverrLment decided that the training
was too expensive to be financed out of a credit.  The Government sought and
received grant aid from UNDP to finance ten fellowships during the second
phase. In October 1979, the Management Development Center calculated the
cost of the first phase at close to $100,000. Accordingly, IDA increased the
allocation to that amount in November 1979. However, actual training bills
for the first phase approximated the original allocation of $92,000. The
final bill for the first phase was not submitted until May 1981K
Follow-up Activities
Ten officials received training during the second phase financed
by the UNDP.
Evaluation
Although IDA financed only the first training phase, the Government
objectives for the subproject were achieved in that a total of twenty offi-
cials ultimately received training. The change in the method of financing
during the project may have enhanced its success because it allowed the
Government to take stock at a natural break in the project and to make a



ANNEX II
Page  28
constructive change. The need to make the change stemmed from the apparent
difficulty in obtaining estimates of training costs at the beginning of the
subproject. Consequently, it was unfortunate that the allocation was raised
unnecessarily and that the undisbursed funds remained in the project after
the need for them had passed. No reports on the training were found in
Government or IDA files, but representatives of the Ministry of li.ustries
indicated that the training was beneficial.



_58 -                   ANNEX II
Page 29
Subproject No. 15
Title: Dacca WASA Engineering
Government Implementing Agency: Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
Date IDA Approved: December 7, 1978
Contract Signed: Spring 1979
Project Completed: June 1980; after project effectiveness consultants
services financed under Cr. 941-BD
Original Allocation: $450,000
Final Disbursement: $421,200
Background/Objectives
In order to fulfill an urgent need of the increasing population of
the capital city for water supply and sewerage facilities the Government
obtained financing under the first technical assistance credit and sub-
sequently under the second technical assistance credit to prepare projects
for short-term and long-term relief.
During May-October 1978, TOR were written to determine the
feasibility of a short-term investment project and to prepare for the
long-term investment project in 1982. In October 1978, the TOR was revised
to reflect more immediate needs better. During this time the geographical
limits of Dacca WASA were extended to include outlying areas in the project.
This provided a means of serving an expanded population in the future.
Implementation
On December 7, 1978, IDA approved $450,000 for this subproject to
complete engineering and preparation of tender documents for components that
were expected to be included in the proposed second Dacca WASA investment
project. In February 1979 WASA sent IDA a draft invitation-to-bid letter for
approval. After further discussion on the TOR, the Government engaged the
Parsons Overseas Corporation (U.S.) during the Spring at a foreign exchange
cost of $750,000. By June 1979, the feasibility study for the short-term
project was completed and work begun on the second stage which was trans-
ferred to credit 941 (Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage).
Follow-up Activities
The short-term recommendations are now being put into effect under
Credit 941-BD (approved June 1979 for $25.0 million). Parsons Overseas
Corporation have completed the long-term plan. and made recommendations for
further physical works.
Evaluation
This subproject achieved its objectives fully. Success appears to
have stemmed from early and intensive dialogue between IDA and the Government
and the tie with an investment project. The obvious, immediate urgency of
the project may account for the special attention it received.



- 59 -                   ANNEX II
Page 30
Subproject No. 16
Title: Highway Maintenance, Phase I
Government Implementing Agency: Roads and Highways Department
Date IDA Approved: December 1978
Contract SigneA: November 1978
Project Completed: Phase I, January 1980 (Phase II in abeyance)
Original Allocation: $560,000
Final Disbursement:   $218,900
Background/Objectives
IDA and the Government, concerned about the deterioration of the
roads, began late in 1977 to formulate a technical assistance project in two
phases. The usefulness of the new road projects was negated without adequate
maintenance of existing roads and provisions for maintenance of future roads.
Both Phase I and Phase II were included in the original TOR. Phase I
activities were to include review and analysis of existing road data, future
road use, and the responsibilities and capabilities of the Department of
Roads and Highways to identify investment needs. Phase II activities would
concentrate on project preparation.
The Government suggested a schedule in March 1978 as follows:
1.   Mid-April 1978:  Government and IDA agree on TOR.
2.   End April 1978:  Government requests proposals.
3.   Mid-June 1978:  Proposals received.
4.   Mid-July 1978:  Evaluation completed.
5.   Mid-August 1978:  Negotiations completed.
6.   October 1, 1978:  Study commences.
7.   End December 1978:  Phase I report due.
8.   June 1979:  Phase II report due.
In March 1978 the Government submitted the TOR for Bank comments.
In April 1978 the Bank commented on the TOR and received a letter from the
Planning Ministry asking for financing. Late in April 1978 the Bank approved
the subproject in principle but reserved formal commitment until it had
received consultant proposals and better cost estimates.
Implementation
A contract was signed on November 19, 1978, with one of the six
competing firms, Pacific Consultants International (Japanese) for $560,000,
and the consultants began work in December 1978 only two months behind the
original schedule. The Bank formally approved $560,000 in December 1978. A



ANNEX II
- 60 -                Page  31
draft report for Phase I was submitted in the spring of 1979. IDA found the
report unsatisfactory, explaining to the consultant the fundamental issues
that had to be addressed--issues that called for a certain analytical
framework within which to develop solutions. Some concern was expressed over
the level of expertise and experience evidenced in the report. The consult-
ant agreed to revise the report.
The revision was submitted in October 1979. IDA remained dissatis-
fied with the report. Besides requiring that the consultants use different
base data for various engineering evaluations IDA asked for more information:
(a) re-evaluation of factors that affected economic priority ranking; (b)
economic evaluation comparing cost/benefits of maintenance, rehabilitation,
and improvement; and (c) economic evaluation to determine economic priority
ranking for road sections. The consultants agreed to revise the paper again.
The second revision was accepted in January 1980.
Commencement of Phase II activities was further delayed while the
Department of Roads and Highways, the Ministry, and IDA came to terms on the
relative emphasis to be placed in the investment project on maintenance,
improvement, and rehabilitation. A scheme of about 75% rehabilitation and
25% maintenance was finally judged appropriate. However, the second phase
studies have not yet started. Consultants and GOB are at odds over the TOR,
e.g., whether the maintenance program refers only to work on roads selected
for detailed study or to the complete network for which RHD is responsible.
It is also not established whether the study should be confined to
feasibility studies and preliminary engineering or include detailed engineer-
ing and production of contract documents.
Follow-up Activities
An investment project was to be prepared under this subproject but
work on the second phase has yet to proceed.
Evaluation
This subproject has not fulfilled il:s main objective which was to
prepare an investment project. Phase II activities, originally scheduled to
be implemented under this project, may be financed under another TA credit.
Although consultants began their work in December 1978, only two
months later than called for in the original schedule, difficulties were soon
encountered. The Phase I report, scheduled to be completed in two months,
required somewhat more than a year of preparation and revision before IDA
found it acceptable. At this point a serious delay occurred while agreement
was reached within the Government and then between the Government and IDA on
project emphasis. The proposed Highway Rehab:Llitation and Maintenance
project has yet to be formulated resulting in more than half the original TA
allocation still to be reallocated for phase [I activities in another TA
credit.



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Page 32
Subproject No. 17
Title: Adviser to the Ministry of Agriculture
Government Implementing Agency: Ministry of Agriculture
Date IDA Approved under Cr. 622: December 12, 1978
Contract Signed: 1977 under Cr. 409 (TA I), extended in April 1, 1978.
Extensions under Cr. 622 (TA II) approved December, 1978
and October, 1980.
Project Completed: Continued under Cr. 872 (TA III)
Original Allocation:  $321,000 (under Cr. 409); $62,000 (under Cr. 622)
plus $50,000 increase 6-16-80 (a portion of which
transferred to Cr. 872)
Final Disbursement:   $74,400 (under Cr. 622); $321,000 was disbursed under
Cr. 409 and about $30,000 under Cr. 872.
Background/Objectives
A skeleton planning cell was attached to the Department of Agricul-
ture in the Government of East Pakistan. At independence the regional branch
of the planning unit, a part of the central government, was merged with the
planning cell to form a development and planning wing under the Secretary of
Agriculture. In view of the country's needs, the new government set forth
priorities for the planning cell as follows: (1) identification of
schemes/projects necessary for accomplishment of the five-year plan; (2)
formulation of development plans, programs, and preparation of schemes and
projects; (3) scrutiny, appraisal, and approval of schemes and projects; (4)
policy formulation and evaluation; (5) dealing with foreign aid. In 1975,
the Government made clear its commitment to develop the rural sector. In
1976, partly because of the unsatisfactory progress of two IDA-supported
projects (NW Region Tubewell and General Seeds Projects), IDA suggested a
review of the structure and the management capability of key organizations,
particularly the Ministry of Agriculture and BADC. ERD expressed reserva-
tions about acquisition of an adviser to solve "inherent problems." The
Ministry of Agriculture prepared a subproject which was examined by the
Ministry of Finance. IDA suggested in May 1976 that funds from Cr. 409 be
made available to strengthen both the organization and management of the
Ministry of Agriculture and BADC. At the outset the Government proposed
eighteen months of services that would (1) determine the scope of general
studies and time schedules; (2) develop TOR and staff requirements for more
specific studies such as improvements in the accounting system and BADC's
inventory policies; (3) examine the capacity of local consultants; (4) deter-
mine organization and staff requirements of a planning, evaluation, and
research cell concerned with identification of projects in the agricultural
sector; and (5) supervise activities. IDA agreed with these objectives but



ANNEX II
- 62 -                 Page  33
emphasized that at this stage the consultants should concentrate on improving
organization and management. A contract was signed with CRUX, a U.S. firm.
During 1977 the consultants produced reports on food policy that recommended
emphasis on private sector activity. On April 1, 1978 the contract was
extended for three months to complete work on administration and manpower
policy planning. A three-volume report was submitted in July 1978, treating
financial management and strengthening irrigation/inventory management. The
Ministry of Agriculture requested another twelve month extension of the
consultant firm's services to improve organization and management of the
Ministry of Agriculture. IDA was prepared to consider the request but only
after a thorough review with the agencies on the Crux report and a review of
priorities. A disbursement withdrawal request arrived covering Crux expendi-
tures through October 1978 not covered by the allocation. Funds were
increased by $25,000 to finance the windup. A dislbursement of $321,000 had
been made at the conclusion of funding under Cr. 409.
Implementation
On December 12, 1978 IDA agreed to allocate $63,000 for the calen-
dar year under Cr. 622 to finance periodic visits 'by the leader of the con-
sultant team to advise the Secretary of Agriculture in his efforts to reform
the Ministry. Previous activities of the consultant created a groundwork for
broader changes to assist the Ministry. It was suggested that the focus
should shift to strategies, optimization of existing capability, development
of manpower, and training objectives. A systematic relationship was needed
between organizational structure and production objectives, internal institu-
tional relationships, and the responsibilities of various entities--the
Ministry of Agriculture, other national institutions, and the private sector.
Although IDA and ERD assumed consultant services had ceased by December 31,
1979 withdrawal applications were made for services through June, 1980. IDA
requested that a formal request be made to finance further activities accom-
panied by a report on subproject accomplishments. In January 1980, ERD
questioned the Secretary of Agriculture on the need for further services.
However, ERD finally submitted a request for further services. In October
1980 IDA agreed to a further extension and approved an allocation of $50,000.
Follow-up Activities
Funding for the consultant servic(es has continued into the third TA
Credit 872.
Evaluation
It is difficult to evaluate the sensitive advisory work performed
for a high-level position. The consultant has in effect served primarily as
a personal advisor to the Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture. Full
credit for significant policy changes must go to the Ministry--for example--a
reduction in Government regulation and giving greater influence to the
private sector in the distribution of fertilizer, pesticides and irrigation
equipment. It is agreed that significant changes were made during the tenure
of the consultant's assistance. However, there are mixed views within the
Government and IDA as to the role of the advisory service and when the assis-
tance might logically have been concluded.



ANNEX II
- 63 -                 Page  34
Subproject No. 18
Title:  Southwest Region Special Studies
Government Implementing Agency:  Bangladesh Water Development Board
Date IDA Approved: May 31, 1979
Contract Signed: July 31, 1979
Project Completed:  Being funded under Cr. 872-BD
Original Allocation:  $1,200,000 increased to $2,200,000
Final Disbursement:   $1,801,200
_Bckground/Objectives
The activities under this subproject were a follow-up to subproject
1 activities. Consultants were to produce studies directed at an overall
plan for the development of water resources in the entire SW region and
specific feasibility studies for the Gorai River resuscitation and Old River
resuscitation project proposals identified in the earlier IECO study. Since
the completion date for the studies was later than the closing date of Credit
622, the allocation for this subproject was split between this credit and the
third TA credit.
Implementation
IECO began work on this subproject on May 31, 1979 before the
subproject was approved. There was a delay in processing and signing the
contract (July 31, 1979) and payments to the consultant were further delayed
until the contract was received and approved by IDA. The early part of the
work consisted of data collection and review of documents as well as
organization of ideas, etc. No essential outlines or plans were made.
The first review mission that visited November 1979 requested
progress reports that had been submitted by IECO to BWDB. The mission was
informed that the studies were considered confidential by GOB and both con-
sultants and BWDB were reluctant to meet with the mission. Despite repeated
requests for reports there was no response. By March 1980, eighteen reports
had been submitted to BWDB. Only one, not very informative interim report,
was received by IDA. The mission and the Resident Mission again requested
the reports. The mission emphasized that because the contract time was
short, work progress should be reviewed frequently and that review of
progress should be done every 2-3 months.
In November 1980 the mission discovered that the consultants had
submitted 50 sets of draft final reports on the SW Regional Studies to BWDB,
each set comprised of 13 volumes. IDA registered its grave concern that no
reports from this study were being submitted to IDA by BWDB. IDA was advised
that the sensitive nature of the work in relation to future deliberations of
the joint Rivers Commission (reviewing international water questions affect-
ing India and Bangladesh) made it inappropriate to release the documents.
IDA responded that submission of these reports was essential to IDA to ensure
proper assistance and advice in anticipating possible future involvement in
the execution of the plans. In addition, submission of the reports to IDA
was a covenant under the credit agreement. The mission also learned that up



ANNEX II
- 64 -               Page  35
to that date 30 progress reports had been submitted to BWDB (excluding the
final draft of SW Planning). It was difficult or impossible for the mission
to review the works without reports and with only limited meetings with the
study group.
In February 1981, IDA again expressed concern and indicated that
the fourth technical assistance credit might be delayed if reports for this
subproject were not made available. Finally, GOB did agree to hand over one
set of the SW Regional Planning Reports.
Work continued on the feasibility studies for the Gorai River
Development and Old River Resuscitation but IDA still did not receive any
progress reports that it had requested. In April 1981, the Resident Mission
reported that, unannounced to them, the last consultant had departed
Bangladesh March 29, 1981. Finally, in May 1981 the reports on the two
feasibility studies were received by IDA. However, IDA has never received
any of the 30 progress reports.
Follow-up Activities
IDA expected that the Gorai River Development and Old River Resus-
citation Projects would be suitable for consideration for IDA financing.
However, because of the need for large amounts of work required for the
rehabilitation of the Gorai River in order to allow sufficient flow from the
Ganges into the river for the two projects, and for flood protection for
large areas of the two projects, the investment costs become higher than
considered appropriate for Bangladesh at this time.
Some projects identified and proposed under SW Regional Planning
Studies appear valid for detailed studies.
Evaluation
The SW Regional Planning Studies reports (13 volumes) outlined
plans for development of the entire SW regions in three stages: Immediate
Development; Short Range Development, and Long Range Development. For
Immediate Development Stage, the consultants identified many irrigation,
drainage and flood control projects and set priorities as well. Some of
these project developments were based on Ganges River flow but other projects
were not dependent on the Ganges flow. A brief description of these projects
was given, including project areas (size), benefitted areas, cost estimates,
expected benefits, internal rate of return, and sensitivity test (as well as
present value). Some of these projects have low unit cost and may be brought
to feasibility report stage for implementation.
For the Gorai River Development and Old River Resuscitation, the
consultants proposed inclusion of irrigation components. Again, because the
Gorai has every little flow in the dry season, substantial development of the
Gorai River is necessary. The work requires high iinvestment cost and even
though rate of return is high, it may not be suitable for implementation at
this time when it would be more appropriate for GOB to invest in a low cost
and short gestation period projects.



- 65 -                  ANNEX II
Page 36
Although the reports provide valuable information and identify
possible future projects, the subproject is considered only a partial
success.
Because of the lack of Bank involvement in reviewing the work of
the consultants, the resulting work is less likely to lead to projects
suitable for Bank financing at present without substantial revision.



ANNEX II
- 66 -                 Page  37
Subproject No. 19
Title: Chittagong Gas Marketing
Government Implementing Agency: Petro-Bangla
Date IDA Approved: May 11, 1979
Contract Signed: Under Cr. 409
Project Completed: By May 1979
Original Allocation: $17,000
Final Disbursement:   $16,600
This subproject was initiated und(er Cr. 409, but the consultants
final bill did not reach IDA until after 409 closed. The balance due to the
consultants was financed under the Second TA credit.
The subproject financed a brief evaluation (several weeks) of
estimates of natural gas demand included in an earlier feasibility report.
The consultants demand projections provided information required as a prereq-
uisite for the appraisal report, leading to the IDA-assisted Bakhrabad Chit-
tagong Gas Pipeline Project (Cr. 1091-BD).



ANNEX II
- 67 -              Page  38
Subproject No. 20
Title: Fertilizer Maintenance
Government Implementing Agency: Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corp.
Date IDA Approved: May 11, 1979
Contract Signed: June 4, 1977 under Cr. 409 and June 2, 1979 under Cr. 6220
Project Completed: March 1981
Original Allocation: $94,000
Final Disbursement:   $87,500
Background/Objectives
As one of the conditions under the IDA credit agreement for the
Ashuganj Fertilizer Project, it was agreed that an examination take place of
methods for improving operations of the existing three fertilizer plants.
The consultants were to examine operations of the existing works, making
recommendations for achieving increased output, and to help with implementa-
tion of operating and maintenance procedures. An agreement was signed on
June 4, 1977, between BCIC and Bresler & Associates (USA). Services were
funded under Cr. 409 (TA I). More time was needed to finish their work and
to submit the final reports originally due in August 1978. The work was
interrupted because BCIC also asked the consultants to make a report on
Environmental Pollution Control in the TSP complex at Chittagong. Therefore
the subproject was continued under Cr. 622.
Implementation
The extension funded by Cr. 622 was agreed to on June 2, 1979, and
scheduled to end on August 31, 1979. The report was completed according to
the revised schedule. Discussions were held in September 1979 with the
consultant on the final report and future implementation recommendations.
The consultant included comprehensive reports about the inventory control
system and the preventive control system for all three plants.
Follow-up Activities
The Fertilizer Industries Rehabilitation Project assisted by IDA
credit 1023-BD ($29.0 million) was established. A local consultant has also
been working on the inventory control system as a follow-up to the recommen-
dations. The recommended training program also is being undertaken.
Evaluation
This subproject was conceived primarily as assistance in developing
improved operating and maintenance procedures. However, additional invest-
ments were needed to rehabilitate the factories to improve their produc-
tivity. The work evolved into project preparation and provided the basis for
the Fertilizer Industries Rehabilitation Project. The Government officials
were pleased with the outcome of the consultant's work, which not only met
the original objectives of institution-building and transfer of technology
but exceeded expectations in project preparation.



- 68 -                  ANNEX II
Page 39
Subproject No. 21
Title: Chittagong Port
Government Implementing Agency: Chittagong Port Authority
Date IDA Approved: February 29, 1980
Original Allocation: $500,000
Final Disbursement:   $454,600
This subproject was originally comaitted under Credit 872-BD (TA
III). It was transferred for an interim period to Credit 622 in order to
accelerate the disbursement of this credit. The evaluation of this sub-
project will be undertaken in the PCR of 872.,



ANNEX II
- 69 -                   Page  40
Subproject No. 22
Title: Pussur River Study
Government Implementing Agency: PCA
Date IDA Approved: February 29, 1980
Original Allocation: $40,000
Final Disbursement:   $29,500
This subproject was originally committed under Cr. 872-BD (TA III).
It was transferred for an interim period to Credit 622 in order to accelerate
the disbursement of this credit. The evaluation of this subproject will be
undertaken in the PCR of 872.



- 70 -  ~    ANNEX II
-70-           Page  41
Subproject No. 23
Title: Barisal-Patuakhali Irrigation
Government Implementing Agency: Bangladesh Water Development Board
Date IDA Approved: July 25, 1980
Original Allocation: $30,000
Final Disbursement:   None
Subproject 23 was an initial allocation for a larger study to
prepare the Barisal-Patuakhali Irrigation Project which was to be financed
under TA III (872-BD). The subproject was to procure equipment needed to
collect data for the proposed project preparation. However, the main study
was delayed because of protracted negotiations with consultants and no funds
were disbursed under TA II to procure equipment.



ANNNEX II
- 71 -                   Page  42
Subproject No. 24
Title: Bakhrabad-Chittagong Gas
Government Implementing Agency:  Bakhrabad Gas System Limited
Date IDA Approved: August 17, 1980
Contract Signed: January 1981
Project Completed: Activities transferred to Credit 1091 upon effectiveness
of that credit.
Original Allocation: July 17, 1980, $200,000; October 8, 1980, $200,000;
January 7, 1981, $200,000--final total of $600,000.
Final Disbursement:   $551,200
Background/Objectives
The consultancy services performed under this contract were to have
been financed under the regular investment IDA credit scheduled for nego-
tiation in May 1980 but postponed because of a snag in setting up the finan-
cial package. Arrangements had already been made to invite offers for con-
sultants for (a) pipeline engineering and management and (b) well-drilling.
Eleven firms were short-listed with the consent of IDA, and evaluation was to
have been made at loan negotiations early in June so that work could commence
by July 1, 1980. Since a delay of one or two months could result in a year's
delay in the entire activity because of weather, it was imperative to obtain
financing under Credit 622. These consultancy services were considered a
requirement before implementation of the Bakhrabad-Chittagong Gas Project.
The objectives were to provide consultant services for the gas pipeline
project, entailing a complete engineering and project management package.
Implementation
IDA approved $200,000 on July 17, 1980. On July 31, 1980, a draft
contract with Well-drill Ltd. (UK) was submitted to IDA. In August 1980 IDA
expressed reservations but agreed to the beginning of work, subject to later
amendment of the contract. On January 17, 1981, the allocation was increased
from $200,000 to $400,000 on the basis of the contract signing. On June 9,
1981, another request was made to increase the allocation to $2.2 million
because expenses had mounted rapidly. However, in June 1981, the
Bakhrabad-Chittagong Project became effective and subsequent expenses were
covered under this project.
Follow-up Activity
This subproject supported the Bakhrabad-Chittagong Project (Credit
1091) approved for $74.4 million on December 23, 1980.
Evaluation
Although it was not originally intended to finance these subproject
services under a TA credit, the availability of such funds enabled necessary
drilling to be completed thus preventing a waste of valuable time while
complicated political and co-financing arrangements were worked out for the
investment credit. This subproject enjoyed steady supervision, was well
executed and satisfied its objectives.



