CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 622 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Second Technical Assistance Project)
betveen
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 8, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 8, 1976, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
- DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Sub-project" means a particular study or project of
technical assistance to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
Ql


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in vari.ous currencies equiva-
lent to seven million five hundred thousand dollars ($7,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
the amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
in accordance with allocations of the proceeds of the Credit
agreed between the Borrower and the Association pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 of this Agreement, as such allocations may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) after the date of this Agreement in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry out
Sub-projects and agreed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Association may other-
wise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be limited
to:
(i) one hundred per cent of expenditures in currencies
other than the currency of the Borrower and seventy
per cent of expenditures in the currency of the Bor-
rower for services rendered by consultants or con-
sulting firms;


﻿-4-
(ii) expenditures in currencies other than the
currency of the Borrower for equipment and
materials required to carry out Sub-projects
and procured directly by the Borrower; and
(iii) one hundred per cent of expenditures for
travel to and from Bangladesh and expendi-
tures in currencies other than the currency
of the Borrower in connection with overseas
travel of the Borrower's personnel working
on Sub-projects with the consultants re-
ferred to in (i) above or for training pro-
grams. "Borrower's personnel" means persons
employed by the Government of Bangladesh
and its agencies, including an entity, the
majority of which is owned by the Government
and its agencies.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1986, and ending March'15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Description of Project; Use of
Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Project for which the Credit is granted
consists of the carrying out of high priority Sub-projects se-
lected by agreement between the Borrower and the Association which
are designed to assist the Borrower in the planning and implemen-
tation of its programs of economic development and rehabilitation
and in providing management for key enterprises.
(b) The purpose and scope of each Sub-project, the method
of implementation thereof and the specific allocation thereto of
proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement exclu-
sively to expenditures on the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)
of this Section, except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the equipnent and materials to be financed under Section
2.02(b)(ii) of this Agreement shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
published by the Bank in August 1975.


﻿(b) Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
less than $10,000 equivalent may be let through normal Government
procurement procedures, provided that the aggregate for such con-
tracts shall not exceed $200,000 equivalent.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Sub-project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and shall
make available, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, serv-
ices and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The External Resources Division of the Ministry of Plan-
ning of the Borrower shall be responsible for ensuring effective
coordination among the ministries and agencies of the Borrower
concerned in the implementation of the Project.
(c) For each Sub-project the Borrower shall establish
arrangements and procedures, satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association, for selecting services, equipment and supplies and
directing their use for such Sub-project, supervising and direct-
ing the work of any consultants employed therefor, recommending
modifications of such consultants' terms of reference or other
terms and conditions of their employment, and reviewing the re-
ports and recommendations of such consultants.
(d) The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures to fa-
cilitate the work of consultants in the performance of their ser-
vices for the Project and make available to them all information
relevant to the Sub-project involved.


﻿-9-
(e) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment of consultants employed for any Sub-
project, or grant any material extension of time or any approval
of Sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or agree to substitu-
tion of personnel of such consultants, without prior agreement
between the Borrower and the Association. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Association if it proposes to suspend payments
under or terminate any contract with such consultants.
Section 4.02. For the purpose of carrying out any Sub-project
which requires the employment of consultants, the Borrower shall
employ qualified and experienced consultants acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association, on terms and conditions, including
terms of reference, agreed upon between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.
Section 4.03. For each Sub-project, except as the Association
may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall submit the following to
the Association for its approval:
(a) A detailed description of the studies and work to be
carried out in connection with the proposed Sub-project, includ-
ing the purposes and objectives of the proposed Sub-project and
the benefits expected from such Sub-project;
(b) Qualifications, terms of reference and duration of
service for any consultants to be engaged in carrying out the pro-
posed Sub-project;


﻿- 10 -
(c) Description of the role(s) of the agency or agencies or
personnel of the Borrower to be responsible for the execution of
the Sub-project;
(d) Description of amenities and counterpart staff, if any,
to be supplied by the Borrower;
(e) Estimated foreign and local costs of the proposed Sub-
project broken down by major items and showing amounts to be fi-
nanced by the Borrower and out of the proceeds of the Credit, re-
spectively, and an estimated disbursement schedule; and
(f) Measures to be taken to comply with paragraphs (c) and
(d) of Section 4.01, including any proposed variations in the
prccedures described in the Guidelines referred to in Section 3.03.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the consultants
employed for the Project promptly to furnish to the Association
copies of the documents prepared by them for the Project, includ-
ing reports and drafts thereof, in such number as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views with respect to the evaluation and implemen-
tation of the recommendations and other conclusions contained in
the documents referred to in the foregoing paragraph (a).
(c) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to show the use of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to record the progress of each Sub-project (including the


﻿- 11 -
cost thereof); shall enable the Association's representatives to
inspect any records and documents relevant to the Project, includ-
ing records and documents which the consultants employed by the
Borrower shall be required to keep for the purposes of the Proj-
ect; and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
Project.
(d) The Borrover shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of each Sub-project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Proj-
ect or any part thereof.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date June 7, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-13-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Sec-
retary and Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division of
the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower are each designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
PARIKALPANA
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washiigton, D.C.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ M. R. Siddiqi
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


