                                    Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                Report No: AB431

Project Name                       PERU - Justice Services Improvement
Region                             Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                             General public administration sector (50%); Law and justice (50%)
Theme                              Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms (P); Access to law and justice
                                   (P); Law reform (S); Legal services (S); Other rule of law (S)
Project                            P073438
Borrower(s)                        REPUBLIC OF PERU
Implementing Agency(ies)           JUDICIARY
                                   Address: Av. Nicolás de Piérola 745, Piso 6, Lima 1, Perú
                                   Contact Person: Dr. Roberto Keil, General Manager of the Judiciary
                                   Tel: (511) 426 2900        Fax: (511) 426 2982        Email:
Environment Category               C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                  March 5, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date                November 6, 2003
Bank Approval Date                 March 4, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
Following ten years of externally imposed reforms, Peru's justice sector institutions are at critical
crossroads. They enjoy an unprecedented level of independence from political control, but retain a negative
reputation for providing non-responsive services which also may be priced beyond the reach of a majority
of citizens. The 1990s reforms did work some improvements in internal organization and administrative
arrangements, but they were incompletely implemented, not fully understood or utilized, encouraged a
bureaucratized and formalistic outlook, and exaggerated centralization and standardization of processes.
The courts and other sector institutions urgently need to develop a more dynamic service orientation aimed
at benefiting a wide variety of potential users, consolidate the positive aspects of recent innovations and
recapture citizen faith in, and respect for, their outputs.

The Peruvian authorities have requested the Bank's assistance to set the basis of a justices services
modernization program that should improve the performance of key institutions (the Judiciary, the Judicial
Council, the Judicial Academy and the Ministry of Justice) in terms of quality and timeliness of services
delivered to the public as well as enhancing the access of the most disadvantaged groups to such services.
The project will build on the lessons learned as a result of the preparation and cancellation of the first
Judicial Reform Project (Loan No. 4153-PE).

                                                         2
                                                                                                               PID


2. Objectives
The overarching goal of the Project is to strengthen justice sector institutions to improve the delivery of
justice services in Peru and restore public confidence in the sector institutions. To meet this goal, the
Project will: (i) strengthen the independence of sector agencies through the development of a modern human
resource management and planning models; (ii) improve organizational performance to enable a continuous
focus on equitable, efficient, and effective service delivery; and (iii) enhance access to justice for poor men
and women in cooperation with civil society organizations. The project will involve agencies of the
Executive and Judicial Branches in a concerted approach to overcome critical dysfunctional aspects of the
overall justice system. It will focus on areas of immediate benefit to the users of justice services and
develop an overall vision for the sector in a way that empowers the main actors to manage the change
process.

It is expected that at the end of the Project, the justice sector in Peru will be significantly more efficient and
accessible. Most judicial employees will be selected, evaluated and promoted on merit basis. A career path
based on evaluated performance will sharply reduce staff turnover and promote sustained quality
improvements. The Project will ensure the efficiency and transparency in the collection and utilization of
the budget resources of the Judiciary and administrative decisions will be deconcentrated to regional offices
through integrated systems, with accountability enhanced through adherence to uniform rules and
procedures. Decentralized units such as Judicial Districts and Court Offices will be empowered to further
enhance efficiency and service delivery. The Judiciary will have more streamlined organizational structures,
appropriate skill balances, and publicized performance criteria. While the reform agenda will not be
completed, major gains will be achieved in order to transform the justice sector into a modern public
service.


3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The dialogue with sector authorities has confirmed their interest in the Bank support for a justice services
modernization process. Based on the experience accumulated in the preparation (and frustrated
implementation) of the first the Bank-financed project, the second will focus on high-priority areas, avoid
duplication with activities financed by other donors and address critical systemic issues.

To pursue a complex reform effort involving wide-ranging institutional and organizational issues, Bank
participation is critical. The Judiciary and the Government's efforts deserve the unqualified support of the
Bank because the justice sector provides an essential public service that has a strong impact on governance
quality. the Bank and other donors will assist in the implementation of the strategy developed by sector
agencies; this project will cover only a portion of a long-term process and involve only those areas that
sector authorities and major stakeholders have earmarked as priorities. The components are limited enough
in scope to ensure that the project remains focused and responsive to the implementation capacity of the
beneficiary institutions. the Bank's support for justice sector reform will be instrumental in encouraging the
consensus-building process. At this time, there is an unusual opportunity to carry forward justice reform in
Peru given the broad agreement on the critical need for reform in order to improve access to justice by the
disadvantaged and public trust in sector institutions.

4. Description
The Project will be divided into four main components: human resource strengthening; organizational
performance; access to justice; and project management.

The human resource component will develop the capacity of sector institutions (Judiciary, Judicial
Council and Judicial Academy) to implement a new approach to overall human resource management.. The

                                                        3
                                                                                                           PID


challenges are not only technical. Project activities will be designed in a way that respects the jurisdiction
of each institution but foster inter-institutional coordination. The Project will finance detailed assessments
of the current human resource situation, evaluations of institutional capacity for better planning and
identification of most urgent needs, and initiatives to encourage judicial staff to understand and implement
this approach.

The organizational performance component will assist in the evaluation and streamlining of "pilot" or
"model" service delivery experiences developed by the Judiciary with its own resources and the assistance
of other donors that have good chances of showing tangible and measurable results in the short-term and
generate demonstration effects in the rest of the sector. The leadership and management of the Judiciary
have agreed that deconcentration is a priority tool to set in motion a justice services modernization process.
To this end, deconcentration of decision-making powers currently at the central offices requires a parallel
empowerment of Judicial Districts and individual Court Offices to autonomously determine their
operational priorities. It will imply a devolution of decision-making powers to the such Districts and Courts
while retaining at the center a normative and supervisory role.

The access to justice component will focus on five areas: communication, legal assistance, family-related
disputes, basic justice institutions, and civil society strengthening. Communication activities will seek to
inform and educate the public about their rights and how these are protected by the justice sector
institutions; explain the overall system to users and potential users and how to use it; and build media
understanding on judicial issues. The component will also seek to improve legal assistance services, by
addressing basic organizational and service-delivery issues at the central and regional levels.        A basic
information system will be developed to monitor performance in service delivery and review case data on
legal aid services to determine user demand patterns (who seeks legal aid and for what). A separate
assessment of unfulfilled demand for legal assistance will provide key inputs for the strategy to improve the
delivery of legal aid services.

Given the prevalence of family related disputes, the complexity of these cases, and the ad hoc response
provided by the Judiciary, Family Courts will be an important intervention area for the proposed Project.
The Project will also strengthen the basic level of the Judiciary and increase the capacity of the lay peace
judges that operate primarily in rural and peri-urban low-income communities. For justice services
modernization to be fully effective, citizens involvement is essential. Direct work with civil society should
assist in the design, implementation and evaluation of Project-financed activities. The Project will also
finance, for example, the design and implementation of initiatives for improving access to justice coming
from civil society organizations and activities to strengthen the capacity of civil society to monitor the
reform process.

In terms of the project management component, the logistical aspects of implementation (procurement,
disbursements and financial management) will be the responsibility of a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
reporting directly to the General Manager of the Judiciary; specialized consultants will be contracted to
strengthen the Unit's capacity to manage an externally financed operation. The Bank will closely monitor
the operation of these coordination arrangements from the Lima Resident Mission. The Judiciary will also
establish change management teams in selected Judicial Districts to coordinate implementation activities
under the organizational performance and service delivery component. A permanent project coordinator
will serve as head of the PCU. The PCU will play an active coordinating and oversight role in regular
interaction with beneficiary institutions, the Bank, and consultants.

                                                         4
                                                                                                            PID


5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($3.20)
IBRD ($11.80)
Total Project Cost: $15.00

6. Implementation
The target institution will be the Judiciary, as it remains central to all sectoral planning. However, in the
area of human resource management the Judicial Council and the Judicial School will be fully involved in
design and implementation. For the access to justice component, the Ministry of Justice will be the
beneficiary agency.

Because the high cost and logistic difficulties of working simultaneously in the whole country three Judicial
Districts will be selected (probably reflecting the geographical distribution of the country into Costa, Sierra
y Selva) to work closely with the central offices of the Judiciary in the design and implementation of
service-delivery subcomponent. Work with such selected Districts will allow to test some innovative
approaches to staffing allocation and workload distribution and measure the impact against a baseline
defined under the current Bank statistical study.

One of the lessons learned under the cancelled Judicial Reform Project was the need for close coordination
among different sector agencies. Only a high-level commission with top representatives of sector agencies
can foster a common reform effort; IDB and the Bank have agreed that this mechanism will facilitate
dialogue among major players in sector policy-making and assist in the allocation and monitoring of
specific responsibilities.

The High-Level Technical Working Group (Grupo de Trabajo de Alto Nivel - GTAN), currently
comprising the President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Judicial Council, the President of the
Board of Directors of the Judicial Academy, the Attorney General, the President of the Constitutional
Tribunal and the Minister of Justice will serve as project policy-making body. GTAN, with the support of a
technical secretariat, will also supervise the activities of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) located in the
Judiciary that will report directly to the General Manager (Gerente General) of the Judiciary. Line offices
of the Judiciary, the Judicial Council, the Judicial Academy and the Ministry of Justice will coordinate with
the PCU the implementation of specific components. The PCU will be responsible for the administration of
procurement, disbursement and financial management matters of this operation vis-à-vis the Bank.

The GTAN will take critical policy decisions related to the proposed project, and generally oversee the
implementation of project components. It will serve as the focal point for reform initiatives, ensuring that
other programs and projects in the sector support and complement the common strategic approach of sector
institutions. The PCU will coordinate the provision of technical assistance services to the beneficiary
agencies in accordance with procedures specified in the project Operational Manual. A primary task of the
PCU will be to monitor the implementation activities of the selected central and regional offices of the
Judiciary.

A Project Coordinator will head the PCU, with the assistance of experienced professionals assigned to
oversee specific project activities, procurement, disbursement and financial management. Each District
Court involved in the implementation of the service delivery component will have change management
teams to propose and conduct service delivery improvement initiatives. The PCU will provide all the
support required by such teams.

                                                       5
                                                                                                           PID


The Project will require continuous monitoring and supervision, and effective consensus building.
Performance indicators to measure outputs and outcomes will be identified. Diagnostic assessments of
beneficiary agencies undertaken as part of project preparation as well as the statistical review under the
Bank statistical study will establish baseline data, will help identifying additional performance indicators to
validate continued participation of the selected Judicial Districts. Subsequent surveys, as well as the annual
evaluation reports of the Judiciary, will assist in measuring the progress in service delivery.

7. Sustainability
The justice reform process in Peru has entered a critical stage; concrete actions have to follow the
diagnostic exercises conducted under the first project and the public discussions involving sector authorities
and representatives of the major stakeholders. This is an excellent opportunity to engage the Judiciary and
the Government in a concerted approach to initiate a sustainable institution-building process that ensures
the independence and legitimacy of sector institutions.

The sector authorities' goal of improving the delivery of justice services is ambitious and requires
well-coordinated vertical and horizontal reforms. The sustainability of the project will depend on: (i) the
sector authorities' commitment to implementing the proposed reforms; (ii) their ability to overcome active
and passive resistance and the inherent difficulties of change; and (iii) the productive utilization of the
technical assistance provided. Longer-term sustainability will depend in part on: (i) creating a momentum
for reform through credible "success stories" of improved performance; and (ii) the sector authorities'
ability to convince the public that the strategy is in fact improving the services available for a majority of
the population. Therefore, the project will support the sustainability of the strategy through the
communication elements of the access to justice component, that will be designed to promote public
understanding and consensus on the objectives and benefits of the proposed strategy.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The 1990s reform process has left several lessons on how a process should not be designed and
implemented:

l "A reform process driven by solutions rather than a profound analysis of the problems faced or the
    objectives sought is prone to failures": under the 1990s reforms the quantity of innovations replaced a
    vision of what was being pursued, if indeed that vision existed;
l "Judges' involvement is essential for the success of a reform process"; in Peru, although some of the
    activities attempted to involve the affected judges in their implementation, for the most part judicial
    participation was not invited ­ and certainly not at the policy-making level;
l "The reform process should be articulated around a flexible timeframe that includes short, medium and
    long-term strategies": since the beginning, the timeframes of the 1990s reforms were unrealistic, which
    probably accounts for the lack of reliable reports on accomplishments;
l "The improvement of human resource quality in the Judiciary depends on far more than turnover": in
    the Peruvian case, unless the conditions for recruiting and retaining staff are improved, the
    replacements are not likely to be much different than their predecessors;
l "Unless the institutional environment encourages improved performance, even those prepared to
    undertake it are likely to be discouraged and fall into the traditional habits": in Peru, uncertainties in
    appointments, unmet expectations as to higher salaries, and lack of clarity as to performance standards
    have negatively affected morale and undercut efforts to improve performance; and
l "Institutional reform is unlikely without institutional leadership": the 1990s reforms did not encourage
    the emergence of new leaders within the Judiciary and thus the internalization of the reform.

                                                       6
                                                                                                           PID



Lessons learned of international best practice will also be retained in this project:

l The proposed project will be targeted at specific activities identified by sector agencies and key
    stakeholders as top priorities, and will address internal organization and service delivery issues within a
    realistic timetable of approximately four years. While the vertical component (human resources) will
    have impact on the overall structure of the Judiciary, the horizontal components will have a more
    limited scope (access to justice and service delivery) as evaluation of current experiences that will lead
    to new areas for further work by the Bank or other donors.
l GTAN will serve as the policy-making body that involves representatives of sector institutions and
    signals the overall objectives. The Judiciary, the Judicial Council, and the Judicial Academy will work
    closely in the implementation of human resources and service delivery components. The Ministry of
    Justice will work only in the area of access to justice. The project envisages a synergy effect through a
    multidisciplinary PCU and change management teams in each selected Judicial District.
l The project will address key service delivery issues of the Peruvian justice sector through the
    evaluation of on-going pilot experiences. The selected Judicial Districts will represent the three basic
    geographic areas of the country (Costa, Sierra and Selva) in order to accumulate experience, refine
    instruments and consolidate progress; these pilots evaluated, and adjusted, will be replicated in other
    areas.
l One of the major challenges of any Judicial reform initiative is to effect a change in entrenched
    attitudes and behaviors that have deep roots in the traditions of a given society. No change will be
    sustainable unless an appropriate set of incentives is developed; the interests of the organization and its
    individual members have to be taken into account in project design, otherwise the reform effort will be
    perceived as an external imposition and any progress achieved will backtrack once the external
    assistance disappears. This project, therefore, will be structured around two sets of incentives: (a) for
    selected Judicial Districts, continued project support will be conditioned to the achievement of specific
    benchmarks in matters of service delivery; and (b) for the individuals, the career system will condition
    stability to satisfactory performance measured against specific evaluation criteria.



9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues    : Category C

10. List of factual technical documents:



11. Contact Point:

      Co-Task Managers
      David F. Varela and Lisa Bhansali
      The World Bank
      1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
      Telephone: (511) 215 0660 ext. 259, (202) 473-4213
       Fax: (511) 421 7241, (202) 522-3134

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW

                                                  7
                                                                                                 PID


         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

