                                                Documentof
                                              The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                         ReportNo: 27861-PE




                                   PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                    ON A

                                             PROPOSEDLOAN

                                  INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$12MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                           REPUBLICOF PERU

                                                   FORA

                             JUSTICESERVICES IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                               February 9,2004




PovertyReductionandEconomic Management
Country ManagingUnit for Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru andVenezuela
Latin America andthe Caribbean RegionalOffice



This document has a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipientsonly in the performance of their
duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bankauthorization.                    I

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective January 1,2004)

                        Currency Unit = Nuevos Soles (SI.)
                                 1S/. = US$0.288
                                 US$1 = S.3.462

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1- December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADR         Alternative DisputeResolution
M A G       Academia de la Magistratura (Judicial Academy)
AOP         Annual Operating Plan
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CERIAJUS    Comisidn Especial para la Reforma Integral de la Administracidn de Justicia
            (Special Commissionfor the Integral Reformof Justice Administration)
CNM         Consejo Nucional de la Magistratura (National Judicial Council)
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Report
CQ          Consultant Qualifications
cso         Civil Society Organization
FMRs        Financial Management Reports
FSL         Fixed SpreadLoan
GA          Gender Assessment
GTZ         German Technical Cooperation Agency
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         InternationalCompetitive Bidding
ICT         Information and Communications Technology
IDB         Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
IGR         Institutional and Governance Review
L C         Least-Cost Selection of Consultants
LCR         Latin America and Caribbean Region
MEF         Ministerio de Economiay Finanzas (Ministry of Economy andFinance)
MINJUS      Ministerio de Justicia (Ministry of Justice)
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NS          NationalShopping
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PROMUDEH    Ministerio de Promocidn de la Mujer y Desarrollo Humano (Ministry for the
             Promotion of Women and Human Development)
PSW         Procurement of Small Works
QCBS         Quality and Cost-Based Selection of Consultants
RPA          Regional Procurement Advisor
SA           Social Assessment
TORS         Terms of Reference
USAID        United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
WBI          World Bank Institute

                Vice President: David De Ferranti
             Country Director:   Marcel0 M.Giugale
               Sector Director:  Ernest0May
            Task Team Leaders: David F.VarelaLisa L.Bhansali

                                                                                         FOROFFICIALUSEONLY
                                                               PERU
                                        Justice Services ImprovementProject

                                                          CONTENTS

        A ProjectDevelopmentObjective
         .

        2. Key performance indicators.........................................................................................................
        1. Project development objective ..........................................................................................                  6
                                                                                                                                                     7

        B Strategic Context
         .
                1
                2. Main sector issues and sector authorities strategy.....................................................
                 . Sector.re,l ated Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project..........                                        7
                                                                                                                                                     8
                3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices.............................                                    13

        C ProjectDescriptionSummary
         .

                2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.................................
                1. Project components...................................................................................                             16
                                                                                                                                                     19

                4. Institutional and implementation arrangements...................................................
                3. Benefits and target population......................................................................                              19
                                                                                                                                                     19

        D ProjectRationale
          .
                1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.......................................                                  21
                2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies...........                                          21

                4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership............................................
                3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design..............................................                                 22

                5. Value added of Bank support in this project......................................................                                 23
                                                                                                                                                     23

        E SummaryProject Analysis
          .

                2. Financial...............
                1. Economic..............                                                                                                            23

                3. Technical ..............                                                                                                          24
                                                                                                                              ...................    24
                4. Institutional...........                            ...........................................................                   24
                5. Environmental .........................................................                                                           25

                7. Safeguard policies .........................................................
                6. Social ..................                                                                                                         25
                                                                                                                                       ............  27
                8. Business Policies ...........                      ............             ........................................              28

        F Sustainabilityand Risks
          .
                                                                          .......                                           .....................
                2. Critical risks
                I. Sustainability............................                                                                                        28

                3. Possible controversial aspects......................
                                               ....................................................................................                  28
                                                                                                                                                     29

        G. Main LoanConditions


                2. Other (Project Implementation) ......................................................................
                I . Effectiveness Conditions ............................................................................                            29
                                                                                                                                                     30

        H.  Readinessfor implementation

]Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipien-1
Ithe performance of their official duties t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed                                                                      I
!withoutWorld Bank authorization                       .        .I
                                                                                                                                         ..   I

I.CompliancewithBankpolicies

Annexes

Annex 1.   Project Design Summary
Annex 2.   DetailedProject Description
Annex 3.   Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.   Financial Summary
Annex 5.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6.   Project Processing Schedule
Annex 7.   Documents inProject File
Annex 8.   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9.   Country at a Glance
Annex 10.  InstitutionalAssessment
Annex 11.  Social Assessment
Annex 12.  Gender Assessment

                                                 PERU
                                  Justice Services ImprovementProject

                                     Project Appraisal Document

                            Latin America andthe Caribbean Regional Office
                                                 LCC6C

Date: February 9,2004                                     Task Team Leaders: DavidF.Varela/Lisa L.Bhansali
Country Director: Marcel0 M.Giugale                        Sector Director: Ernest0 May
                                                           Sector Manager: RonaldE.Myers
Project ID:PO73438          Sector: Judicial Reform        Theme: Public Sector Reform
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan             Programof Targeted Intervention: No

Project FinancingData                        [XI Loan       [ 1  Credit     [I Guarantee [] Other

Loan Currency: UnitedStates Dollar
Amount (US$m): 12
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: Yes
Proposedterms (IBRD):                         Fixed SpreadLoan (FSL)
Front-endfee (FEF) on Bank Loan:              1.OO%
Payment for FEF:                              Payable from Loan proceeds
Type of repayment schedule:
[XI Fixed at commitment
[ ] Linkedto disbursement

Financingplan (US$m):
                            Source                                     Local           Foreign        Total
Borrower                                                                 3.2              0.0          3.2
IBRD                                                                    10.3              1.5          12
Total                                                                   13.5              1.5          15.0

Borrower: Republic of Peru
Responsibleagency:Judiciary. Av. Paseo de la Reptiblica, Cuadra 1S/N, Oficina 244, SegundoPiso. Lima, Peru




ExDectedeffectiveness date: March 31. 2004




                                                    5

A: Project Development Objective

An efficient and equitable justice system can provide significant benefits for society at large through the
provision of quality and accessible services. Justice sector institutions are fundamental to the promotion of
the rule of law, thus strengthening the environment for better economic performance, creating a predictable
climate for trade and investment, and expanding people's employment and income opportunities. Most
importantly, the rule of law plays a crucial role in protecting the rights of all citizens and is key for the poor,
who have little knowledge of thejustice systemand scarce resources to protect their rights.

Between 1992 and 2000 Peru experiencedjudicial reform initiatives largely driven by political forces, which
undermined judicial independence and was, therefore, strongly opposed by representatives of the justice
sector and international observers alike. Those initiatives encouraged a bureaucratic and formalistic outlook,
and exaggerated centralization and standardization of judicial processes.' Unfortunately, Peru's justice
institutions still retain a negative public reputation, and in part because most of their services lie beyond the
reach of the majority of citizens, while corruption continues to undermine the legitimacy of the overall
system. Further, the institutions urgently need to develop a dynamic service orientation aimed at benefiting a
variety of potentialusers and regainingcitizen respect.

The transition to democracy between 2000 and 2001 generateda renewed impetus for judicial reform in Peru.
The Executive and the Judiciary requested the Bank's assistance in establishing the basis for a new approach
to the provision of justice services. This new approach seeks to improve sector performance in terms of
quality and timeliness as well as enhance the access of the country's most economically and socially
disadvantaged groups. Justice sector dysfunctions hit the poor, in particular poor families, the hardest. Court
delays have a greater negative impact on the poor as any additional costs, such as appeals of unfair judicial
decisions, have an even more damaging effect on their already precarious incomes. The lack of adequate
legal aid for women seeking child support and public defender services for those detained and awaiting trial
are other defining obstacles in accessingjustice in Peru. The Project's main thrust will be to provide the
technical assistance required to strengthen the institutional capacity to provide more responsive service
delivery in four key agencies: Poder Judicial (Judiciary), Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura (Judicial
Council or CNM), Academia de la Magistratura (Judicial Academy or AMAG) and Ministerio de Justicia
(Ministry of Justice or MWJUS).

On the basis of the lessons learned during the preparation and cancellation of the Judicial Reform Project
(1995-1998), the recommendations of the Justice Sector Policy Note (2000) and the detailed studies financed
for this project by a Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Grant (PHRD) (2002-2003), the Bank
has built a substantial knowledge base to provide the assistance requested. The proposed Bank-financed
operation will complement the efforts of other donors like the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) that
supported a Basic Justice Modules Project and plans a follow up operation, as well as the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) and the German Technical Cooperation Agency (GTZ),
which have focused their assistance programs on the implementation of criminaljustice reform.

The Bank is eager to seize this opportunity to strengthen the rule of law in Peru. Nevertheless, Project design
has avoided ambitious objectives or optimistic assumptions. It i s only the first building block of a long-term
institutional reform process aimed at consolidating more cost-effective, results-oriented justice sector
agencies. It is expected that at the end of the Project, the Judiciary will have implemented a policy of
progressive deconcentration to regional administrative offices, which i s consistent with the overall
decentralization program in Peru supported by other Bank loans. The incentive structure will have changed:
judicial employees will be selected, evaluated and promoted on the basis of merit. Monitoring and evaluation
of service delivery will be based on established performance indicators. While the entire justice sector i s not




  For a detaileddiscussionof the 1990s'judicial reformsin Peru, see Annex 10. Also on issues of independence, accountability and
integrity project design has taken into account the findings and recommendations of the following reports: "Building on Quicksand:
The Collapse of the World Bank's Judicial Reform Project in Peru", Lawyers Committee For HumanRights, New York, 2000; and
Hammergren,L.,"The Fujimori Judicial Reforms: Breakingthe GordianKnot or Another Trojan Horse", Washington, 2001.
                                                                  6

involved in this Project, the key institutions will be transformed into more modem, responsive and accessible
public service providers for the benefit of the Peruvian society.

The Project will enhance Peru's ability to fight poverty and strengthen governance by improving service
delivery, human resources professional development and access to justice        .Tothat end, the Project i s based
on recent assessments conducted by the Bank (the Institutional and Governance Review [IGR] and the World
Bank Institute [WBI] study "Voices of the Misgoverned and Misruled" discussed in Section B.2.a below).
The Project has also consulted the reports of other donors, which place justice reforms within a broader
framework of governance and institutional strengthening. Such diagnostics have identified independence,
accountability and integrity as principles critical to improving the judicial system. Consequently, these
principles have been mainstreamed into the three Project components as crosscutting themes influencing the
design of specific activities. The components (particularly the access to justice component) have been based
on best practices in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LCR) as well as the lessons learned from
previous reforms in Peru (see Section D.3 below).

I. Projectdevelopmentobjective (seeAnnex I):

The overall objective of the proposed project will be to set the foundation for a longterm, participatory and
sustainable reformprocessfor Peru's justice sector. Specific objectives will be: (a) to strengthen institutional
capacity to lead the reform process and achieve specific improvements injustice services delivery, in
particular in the Judiciary and in selectedproject districts; (b) to establish human resource management
systems that ensureindependence, transparency and integrity; and (c) to enhance access tojustice services for
the Peruvian society, inparticular the poor.

2. Key perj4ormance indicators (seeAnnex I).

The following specific performance indicators have been selected: (a) Improved Justice Services Deliverv:
four selected districts of the Judiciary which meet quality and timeliness targets, the design and
implementation of 5 year strategic plans at the district level, administrative functions assumed and the
evaluations obtained, best models for court operations adjusted and expanded, standard information systems
installed, alternative distribution of roles and responsibilities among administrative and auxiliary staff tested
and court performance and user demand analyzed; (b) Judicial Human Resource Professional Development:
human resources policies and processes, and training to improve judicial services, as agreed to between the
Judiciary, the CNM and the M A G , includingjob profiles developed, recruitment and evaluation systems
approved, and single curricula adopted; and (c) Enhanced Access to Justice: promotion and dissemination of
an Ethics Code to sensitize and educatejudges, administrative and auxiliary staff, increased quality of legal
aid and conciliation services basedon improved infrastructure, enhancedcustomer service and other programs
implemented to improve service delivery focused on gender, multiculturalism, and intra-family violence.

B: Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by theproject (seeAnnex I):
(Document No. R2002-0174-PE (IFC/R 2002-0179) - Date of latest CAS discussion: September 17,2002)

The CAS recognizes that Peru's justice sector institutions urgently need to develop services that benefit a
wide variety of users, as well as regain citizen respect. Such increased responsiveness can be achieved
through better service planning and resource management, a more coordinated policy-making process and the
empowering of regional units (i.e. judicial districts and court offices) in order to transform the justice sector
into a modem public service. The CAS acknowledges that Peru has achieved some progress in strengthening
its Judiciary, and that institutional reforms are being designed by sector authorities to improve the delivery of
services and restore public confidence. The CAS also envisaged a Justice Services Improvement Project that
would support such reforms.

CAS preparation took into account Peru's Acuerdo Nacional (National Pact). In March 2002, the Government
initiated a national dialogue to consolidate democracy and reaffirm national identity; the objective of the

                                                         7

dialogue was to create a shared country vision for the next 20 years. In July 2002, the results of the
consultation process were consolidated into a set of 29 State policies endorsed by political parties, civil
society, academia, labor unions, and the private sector. The chapter on Justice in the National Pact was
considered an important element of Peru's strategy to strengthen democracy and the rule of law, including
more efficient, transparent and decentralized service delivery.


2. Main sector issues and sector authorities strategy Cfor details on sector structure andfunctions, see Annex
10):
a.       Background

The IGR notes that the Peruvian Judiciary is committed to implementing a wide array of reforms aimed at
sustaining its independence, while enhancing accountability through effective institutional checks and
balances. The reform process should not be focused on a legal overhaul, but on measures to improve the
capacity of justice sector institutions for self-governance and administration (e.g. responsible planning and
use of its financial and human resources). While independence i s clearly the cornerstone of any effective
Judiciary, institutional reform should ideally include the participation of constructive external stakeholders,
including civil society.*

A recent WBI report showed that the administration of justice in Peru is particularly afflicted by corruption.
Nearly 90% of the enterprises and households surveyed believed that the Judiciary i s not independent from
political groups, nor that justice has been administered in a fair and equitable manner. Inaddition, businesses
report that bribes are used predominantly to facilitate judicial proceedings, at least twice as often as for other
types of procedures. Both managers and public officials alike report that bribes are paid to judicial authorities
almost nine times as frequently as those used to obtain Government contracts or public services. Households
and businesses overwhelming reported that the justice system cannot function effectively and fairly because
of the high costs of processing, the lack of credibility and professionalism among judicial staff, and time-
consuming procedures        '.
In relevant sections discussingPeru, Voices of the Poor called for a development strategy to: (i)improve
governance at local levels, including the justice systems; (ii)address the problem of discrimination
experienced by the poor when trying to access justice services; and (iii)provide mechanisms to help
individuals and families in crisis. Those interviewed considered the issue of "access to justice" to be most
effectively delivered through their own, community-based institutions. The formal justice services provided
by district level courts were assessedas "distant, insensitive and corrupt."

The above findings were also consistent with the SecondPoverty Forumin 1999which identified 5 priorities
inthe fight againstpoverty: (i)     nutrition, (ii) (iii)
                                                     health,     education, (iv) water and sanitation, and (v) access to
justice. The Forumidentified corruption, deficient training for judges and other legal professionals who work
in the courts, anddiscrimination against those who do not speak Spanish as limitingfactors to poor people's
access to justice. There is great potential inthe low cost system of community-based justice, which i s
respectedin many areas. Specific strategies suggested included: the standardization of communal forms for
administering justice, training in conflict resolution, and better training for peacecourtjudges.

Recent reports by local think tanks confirmthat the constraints of the justice sector include unreliable services
and limited access. Not surprisingly, the common citizen has little trust in sector institutions (according to
informationprovided by the Andean Commission of Jurists). Peruvians' overall confidence inthe Judiciary i s
the lowest in the Andean region. Worse still, a recent survey inLima (January 2003) showed an increasein
the degreeof total non-confidence in the Judiciary to be approximately 79.6%.



 ReportNo. 22637-PE,"Peru Institutional andGovernanceReview", August 24, 2001.
 WBI, "Voices of the Misgovernedand Misruled: An Empirical Diagnostic Study on Governance, Rule of Law and Corruption for    ,
Peru, Analysisof survey feedbackby PeruvianCitizens,FirmsandPublic Officials", July 2001.
 For the results of the 23 countrycomparative study see Deepa Narayan, RobertChambers, Meera Shah and PattiPetesch."Voices of
the Poor- Cryingout for Change", Oxford University Press, andthe World Bank, New York and Washington D.C., 2000.
                                                               8

Judicial Reform in the 1990s. During the 1990s,justice sector agencies5 were affected by serious political
interference. In1996 an interimarrangement was established, supposedly to foster a "reform process," during
an emergency period; this arrangement suspendedthe Judiciary's Organic Law and allowed for intervention
by the Executive Branch inthe affairs of the Judicial Branch. Other sector institutions were similarly affected:
(a) the CNM was prevented from appointing judges and was limitedinthe exercise of its disciplinary powers;
(b) AMAG management was also subjectedto the Executive Branchintervention; (c) the Constitutional
Tribunal ceasedto operate after the impeachment of three judges; and (d) the Attorney General's office was
declared under a reformprocessthat transferred the incumbent's powers to a separate body. Judges and other
judicial staff, bar associations, law schools, or civil society were never consulted and generally opposed these
measures.

The "emergency period" originally expected to end in 1996, was extended until end-2000. Some reform
proposals tried to focus on investments in computer technology and improved courtroom organization. Sector
planning concepts were introduced while achievements in the area of human resource management were
mixed. Potentially promising initiatives (the upgrading of courtroom and central administrative staff, efforts
to track courtroom performance and rationalize workloads, new work unit organization and practices) were
only partially implemented and, in some cases, undermined by political opportunism. Increased central
control was not accompanied by an ability to rationalize policy; a promised stage of decentralization never
occurred. Experimental restructurings were adopted without adequate evaluation, and imposed a standardized
straight jacket that made no allowances for jurisdictional or geographic needs. It was within this context that
the Bank prepared, and later canceled, a judicial reform project in 1997 (For further details, see Lesson
Learned under Section D.3. below).

b.       Justice Sector Issues

Unsatisfactory Service Delivery

Limited financial resources. The budget process in Peru has traditionally neglected appropriate financial
support for the Judiciary. Compared with other Andean countries, Peru reflects the lowest per capita budget
allocated to the Judiciary (US$6.62m). Duringthe last five years, the Judiciary's share of the national budget
has fluctuated between 1.04-1.23%. In2003 personnel expenditures represented more than 70% of the total
budget, while investment expenditures were limited to less than 2%. Currently, the Judiciary has limited
influence in determining its annual budget as the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and the Budget
Commission of Congress take all major decisions over expenditures. Civil society participationin this process
i s non-existent.

The Judiciary has not progressedwith the rest of the Peruvian public sector agencies in such areas as budget
planning and execution, or resource generation capacity. Sector authorities have limited access to mechanisms
to raise additional resources (inparticular, from user fees) and show a reluctance to develop new ones;
dependenceon the nationalbudget has continued to increase inthe last few years. This system may generate
inequities inpublic spending; the Judiciary i s a costly service for the State and certain private parties could
cover the costs (for instance financial institutions, a major user of the civil court system). To achieve
economic independence, the Judiciary must strengthen its capacity to obtain extra resources, to use those
resources efficiently, and to account for such use.

Major congestion anddelays. Inthe Lima Judicial District, figures indicate that substantial progress was
made duringthe 1990sin reducing accumulated backlog; however, they also suggest certain limits to this
approach inthe face of increaseddemand. Data gathered on the Lima Appeals Court reported a 60% increase
inthe numberof casesresolved between 1995and 1997 and anincreaseinthe clearance rate from 66% to
 126%. As with most system-wide statistics, they do not distinguishbetween new and old cases, or take into
account the changes in staffing or the impact on delay reduction, thus any increasedproductivity i s
inconclusive.



  For a descriptionof the role andresponsibilitiesof sector agencies, see Institutional Assessment Annex 10.
                                                                  9

The "Users and Uses of Justice" study basedon actual case files does indicate that inLima's civil and peace
courts decisions for debt collection cases were being reachedrapidly in 1998-providingjudgments for
nearly all admitted cases ina mediantime of under4 months. Times for labor and family cases were longer,
but still less than a year. However, this researchalso indicates numerous additional problems: enforcement
ofjudgments was only partial and, when enforcement did occur, it took twice the time requiredfor the initial
ruling. Appeals rates for civiljudgments were high (17%) andthe civil courts reducedtheir workloads by not
admitting 28% of the debt cases and 22% of other civil filings. Peace courts were used nearly exclusively by
banks and pension funds pursuing small claims against individuals, many of whom never appeared in court
(sometimes because they could not afford legal counsel). The impression that these small claims courts saw
mainly family and labor cases filed by individuals was therefore in error.

Congestion and delays may also reflect widespread forms of judicial corruption. Media reports claiming that
employees are paid for delaying or accelerating certain cases, or even informally "compensated" for
performing normal services, such as delivering a notification or taking a deposition during the evidence-
gathering stage of ajudicial inquiry, are common. In such instances, some lawyers may be manipulating the
judicial system to avoid a final decision. These situations may occur because effective case tracking
mechanisms are not available. Creating an incentive framework conducive to improved performance and
honest behavior may be an almost impossible task if performance standards cannot be monitored or even
defined. Quality control techniques are therefore essential not only to provide efficiency-enhancing
incentives, but also to identify possible irregularities. Past efforts to apply effective case management
techniques, (including databases to control timeliness) have generally not been effective, except inthe limited
case of juzgados corporativos (integrated and modernized systems of court management that streamlines
filing, notification and registration functions).

OutdatedHumanResourcesPlanningand Management

Unstable Tenure. Tenure, a key safeguard of judicial independence, has been more the exception than the
rule in Peru, where judges were purged on 4 separate occasions between 1969 and 1992. The restoration of
judicial tenure began in 1993 with an interimJurado de Honor (Honor Jury) comprised of respectedjurists,
which appointed Supreme Court, appellate, and first instancejudges in the Judicial District of Lima. The re-
establishment of the CNM was expected to represent a further step toward a merit-based appointment system.
In October 1995, the CNM issued guidelines on public competition for the selection or ratification of appeals
courtjudges, and by March 1996 hadcompleted the selection process for 318 positions nationwide.

However, CNM membersresigned inMarch 1998 as aresult of political interference with the institution's
disciplinary powers. Uncertainty remained about how to proceedinthe selection of candidates for judicial
positions until 2001, when the C N M was reconstituted. Faced with the challenge of reinstatingthe previous
appointments of approximately 60% of the PeruvianJudiciary, the CNM has made considerable progress, but
still has several hundredpositions to fill.'

HighTurnover.Duringthe 1990sthe overall trend was to increasethe number ofjudges from 902 in 1995to
 1,638 in 2001. Many of the new appointments took place inLima, where the number ofjudges in first
instance civil courts was doubled. Of the 1,950 officials who left the Judiciary between 1995 and 1997, the
majority were administrative staff. The strategy itself raised several service delivery issues: the newcomers
lacked on-the-job experience and, at least inthe short run, this may have added to delays. Humanresources
managementlacked a rational career track, includingjob profiles, entrance examinations, and transparent
standards for retention, promotion and dismissal. Instead, the tendency was to replace the massive numbers
of dismissedjudges with inexperienced individuals. A 1998 study of the Lima courts indicated that a quarter
of thejudges surveyed hadbeenin office less than two years and only 16% had served for over five years.*


'Asof
  Gonzales, G.et al., "El SistemaJudicial en el Ped: UnEnfoqueAnalitico a partir de sus Usos y sus Usuarios", Lima, 2002.
       September2003, 229judges were "provisional" (Le. tenured officials that temporarily fill a position different from their own)
and663 were "alternates" (Le. lawyersthat hadbeen appointedto fill ajudicial positionby the Judiciary's ExecutiveCouncil).
* Not only tenure was elusive but also during the 1990s judicial salaries remained extremely low in absolute and relative terms, at
about one-thirdto one-half of the equivalent salaries in the private sector. A Supreme Court judge receivedapproximatelyUS$4,500
while an appealsjudge earned US$l,SOO and a first instancejudge earned US$1,300 (all including bonuses and "official expenses").
                                                                  10

InsufficientTraining.Most Peruvianjudges have not received basicjudicial training. Their decisions
generally reflect aformalistic reasoning in which they apply a narrow and literal interpretation of the laws
with little or no consideration of economic and social factors. Further, judges are unfamiliar with legal
developments in such fields affecting economic development such as antitrust and competition, banking,
insurance and securities regulation. Judicial outcomes are uncertainand even landmark decisions of the
highest tribunals are not disseminated to lower courtsjudges so as to provide some form of guidance.

Even more serious, a typical Peruvianjudge i s not trained to conduct a trial. Critical matters such asjudging
evidence remain outside of the usual curricula ofjudicial education. Court and case managementwould most
certainly require specialized training that is not currently available. More seriously, there are indicationsthat
judges fail to view their role inthe systemas that of a "public service." Duringthe 1990sthe AMAG focused
on training candidates for judicial positions and most of its limited resources were spent on applicants who
were not selected. Sadly, little effort was made for the continuing education of sittingjudges, in spite of its
potential impact on service delivery.

Unrealistic Planning. In addition to problems of high turnover, Peru's Judiciary has not benefited from
effective human resource planning. Under the pre-1992 system, national legislation (the Judiciary's Organic
Law and its accompanying regulations) defined the distribution of jurisdictional and administrative positions
within the courts. The result was a standardized structure, determined without regard for real needs of the
courts, national or local. As part of the 1990sreforms, the Judiciary's central powers expanded more rapidly
than its ability to develop coherent policies. Cuadros Analiticos de Personal (CAPs) (personnel allocation
charts) were designed in Lima with minimal allowance for differing needs of individual courts or districts.
Any alterations had to be approved by the central offices and were imposed nationally. Not only judges, but
administrative and auxiliary staff as well, were selected in Lima either directly or through personnel
commissions sent to the provinces to review curricula, conduct interviews and appoint employees. Actual
determination of Judicial District CAPs was usually based on arbitrary notions of workloads for various types
of courts.

LimitedAccess to Justice

Pervasive Corruption.Peruvian laws providea number of sanctions for cases ofjudicial misconduct,
includingwarnings, fines, suspension and removal from office. The CNM has the power to removejudges,
while the Oficina de Control de la Magistratura (OCMA) and the Oficinas Distritales de Control de la
Magistratura (ODICMAS) may impose other sanctions; boththe CNM and OCMA receive and analyze
public complaints aboutjudicial conduct and/or processes. However, this disciplinary systemhas been largely
ineffective, particularly after the CNM's powers were curtailed inMarch 1998. It was only after 2001 that the
disciplinary system was formally reactivated and a number ofjudges were dismissed for misconduct.

There exists a widespread perception of pervasive corruption in the Judiciary, which was confirmed in
workshops with judges and users during Project preparation; issues of ethics were identified as a major
concern. Unethical behavior can be seen as both a cause and a result of the Judiciary's inefficiency--a system
with no tenure and political interference may have encouraged unwanted behavior. In the fight against
corruption, the Judiciary has reported recent success stories in detecting and exposing cases associated with
major corruption scandals. However, these achievements are not supported by a long-term plan to change the
incentive structure that permits corruption through the inefficient allocation of resources and limited
transparency to the public. More consistent communications and public outreach are required to disseminate
"success stories," including a more aggressive anti-corruption campaign.

Extreme Poverty, Language and Cultural Barriers.Peru's poor encounter several barriers in accessing
basic justice services. Recent studies show that the majority of users of justice services have at least a


Administrative and auxiliary personnel in the Judiciary received lower salaries. Judges' salaries were doubled in 2002 in local
currency (the dollar amount increased by about 70 percent) by Executive Decree, but those o f administrative or auxiliary staff were
unaffected.
                                                              11

secondary level of education, leaving those with lower or little levels of education-generally                     the poor-
excluded. Similarly, legal aid services (provided through MINJUS) are grossly insufficient to respond to the
needs of Peru's poor: 249 legal aid lawyers and 26 public defenders to cover what is the equivalent of 44.7%
of the population. This limited access affects both civil and criminal cases. For example, a serious
impediment i s the requirement of an attorney in most civil cases, and the relative shortage of free or
subsidized legal aid, whether provided by the State or civil society organizations (CSOs).                           Criminal
defendants who cannot afford their own attorneys are theoretically provided a public defender; however,
public defenders are not only few in number, but they are also concentrated in the departmental capitals.
Thus, indigent defendants may at best meet their lawyer at an initial hearing, and spend months in pre-trial
detention or, inpracticalterms, not receive the benefit of counsel at all.

Improvingaccess for indigenous peoples facing language and cultural barriers i s also a fundamental challenge
for justice sector institutions. Peru is a multicultural country, with more than five million indigenous peoples
(Quechua, Aymara, and Amazonian), which comprise approximately 22% of the total population. The
language and cultural barriers, as well as the complexities of the court system, deter potential indigenous
users. Many indigenous people pass through the sector's institutions without understanding Spanish or legal
technicalities, and are thus not able to adequately explain their problems to attorneys or fully exercise their
rights. To respond effectively, there is a need to train a cadre of interpreters and translators in indigenous
languages who can serve users in the Judiciary and MINJUS. This will be a long-term process that requires
careful attention to cultural diversity, potential gender biases and the use of culturally appropriate concepts.
Solutions to date have been extremely limited and focused primarily on increasing the number of judges who
are bilingual in rural communities. In fact, community-based justice i s paramount for rural and indigenous
populations and should be factored into solutions sought over the long-term.            9


Lack of support for community-basedjustice. One of the most credible dispute resolution institutions in
Peru, particularly inrural areas, i s thejustice of the peace system. There are two types ofjustices of the peace:
Jueces de Paz Letrados (legally trained justices of the peace) and Jueces de Paz No Letrados (lay justices of
the peace). Legally trained justices of the peace operate as small claims courts with jurisdiction over minor
criminal and civil matters. As of end-2002, there were approximately 370 of them; most have no previous
judicial experience and have little knowledge of conciliation techniques. In fact, studies reveal that gender
stereotyping and discrimination pose obstacles to justice for female users, particularly in cases involving
intra-family violence. Lay justices of the peace number approximately 4,700 and account for about 70% of all
persons exercising "judicial functions" in Peru, serving around 10 million citizens. They are elected by the
communities they serve. They essentially function as mediators, who administer justice based on principles of
equity. However, they do not receive any remuneration, equipment or training from the State. In workshops,
lay justices of the peace frequently identified the need for training applicable to their varied caseloads,
including such subjects as human rights, gender equality, and exposure to the formal justice system.

IneffectiveFamily Courts. Family-related disputes account for a substantial percentage of cases filed within
the first tier of the Peruvian Judiciary. The most common cases deal with marital separation, followed by
child support and custody and intra-family violence. Data also suggests that many cases of separation are
related to family violence. Peru's family court system depends on ad hoc solutions for families in crisis and
suffers from poor inter-institutional coordination in the provision of related social services. (For details see
Social Assessment, Annex 11and Gender Assessment, Annex 12).

Weak oversight of alternativedispute mechanisms. Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) methods have
only become available in recent years as a result of the growing demand for prompt and effective means of
dispute settlement. While approximately 10 formal arbitration centers operate inPeru, there is also significant
CSO activity in such ADR mechanisms as mediation and conciliation. However, availability of ADR
mechanisms, which are frequently misused, remain limited, particularly for poor Peruvians.

Effective ADR mechanisms should be able to contribute to contract enforcement and keep costs low for both
small and large market agents, and transactions of any size. In Peru, however, there i s a disconnect between

 The 1993 Constitution recognized such specialjurisdiction for peasant and native communities; however, this mandate has not been
implemented.
                                                               12

the State court system and private ADR providers. ADR i s viewed largely as a substitute for an inefficient
court apparatus; because contract enforcement through the Judiciary is not predictable, some companies and
citizens prefer to use ADR even at a higher cost. Others regard mandatory conciliation in certain civil cases as
simply another obstacle to overcome. Reliable, public information on when, where and how to use each
mechanism i s essential to achieve the requiredcomplementarity to the formal system and avoid duplication of
effort and cost.


3. Sector issues to be addressed by theproject and strategic choices:
Strategic choices have been made by sector authorities to address the issues identified as most critical for
service delivery, quality human resources and access for the poor. Peru's most urgentjustice sector need i s the
development of effective institutions capable of designing sector-wide policies, overseeing their
implementation, and recognizing and responding to citizen demands and complaints. Ironically, while the
1990s reforms strengthened some planning and management tools, they also weakened internal governance
and widened the gaps separating institutional leadership, rank-and-file members, and the system's users.

a.       How to improvejustice services delivery?

Thejudicial leadership supports strategic planning andperformance evaluation, buteven thosejudges who are
more receptive to innovative approaches are not necessarily versed intheir application. Judicial authorities are
finding that many of the technological innovations and management tools developed in the last few years
have not been as complete or as reliable as they imagined. Information systems have not been consolidated,
statistics are not well designed and poorly kept, and many organizational innovations have not been finalized,
evaluated, adjusted or updatedto suit the Judiciary's complex needs.

Judicial leadership also recognizes the need for deconcentrating decision-making and creating a more
responsive system of rules and procedures. New administrative processes, greater decision-making authority
by regional offices and more flexible information systems should improve the capacity of the Judiciary to
offer better services to the Peruvianpoor.

b.       How to achieve professional humanresources management and development?

Sector institutions recognize that there is significant room for improvement in human resources development
through the application of modern practices: (a) introducing broader concepts of planning and management
beyond the mere recruitment of professionals; (b) encouraging a coordinated, inter-institutional approach so
that the sector's key institutions (Judiciary, CNM and AMAG) analyze common needs and plan their
activities together; (c) facilitating deconcentrated planning - all decisions cannot be made in Lima, and all
judicial districts cannot be organized alike; (d) analyzing and adjusting the combined activities of judges and
other judicial staff; and (e) establishing incentives beyond salaries (opportunities for skills development,
career advancement, etc.)       and making better use of training, monitoring and evaluation to improve
performance.

Judiciary. Personnel are the justice sector's most important resource because the principal outputs are the
intellectual activities produced directly by sector operators Cjudges and other judicial officials). Information
and communications technology, infrastructure and equipment can facilitate their work, but at every step of
the process, human reasoning and decisions are the main determinant of the quality and quantity of services
delivered.

The focus on how judges and other professionals are selected should be broadened by considering other,
equally important factors: (a) organizational incentive systems; (b) monitoring and evaluation mechanisms
not only to detect abuses but also to improve performance; (c) coordination of training and staff development
programs with institutional priorities; (d) assignment and distribution of staff to maximize productivity; and
(e) forward planning to ensure that human resources endowments will continue to meet organizational
requirements. A key issue remains that the three entities with a legally defined role in the selection and career


                                                         13

management process - the Judiciary, CNM and AMAG- should work in close coordination and, therefore,
needan overall strategic approachto human resources.

CNM. In 2002, the CNM conducted a nation-wide examination to choose lawyers who would fill vacant
positions in the Judiciary (without a career appointment). Approximately 8,000 candidates, including many
provisional and alternate judges (who also had to compete for their own positions) were convened in Lima to
take a written examination preparedby the CNM. The 7-member CNM interviewed all those who passedthe
test. The CNM also opened up the selection process, and interviews with candidates for the Supreme Court
were publicly televised. A chronogram for mass selections was also published, and the names of candidates
who met minimal targets were placed on the CNM's website and published in the Official Gazette (El
Peruano), thus ensuring greater transparency.

Although the process met high standards of objectivity and transparency, results were disappointing; a dismal
percentage of the candidates passed the test. Problems could be anticipated since no assessment of actual
needs had been carried out. As the CNM began the periodic confirmations mandated by the Constitution,
criticism was focused on the inability of the unconfirmed judge to defend himherself, or even to know why
he or she hadbeen dismissed.

AMAG. Originally, the AMAG was conceived as a "training department" of the Judiciary, in charge of
organizing courses consistent with the Judiciary's needs. However, international best practice in this area
suggests that institutions like the AMAG should ensure that training takes place based on solid quality
control, irrespective of the training provider. Under this new concept, judicial academies are not universities
or research centers, and should be structured accordingly. Moreover, a training strategy should determine
priorities in a manner consistent with an institutional reform process. The AMAG lacks such a strategy and
has developed only a few courses in suchpivotal areas as court and case management.

The AMAG's dual mandate of training candidates for judgeships as well as administering judicial education
for active judges has also generated conflicts. The AMAG lacks sufficient resources to accomplish its
mandate. Out of an approximately S/.7 million (Peruvian Nuevos Soles) annual budget, .5 million are
allocated to operational expenditures, leaving only .2 million for training activities. Not surprisingly,
innovative technology is not beingused; only recently has the topic appeared in the AMAG's work program,
but limited resources and weak institutional capacity have prevented any progress in this area. Although
technology can certainly facilitate training, the impact of training is dependent on the purpose and contents of
course materials, and it i s precisely this weakness where the AMAG faces its biggest challenge.


c.       How to enhance access to justice?

The State's responsibility to enhance access tojustice involves not only increasing the quantity and quality of
services, but also making them more equitable. An important part of this process i s the State's consultation
and collaboration with civil society in deieloping a justice sector that responds to the needs of the Peruvian
population. Among those who have played an active role during project preparation-and                          are expected to
continue during implementation-are                a variety of CSOs, including non-governmental organizations
(NGOs)", bar associations, law schools, and grass-roots indigenous groups. These groups, along with the
sector's institutions, will participate not only in monitoring the Project, but in the consensus-building process
that will sustain the long-term objectives of the Project. The recently established Comisidn Especial para la
Reforma Integral de la Administrucidn de Justicia (CERIAJUS)", to which CSOs already belong, also served
as an important group for dialogue duringthe planning phase of the project.




lo Among the NGOsconsultedduring projectpreparationwere Justicia Viva,a consortiumof NGOs, including the lnstituto de
Defensa Legal (IDL),ComisidnAndina de Juristas, and Flora Trista'n.
l1 CERIAJUSreceiveda legalmandate of 6 monthsto: (a) develop a commonvision for the institutionsof thejustice sector; (b)
promoteinter-institutionalcoordination; and (e) providethe policy guidelinesfor the modemizationprocess of the Peruvian
administrationofjustice system.
                                                                14

MINJUS. The MINJUS provides legal aid services via two modalities: the public defenders for criminal
cases, and the Consultorios Juridicos Populares (Legal Aid Offices) for civil cases. Most users of legal aid
are poor women and children in family-related disputes who rely on only 26 legal aid lawyers nationally. The
conditions in which legal aid officials must work largely defeats the delivery of a quality professional service.
Problems include a lack of monitoring and evaluation systems and insufficient equipment and training for
lawyers unfamiliar with the needs of indigent and uneducated clients. Although MINJUS has consolidated
programs in recent years, further improvements in performance and efficiency are required. It requires
technical assistance to ensure the improvement current service delivery levels through quality standards and
guidelines, and a human resources framework that recognize both public and private forms of service
delivery, and clear incentives to ensure satisfactory performance.

The results of mandatory conciliation incivil cases appear to be mixed. Although conciliation does notper se
require a lawyer, and conciliators are not required to be lawyers, every conciliation center staff must include
at least one lawyer to certify that the agreements reached by parties are legally permissible. While seen by
some as a time consuming extra step, this form of mandatory conciliation may have resulted in less court
claims and helped to alleviate backlogs. With support from USAID, MINJUS conducted a preliminary
evaluations in Arequipa and Trujillo, including a users and potential users survey, and statistical analysis to
determine the impact on court caseload (not only in terms of quantity, but user satisfaction as well). In
general, ADR is widely underutilized, and MINJUS as regulatory agency of ADR services needs to explore
more effective mechanisms to realize its potential inPeru.

Judiciary. Within the first tier of the Peruvian Judiciary (Justices of the Peace and Family Courts), family-
related claims include marital separation, child abandonment, termination of defacto relationships, paternity
disputes, custody of children and visitation rights, child and spousal support, division of marital property and
separation, and domestic violence. The Judiciary does not have the appropriate tools to address these types
of family-related conflicts, in part becausejudges do not receive appropriate training and because no referral
system to other social services exists, placing the burden on the courts to serve as "social welfare providers"
as well as resolving disputes. There i s also a knowledge gap interms of how these cases should be processed,
the social ramifications of judicial delays in these cases, the impact of gender bias, the availability of legal
remedies and the quality ofjudicial response, and the lack of enforcement of courtjudgments.

Civil Society. Recent opinion polls reveal that there is little trust in the PeruvianJudiciary as an institution to
solve disputes in an efficient and equitable manner. A large majority of the population believes that the
system i s corrupt and protects only the rich and powerful. The education system i s not being used to convey
the significance of the rule of law in an open, democratic society that seeks social and economic development.
Justice sector issues are not adequately covered by the media, both in terms of scope and quality of coverage.
At the same time, justice sector institutions have a somewhat deserved reputation as insular or closed to the
public at large, and now seek to establish a more fluid relationship with civil society.

While confidence may be low, the public maintains high demands for transparency and accountability within
the sector. Moreover, real reform requires a cultural and behavioral change. The rule of law should exist not
only in law books, but also in the thinking of sector representatives (not only judicial officials, but lawyers
and citizens as well). Lawyers in Peru are generally not informed of the reforms already beingimplemented,
yet they play an important role in the reform process. CSOs demand greater participation in the design and
implementation of justice sector programs. Unfortunately, CSOs often lack the information required to
monitor sector issues and articulate sound proposals. The media also plays an important role in forming
public opinion of reform efforts by providingreliable information about the justice system.




                                                       15

Component                                   Category                Indicative Costs       % of Total    Bank-financing % of Bank-
                                                                    (US$M)                               (US$M)        financing
ImprovedJustice Services Delivery           Goods, Works and                  8.8               58.7           6.8          45.33
                                            Technical Assistance
Judicial Human Resources                    Goods and Technical               2.7               18.0           2.2           14.66
Professional Development                    Assistance
Enhanced Access to Justice                  Goods and Technical               2.1               14.0           1.6           10.66
                                            Assistance

Project Management, Coordination and Goods and Technical                       1.4              9.33           1.1           7.33
Monitoring                                  Assistance
Total Proiect Cost                                                            15.0             100%             12           100%


The three main components have an interrelated national and regional focus. The Justice Services Delivery
component will support central as well as regional planning, plus court administration and operation
improvements. It will focus initially on 4 selectedjudicial districts, which are likely to include Lima, Cuzco,
Con0 Norte, and Junin, among others.'* The four judicial districts are representative of the variety of the
Peruvian demand for justice services, including such factors as workload and social and demographic aspects
(poverty indicators of beneficiary populations, access needs, proportion of indigenous populations). While
the Justice Services Delivery component includes both national and regional level support, the Judicial
Human Resource Professional Development component i s national in scope, as i s the Enhanced Access to
Justice component. Both these two components include broad policy aspects and promote inter-institutional
coordination to improve the supply ofjustice services.

a.        ImprovedJustice Services Delivery Component

Strategic Planning and Management. Leadership and management of the Judiciary have agreed that
deconcentration i s a priority tool to set in motion a justice services modernization process. However,
deconcentration of decision-making powers, currently concentrated at the central level, requires a parallel
empowerment of judicial districts and individual courts to autonomously determine their operational
priorities. It also implies a delegation of decision-making power to project districts and courts while the center
retains a normative and/or supervisory role. The Project will assist the Judiciary in the design and
implementation of such deconcentratedplanning and management models.

The strategic planning approach will also lead to the preparation of a long-termreform agendathat considers
feasible mechanisms to strengthen the financial autonomy of the Judiciary, including new forms of revenue
generation and cost-recovery ofjudicial services, as well as appropriate collection systems.

Court Administration. The Project will assist the Judiciary in developing standard information and
communications systems to reconcile manual and automated systems, which reflect different levels of
development. To this end, overall strategic planning will be applied to the definition of required services and
technological platforms (including equipment, programs, training and support) so as to reorient the process
from a focus on technical solutions to a broader perspective that takes into account user needs. This will
require policies which consolidate the Judiciary's functions more efficiently, as well open the Judiciary up to
greater scrutiny through technological access by society. As mentioned, varying levels of technological
development will gradually meet the same standards within a limited resource envelope.

The Judiciary has conducted a preliminary assessment of its technological resources (computer hardware and
software, and communications capabilities) and has prepared an investment plan. As part of an integrated
approach to multi-cultural aspects, the development of information systems will include data retrieval utilities
that allow indigenous languages interfaces, facilitating access of Peru's indigenous peoples to tracking
systems information. Technology planning may include translation applications as well.


  Eligibility criteria for the selection of participating judicial districts i s included in the Operational Manual.
                                                                        16

Court Operations. The Peruvian Judiciary has already tested alternative models for court and case
management. The authorities recognize that those achievements require an independent assessment (e.g.
juzgudos corporutivos) before any models are adjusted or expanded. These assessments were conducted with
PHRD funding during Project preparation.             Based on the conclusions and recommendations of such
assessments, the Project will assist the Judiciary to prepare and implement a coordinated approach to service
delivery within strict cost-effectiveness and sustainability parameters to avoid the duplication of effort.
Personnel from the General Manager's Office of the Judiciary and other central and regional offices (judges,
administrative and auxiliary staff levels) will be involved in the implementation of this sub-component, to
discuss proposals, analyze results, and prepareproposals for further changes.

Because of the different levels of readiness of the judicial districts (interms of prior reforms and investments,
as well as human capital available) and the particular priorities of the local judicial district staff, this
component has been structured as a "menu" of potentially beneficial investments offered to the districts to
improve their service delivery standards and performance. Specific plans attached to the Performance
Agreements to be entered into by the SelectedJudicial Districts will determine the amount and sequencing of
such investments.

b.        Judicial HumanResourcesProfessionalDevelopment Component

The specific objectives of this component will be: (a) to retain quality human resources for the Judiciary and
provide them with appropriate professional development; (b) to introduce modern concepts of human
resources planning and management into key sector institutions (Judiciary, CNM and AMAG) and develop
their capabilities to apply them; (c) to encourage coordinated strategic planning among these institutions; and
(d) to promote coordinated planning between central and regional administrative offices of the Judiciary,
through an oversight ofjudicial districts, rather than the direct imposition of detailed decisions.

The Project will develop the capacity of these institutions to implement a new approach to the overall
professional development of human resources. There are two main challenges: first, sector institutions need
an effective, coordinated human resources policy, which looks not only at selection, but also contemplates
present and future system needs and career development; and second, sector institutions should adopt joint
planning and management mechanisms. Project activities have been designed in a way that respects the
jurisdiction of each institution but fosters inter-institutional coordination.

Improved Selection and Evaluation of Judges. The Project will provide the CNM with the technical
assistance required to reengineer internal practices and resolve bottlenecks in the selection process. It will
 also facilitate inter-institutional coordination with other beneficiaries (Judiciary and AMAG) inthe evaluation
process, and in the post-selection training for newly appointed candidates. This will lead to the development
 of a coherent selection methodology, the preparation of job profiles, the adoption of consistent selection
criteria, and the creation of appropriate examination mechanisms, which currently do not exist.

Integrated Judicial Training Programs. AMAG authorities have conducted an in-depth institutional
 assessment, and prepared a strategic plan that allows it to play a major role in the delivery of justice services
 in Peru. The Project will provide the requiredtechnical assistanceto redefine the "business processes" of the
M A G . The overall goal of these activities will be to help the AMAG to shift its focus from merely training
judges to imparting courses on varying approaches to improve service delivery by first defining how
performance should be improved, and then designing courses to achieve that end. Through project-financed
 activities, AMAG will reach out other entities capable of providing training. In outlyingjudicial districts, this
 may mean helpinglocaljudicial authorities inthe organization of events, rather than direct implementation by
AMAG.

IntegratedJudicial HumanResourcesManagement.Four areas are proposed for further human resources
management work by the Judiciary: (a) a new role for the judge as active manager of his or her caseload; (b) a
career for administrative and auxiliary staff, including training, job profiles, and evaluation and incentive
 systems; (c) experimentation with different courtroom staffing patterns; and (d) medium and long-term

                                                          17

service demand challenges (revised jurisdictional rules, dejudicialization or incentives for the use of ADR).
The Project will also finance the improvement of statistical databases on caseloads, individual and court
performance, and users profiles (e.g. to determine where the users come from as an indication of adequacy of
geographic placement).




C.        Enhanced Access to Justice Component

Accountability and Integrity. Corruption i s a major barrier to access to justice. This subcomponent will: (a)
strengthen the capacity of the Judiciary to sanction serious incidents of corruption by ensuring that internal
disciplinary bodies are equipped with effective investigative tools for the identification and sanction of
responsible actors; (b) establish inter-institutional coordination mechanisms to bring together the units
charged with curbing administrative corruption in the justice sector; (c) develop partnerships with civil
society and the general public to encourage informed oversight of judicial bodies; and (d) promote an ethical
value systemamongjudicial personnelthat requires the highest ethical standards.

Pro-poor access to justice services. The Project will implement a strategy, which seeks to better address
social issues in the justice system, and make justice accessible to economically and socially disadvantaged
 group^.'^ Therefore, this subcomponent will focus on three cross cutting themes. First, will address issues of
                                                                                                              it
access to justice by strengthening legal aid, conciliation, family court and community-based justice services,
all of which bringjustice closer to the overall population, including a focus on indigenous peoples. Second, it
will propose mechanisms to make the system more accessible and more equitable, with a particular focus on
gender disparities in service delivery. Third, it will address the role of civil society in the justice services
improvement process and propose mechanisms to enhance both the participation and monitoring capacity of
CSOs, including the development of a sector-wide strategy for the justice sector in coordination with civil
society and participating institutions.

Public outreach and strategic alliances. In addition to improving the quantity and quality of services, access
to justice requires making basic information available to the public about the functioning of sector
institutions. An important element of the sector's response to negative public opinion will be to maintain a
more open and fluid relationship with civil society. Duringproject preparation, the Bank played an important
role in bringing civil society and the Judiciary together in the identification of priority areas for support.
CSOs, bar associations, law schools, and grass-roots indigenous groups, along with the participating
institutions, will continue inthis effort through the monitoring of the project as well.

This subcomponentwill follow a three-pronged approach to raising awarenessamong the Peruvian population
about the value of an independent, competent and equitable justice system, in particular the Judiciary. First, it
will seek to inform and educate the public about their rights and the mechanisms available through thejustice
sector, using Spanish and indigenous languages. Second, it will support strategic alliances between justice
sector institutions and civil society. To achieve these objectives, the Project will finance technical assistance
for: (a) dialogue and other informational encounters with stakeholders around reform issues; (b) design and
implementation of a training program directed at mediaunderstanding onjustice sector issues; and (c) change
managementtraining within the Judiciary.

d.        Project Management, Coordination and Monitoring

A small project coordination unit (PCU) will be responsible for the administration of procurement,
disbursements and financial management matters of this operation. The PCU will report directly to the


l3 Component1(ImprovedJusticeServicesDelivery)willalsoprovidemoretimelyandqualityjusticeservicesinawaythat
   Project
will enhance users' and potential users' access to services. Examples of these activities with a clear impact on access include:
decentralizatioddeconcentration of services and implementation of improved service delivery models; streamlining of administrative
procedures; capacity building activities for judges and administrative staff; new information and communications technology, etc. To
the extent that these activities contribute to a more efficient system, and are better targeted to people's needs and expectations, they
will also enhance access to justice for the overall population.
                                                                     18

General Manager of the Judiciary on a day-to-day basis. The PCU Coordinator will serve as the Technical
Secretary to the National Steering Committee, which will include representatives of the participating
institutions (Judiciary, CNM, AMAG, and MINJUS) and will be chaired by the President of the Supreme
Court. The PCU will also be in charge of Project monitoringand evaluation, and liaison with the participating
institutions.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
The Project will support institutional reforms aimed at improving the quality of justice services available to
the common citizen. The traditional focus on supply policies ("more money equals better services") is clearly
insufficient. A new "demand" approach will be required to move into a more nuanced vision about the
interaction between what society demands and what the State institutions can offer in the area of dispute
resolution services. DuringProject preparation, with PHRD financing, in-depthstudies were conducted so as
to identify various levels of institutional capacity, critical bottlenecks in judicial processes, users' priorities
and preferences, and options for cost-effective responses. Project design has therefore begun a "demand-
driven" decision-makingprocessby sector authorities.

The Project will address key justice sector policies, and will involve agencies of the Executive and Judicial
Branches, and CSOs in a concerted approach to overcome critical dysfunctional aspects of the overall justice
system. It will focus on areas of immediate benefit for the users ofjustice services and will develop an overall
vision for the sector in a way that empowers the main actors to manage the change process.
3. Benefits and target population:
The principal benefits of the Project will be: (i)a more responsive justice sector in service delivery terms,
based on inter-institutional coordination, and broad participation; and (ii)               a buildingblock required for further
institutional reforms. It is expected that the overall process will lead to an increase in the public confidence in
the Judiciary and other sector institutions, as well as in the long-term vision of State institutions in Peru as
envisaged inAcuerdo Nacional. The target institution will be the Judiciary, as it remains central to all sectoral
planning. However, in the area of human resources management, the CNM and the AMAG will also be
beneficiaries. And, under the access tojustice component, MINJUS will be added as an additional beneficiary
agency, along with the Judiciary. Although the primary beneficiaries will be the sector's agencies, indirect
beneficiaries include Peruvian citizens at large and the private sector through the improved provision of
justice services.

Several preparatory activities were aimed at determining the priorities and preferences of the direct and
indirect beneficiaries, including a number of national and regional workshops. The Task Team gathered
information from various sources so as to better understand existing constraints on users and potential users.
While the human resources component will deal with issues mostly relevant for sector agencies, the other
components (access to justice and service delivery) reflect the views of the end-client, the Peruvian citizenry;
the findings and conclusions of the participatory and consultative exercises have also been reflected in Project
design.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Despite the selection of 4 project districts ready for implementation once the Project i s approved, other project
districts may be proposed by the Judiciary to participate. Additional or differing judicial districts would be
required to meet specific eligibility criteria and to work closely with the central offices of the Judiciary's
(General Manager's Office) in the implementation of the court operations subcomponent. Work with such
districts will reflect the geographical distribution of the bulk of the population into the Costa (coastal region)
and Sierra (Peruvian Andes) regions and allow the testing of innovative approaches to staffing allocation and
workload distribution, as well as measure the impact of change against a baseline defined under the "Users
and Uses" study.14




l4 noting,intheLimaMetropolitanArea(whichdealswithmorethan50%ofthecountry's caseload)theConoNorteJudicial
   Worth
District receives nearly 25% of the caseload and provides services to a population living in conditions of poverty or extreme poverty;
there are also approximately 12 peacejudges in peri-urban areas that fall under the jurisdiction of Cono Norte.
                                                                 19

The extensive menu of activities under the Court Operations subcomponent could overload the absorptive
capacity of some selected judicial districts, particularly those offering more challenges in logistical terms
(diversity, distance, etc.). For that reasonthe Project has adopted a more realistic "menu" approach that allows
the most suitable activities to be included in an Investment Plan to be included as an Annex to the
Performance Agreement to be entered between the General Manager's Office and each selected judicial
district. Based on the performance of each District (to be confirmed in the annual progress report to be
submitted by the district authorities), activities may be added from the menu during Project implementation.

Project coordination and management. One of the lessons learned under the cancelled Judicial Reform
Project was the need for close coordination among sector agencies. A high-level commission with top
representatives of sector agencies can foster a common reform effort; IDB, USAID, GTZ and the Bank have
agreed that such a mechanism would facilitate dialogue among major players in sector policy-making and
assist inthe allocation of specific responsibilities.

The Judiciary, CNM, AMAG and MINJUS will appoint representatives to a National Steering Committee,
which will be responsible for the Project's policy oversight, inter-institutional coordination and consultation
with civil society. Although the PCU will report to the General Manager's Office of the Judiciary for
administrative and budgetary purposes (including flow-of-funds), the PCU will serve as the Technical
Secretariat of the National Steering Committee. The Committee will be chaired by the President of the
Supreme Court and will be responsible for consultation with civil society representatives on Project
implementation.Each regional office of the Judiciary or project district involved in the implementation of the
service delivery component will have assigned local staff to propose and conduct improvement initiatives.
The PCU will provide support to such staff as required. The specific roles and responsibilities of the National
Steering Committee, the PCU and the project district staff are defined inthe Operational Manual.

A Subsidiary Agreement (Acuerdo Subsidiario) will provide the institutional mechanisms to ensure efficient
coordination throughout Project implementation, including specific arrangements among the MEF and the
Participating Institutions, including the Judiciary, MINJUS, CNM and AMAG.

Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. The Project will allow the Bank to facilitate an efficient
dialogue among justice sector institutions, while providing them with flexible technical support and
knowledge sharing required for the development of a coherent and participatory reform strategy. The Bank
will assess progress duringProject implementation, identify major issues and propose measuresto ensure that
the Project objectives remain relevant while risks are minimized. To achieve that goal, an in-depth Annual
Review will be provided for in the Loan Agreement", including evaluations of each component, possible
adjustments to the selection criteria of project districts, updates to monitoring indicators, etc.

This Project will require continuous monitoring and evaluation, as well as effective consensus building. Key
performance indicators to measure outputs and outcomes are proposed in Annex 1. Institutional assessments
of sector agencies undertaken as part of Project preparation as well as the statistical review under the "Users
and Uses of Justice" study will complement baseline data, and identify specific performance indicators to
validate continued participation of the selected judicial districts. Periodic surveys, as well as the annual
reports of the Judiciary will assist in measuring the progress in service delivery.

To promote Project integration and learning across offices, annual workshops with staff of all the agencies
participating in the Project will be held to review progress achieved, agree on required adjustments, and
review proposals for Annual Operating Plans (AOP) for the following year. The leadership of the National
Steering Committee will provide an additional vehicle for feedback and development of broader consensus
during project implementation. Semi-annual progress reports will include an evaluation of activities carried
out during the previous semester, plus detailed activities and estimates for the subsequent one, as well as
expected Government and Bank contributions. A "Project launching" workshop will take place shortly after
effectiveness with participation of PCU staff, key decision-makers of the participating institutions, and


l5Annual reviews, to be conductedby November 30 of each year, will be flexible andtake into account the capacity of the
ParticipatingInstitutionsandthe PCUduringProject implementation.
                                                            20

representatives of selected project districts. The PCU will furnish to the Bank, within six months after the
Closing Date, the standardImplementationCompletion Report.

D: ProjectRationale
1.Project altematives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
Initially, the Task Team considered a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)in connection with pilot initiatives
inthe area of service delivery. However, the identification missionprovidedthe Bank and the sector agencies
with a clearer vision about the immediate requirements ofjustice sector institutions, in close consultation with
CSOs. On the basis of such findings, the Bank agreed to structure the project not as a LIL, but as Technical
Assistance Loan (TAL) in order to keep the proposed project as a focused, a freestanding operation to assist
the beneficiary agencies inthe first stage of a long term, institutionalreform process.

A TAL is the ideal lending instrument to build institutional capacity and focus on organizational
arrangements, staffing methods and technical resourcesrequiredby the participating institutions. A LIL could
have only supported pilot-type investments that could lead to larger projects; in this case, a key component
(human resources) cannot be structured as a pilot since it deals with a systemic issue that has to be addressed
in a broader context, and the pilots to be streamlined have been in operation for several years. A Specific
Investment Loan (SIL) was not appropriate since major rehabilitation of judicial infrastructure cannot be
undertaken untilthe institutional capacity of sector authorities i s strengthened.

This Project may generate an agenda that subsequent SILs could address. However, to avoid excessive
complexity and still take advantage of possible synergies with other donors, the Project will include intensive
work with the Judiciary in what is envisaged as the first buildingblock of an institutional reform that may
take many years to complete, but which requires a holistic approach. Similarly, Project design has taken into
account the different starting points of the institutional strengthening of the Judiciary, CNM, AMAG and
MINJUS and will try to gradually bringthem to an equal footing as four pillars of a strongjustice system.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
ulannedJ:
Sector issue                                      Project                            Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                     (Bank-financed proj, ts only)
                                                                                     Implementation       Development
                                                                                     Progress (IP)        Objective
                                                                                                          (DO)
IBRD-financed
Weak, non-transparent, unresponsive judicial      Judicial Reform Project            Cancelled l6
system
New agency with limited ability to provide        Ombudsman's              Office    Completed    l7
services at the national level                    Institutional   Strengthening
                                                  Project
Weak regional and provincial governments          Programmatic                       S                    S
                                                  Decentralization Loans Iand
                                                  I1
Formalization of property rights in marginal      Urban Property Rights Project      Completed            S
urban areas
Other external development agencies
Basic Justice Modules                             IDB                                I P
Improved administration of criminaljustice        GTZ
Enhanced governance and consolidated              USAID
democracy
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory) i(Satisfactory), U(Unsatisfac my), HU(Highly Unsatisfactory)


I6InDecember 1997,the Bank approveda US$22.5 million loanfor the financingof aJudicial ReformProject; that loan was
cancelledon September 1998.
*'InFebruary  1999the Bank provideda US$500,000IDFGrant to the Ombudsman's Office for an institutional strengtheningproject.
The Grant was fully disbursedby October 2001. The projectoutcome was rated as Highly Satisfactory.
                                                             21

Based on the experience of other projects in the sector, the Bank, lDB, GTZ, UNDP and USAID have agreed
to support a long-term planning mechanism among sector institutions. The heads of the key sector institutions
(Judiciary, MINJUS, CNM, M A G , Constitutional Tribunal, Attorney General and Ombudsman) together
with representatives of civil society will be the policy-makers of a joint strategy for the sector. Inthe past,
differences of opinion among sector institutions have been common. Some preferred to develop their separate
strategies and expected the donors' support for isolated interventions. The donors have agreedto reject such a
piecemeal approach and have stressed the need for an effective coordination mechanism for assistance
programs to be fully consistent. Each donor, however, will take into account the particular preferences of
different institutions regarding the priority and sequencing of specific activities within the overall strategy for
the sector.
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposedproject design:
The Peruvian 1990sreform processand the cancellation of the Bank's Judicial ReformProject has left several
lessons on how a process should not be designed and implemented:

         "A reform process driven by solutions rather than a profound analysis of the problems faced or the
         objectives sought i s prone to failures'': under the 1990sjudicial reforms the quantity of innovations
         replaced a vision of what was being pursued, if indeedthat vision existed.
         "Judges' involvement is.essential for the success of a reform process"; in Peru, although some of the
         activities attempted to involve judges intheir implementation, for the most part judicial participation
         was not invited-and certainly not at the policy-making level.
         "The reform process should be articulated around a flexible timeframe that includes short, medium
         and long-term strategies": since the beginning, the timeframes of the 1990s judicial reforms were
         unrealistic, which probably accounts for the lack of reliablereports on accomplishments.
         "The improvement of humanresource quality in the Judiciary depends on far more than turnover": in
         the Peruvian case, the conditions for recruiting and retaining staff did not improve so the
         replacements were not differentfrom their predecessors.
         "Unless the institutional environment encourages improved performance, even those prepared to
         undertake it are likely to be discouraged and fall into the traditional habits": in Peru, uncertainties on
         appointments, unmet expectations as to higher salaries, and lack of clarity as to performance
         standards negatively affected morale and undercut efforts to improve performance; and
         "Institutional reform i s unlikely without institutional leadership": the 1990sjudicial reforms did not
         encourage the emergence of new leaders within the Judiciary and thus the internalization of the
         reform.l8

    Positive lessons leamed of international best practice have also been retained in this project:


    0    CERIAJUS has served as a sector-wide planning mechanism, which includes representatives of
         various institutions and has taken the lead in designing overall strategic objectives. The Judiciary,
         CNM, and AMAG will work closely in the implementation of human resources components.
         MWJUS will address the provision of legal aid, public defender and conciliation services, while the
         Judiciary will address family court and community-based justice services under the Pro-poor
         subcomponent.
    0    The Project will target specific activities identified by sector agencies and key stakeholders as top
         priorities, and will address service delivery issues within a realistic timetable of approximately four
         years. While some aspects of the access to justice and human resources component may have impact
         on the overall system, the service delivery component will have a limited geographical scope. The
         evaluation of the experiences in four judicial districts may lead to new areas for further work by the
         Bank or other donors.
    0    The Project will address key service delivery issues of the Peruvian justice sector through the
         evaluation of on-going pilot experiences. The selectedproject districts represent key geographic areas



l8 ProjectCompletionNote (Loan4256-PE), June 30,2000.
                                                        22

         of the country (Costa and Sierra) and allow for the accumulation of experience, the refining of
         instruments; these pilots once evaluated and adjusted may be replicated inother areas.
    0    This Project will be structured around two sets of incentives: (a) for the selected project districts,
         continued Project support will be conditioned on the achievement of specific benchmarks in matters
         of service delivery; and (b) for the individual staff, satisfactory performance will be measured against
         specific evaluation criteria.

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The essential requisite for judicial reform to proceed was achieved during the transition to democracy: a
common country vision to strengthen the rule of law was articulated in a series of legislative and
administrative norms to ensure the operation of an independent Judiciary, including safeguards against
political interference in judicial affairs. Peruvian citizens and the international community recognize that in
spite of the negative legacy of the 1990s reforms, the Judiciary has started a renewed reform effort in which
stable rules, consistent with the Constitution, provide appropriate checks and balances for the independent
functioning of courts and the autonomous decision-making of individual judges. The dialogue with
governmental and judicial authorities has confirmed their interest in Bank's support for a justice services
improvement project, based on a process of consultations led by the Judiciary itself.

Inclose coordination with the Executive Committee of the Supreme Court, the Chief Justice is working to
implement various aspects of the Acuerdo Nacional. The Judiciary's "restructuring" program seeks to replace
the shortsighted vision of previous attempts as well as takes stock of the lessons learned from the 1990s.The
Chief Justice has also taken the lead in a process in which civil society i s expected to play a prominent role.
Some immediate actions by the Judiciary include: (i)     the naming of an advisory group (Grupo Zmpulsor), (ii)
the establishment of four thematic sub-committees, (iii) organization of a nationaljudges summit, (iv) the
                                                           the
creation of a national committee to fight against corruption, and an (v) international conference on the
successfulexperiencesofjustice sector reform in and outside the region.
5. Valueadded of Bank support in this project:
Bank assistance will help key institutions of the Peruvian justice sector to set the first building block of a
long-term institutional reform strategy. The leadership of the Judiciary requires support to forge credible
plans with the participation ofjudicial staff and the general public. Given resource constraints, the leadership
needs to make effective use of current assets before embarking on new investments. Present infrastructure
and informaticsresources, adequately refurbishedand reorganized, could produce higher quality, more widely
accessible services so as to regain society's confidence. Any additional investments on infrastructure or
informatics should be targeted and modest, so as to ensure the highest possible returns. The Project will also
provide efficiency gains for users by reducing transaction costs for businessesand the poor.

Deconcentration and empowerment will be a common feature of Project activities. In line with the overall
decentralization program in Peru (supported by a separate Bank operation), the proposed financial assistance
will helpjustice sector institutions to develop solutions more appropriate for widely varying local conditions,
and encourage the spirit of innovation at the local level. However, this approach also requires strengthening
the role of central institutions in setting general guidelines and standards, and fomenting information
exchangesamongjudicial project districts and court offices.

E: Summary ProjectAnalysis
I.Economic:
Economic evaluation methodology:
[ ] Cost benefit          [ ] Cost effectiveness    [XI Other

Improved delivery of justice services may generate significant benefits. Primarily, the service delivery
component facilitates improved private sector decision-making environment so as to foster local business
activity or attract some foreign investors otherwise deterred by a non-performing system. The Project is also


                                                         23

expected to have an impact in terms of improving the effectiveness of resource administration by the
Judiciary.

With regard to other components, it i s difficult to quantify the potential impact. In the area of human
resources, efficiency gains are expected from the strengthening of human resources management, anticipated
improvements in the efficiency of personnel allocation and attrition in administrative and auxiliary personnel,
since the organizational restructuring of the Judiciary will provide the authorities with an opportunity to
identify and eliminate duplication in functions and responsibilities.

2. Financial:

No specific fiscal impact is expected since the substantial salary and benefits increases of judicial officials
have been in place for more than two fiscal years by decision of the current Government. Any additional
incentives for judges and judicial officials will be provided through training and greater decision-making
opportunities as a part of Project activities. No incremental personnel will be hired to staff the General
Manager's Office or the selectedjudicial districts; existent professional staff will be reassignedas needed.

As part of the overall efforts to modernize the justice administration, the Judiciary has received from the
Govemment through FEDADOI                  l9 approximately US$ 8.2 million to be allocated to investments in
information technology and infrastructure. The Task Team closely coordinated with the Gerencia General
(General Manager's Office of the Judiciary) to ensure that Project funds are complimentary.                                   As a
consequence, it was agreed that the Gerencia General would finance the installation of local area networks
(LAN) on court buildings, a nation-wide data and voice network, and database licenses (both servers and
users licenses) with FEDADOI resources. The Project will take advantage of this infrastructure and will
support complementary systems in the selected project district courts by investing primarily on additional
computer equipment, database licenses and information systems updates. Management of Project resources
will be completely independent from FEDADOI resources, and will be subject to standard Bank financial
managementpolicies.
3. Technical:
The scarce data on the "demand" side of justice services has limited the ability of judicial decision-makers to
develop a comprehensive reform strategy. The traditional focus on "supply" aspects has proven insufficient to
address critical dysfunction (for instance in the areas of delays and productivity). The identification of "user
patterns" requires the development of a new analytical framework on the basis of studies that disaggregatethe
information about the type of users and cases, amounts involved, duration of critical stages of the judicial
process, and final disposition of the matter. Statistical tools employed in similar studies in other LCR
countries were adapted in the "Users and Uses of Justice" study to track the quality of performance of the
Peruvian court system. The findings in relation to increased efficiency, transparency and access of this study
have been reflectedin Project design.

There i s limited technical and managerial expertise within the participating institutions (Judiciary, CNM,
AMAG and MINJUS) charged with addressingjustice sector issues. Therefore, the Project will finance the
technical assistance required to carry on priority reforms. Staff of participating institutions-in                  liaison with
the PCU--will be involved in defining specific tasks (e.g. preparation of terms of reference, analysis of the
findings and implementation of the recommendations, and formulation of adjustments to the overall strategy)
to ensurethat the Project strengthens the service delivery capacity of the sector.
4. Institutional
4.1. Executing agencies: A pivotal element for the successful implementation of the Project will be the
establishment of an effective link among sector institutions in order to articulate ajoint vision for the sector.
At the planning level, the Project's National Steering Committee will bring together representatives of the
Judiciary, CNM, AMAG and MINJUS to ensure that the Project's policy oversight i s properly harmonized
and sequenced. The National Steering Committee will maintain periodic consultations with Peruvian civil


l9 A fund established to manage the assets recovered by the Govemment as a result ofjudicial procedures on corruption activities.
                                                               24

society, inparticular NGOs involved injustice sector issues.
4.2. Project management: The administrative aspects of implementation (procurement, disbursements and
financial management) will be the responsibility of a PCU, which will report to the GeneralManager's Office of
the Judiciary. The Judiciary will also select local district level staff in the four project districts to coordinate
implementation activities under the service delivery component at the regional level. A permanent project
coordinator will serve as headof the PCU. The PCU will play an active coordinating and oversight role inregular
interaction with participating institutions andthe Bank.
4.3. Procurement Issues
An assessment of the procurement capacity of the Judiciary has been finalized, and a procurement plan
prepared (see Annex 5).

4.4.Financial Management Issues

A financial management assessment of the Judiciary has been finalized, in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines and an executive summary is included in Annex 5. The assessment addressedthe administrative
and financial arrangements for the implementation of the project, and found that the proposed arrangements
are sound. As a result of the assessment, a time-bound action plan has been proposed and was finalized during
negotiations.   This action plan is included in a supplemental letter to the negotiated loan agreement.
Successful implementationof the action plan would result in adequateproject financial arrangements in place
by the effectiveness date. Entity specific and control risks have been assessed as moderate. The Judiciary's
systems are comprehensive and functional and the Judiciary has prior experience with the management of the
PHRD Grant, in conjunction with UNDP, and other programs financed by other donors. Two important risks
have been identified which could affect project implementation: (a) Inadequate availability of counterpart
funds; and (b) insufficient capacity to coordinate financial procedures among participating institutions. These
risks will be mitigated through the adoption and implementation of the financial management action plan
agreed as a condition of effectiveness.

5. Environmental: Environmental category: C (Not Required)

5.1 Summarize steps undertakenfor environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including consultation
and disclosure) and significant issues and their treatment emergingfrom this analysis.

Project components do not have environmental components or impacts.

5.2 What are the mainfeatures of the EMP and are they adequate? NIA

5.3 For Category A and Bprojects, timeline and status of EA: NIA

Date of receipt offinal draft: NIA

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b)draft EA report
on the environmental impacts and proposed EMP? Describe mechanisms of consultation that were used and
which groups were consulted. NIA

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP? NIA

6. Social (See Social Assessment - Annex 11)

6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

The Project will promote an equitable justice system through increased access to justice--around one third of
the Peruvian population is currently excluded from the formal justice system. The urban poor and indigenous
                                                        25

communities experience large socio-economic and cultural barriers to accessjustice services. Even when they
can access justice services, economically and socially disadvantaged groups are more negatively impacted
because they do not have the resources to cope with the system's shortcomings. This has a negative social
impact as the poor face legal problems associatedwith their most basic needs (e.g. food and housing, personal
safety, family violence), yet they are not able to use the justice system to solve them. The Project will,
therefore, benefit the poor through strengthening of legal aid and conciliation services, capacity building for
justices of the peace, first instance courts, and family courts. In addition, measures to lift linguistic and
cultural barriers that exclude the indigenous from accessing justice services, such as the provision of
interpreters in courts and legal aid centers, and the preparation of studies on customary law, will help analyze
indigenousjustice needs and propose how better to address.

The Project will uphold gender equity in the justice system and promote justice services targeted to the needs
of men and women. The project recognizes the different justice needs of men and women and includes
measures to build the capacity of the family courts. Institutional weaknesses, and cultural biases in judicial
decisions are especially harmful for poor women, hinderingtheir ability to support their families and engage
in productive activities. Strengthening the capacity of family courts to effectively handle child support and
intra-family cases, implementing new justice services delivery models for complex family cases, and
providing gender training tojustices of the peace will improvejustice sector responsesto women needs.

Increasing Peruvians' confidence injustice services and obtaining their support for the improvement efforts is
essential to ensuringthat the reforms are sustainable. Significant problems in the delivery of services, such as
long procedures, uncertain judicial decisions, or disregard for due process have tended to breed lack of
confidence injustice sector institutions. Additionally, a decade of judicial reforms, which were only partially
successful in improving the system, has generated skepticism about new justice sector reform efforts. Inorder
to obtain support from Peruvian society for the reform, the Project will work closely with the media and
CSOs to realistically communicate the objectives of the modernizationeffort, involve Peruvians in monitoring
the progress of the reforms, and create channels for the participation of citizens in the implementation of the
reforms.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How will key stakeholdersparticipate in theproject?

Inorder topromoteownership ofthereformprocess,itwasrealizedearly inthe identificationofthisProject
that participationfrom all interestedparties, includingcivil society, was essential. Extensiveconsultations
with internal stakeholdersGudges, court administrators, and lawyers) on particular aspects of ajustice sector
reform strategy have taken place duringProject preparation. External stakeholders were also involved through
workshops duringthe SecondPoverty Forumwith over 540 representatives from CSOs and focus groups with
justices of peace to discuss training needs as part of the Enhanced Access to Justice component of the Project.
The highest authorities of the Government and the Judiciary (regionally as well as at the central level), as well
 as lower level staff of sector institutions, bar associations, representatives of the private sector and CSOs
participated in anumber of project preparation events as well.


 6.3 How does theproject involve consultations or collaboration with CSOs?

 During project identification (December 2001-January 2002) the Bank team held several interviews with
judicial officials, practicing lawyers, Bar Association representatives, academics, and businessmen; they also
 participated in workshops and seminars sponsored by the Bank with local and international experts.
 Subsequentpreparation activities assured the full involvement of CSOs at various stages. Once the Project is
 initiated, additional consultation will ensure that civil society continues to be informed and has channels to
 propose new ideas on how to make the reform strategy more effective.

 Duringimplementation, key stakeholders will also be involved in evaluating the progress of sector strategies
 adopted. The public at large will be informed of new developments through dissemination activities aimed at
 generating widespread support for the change process. The Project will seek to involve CSOs in specific
 aspects of the execution where they enjoy a comparative advantage, such as: (a) monitoring of the reform

                                                           26

process; (b) provision of legal aid or conciliation services; (c) training of the Judiciary on gender and
community justice issues; and (d) civic education activities.

Key activities of Project implementation will comprise national and regional workshops; these events will
bringtogether sector authorities, legal professionals and CSOs for the purposesof discussing the issues faced
by the justice sector and arriving at a consensus over the priorities and elements of a realistic medium-term
strategy. Follow-up events in the initially four selected project districts will be organized as a part of Project
implementation to encourage discussions among local authorities and interest groups about effective justice
service delivery and their involvement to address them.

6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure theproject achieves its social development
outcomes?

 One outcome of the Project will be a set of realistic strategic plans for sector institutions that reflects a
balanced approach to priorities and resources, considers various alternatives, and selects the ones that meet
strict cost-effective standards. Continuous participation during the planning process will increase the
confidence of society in thejustice sector, inparticularif communication mechanisms make available reliable
information on regular basis. The statistical sub-component will ensure that aggregate data can be gathered
and analyzed for monitoring and evaluation purposes.

The Project will not only work with key decision-makers at the highest levels, but will also involve
managerial, administrative and auxiliary staff of sector institutions to ensure that the planning process i s fully
inclusive and allows subsequent monitoring and evaluation by various stakeholders. Discussion and
validation of alternatives considered during the planning process will take place at the national and local
levels.

6.5 How will the Project monitor per$ormance in terms of social development outcomes?

The most critical obstacle for the improvement of justice services in Peru is the disconnect between sector
institutions and the rest of the society; the institutions have become irrelevant to large sectors of society that
handle conflicts by other means and, therefore, are not concerned by court decisions. Duringimplementation,
several mechanisms will ensure that social development outcomes are monitored: (i)         periodic workshops to
evaluate justice service delivery issues among major stakeholders and make recommendations for
modifications and improvements; (ii)surveys of users to evaluate satisfaction with service delivery; (iii)
monitoring of quantitative and qualitative indicators to measure court performance (including process
duration, number and type of cases disposed per court, costs for the State and for the user) and dissemination
of the results; and (iv) consultations through the National Steering Committee with civil society.

7.Safeguard Policies

7.1Are any of thefollowing safeguard policies triggered by the project?

                 Policy                                                              Applicability

EnvironmentalAssessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                         Yes-     No-X- TBD-
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP4.04, GP 4.04)                                 Yes-     No-X- TBD-
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                 Yes-     No-X- TBD-
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                   Yes-     No-X- TBD-
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                               Yes-     No-X- TBD-
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                Yes-     No-X- TBD-
Involuntary Resettlement (OD4.30)                                           Yes-     No-X- TBD-
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                            Yes-     No-X- TBD-
Projects in InternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 Yes-     No-X- TBD-
Projects inDisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)                        Yes-     No-X- TBD-


                                                         27

7.2 Describe provisions made by theproject to ensure compliance with the applicable safeguard policy

The indigenous peoples aspects of the enhanced access to justice component of this Project were designed in
coordination with the team supervising the Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project and
are consistent with the IPDP prepared for that project (see Social Assessment, Annex 11).

8. Business Policies

8.1 Check applicable items:

-Financingofrecurrentcosts                          (OMS 10.02)
-Costsharingabovecountry3-yraverage                 (OP 6.30, BP 6.30, GP 6.30)
-Retroactivefinancingabovenormallimit               (OP 12.10, BP 12.10, GP 12.10)
-Financialmanagement                                (OP 10.02, BP 10.02)
-InvolvementofCSOs                                  (GP 14.70)


8.2 For business policies checked above, describe issue(s) involved. NIA
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Susrainability:
The justice reform process in Peru has entered a critical stage; concrete actions must follow the numerous
diagnostic studies and public discussions on a sector-wide strategy. This i s an excellent opportunity to engage
the Judiciary and the Executive Branch in a concerted approach to initiate a sustainable institutional reform
process that improves the quality of services provided as a means to enhance the legitimacy of sector
agencies.

The sustainability of the Project will depend on: (a) the sector authorities' commitment to implementing the
proposed reforms; (b) their ability to overcome active and passive resistance and the inherent difficulties of
change; and (c) the productive utilization of the technical assistanceprovided. Longer-term sustainability will
depend on: (i)   creating a momentumfor reform through credible "success stories" of improved performance;
and (ii) the sector authorities' ability to convince the public that the strategy i s in fact improving the services
available for a majority of the population.


2. Critical Risks (reflecting thefailure of assumptionsfound in thefourth column of Annex 1):
As highlighted in Annex 1, political uncertainties may impinge on the participating institutions decision-
malung capabilities as well as on the availability of budgetary resources. Similarly, the capacity for setting
and maintaining coherent policy priorities may also be impaired. To address these risks specific covenants in
the Loan Agreement will allow the Bank to closely monitor the status of project implementation and take
prompt decisions on possible adjustments to the overall strategy for the sector.
Risk                                                  Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure

     FromOutputsto Objective


The sensitivity of the reform process may generate H                The National Steering Committee will provide the inter-
widespread discussion in the media and strain the                   institutional venue for consensus building. The Bank will
relations between the Judiciary and the Government;                 maintain a careful balance in its relations with major actors
they may differ in their approachto a reform strategy               in the reform process and follow-up             closely any
even if they agree on the overall objectives.                       developmentin the sector.

The participation of the Bank and other donors in the M             The emphasis on the participatory approach during project
sector may constitute a catalyzer for consensus                     preparationand supervision will minimize this risk.
building but may also generatesome resistance.


                                                        28

The unusual convergence in the priorities of sector H                 The design of two components (service delivery and access
authorities may constitute an optimal scenario for the                to justice) will provide effective responses in the short-term
development of initiatives in this area, although there               to significant concerns.
also exists the risk of widespread frustration if no
results are achieved in the short and medium-terms.

Resistance from special interests and changes in                       Support from the Bank and donors will provide leverage for
senior officials may prevent or reverse advances in                   reform-oriented groups in the sector. Emphasis on
creating a client-oriented Judiciary. Political pressures             performanceevaluation will allow adjustmentsas needed.
may limit the ability of sector agencies to move
forward with the reform agenda.

Lack    of    support   by   key    non-public     sector              Publication of annual evaluation reports by participating
stakeholders.                                                          institutions, user surveys, and communication campaigns
                                                                       should keep strong interest in sector issues.
     FromComponentsto Outputs


Difficulties for involving personnelof the Judiciary in S              Intensive consensus-building activities under the human
the   implementation      of   the    service    delivery              resourcescomponentwill minimize this risk.
component.
Limited availability of reliable statistics for measuring L            The strengthening of judicial statistics will provide the
servicedelivery improvements                                           analytical tools required to determine abaseline and measure
                                                                       performance.
Inadequateavailability of counterpartfunds.               H            Budget constraints of the Judiciary should be eased by
                                                                       improvements inresource managementinthe Judiciary.

Insufficient implementation capacity to coordinate M                   This risk is minimized by: (a) active support of the highest
interrelated tasks and supervise project components,                   authorities of the Judiciary and the Government represented
complicated by turnover of project staff.                              in the National Steering Committee: (b) merit-based hiring
                                                                       of qualified project coordinator and PCU staff; and (c)
                                                                       continuous project supervision.

Overall Risk Rating                                       H
Risk Rating - H(High Risk), S (SubstantialRisk), M( 4odest Risk),      (Negligible or Low Risk)
     3. Possible controversial aspects. NIA
G.        Main LoanConditions

1.        EffectivenessConditions

          (a)      the Subsidiary Agreement executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Participating
                   Institutions;

          (b)      the Operational Manual issued by the Judiciary's General Manager's Office and approved by
                   the Bank;

          (c)      the PCU established and staffed with key personnel, which includes the Project Coordinator,
                   Treasurer, Accountant, and Procurement Specialist";

          (d)      the financial management system, including the features set forth in the agreed financial
                   management action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, established and operational; and

          (e)        the National Steering Committee established and operational with membership, structure,
                   functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.

~




2o UnderPeruvianlaw, an autonomousunit such as the PCU, must includeboth a treasurer as well as an accountantin order to
complywith fiduciary regulations.
                                                           29

2.       Other (ProjectImplementation)

(a) The Borrower, through MEF, will enter into a Subsidiary Agreement with the Participating Institutions
detailing the Project activities to be carried by each ParticipatingInstitution pursuant to terms and conditions
approved by the Bank.


(b) The Borrower through the General Manager's Office of the Judiciary will enter into performance
agreements with the selected Project Districts, in accordance with model contractual provisions sets forth in
the Operational Manual, for the purposes of Subcomponent 1.3 of the Project.

(c) The Borrower, jointly with the ParticipatingInstitutions, will establish, and thereafter maintain throughout
Project implementation, a National Steering Committee with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank. The Committee will be chaired by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court (Judiciary representative), or
its designated representative, and shall comprise designated representatives of the AMAG, C N M and
MINJUS.

(d) The Borrower, jointly with the ParticipatingInstitutions, will conduct Annual Project reviews with Bank
by June 30 in each year, starting on June 30, 2005 until the completion of the Project. At the third Annual
Review a comprehensive mid-term assessment of Project implementationwill be carried out.

(e) The Bank, through the PCU, shall assess the adequacy and timeliness of counterpart funding in accordance
with the Borrower's budgetary process, by June 30 of each year of Project implementation, starting on June
30, 2005, untilthe completion of the Project.

(0 The Borrower, jointly with the Participating Institutions, will prepare a consolidated Annual Operating
Plan satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the Operational Manual, by no later than November 30 of
each year of Project implementation, starting on November 30 2004.

(g) The Borrower, through the PCU, shall ensure the due and timely completion of all actions provided for in
the financial managementaction plan.

H.       Readinessfor Implementation

         1. a) The engineering designdocuments for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.

         1.b) Not applicable.
         2. The procurement documentsfor the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
         3. The Project ImplementationPlan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
         4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G)




                                                       30

I. CompliancewithBankPolicies

         1. This projectcomplieswith all applicable Bank policies.
        2.The following exceptionsto Bankpoliciesare recommendedfor approval.The projectcomplieswith
all other applicable Bankpolicies.




Task TeamLeaders




                                                      -31.-

                                                         Annex 1
                                     PERU: Justice Services ImprovementProject
                                    Project Design Summary (Monitoring Indicators)


 Hierarchyof Objectives             Key Performance         Data Collection               Critical
                                         Indictors              Strategy              Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:           Sector Indicators:      SectorICountry        (from Goal to Bank
                                                           Reports:              Mission)
Justice sector institutions
urgently need to:                  Compliance with the                           Political and economic
     (i) developservices           constitutional mandates     Overall           stability
               that benefit a wide on access to an             assessmento f the
               variety of users    unbiasedjudicial           performance of     State authoritieslstrong
               including           system as per the          justice sector     capacity for setting and
               improving access    Acuerdo Nacional            institutions in   maintaining coherent
               for the poor,                                   Peru conducted    policy priorities
               consolidating                                   by independent
               recent                                          organizations
               innovations; and                                (WBI,
               recapturing citizen                             Transparency
               respect                                         International,
     (ii) increase                                             Latinbarbmetro)
               responsiveness                                  Citizens surveys,
               through an                                      participating
               improvement in                                  institutions'
               service planning                                annual reports
               and resource
               management; and
     (iii) increase
               coordination of
               policy-making and
               empowerment of
               decentralized units
               inorder to
               transform the
               justice sector into
               a modern public
               service
Project Development                Outcomdmpact            Project Reports:      (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                         Indicators:
                                                               Annual reports         Independence of
To set the basis for a                 Policies and            of participating       participating
sustainablejustice sector              processesto             institutions,          institutions
institutional reform process           improvejudicial         User feedback          strengthens
                                       services, agreed        reports                Justice sector
                                       between                                        institutions remain
                                       participating                                  committed to the
                                       institutions,                                  reformprocess.
                                       developed and
                                       tested.
                                       Increased users'
                                       satisfaction with
                                       justice service
                                       delivery

                                       Strategic Plan of       Implementation         Participating
                                       the Judiciary           completion             institutions capable
                                       (including              report                 of developing and
                                                           32

 Hierarchy of Objectives         Key Performance         DataCollection                 Critical
                                      Indictors             Strategy               Assumptions
                                    indicators)            Annual surveys         implementing
                                    approved and           on user                common sector
                                    implemented.           satisfaction with      policies
                                    Indicators on          justice services    *   Stable budget
                                    timeliness,                                   resources
                                    efficiency,                                *  Continued leadership
                                    productivity of                                of participating
                                    justice service                                institutions
                                    delivery by                                    Continued support
                                    Judiciary prepared                             from stakeholders at
                                    and validated with                             all levels of
                                    the Participating                             participating

                                    csos.
                                    Institutions and                               institutions
                                                                                   Continued support by
                                                                                   other stakeholders
                                                                                   (civil society, bar
                                                                                   associations, law
                                                                                   schools, private
                                                                                   sector)
                                                                                    Donors will bring
                                                                                   resources to promote
                                                                                   related activities.
Output fromeachcomponent         Output Indicators:     ProjectReports         (fromOutputsto
                                                                               Objective)
/A) Improved Service Delivery
                                    5-year Strategic     0 Annual reports          Continued support
Deconcentrationof decision-         Plan o f the           of participating        fromjudges,
making and empowerment of           Judiciary              institutions            administrative and
judicial districts and court        developed and        0 Surveys among           auxiliary staff of the
offices to determine operational    approved.              administrative          Judiciary
priorities for improved service     Annual Operating       and auxiliary           Participating
delivery                            Plans approved for     staff of the            institutions'
                                    the Project            Judiciary               leadership committed
                                    Districts (based on    Judicial statistics     to devolve decision-
                                    the Strategic Plan     generated by the        making powers to
                                    of the Judiciary)      Project                 judicial districts and
                                    monitoring system      Project                 accept feed-back
                                    for the execution of   participatory           from administrative
                                    the Judiciary's        evaluation              and auxiliary staff,
                                    Strategic Plan and                             and CSOs
                                    the respective                                 Local Steering
                                    Annual Operating                               Committees in
                                    Plans of the Project                           selectedjudicial
                                    Districts developed                            districts, and PCU
                                    and implemented.                               fully operational
                                    Decentralization of
                                    administrative
                                    functions to the
                                    Project Districts
                                    concluded and
                                    evaluated.
                                    Improved
                                    processesof the
                                    GGdeveloped and
                                    implemented.
                                 0  Increased users'
                                    satisfaction with
                                                        33

 Hierarchyof Objectives         Key Performance       DataCollection    Critical
                                    Indictors            Strategy     AssumDtions
                                  justice services
                                  delivery by the
                                  Judiciary in terms
                                  of quality personal
                                  attention, improved
                                  physical facilities
                                  and enhanced
                                  access to
                                  information by
                                   15% incomparison
                                  with baseline data
                                  from Project
                                  Districts.
outputs:                       Output Indicators:

{BlJudicial HumanResources      0 Job profiles of
Professional Development          judges,
                                  administrative and
(Adoption by participating        auxiliary personnel
institutions of common human      developed and
resource planning and             implemented, in
management policies aimed at      consultation with
retaining quality human           Participating
resources and providing them      Institutions and
with appropriate professional     csos.
development)                    0 Performance
                                  evaluation systems
                                  developed and
                                  implemented.
                                  Training programs
                                  and materials
                                  developed,
                                  validated and
                                  implemented in
                                  consultation with
                                  Participating
                                  institutions and
                                  csos.

(C) Enhanced Access to Justice
                                       Ethics Code
(Enhanced access tojustice for         developed,
poor, women and children, and          validated,
indigenous peoples achieved,           adopted and
through appropriate justice            disseminated
services provided by the               to sensitize
Judiciary, MINJUS and CSOs)            and educate
                                       judges,
                                       auxiliary and
                                       administrative
                                       staff of the
                                       Judiciary.
                                  0    Increase by
                                       20% annually
                                       inusers'
                                       satisfaction
                                       with the

                                                      34

  Hierarchy of Objectives      Key Performance         Data Collection             Critical
                                    Indictors               Strategy            AssumDtions
                                      quality of legal
                                      aid and
                                      conciliation
I                                     services.
                                      National
                                      public
                                      defender
                                      systems
                                      developed and
                                      implemented,
                                      inconsultation
                                      with
                                      Participating
                                      Institutions
                                      and CSOs.
                                      Conciliation
                                      system impact
                                      evaluated
                                      annually.
                                      Policy
                                      manuals and
                                      directives, for
                                      improved
                                      justice service
                                      delivery
                                      developed and
                                      implemented,
                                      to ensure that
                                      gender,
                                      multiculturalis
                                      m, intra-family
                                      violence and
                                      customer
                                      service issues
                                      are taken into
                                      account by the
                                      Participating
                                      Institutions.

                               (Budget for each        Project Reports:     (from Components to
                               component)                                   Outputs)

 Improved Justice Services                                 Semi-annual          Timely availability
 Delivery Component                                       progress reports      of counterpart
                               US$8.8 Million              prepared by the      funds.
        ImprovedJustice                                    PCU                  Sufficient
        Services Delivery                              0   Aide-memoirs of      implementation
        Judicial Human                                     supervision          capacity to
        Resources Professional                             missions and         coordinate
        Development                                        Bank supervision     interrelatedtasks
        Enhanced Access to                                 reports              and supervise
        Justice.                                       0   Consultants'         project activities
                                                           reports          0   Low turnover of
                                                                                key project staff
                                                                                (including
                                                                                administrative and
                                                                                auxiliary staff o f the

                                                      35

Hierarchy of Objectives       Key Performance   Data Collection          Critical
                                  Indictors       Strategy      1.I  Assumptions
                                                                     four selected
                                                                    judicial districts)
                                                                     Timely
                                                                     procurement of
                                                                    goods, works and
                                                                     services, and
                                                                     execution of key
                                                                     activities


                                                                     of activities so as to
                                                                     incorporate lessons
                                                                     learned during


Judicial Human Resources
Professional Development
Component                     US$2.7 Million

    0   Improved Selection
        and Evaluation of
        Judges
    0   Integrated Judicial
        Training Programs
        IntegratedJudicial
        Human Resource
        Management
Enhanced Access to Justice
Component                     US$2.1Million

        Accountability and
        Integrity
    0   Pro-poorjustice
        services
        Public outreach and
        strategic alliances

Project Management           US$1.4Million




                                               36

                                                         Annex 2
                                    PERU- Justice Services ImprovementProject
                                             DetailedProject Description


Project Component 1 $S.Smillion
                         -
Improved Justice Services Delivery
(58.7 percent of total Project cost)

1.1Strategic PlanningandManagement Subcomponent

In the short-term, the leadership and managementof the Judiciary have agreed that deconcentration is a priority
tool to set in motion a justice services modernization process. However, deconcentration of central decision-
making powers requires a parallel empowerment of project districts to autonomously determine their operational
priorities. It implies a deconcentration of decision-making powers to such districts and individual courts, while
retaining at the center a normative and/or supervisory role. The Project will assist the Judiciary in the design and
implementationof such deconcentratedplanningand managementmodel.

The strategic planning approach should also lead to the preparation of a long-term reform agenda that considers
issues like feasible mechanisms to strengthen the financial autonomy of the Judiciary (including new forms of
revenue generation and cost-recovery of judicial services, as well as appropriate collection systems) and
preferential fee schemes for low-income groups.

Strengthening of the Judiciary's Strategic Management Capacity

A key element of a new approach to strategic management of the Judiciary will be a thorough review of internal
policies and procedures so as to identify opportunities for internal reorganization, redefinition and redistribution
of functions and responsibilities. The review will comprise: (a) preparation of in-depth analysis, specific
proposals for improvement, working methodologies, and implementation mechanisms; (b) selection of
appropriate job profiles for the revisedfunctions and responsibilities, and review of staff selection procedures; (c)
preparation of specific short and medium-term work plans, including performance and outcome indicators, and
related monitoring and control mechanisms; and (d) enhancement of effective communication mechanisms among
participating institutions for policy-making purposes.

Deconcentrated Strategic Planningof the Judiciary

A strengthened strategic managementcapacity of the Judiciary will permit a deconcentrated approach for judicial
strategic planning. To that end, the Project will assist the Judiciary inthe design and implementation o f

    strategic plans of judicial project districts for justice services delivery improvement.       These plans will
    integrate key variables for the provision of justice services: (a) internal reorganization, such as court
    productivity (by specialized jurisdiction and case type), judicial workload determined on the basis of file
    inventories, actual demand and growth estimates, allocation of judicial resources (e.g. human resources and
    computer equipment); and (b) external factors such as geographic and population data, socioeconomic issues,
    and domestic violence indexes.

    effective monitoring and control systems (with manual and computerized modules) for the follow-up of
    strategic plans of the judicial project districts, including manuals on rules and procedures for the presentation
    of periodic reports.




                                                           37

JudicialManagement InformationSystem

Information relatedto the implementationof the strategic plans of the project districts should be incorporated into
the decision-making of the central offices of the Judiciary. The Project will support the consolidation of the
current information systems into a single management system through the reassessment of information needs and
 .
the design and implementationof the following systems:

     an integrated financial management information system consistent with SIAF (Sistema Zntegrado de
     Administracidn Financiera) and the redesigned processes of the Judiciary. This activity will comprise: (a) a
     gradual integration of current systems into an integrated financial management information system through a
     secure migration of the existing information; (b) installation of specific financial management modules (in
     particular for logistics and general services) consistent with the redesigned processes; (c) establishment of
     planning units in judicial project districts (according to new decentralization policies); and (d) periodic
.    monitoring and evaluation of the management systems already installedand operational.

     a comprehensive management information system, which includes non-financial information relevant for
     administrative and jurisdictional purposes. The development of this system will require: (a) determination of
     basic procedures, data flows and types, required inputs and outputs; (b) drafting of instructions for the
     production of periodic reports; (c) selection of the technical specifications and acquisition of the software that
     will consolidate information in the Judiciary at a national level, including jurisdictional and administrative
     data; (d) full implementation of an Intranet, as a mechanism to facilitate internal communications within the
     Judiciary; and (e) training of judicial, auxiliary and administrative staff for the appropriate handling of
     jurisdictional and administrative information for decision-making purposes.

JudicialPerformanceMonitoringSystem

A major input into the integrated management systems will be the statistical information generated at the level of
judicial districts and specific court offices. To ensure that this input i s appropriately collected, analyzed and
disseminated, the Project will support the Judiciary inthe following areas:
.    design of a judicial statistics system (with manual and computerized modules) compatible with the existing
     case tracking systems of the Judiciary, including: (a) periodic collection and analysis, quality control and
     information processing mechanisms; (b) adoption of procedures for standardjudicial workload measurement
     among comparable courts; and (c) dissemination of statistics through the publication of periodic reports for
     distribution among judicial districts and sector users. This system will be complemented with the Mapa
     Judicial (Judicial Map), a geo-referenced tool for decision-making during the planning and performance
.    evaluation processes.

     Implementation of a national justice information system that consolidates and harmonizes relevant
     information from the judicial statistics system, Mapa Judicial, the integrated management information
     system, and the databases of participating institutions. Effective mechanisms for the regular updating of such
     databases, through appropriate inter-institutional agreements, will be established.

1.2 CourtAdministrationSubcomponent

The Project will assist the Judiciary in developing standard information and communications systems to reconcile
manual and automated systems at different levels of development. To this end, overall strategic planning will be
applied to the definition of required services and technological platforms (including equipment, programs,
training and support) so as to reorient the process from a focus on technical solutions to a broader perspective that
takes into account user needs. This will require policies which consolidate the Judiciary's functions more
efficiently, as well open the Judiciary up to greater scrutiny through technological access by society.

As mentioned, varying levels of technological development will gradually meet the same standards within a
limited resource envelope. The Judiciary has conducted a preliminary assessment of the technology resources
(computer hardware and software, and communications capabilities) and has prepared an investment plan. As part
                                                           38

of an integrated approach to multi-cultural aspects, information systems to be developed will include data
retrieval utilities that allow indigenous languages interfaces, facilitating access of indigenous peoples to tracking
systems information. Technology planning will includetranslation applications as well.


Strengthening of Court Administration

Decentralized strategic planning will provide the basis for decentralized court administration, which permits
decisions to be taken with greater input from users and with due regard to local conditions. The Project will
support the central offices of the Judiciary and the administrative units of the judicial project districts during the
process o f
.   deconcentrating functions and responsibilities, through: (a) enhanced coordination and exchange of
    information; (b) assessment of deconcentration options, includingthe establishment of expenditure sub-units;
    (c) drafting of administrative regulations, and establishment of monitoring and control mechanisms for the
    deconcentrated processes; and (d) supervision and evaluation of the redesigned processes, in areas such as
    strategic planning, information systems and human resources.

    adoption of a basic court administration model on the basis of the main elements of the corporate courtroom
    model but adaptable to local realities (in terms of court size, human resources, available infrastructure and
    logistic resources) andjurisdictional requirements (subject matter and level of jurisdiction, current workloads
    and regionalfeatures).

Judicial Logistics and General Services

A key area for the effective delivery of justice services i s the modernization of logistics and general services
through close coordination between central offices of the Judiciary and its administrative units of the project
districts. The Project will specifically support the following activities:

    modernization of the processes associated with the provision of critical office supplies and services for the
    day-to-day operation of the courts, including: (a) determination of the auxiliary and administrative personnel,
    and the logistics and general services needed by the project districts; (b) programming and execution of the
    budget to serve the logistics and general services needs; (c) establishment of criteria and procedures to
    prioritize procurement on the basis of needs assessments, and application of such criteria and procedures in
    the preparation of the judicial districts' annual operation plans; (d) provision of office supplies and services,
    with emphasis on definition of standard request packages; (e) monitoring and control of the judicial districts'
    performance in the programming and execution of the budget allocated to logistics and general services; (f)
    strengthening of the operational capacity of project districts in the programming and execution functions of
    the budget allocated to logistics and general services; and (g) analysis of alternatives for outsourcing logistics
    andgeneral services, and establishment of appropriate monitoringand control procedures.

    redefinition of the role and responsibilitiesof the "Judge-President" and the courtadministratorof each project
    district, for the purposes of effective coordination, andprovision of training in administrative matters like best
    practices of procurement and financial management under applicable laws (Law No. 26850) andregulations.


Judicial Technological Resources

Information and communications technology (ICT) can be an important tool in a justice services improvement
process. However, past experience has demonstrated the need to carefully programICT investments to ensure that
.
they address realuser needs. The Project will finance the technical assistance requiredby the Judiciary to:

    prepare a 5-year strategic technological resources plan, comprising: (a) a technology resource inventory
    updating and a needs assessment; (b) standardization and upgrading of ICT equipment (with emphasis in
    consolidating the national judicial datdvoice network); (c) adaptation and strengthening of the technical
                                                          39

     support mechanisms for ICT equipment; (d) training of the personnel of the computer equipment support
     units in the project districts to ensure effective maintenance and utilization of technological resources; (e)
     strengthening and reorganization of the units specialized on information and technological resources; and (f)
     an specific action plan for the acquisition, allocation and maintenance of computer equipment in accordance
     with the identified priorities.

     reformulate the Judiciary's policies on technological standards, including: (a) information administration and
     security policies; (b) acquisition, utilization, maintenance, upgradingand replacement of computer equipment,
     to ensure effective customer service; and (c) applications like digital signatures and certification of electronic
     mails.

     establish the Judiciary's information generation and dissemination policies. This process will involve: (a)
     consolidation of the processes of technological renewal that support the production (internal or with the
     assistance of specialized companies) of the second generation of information systems, like the case tracking
     system, the judicial statistics system, and the integrated management information system financed under other
     subcomponents based on a state-of-the art platform. These information systems will include applications in
     indigenous languages; (b) dissemination of information about the justice sector through the Internet (web
     page and related tools); and (c) technological renewal of the Judiciary by extending the connectivity between
     the central andregional offices.

Judicial DecisionsInformationSystem

One of the first applications to the developed under the new information policies will be a computerized
jurisprudential inventory considered a basic tool to increase the quality of judicial decisions. The regular
operation of the jurisprudential inventory will require the periodic compilation, classification and dissemination of
landmark court decisions, the definition of standard criteria for the categorization and referencingofjurisprudence
(Thesaurus), anduser-friendly consultation tools.

1.3 CourtOperationsSubcomponent

The Peruvian Judiciary has advanced significantly in terms of testing alternative models for court and case
management. The new authorities recognize that those achievements required an independent assessment (for
instance, juzgados corporativos) before the models were adjusted or expanded, or new models tested (for
instance, oficinas de sewicios comunes, juzgados civiles de ejecucio'n); during Project preparation, these
assessments were conducted with PHRDfunding.

Based on the conclusions and recommendations of such assessments, the Project will assist the Judiciary to
prepare and implement specific service delivery improvements within strict cost-effectiveness and sustainability
parameters to avoid duplication or diversion of efforts. Personnelfrom the center and the selectedjudicial districts
(at the level of judges, administrative and auxiliary staff) will be involved in the implementation of this
subcomponent.

Because of the different levels of readiness of the judicial districts (in terms of prior reforms and investments, as
well as human capital available) and the particular priorities of the local staff in the selected project district, this
component has been structured as a "menu" of potentially beneficial investments in terms of service delivery.
Specific plans attached to Performance Agreements to be entered into by the project districts will determine the
amount and sequencing of such investments.

Judicial Customer Service Culture

The experience of past reform efforts in Peru and other LCR countries has shown that the benefits for justice
services users may not materialize until an enabling environment i s generated for the service improvement
process to be consolidated among system operators. To create that environment, the Project will finance
participatory assessments and subsequentreengineering of user service policies and procedures for various subject
matter and levels of jurisdiction, in the initially 4 selected project districts; the reengineering process will
                                                           40

comprise the development of specific induction and refresher programs for judges, auxiliary and administrative
personnel with emphasis on best practices for effective teamwork, customer satisfaction and quality control.

Critical Justice Services

   Reception and Distribution of Documents: The project will finance the design and implementation of uniform
   procedures for the Central General de Distribucidn (CGD) of the selected project districts so as to ensure the
   timely and secure distribution of documents through a single, internet-based system, including: (a) adaptation
   of the existent manual and computerized systems to modern uniformprocedures; (b) training of auxiliary and
   administrative personnel; (c) periodic evaluation of the uniformprocedures interms ofjudicial workload, and
   timeliness ofjudicial proceedings; and (d) establishment of the "judicial pouch" as an efficient mailingsystem
   among the selectedjudicial districts and the central offices of the Judiciary inLima.

   Case Status Reporting: A modern system for case status reporting accessible to various users will also be
   developed in the selected judicial districts. This will require: (a) definition of check points and tools for
   periodic updates; (b) determination of the information to be accessible by different users, and redesign of the
   respective modules (manual and computerized); (c) improvement of the filing procedures so as to ensure the
   rapid location and continuous availability of active files to support any case status reporting request, together
   with appropriate security safeguards; and (d) digitalization of selected files for inclusion into an easy access
   database so as to reduce file storage needs.

   Archives Retrieval: Duringproject preparation, the operation of the Judiciary's filing facility (archives) was
   identified as one of the major bottlenecks for justice services delivery. To address this issue, the Project will
   finance a thorough review of the policies and procedures of the Archivo Central (Central Archive Office) of
   the selected project districts; this review will conclude with the implementation of cost-effective solutions
   like: (a) reorganization of the central archive offices and redefinition of the steps required to archive or
   retrieve case files (active or inactive); (b) allocation to the archiving offices of the required resources to
   ensure optimal operation; (c) refurbishment of the physical space allocated to file storage (active and
   inactive), including the installation of conservation equipment in order to prevent file deterioration; (d)
   integration of the central archives system with the case tracking system; (e) establishment of permanent
   computerized databases; and (f) development of an inactive files screening module to be integrated within the
   computerized case tracking system.

   Hearings and Other Proceedings: Another major bottleneckencountered by most court users i s the scheduling
   of hearings and key proceedings. The Project will support the efforts of the selected judicial districts to
   establish hearings and proceedings scheduling module that will provide specific information on the current
   status of proceedings (concluded, adjourned or pending), and will integrate such information into an overall
   case tracking system.

   Case Tracking System: The existing case-tracking systems have not been effective to monitor and control the
   performance of the courts and provide valuable information to the users. To address this deficiency, the
   .
   Project will assist the selectedproject districts inthe process of revamping such systems, through:

       evaluation of current procedural rules and deadlines to determine the causes of recurrent delays and

   .   congestion, and identification of the possible solutions, including the assessment and improvement of the
        systems already operational.

       development of a standardized case tracking system (comprising manual and computerized modules) for
       effective monitoring and control of case status requests and pendingjudicial deadlines. The new system
       will also generate reliable statistics on court performance, and be gradually expanded. The development
       of such system will involve: (a) definition of deadline check-points and establishment of alert
       mechanisms, in accordance with the particulars of each subject matter jurisdiction; (b) establishment of
       quality control devices to ensure the continuous update and reliability of the information entered in the
       case tracking system; and (c) setting up special control modules accessible only by the central offices with
       oversight functions (e.g. OCMA for disciplinary purposes).
                                                         41

    Screening of Inactive Files for Early Archiving: Judicial statistics will not be reliable until the nominal
    workload i s purged from inactive files. To that end, the Project will finance the design and implementation of
    a periodic file updating and screening system, which allows for the early archiving of inactive files. For this
    module to be operational, it will require: (a) definition of the rules and procedures for the selection of files
    subject to early archiving; (b) development of support tools (including instructions and manuals, and
    connections to the case tracking system) for periodic archiving; (c) adoption of incentive mechanisms to
    ensure that auxiliary and administrative personnel support the early archiving program; and (d) establishment
    of dissemination tools for the users/costumersto be regularly informed about the early archiving program.

    Notifications: Inthe analysis of the operation of a typical courtroom, notification of key proceduraldecisions
    appear as another obstacle for expeditious dispute resolution. To addressthis issue the project will finance the
    development of an effective notification system in the Central de Notificaciones (Notifications Center) of the
    selected project districts. The operation of this system will require the overall modernization of internal and
    external processes via: (a) assessment of the existent notification systems; (b) identification and evaluation of
    alternative notification mechanisms (e-mail, PO Box, virtual PO Box, etc.), and adoption of the required
    administrative regulations and user education mechanisms; (c) definition of quality control devices for the
    notification processes; (d) integration of a notifications module within the overall case tracking system; and
    (e) preparation of proposals for deconcentration of notification services, and analysis of options for the
    outsourcing of these services.

Courtroom Refurbishment and Technological Resources: Minor investments in infrastructure will be required
to ensure the functionality of the standard court model adopted and the effective delivery of the redesigned
services. The project will finance the essential infrastructure investments of the selectedjudicial districts at two
.
levels:

    Design and implementation of a model court layout that aligns courtroom facilities with the redesigned
    services and best practices on customer services. Minor civil works will be undertaken to make fully
    operational the systems developed under the Project for document reception and distribution, public hearings
    and other proceedings, file archiving and retrieval., including provision of information technology systems
.   and equipment for the standardization and renewal of support systems.

    Standardization and renewal of the computer equipment to support systems developed under the Project. To
    that end specific investment plans consistent with the Judiciary strategic technological resources plan will be
    prepared for the selected judicial districts and attached to the respective Performance Agreements. Those
    plans should comprise: (a) assessment of specific computer equipment needs; (b) preventive and corrective
    maintenance actions; (c) effective support systems for various users through specialized computer technology
    units.

Project Component 2 US$2.7 Million
                        -
Judicial HumanResources ProfessionalDevelopment
(18.0 percent of total Project cost)

The specific objectives of this component will be: (a) to retain quality human resources for the Judiciary and
provide them with appropriate professional development; (b) to introduce modern concepts of human resources
planning and management into key sector institutions (Judiciary, CNM and M A G ) and develop their capabilities
to apply them; (c) to encourage coordinated strategic planning among these institutions for human resources
purposes; (d) to promote deconcentrated planning, with the central offices of the Judiciary increasingly assuming
a role of oversight ofjudicial districts, rather than the direct imposition of detaileddecisions.

The Project will develop the capacity of these institutions to implement a new approach to overall human
resources development. There are two main challenges: first, sector institutions need an effective human resources
policy which looks not only at selection but also at present and future system needs and career development as
well; and second, sector institutions should adopt joint planning and management mechanisms. Project activities
have been designed in a way that respects the jurisdiction of each institution, but fosters inter-institutional
                                                            42

coordination. The Project will finance detailed analysis of the current human resources situation, evaluations of
institutional capacity for better identification of most urgent needs, as well as initiatives to encourage sector staff
to understand and implement this approach.

2.1 ImprovedSelection and Evaluation of Judges

The Project will provide the CNM with the technical assistance required to reengineer internal practices and
resolve bottlenecks in the selection process. It will also facilitate inter-institutional coordination with other
beneficiaries (Judiciary and AMAG) in the evaluation process, and in the post-selection training for the newly
appointed candidates. This will lead to the development of a coherent selection methodology so as to improve
current job profiles, adopt consistent selection criteria, and create appropriate examination mechanisms.

The provisional status of most Peruvian judges remains a major issue for the justice sector. Although some
progress has been occurred, a time-bound action plan is neededto ensure that most judges permanently appointed
to the Judiciary (or with tenure). To that end CNM, in close coordination with the Judiciary and the AMAG,
needs to adopt and apply appropriate selection and evaluation criteria and procedures for judges. The Project will
support this process through the following activities:

     Participatory preparation and validation of the judges job profiles (comprising functional, educational,
    cultural, ethical and psychologicalelements) for the civil, labor, family and mixedjurisdictions at the levels of
    peace courts, specialized courts and superior courts, including the definition of the job profiles for the
     "proactive judge" who must handle jurisdictional and administrative matters (Juez Director del Despacho y
    del Proceso).

     Development and adoption of effective recruitment instruments that allow determining the individual's
     suitability for a particularjob profile, including the requiredexaminations, interviews andreference checks.

     Selection of indicators to periodically validate each job profile and its relevant functional, educational,
     cultural, ethical and psychologicalelements against the performance of the candidates so chosen.

    Design and implementation of an evaluation system in order to: (a) compare the judges' effective and
    expected performances in accordance with the applicable job profile; (b) record progress towards the
    attainment of the indicators selected; and (c) determine additional training required and any necessary
     adjustments to the selection criteria and profiles.

2.2. Integrated Judicial Training Programs

AMAG authorities have conducted an in-depth institutional assessment, and prepared a strategic plan that allows
it to play a major role in the delivery of justice services in Peru. The Project will provide the required technical
assistance to redefine the "business processes" of the AMAG. The overall goal of these activities will be to help
the AMAG to shift its focus from just training judges to become a part of a justice services modernization
process, by first defining how performance should be improved and then designing courses to achieve that end.
Through Project-financedactivities AMAG will reach out other training providers, particularly in outlying project
districts so that AMAG merely helps to organize courses and events, rather than provide direct implementation.

Training i s an integral element of the professional development of tenuredjudges. It should be consistent with the
job profiles adopted and the periodic evaluations of the incumbents. M A G , in close coordination with the
Judiciary and CNM should design and implement integrated training programs for judges. The project will
provide the required financing for the following activities:

9   Participatory assessment of current training policies and procedures, and identification of short and medium-
    term trainingneeds, basedon thejob profiles adopted.




                                                            43

    Development of an integrated curricular plan that will comprise four categories of training (induction
    programs, specialized programs, promotion courses, and updating seminars) as the basis of the judges'
    professional development within a modernjudicial career system.

    Implementation of innovative training methodologies, such as: (a) part-time training programs and self-study
    techniques, and online tutoring; (b) modern training materials like manuals for judges of various levels of
    jurisdiction Cjustice of the peace and specialized judges in civil, labor and family law); (c) practical exercises
    databases that facilitate "moot court" case simulations; (d) capacity-building facilitators and periodic
    encounters to exchange experiences on conflict resolution; and (e) research directed to justice services
    improvement.

    Adoption of a training impact evaluation system, on the basis of the performance indicators established for
    eachjob profile, interms ofjustice services delivery and customer satisfaction.

    Mechanisms to involve the public and private university system and other superior education institutions
    through the direct provision of training services, and development of modern methodologies and materials.

2.3 IntegratedJudicialHumanResourcesManagement

Four areas are proposed for further human resources management work by the Judiciary: (a) a new role for the
judge as active manager of his or her cases; (b) a career for administrative and auxiliary staff, including training,
profiles, and evaluation and incentive systems; (c) experimentation with different courtroom staffing patterns; and
(d) medium and long-term services demandchallenges (revised jurisdictional rules, dejudicialization incentives).
The Project will also finance the improvement of the statistical databases on caseloads, individual and court
performance, and users profiles (for instance, to determine where the users come from as an indication of
adequacy of geographic placement).

The piecemeal approach to human resources management that prevailed in the past has to be overcome to ensure
the sustainability of the improvement of justice services delivery. The judicial authorities are committed to
.
establish the required systems and the project will support their plans for:

    Developing an integrated human resources management system that comprises: (a) a salary scale on the basis
    of the revised job profiles and labor market studies, and incentive system (in cash or in kind) related to the
    professional development and periodic performance reviews of judges, auxiliary and administrative
    personnel; (b) the number of judges, auxiliary and administrative personnel needed in the judicial districts on
    the basis of an analysis of judicial workload, population density and particular features of specialized
    jurisdictions and judicial districts; (c) participatory updating of Personnel Allocation Charts (Cuadros de
    Asignacidn de Personal CAPS)and Personnel Allocation Budgets (Presupuestosde Asignacidn de Personal
                              -
    - PAPS);(d) provision of technical assistanceto design a more flexible legal framework that allows dynamic
.   assignment of human resourcesaccording to the evolution of demand andjudicial system productivity.

    designing a human resource information system that incorporates all existing databases into a single database
    containing updated information about judges, auxiliary and administrative personnel, their professional
    development and periodic performance reviews (including location, functions, training, evaluations,
    promotions and sanctions).

Peruvian legislation clearly differentiates between judges and other judicial staff in a way that no specific rules
provide for the selection, evaluation and promotion of auxiliary and administrative staff. Even worse the AMAG
only provides training for judges, thus depriving judicial staff of critical training opportunities required for the
timely delivery of justice services. To address this issue, the Project will finance the overall modernization of
human resource management of auxiliary and administrative personnel at the level of the central offices and
deconcentrated human resourcesunits of the Judiciary, includingtraining plans.This assistancewill comprise: (a)
review of the current policies and practices for the selection, evaluation, and promotion of auxiliary and
administrative personnel, and preparation of proposals for a revised framework consistent with a modern career
system; (b) definition of revised job profiles for auxiliary and administrative personnel; (c) identification of
                                                         44

appropriate selection, evaluation and promotion criteria and procedures for auxiliary and administrative
personnel; and (d) development of specific training programs for auxiliary and administrative staff.

Project Component 3 US$2.1 Million
                         -
Enhanced Access to Justice
(14.0 percent of total Project cost)

3.1 Accountability and Integrity. Lack of accountability and integrity is one of the major barriers to access to
justice. This subcomponent aims to: (a) strengthen the capacity of the Judiciary to sanction serious incidents of
corruption by ensuring that internal control bodies are equipped with effective investigative tools for the
identification of responsible actors; (b) establish inter-institutional coordination mechanisms to bringtogether the
unitsin charge of curbing administrative corruption in thejustice sector; (c) develop partnerships with CSOs and
the public in general to encourage their oversight of judicial bodies; and (d) promote an ethical value system
amongjudicial personnel that requires from them the highest ethical standards.

Strategic Planning. The project will finance the development and implementation of the Judiciary's
comprehensive strategic plan to address the major corruption issues through specific actions, including: (a)
strengthening of the control organs of the Judiciary through: (i)    establishment of anti-corruption, and assets and
income investigations units in OCMA; (ii)     adoption of a single operational manual for OCMA and ODICMAs;
(iii)development of appropriate IT infrastructure for OCMA and ODICMAs; (iv) strengthening of the Inspectoria
General del Poder Judicial, the unit in charge of internal auditing; (b) transparency enhancement of the Judiciary
by: (i) evaluating existing IT support for the dissemination of information; and (ii)  establishing revamped portals
for relevant jurisdictional and administrative information; (c) appropriate training on corruption issues for judges,
and other judicial staff; (d) development of an incentive program to reward integrity of judicial officials; (e)
adoption and dissemination of the ethical norms applicable to judicial officials, like and Ethics Code, together
with the establishment of national and regional councils to ensure their enforcement; and (f) inter-institutional
agreements with other State institutions and CSOs for the fight against corruption.

Business Community Involvement. This subcomponent will also seek the involvement of members of the
business community-financial      intermediaries, accountants, real estate dealers, etc.-who    cam provide reliable
information on illicit financial transactions as part of special "due diligence" procedures required by anti-
corruption laws. These business actors have developed their own internal rules to comply with the revised legal
framework and regular exchanges of information with judicial authorities are critical to ensure consistent
approaches. Similarly frequent cooperation and exchanges of information with foreign anti-corruption agencies
will be requiredas part of bank and tax disclosures, and evidence collection.

3.2 Pro-poor Access to Justice Services

Legal Aid Services. The project will strengthen the capabilities of MINJUS to provide and regulate accessible
legal aid services to the poor, through: (a) the design and implementation of user-centered service delivery
strategies and mechanisms including: (i)     training programs for legal aid providers; (ii)   development of basic
statistical systems to monitor performance and user demand patterns; (iii)       carrying out of an evaluation of the
feasibility of innovative approaches to service delivery; (iv) preparation of proposals for a fee system consistent
with socio-economic profiles of users; (v) impact evaluation of services delivered; (vi) needs assessment of users
demands for these services, including small civil works of center facilities and innovative legal aid and
conciliation service delivery, such as indigenous language interpreter programs; and (vi) analysis and case studies
of best practices in service delivery; and (b) the creation of a network of public and private legal aid and
conciliation services providers focused on sustainability, including an organizational mapping and training for
CSO providers.

Alternative Methods for Conflict Resolution. The Project will also support MINJUS in the preparation of a
series of policy recommendations aimed at improving current ADR or proposing new alternatives, including: (a)
strengthening of the institutionalcapacity of the Technical Secretary for Conciliation Services (Secretaria Tbcnica
de Conciliacidn); (b) the development of information systems compatible with the Judiciary databases to enable
access to basic case information; (c) carrying out of quantitative and qualitative analysis of cases involving the
                                                           45

application of the Ley de Conciliacidn to determine case and user profiles; (d) in-depth assessment of the
organization and operation of existing conciliation centers; (e) surveys of clients of conciliation centers,
conciliators, and court staff to assess the operational impact of the new law; (f) development of a communication
strategy for the promotion of ADR; and, (g) the development of training programs for judges, users and potential
users of ADR.

Sector-wide strategy. The Project will provide MINJUS with technical assistance to develop proposals and
consensus around a coordinated sector-wide strategy for the justice sector, including consultations with the other
participatinginstitutions of the Project.

Community Justice Systems. To strengthen community justice systems that operate in rural and peri-urban low-
income communities through: (a) design and implementation of a training program for lay justices of the peace
and community leaders on subjects such as conciliation, human rights, intra-family violence, gender and youth,
and multiculturalism and customary law; (b) design and implementationofjoint programs for the strengthening of
the institutional and technical linkages between lay justices of the peace and first instance courts, including the
identification of bottlenecks that affect access to justice and propose operational solutions; and (c) provision of
equipment and supplies to meet the basic needs of layjustices of the peace inrural communities.

FirstInstance Courts. The Project will support the improvement of the quality of services deliveredby the first
instance courts through: (a) the development of client responsive policies and operational procedures; (b) the
production and dissemination of educational materials on basic legal rights and the protection of such rights
through the court system; (c) the development of a court interpreters/translators program in indigenous languages
in the selectedjudicial districts; (d) establishment of customer orientation offices; (e) development of websites
and help-desks; (f) optimization of customer service schedules; (g) the implementation of training programs for
judges and court personnel inconciliation methods, gender and multiculturalism andpro-poor service delivery.

Family Related Disputes. Given the prevalence of family relateddisputes, the complexity of these cases, and the
ad hoc response provided by the Judiciary, the family courts are an important intervention area for the proposed
Project. The Project will finance: (a) carrying out of case studies that have been identified as deserving special
attention (e.g. marital separation, child custody and support, and intra-family violence, based on empirical
evidence collected by the "Users and Uses Study" and the Social Assessment and Gender Assessment (see
Annexes 11and 12); (b) development and implementation of an inventory and referral system in the family courts
in connection with existing and potential public and private providers of social services; and (c) operational
training in best practices on service delivery models in Family Courts and thematic training for family courts
staff andjustices of the peace inhuman rightsand gender equality, includinginternational best practice.

3.3 Public outreach andstrategic alliances

In addition to improving the quantity and quality of services, access tojustice requires makingbasic information
available to the public about the functioning of sector institutions. An important element of the sector's response
to negative public opinion will be to maintain a more open and fluid relationshipwith civil society. Duringproject
preparation, the Bank played an important role in bringing civil society and the Judiciary together in the
identification of priority areas for support. CSOs, bar associations, law schools, and grass-roots indigenous
groups, along with the participating institutions, will continue this effort through the monitoring of the project as
well.

This subcomponent will follow a three-pronged approach to raising awareness among the Peruvian population
about the value of an independent, competent and equitable justice system, in particular the Judiciary. First, it will
seek to inform and educate the public about their rights and the mechanisms available through the justice sector,
using Spanish and indigenous languages. Second, it will support strategic alliances between justice sector
institutions and civil society. To achieve these objectives, the Project will finance technical assistance for: (a)
dialogue and other informational encounters with stakeholders around reform issues; (b) design and
implementation of a training programdirected at media understanding onjustice sector issues; and (c) training on
change managementwithin the Judiciary.

                                                         46

.   Specifically, the project will support participatory social evaluations of the services provided by justice sector
    institutions through: (a) organization of workshops on realities and perceptions about justice services
    involving justice sector operators and community representatives; and (b) preparation of case studies by
.   subject matter jurisdiction.

    Provision of public information and legal education about the justice sector. Dissemination of information to
    the public, with a focus on indigenous populations, will include consultations with community leaders, local
    authorities and representatives of grassroots organizations in order to determine the best form to serve the
    information needs of the community. Subjects of public outreach activities will likely include (but are not

.   limited to) the following: (a) basic legal rights; and (b) publication of statistics about the real costs ofjudicial
    processes.

    Strengthening of the communications function of the Judiciary will include: (a) revision of the Judiciary's
    internal and external communications policies and procedures, design and implementation of an institutional
    communications strategic plan, and establishment of strategic alliances with critical sector actors; (b)
    restructuring of the institutional image and press offices of the Judiciary, establishment of the official
    spokesperson position to provide citizens and the media with relevant judicial information, and (c)
.   establishment of inter-institutional linkages on accessto justice.

    Carrying out a pilot cultural change program with two specific activities: (a) a program to facilitate the
    insertion of the judicial system in selected communities within any of the four selectedjudicial districts, that
    will include periodic working sessions of judges and other judicial staff with representatives of different
    social and economic groups within each community, aimed at solving concrete problems in terms of justice
    service delivery; and (b) periodic statistical analysis of main cases affecting the same communities.


Project Component 4      -US$1.4Million
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
(9.3 percent of total Project cost)

A small project coordination unit (PCU) will be responsible for the administration of procurement, disbursement
and financial management matters of this operation. The PCU will report directly to General Manager's Office of
the Judiciary. The PCU will also be in charge of project monitoring and evaluation, and each participating
institution (CNM, AMAG and MINJUS) will assign a liaison to the PCU for the purposes of implementation. A
National Steering Committee, comprising high-level representatives of each of the four participating institutions,
will provide policy oversight and guidance to the Project, and will be chaired by the President of the Supreme
court.

To strengthen the management, monitoring and evaluation capabilities of the Participating Institutions and
selected project districts, the Project will finance: (i)
                                                        provision of technical assistance and training to the national
and local staff of the Judiciary for the carrying out of Project activities; (ii) strengthening PCU's administrative
and operational capabilities; (iii)carry out Project financial audits; (iv) establishment of monitoring and
evaluation arrangements through: (A) carrying out of Project monitoring and effective consensus-building
activities; (B) carrying out of diagnostic assessments of Participating Institutions, surveys, and annual evaluation
reports of the Judiciary and the selectedproject districts; and (C) the organization of semi-annual workshops with
staff of ParticipatingInstitutions and selectedproject districts.




                                                          47

                                      Annex 3
                     PERU- Justice Services ImprovementProject
                               Estimated Project Costs


              Project Cost by Component                -----------------Foreign
                                                            Local                    Total
                                                                        US $ million--------

Improved Justice Services Delivery                              7.1         1.3         8.4
Modern Human ResourcesProfessional Development                  2.6         0.0         2.6
Enhanced Access to Justice                                      2.0         0.0         2.0
Project Management                                              1.3         0.0          1.3
Total Baseline Cost                                           12.9          1.3        14.3

Physical Contingencies                                        0.31         0.04        0.35
Price Contingencies                                           0.28         0.05        0.33

Total Project Costs                                           13.6          1.4      15.00
Front-end Fee                                                              0.12         0.1
Total Financing Required                                       13.6        1.52        15.1

               Project Cost by Category

Works                                                         0.64          0.0        0.64
Goods                                                          1.83        1.31        3.14
Consultants' services                                          8.83         0.0        8.83
Training                                                       11.29                   1.29
OperatingCosts                                                 0.42         0.0        0.42

Total Project Costs                                          13.01         1.31        15.0
Front-end Fee                                                                            0.1
Total Financing Required                                                               15.1




                                         48

                                   Annex 4
                   PERU-Justice Services Improvement Project
                             Financial Summary

                          Years EndingDecember 31
                           (Millions of US Dollars)


                      2004   2005     2006     2007    2008     Total
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs  4.5    6.9       2.7     0.6        0.3     15.0
  Recurrent Costs
Total Project Costs 4.5    6.9       2.7     0.6        0.3     15.0
Front-end Fee       0.1                                          0.1
Total Financing     4.6    6.9       2.7     0.6        0.3     15.1

Financing
  IBRD              3.7    5.4       2.1     0.5        0.2     11.9
  Government        0.9     1.5      0.6     0.1        0.1      3.2
TOTAL PROJECT       4.6    6.9       2.7     0.6        0.3     15.1
FINANCING




                                     49

                                                     Annex 5
                                   PERU - Justice Services ImprovementProject
                                   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements

Procurement

I. ProcurementArrangements

Procurement of works and goods for the Project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised
January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and the employment of Consultants in accordancewith
the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January
1997 (revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002), and the provisions of the Loan Agreement.

A.      Procurement methods

The procurement methods and the respective estimated amounts are summarized below in Table A. The contract
values for the use of each procurementlselection methodare presentedinTable B.

Procurement of Works. No major civil works will be financed during project implementation. Minor works to
be procured under this project will consist of the refurbishment of existing courtroom infrastructure so as to
improve the functionality of model court layouts and to make operational the filing systems for document
reception and handling at the central offices and Selected Judicial Districts. For such purposes, contracts
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent but less than $5.0 million equivalent, per contract, will be procured under
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Contracts with estimated prices below $250,000 equivalent per
contract will be procuredunder Small Works procedures (PSW).
Procurement of Goods. Goods and services procured under this project will include office equipment, furniture
and information technology equipment (computers, printers, servers, software), totaling US$ 3.5 million
equivalent. To the extent possible, procurement of goods will be grouped in packages with estimated values of
US$500,000 equivalent or more and contracted with the use of International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures and Bank standard bidding documents. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 500,000 equivalent
but more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$3 million shall be procured
with the use of NCB and standard bidding documents agreed upon with the Bank. Contracts for procurement of
goods which cannot be grouped into larger biddingpackages and with estimated prices of US$lOO,OOO equivalent
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$2 million, may be procured usingInternational or National
Shopping (IS or NS) procedures based on obtaining at least three quotations from qualified domestic contractors
and the use of a modelrequest to invite for quotations, agreedupon with the Bank.

Selection of Consultants. Consulting services for the employment of firms and individuals will be contracted
under this project in the following areas of expertise: (i)  studies on planning, management, monitoring and
evaluation, and selection and evaluation of staff studies; (ii)
                                                              court administration and court operations; and (iii)
software development and training. These services are estimated to cost US$10.5 million equivalent and will be
procured usingBank's Standard Request for Proposals for selection of firms and standard documentation agreed
upon with the Bank for selection of individual consultants.

Firms. All contracts for hiringof consultant firms estimated at US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more will be procured
using Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). Small and simple contracts estimated to cost less than
US$lOO,OOO equivalent will be procured using the QCBS or Consultant Qualifications (CQ) or Least Cost (LC)
methods, up to an aggregateamount of US$7.6 million equivalent.

Individuals.Specialized advisory services, inter alia, such as legal andjudicial reformproposals, communication
plans and PCU's staff responsible for overall coordination, monitoring and evaluation and administrative support
will be provided by individual consultants. These consultants will be selectedby a comparison of qualifications of
at least three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregateamount of US$2.9 million.
                                                        50

Operational Costs. Incremental recurrent costs to be incurred will be those neededfor the operation of the PCU,
seminars and workshops related costs, such as materials, per diem and transportation, totaling US$0.23 million
equivalent. Whenever possible, they will be procured following NS procedures.

1.       Priorreview thresholds

The proposed thresholds for prior review are based primarily on the findings of the capacity assessment exercise
carried out in the Judiciary during project appraisal and the past performance of the unit to be involved in project
implementation. They have been summarized in Table B per each type of procurement contract. In addition to
prior review of individual procurement actions, the Project Procurement Plan will be reviewed and approved
annually by the Bank.

B.       Assessmentof the Agency's Capacityto ImplementProcurement

The latest Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was completed in September 2001. The report
identified several weaknesses and risks with regard to management of procurement in Peru. According to the
report, the risks associated with public procurement are marginally high due to several discrepancies in the local
framework conceming regulations and procedures, which deviate from international procurement standards and
practices. Such deviations include a lack of local standard bidding documents; insufficient knowledge in most
public agencies concerning the use of Bank guidelines and procedures, and most importantly, the absence of
procurement planning, monitoring and information tools at the Project implementation stage. These weaknesses
have often led to failures in meeting procurement deadlines, rejections of contract proposals and, in some cases,
complaints and objections from bidders. The streamlining of current procurement procedures for the procurement
of works and goods, and the incorporation of specific consultancy standards are both needed to increase the
transparency and efficiency of public procurement.

As part of project preparation, an Agency Capacity Assessment of the Judiciary -as the agency responsible for
project implementation- was carried out on the week of September 1,2003. It aimed at determining the agency's
capacity to administer procurement functions.         Both the report of findings and a relevant procurement
improvement action plan were cleared by the RPA. This exercise assigned a risk assessment level for
administration of procurement functions that was also used to estimate the effort required for supervision,
including the frequency of supervision missions. Overall risk level assignedi s AVERAGE.

Procurement issues identified as potentially affecting project implementation include: (i)the possibility of
political interference in the management`of procurement processes; (ii)     lack of experience in management of
Bank-financed projects; and (iii) lack of a project management information system for preparationand issuanceof
Financial Management Reports (FMRs).

Project design has taken into account these factors and will attempt to mitigate them by: (i) project staff on
                                                                                              hiring
the basis of qualifications and experience, including experienced procurement staff so as to ensure overall
procurement coordination and provision of guidance and technical assistance to project executing
unitsheneficiary agencies; (ii) usingdetailed annual procurement plans for increased forward planning, adequate
project monitoring and effective Bank supervision; (iii)  providing adequate training to the PCU staff in order to
avoid the occurrence of procurement deviations and; (iv) implementing a project management information system
that enables preparation and issuing of project and financial management reports in a timely and systemic manner.
All of these actions are included inthe Procurement ImprovementAction Plan agreed with the Judiciary's PCU.

C.       ProcurementPlan

The Borrower developed a global procurement plan for project implementation lifetime which provided the basis
for contract grouping, project costing, aggregate amounts, and identification of procurement and selection
methods to be used (per Table A). This plan was reviewed and cleared by the RPA Office and i s available in
project files. The PCU also submitted a detailed procurement planwhich shall provide the framework for the first
year of project implementation.
                                                        51

Duringproject implementation, the ParticipatingInstitutionsand Bankteam will meet periodically to review and
assess progress achieved in executing the procurement plan. This plan will be updated and submitted to the Bank
for prior review and no objection on an annual basis prior to the onset of each year of project implementation.
Upon delivery of no objection, the Borrower shall advertise the agreed plan in Development Business,
newspapers and other publishing sources, as the case may be. The Borrower shall not take any action on
procurement before agreementon the plan content i s reachedwith the Bank team.

D.        Frequency of Procurement Supervision Missions

It i s recommended that the Bank carry out procurement supervision yearly in order to ensure that the pace of the
Project implementation reflects satisfactory, especially during the first year of project implementation. Missions
for the supervision of procurement should be also made during the first year, as well as during critical point of
project implementation. Before implementation gets started, the Bank will assist the PCU in the upstart activities
by identifying and providing training opportunities to key staff in procurement under Bank guidelines and
procedures.

Prior review

Table B summarizes procurement arrangements per type of contract category and provides thresholds for prior-
review. These latter are consistent with the risk assessment level assignedin accordance with the outcomes of the
agency procurement capacity assessment performed to the PCU, and with revised thresholds issued by the RPA
Office for LCR Countries.

Post Review Ratio

In addition to prior-review supervision tasks to be carried out by field-assigned Bank staff, the capacity
assessment of the PCU has recommended one supervision mission every twelve months, including one post
review mission of procurement actions a year. Based on the overall risk assessment, the post-review ratio should
cover a field sample of not less than 1in 10signedcontracts.

This ratio may be adjusted during project implementation depending on the performance of the agency and the
results of the reviews.
                    High
                    Average
                    Low

Procurementmethods (Table A)

                             Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                             (US$ million equivalent)




Note:     "Other" = small civil works, international and national shopping, consultants' services and operational
costs related to managingthe Project.

                                                        52

N.B.F. =Non-Bank Financed. This includes elements procured under parallel co-financing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). A detailed
description of procedures to be followed will be included inthe Operational Manual of the Project.


                                 Table A l : Consultant Selection Arrangements
                                             (US$ million equivalent)

        Consultant                                 Selection Method                             Total
        Services         QCBS        QBS       SFB        L C S    CQ       Other     N.B.F. Cost
        A. Firms           6.7 1                          0.16      1.34                          8.2
        B.Individuals                                                        2.35                 2.35
                 Total     6.71                           0.16     1.34      2.35                 10.55


Note:   QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
        QBS = Quality-Based Selection
        SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
        LCS = Least-Cost Selection
        CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
        Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
        Practices, etc.
        N.B.F.=Not Bank-Financed

        Figures inparenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.

                       Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

            Expenditure              Contract Value            Procurement       Contracts Subject to
               Category                Threshold                 Method               Prior Review
                                    (US$ thousands)                                 (US$ thousands)
        1.CivilWorks             $5,000 or more                   ICB            All

                                 $250 or more but less            NCB            Each contract
                                 than $5,000                                     estimated to cost
                                                                                 $350 equivalent or
                                                                                 more

                                 less than $250                   PSW            Firsttwo contracts
        2. Goods                 $500 or more                     ICB            All

                                 $100 or more but less            NCB            Each contract
                                 than $500                                       estimated to cost $350

                                I                                                equivalent or more

                                 less than $100         I          NS           IFirsttwo contracts

        3. Consultants'
        Services

        3.1 Firms                $100 or more                     QCBS           All TORS,short lists
                                                                                 (including full review
                                                                                 of technical and
                                                                                 combined evaluations)

                                                        53

                                                                                and draft contract of
                                                                                each contract
                                                                                estimated to cost $250
                                                                                equivalent or more.

                                less than $100              QCBS, LCS, CQ       TORs and annual
                                                                                review of the selection
                                                                                plan for contracts
                                                                                 estimated to cost less
                                                                                than $100equivalent
                                                                                Post review of random
                                                                                 sample of contracting
                                                                                documents

       Individuals              $50 or more                        IC           TOR, CVs and form
                                                                                 of contract of each
                                                                                contract estimated to
                                                                                cost $100 equivalent
                                                                                 or more

                                less than $50                      IC            TORs and annual
                                                                                 review of the selection
                                                                                 planfor eachcontract
                                                                                 costing $100
                                                                                 equivalent or less, and
                                                                                 first two contracts

                                                                                 Post review of random
                                                                                 sample of contracting
                                                                                 documents




                       Total value of contracts subject to prior review:       6.7 million


11.    Disbursements

A.     Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)

The proposed allocation of proceeds of the loan i s shown inTable C. Disbursements will be made for works,
goods and services which have been procuredonly from eligible sources and according to the Bank's
Procurement and Consultants' guidelines.




                                                       54

                                        Table C:Allocationof Loan Proceeds




B.      Financial ManagementAssessment

The financial management system in the PCU relating to the Project has been reviewed by the Bank Financial
Management Specialist under OP/BP 10.02, and the proposed arrangements are sound. The full assessment is
available in the Project files. As a result of the assessment, a time-bound action plan has been proposed and
discussed with the Project. Successful implementation of the action plan will ensure adequate financial
management arrangementsprior to effectiveness.

During appraisal, the PCU presented a draft Operational Manual, which articulates the proposed arrangements.
The Project will be implemented in accordance with the National System of Control, which is regulated by the
Controller General of the Republic and the National System of Accounting, which i s regulated by the Accountant
General of the Republic.

To mitigate risks identified during appraisal, the following measures have been proposed and included in the
Financial Management Action Plan: (1) Execution of inter-institutional arrangements between the PCU and other
Participating Institutions that outline the responsibility for makingcounterpart funds available and for compliance
with financial, accounting and disbursement procedures; (2) Hiring of key professional staff; (3) Providing
adequate training to the PCU staff in bank financial management and disbursement procedures (4) The PCU to
explore the option of implementationof the nationalintegrated management system, SIAF.

C.      DisbursementMechanisms

Disbursements will be in accordance with the Bank's Disbursement Procedures for transaction-based
disbursements. All applications to withdraw the proceeds of the loan will be fully documented, except for
contracts not subject to prior review for which reimbursement will be made against certified statement of
expenditures (SOEs). The PCU will be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications and SOEs to be
submitted to the Bank. This documentation will be retained along with all other supporting documentation for
review by Bank supervision missions and independent accredited auditors.

Specialaccount:

One account in US dollars will be openedby the Borrower for the Project inBunco de la Nacio'n.This account
will be managedby the PCUand funds will be used for expenditures relatedto the procurement of goods, works,
services and training and operating costs. Special account authorized allocation will be USD1,000,000, but
limitedto USD500,OOO untildisbursements reach USD2,500,000 for expenditures relatedto categories 1-5 of
Table C. Deposits into the Special Account and replenishments up to the authorized allocation set out inthe legal
agreement would be made on the basis of applications for withdrawals prepared by the PCUand accompanied by
the supporting documentation in accordancewith Bank disbursementprocedures.



                                                           55

FinancialReporting

Beginning, no later than six months after effectiveness, the Borrower will prepare consolidated semi-annual
FMRs for the purpose of reportingproject implementationbut not as a requirement for disbursements. The FMRs
will comprise:

    0   A financial section specifyingsources and applications of project resources and a statement of investment
        by project component reportingthe current quarter and the accumulated operations against ongoing plans.

    0   An output monitoring section that: (i)   describes physical progress in the implementation of the Project,
        both cumulative and for the period covered by the report; and (ii)     explains variances between the actual
        and previously forecast implementation targets.

    0   A procurement section setting forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under
        contracts financed out of the proceedsof the loan, as of the end of the period covered by the report.

Audit Arrangements

The Borrower will provide the Bank with financial statements and audits annually for the PCU. Project accounts,
including contracts and their modifications and amendments, as well as the deposits and withdrawals from the
Special Account and the use of SOEs will be audited each year by an independent auditing firm acceptable to the
Bank and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which will include a management letter on the
internal control structure. Annual audit reports with the related statements will be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. All supporting records will be maintained at the Project site
for at least one year after the completion of the Project. The Bank's audit guidelines would be used by the
Borrower in determining the format and content of the annual financial statements and in preparing the audit
TORS.The Borrower and the Bank agreed duringnegotiations on the timetable for the appointment process of the
auditors. The costs of the Project audits are subject to financing under loanproceedsunder category 3.

       AuditReport                                           DueDate
        Entity                                               Not required, the entity i s the Judiciary which
                                                             i s covered by the Project audit
        Project                                              Annual within 6 months of Fiscal Year closing
        SOE                                                  Annual within 6 months of Fiscal Year closing
        Special Account                                      Annual within 6 months of FiscalYear closing




                                                           56

                                             Annex 6
                            PERU-Justice Services Improvement Project
                                     ProjectProcessing Schedule

Project Schedule                                       Actual

Time taken to prepare the Project (months)               22
FirstBank mission(identification)                    12/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                          11/25/2003
Negotiations                                         01/26/2004
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        03/31/2004

Prepared by:Judiciary, MINJUS, CNM, AMAG incollaborationwith the BankTask Team

Preparationassistance: PHRDGrant No. 026738

Bankstaff who worked on the Projectincluded:

                    Name                                           Specialization

               DavidF.Varela                                Task TeamLeader, LCCVE
              Lisa L.Bhansali                               Task Team Leader, LCSPS
             LinnHammergren                     Senior Public Sector Management Specialist, LCSPS
             TeresaGenta-Fons                                 Senior Counsel, LEGLA
             Robert Buergenthal                               Peer Reviewers, LEGJR
              RichardMessick                                  Peer Reviewer, PRMPS
               Waleed Malik                                   Peer Reviewer, LCSPS
              Keisgner Alfaro                                 Procurement, LCOSU
             PatriciaMcKenzie                            FinancialManagement, LCOSU
               Xiomara Morel                                  Disbursements, LOAG3
          Jorge LuisArchimbaud                                    Country Officer
             Ana MariaAngulo                                    ProgramAssistant
             Sharon D. Spriggs                                  ProgramAssistant
             Roberto Mac Lean                               Consultant, Judicial Reform
                Tirza Rivera                               Consultant, Judicial Training
                Oscar F16rez                         Consultant, Court and Case Management
                 Javier Said                         Consultant, Court and Case Management
              KatherinaMuller                   Consultant, Judicial Human ResourcesManagement
              Maria ElenaRuiz                             Consultant, Social Assessment
               Veena Mayani                                Consultant, Access to Justice
                 NoraLuzi                                  Consultant, Access to Justice
             Virgilio Hernandez                             Consultant, Anticorruption
            Javier Madalengoitia                              Consultant, Operations
          MilenaSanchez de Boado                       Consultant, Public Sector Management




                                                57

                                               Annex 7
                              PERU-Justice Services ImprovementProject
                                      Documents inthe Project File

A.   Project ImplementationPlan

1.   Improved Service Delivery Component

     a.     Strategic Management Subcomponent

            National Consultant: Mr.Rodolfo Calder6n (Judicial Governance)

            International Consultant: Mr.LuisOspina (Judicial Governance)


    b.      Court Administration Subcomponent

            National Consultant: Mr. Jose Lock Gaviria (Work Plan, Decentralization Proposal, Normative
            Analysis, Advance ImplementationPlan, ImplementationPlan)

            International Consultant: Mr.Fernando Grafe

     C.     Court Operations Subcomponent

            National Consultant: Mr. Fernando Barrios (Work Plan, Situational Report, Analysis and
            Evaluation Report, Proposals Report)

            International Consultant: Mr.Alfonso Reyes (Analysis of Current Situation, Proposals,
            Implementation Plan)


2.  Judicial HumanResourcesProfessional Development Component

     a.     Judicial Academy Activities

            International Consultant: Ms. Tirza Rivera (Current Situation, Analysis, Proposals to Strengthen
            the Judicial Academy, Project Implementation Plan, Strengthening of Judges Training Program)

    b.      Judicial Council Activities

            International Consultant: Ms. Katherine Muller (Work Plan, Current Situation of the Judicial
            Council,
            Analysis and Evaluation, Proposals for the Improvement of the Judicial Council within the
            Framework of a Human Resource System for the Judiciary)

3.  Enhanced Access to Justice Component

    a.      Participation Strategies

            International Consultant: Ms. Katherine Muller (Work Plan, Advance Report for the Liaison
            Activities Betweenthe Judiciary RestructuringCommission andthe Project Team, Possible Areas
            of Cooperation, Report on Thematic and Methodological Proposals for the Inter-institutional
            Coordination inthe Justice Sector)


                                                  58

b.  Communications Strategies

    National Consultant: Santiago Pedraglio (Communications Strategy)


B.  BankStaffAssessments

    Institutional Assessment
    Social Assessment
    Gender Assessment
    Project Concept Document (various drafts and final version)
    Project Information Document (various drafts and final version)
    Back to Office Reports from various missions:
             - Identification Missions
             -- PreparationMissions
                Appraisal Mission

C.  Other Documents

    Gonzales Mantilla, Gorki. "El secret0 de la ratijicacidn y la subordinacidn como consigna: el juez
    fingible". Published inRevista Juridica del Peru',Year LIII,No. 47, June 2003, ps. 129-153.

    MacLean, Roberto. "Reformar la Justicia, ide que se trata? (Explicacionesjuridicus sobre el amor, para
    reformadores entusiastas,jueces valientes, legisladores responsables, juristas perceptivos y abogados
    empeiiosos)".Paperto be publishedby UniversidadAuthoma de MCxico.

    MacLean, Roberto. "Marc0 Referencial para Reformar el Sistema de Justicia en el Per#'. Lima, 2003.

    MacLean, Roberto. "Los Colegios de Abogados del Peru' y las Reformas a1 Sistema de Justicia". Lima,
    2003.

    MacLean, Roberto. "Una Justicia de Calidad: Un Gran reto Empresarial (Cdmo vencer la mutua
    desconfianzay estimular la comunicacidn)". Paper to be publishedinCADE. Lima, 2003.

    Interview to Mr. Roberto MacLean. "Los jueces deben liderar la Reforma". Published in Legal Express,
    Monthly Magazine of GacetaJuridica. Year 111,No. 27, Lima, March 2003, ps. 12-13.

    Clark, Jeffrey A. "Building on Quicksand: The Collapse of the World Bank's Judicial Reform Project in
    Peru". Publishedby the Lawyers Committee for HumanRights.New York, April 2000.

    Hammergren, L."The Fujimori Judicial Reforms: Breaking the Gordian Knot or Another TrojanHorse".
    Washington, 2001.

    Jimenez Mayor, Juan F. "El Acuerdo Nacional por la Justicia". International Discussion on the
    Experiences of Reform of the Justice Administration. Lima, August 21 - 22,2003.

    Contraloria General de la Repiiblica. "Estudiopara la Elaboracidn de un Plan Nacional de Lucha Contra
    la Corrupcidn en el Perd". Working Document No. 004-2000-CG/OATJ. Published in the Official
    Gazette. Lima, November 5, 2000.

    International Foundation for Election Systems (IFES) and US Agency for International Development
    (USAID). "Guia para Promover la Independencia Judicial y la Imparcialidad: Lecciones iniciales
    derivadasde iniciativas de Reforma realizadas en todo el Mundo". Lima, November 29,2001.

                                                  59

Concept Paper. "Conference on Latin American Judicial Reform: New Approaches to meeting the
Demandfor Justice".

Popkin, Margaret. "Informe Comparativosobre la Independencia Judicial enAme`rica Latina Presented
                                                                                              ".
at the "International Conference: Global, Regional and National Perspective". Lima, November 29-30,

IRIS Center Peru. "Modernizacidn del Sector Justicia". Lima, September 2003.
2001.


IRIS Center Peru. "Modemizacidn del Sistemade Justicia Comercial". Lima, September2003.

Florez, Oscar. "Rejlexiones sobre la reorientacidn de las inversiones en Informa`tica en el Poder Judicial
del Peru'". Lima, May 2003.

Guerrero, Gustavo. "Plan de RediseAode Procesos a1Interior de 10s Juzgados del Poder Judicial".
Lima, 2003.

"Plan Estrate`gico en Politica Anticorrupcidn y Etica Judicial". Lima, August 2003.

Operations Manual for the Justice Services ImprovementProject. Lima, 2003.

Procurement Plan for the Justice Services ImprovementProject. Lima, 2003.




                                                60

                                                                    Annex 8
                                                   PERU-Justice Services Improvement Project

                                                         Statementof Loansand Credits



                                                                                                           Difference Between
                                                                                                           Expectedand Actual
                                                          Original Amount in US$ Millions                   Disbursements a/
Project ID FY     Purpose                                        IBRD        IDA       GEF Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.      Frm Rev'd


  Proj ID
PO35740      2004 LIMA TRANSPORT PROJECT                            45                              45.00
PO65200      2001 GEF PE Indigenous Management Prot. Areas                             14.8          8.51   1.39
PO68250      2003 GEF PE PARTICIPATORY MGMT PROT AREAS                                              11.98   1.16
PO81834      2003 Lima Water RehabAdd'l Financii                    20                              20.00   1.80
PO08037      1997 PE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR F                         85                               7.26   7.26            6.82
PO60499      2000 PE Indigenous Peoples Develop1                     5                10.00          3.88   3.88            2.87
PO65256      2003 PE NATIONAL RURALWATER                            50                              49.25   7.50
PO47690      2000 PE RES. & EXTENSION                              9.6                               2.25  -7.35            2.25
PO44601      2001 PE SECOND RURAL ROADS PI                          50                              28.86   5.03
PO42442      1997 PE SIERRA NATURAL RESOUF                          51                               3.71   3.71
PO77788      2003 PE Trade Facil. and Prod. improj                  20                              20.00   1.11
PO39086      1999 PE URBAN PROPERTY RIGHT                           38                               4.40   4.40
PO55232      2003 PE- Rural Education                              52.5                             52.50
PO62932      2000 PE-HEALTH REFORM PROGRI                           27                              18.04  -8.96            -8.96


Overall Result                                                  453.1                  24.8        275.65  21.02            2.97




                                                                    61

                                      Peru
                                 Statement of IFC's
                             HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                 As of 913012003
                              (InUS Dollars Millions)


                                         Held                    Disbursed

FY Approval   Company         Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
         2000 Agrokasa           4.8       0      0     0   4.8     0     0     0
         1999 Alicorp             16       0     20 11.43    16     0    20 11.43
         2002 FTSA               7.5       0     1.5    0   7.5     0    1.5    0
         2002 Gloria              25       0      0     0     0     0     0     0
         2002 ISA Peru, SA     17.66       0      0   7.7 17.66     0     0   7.7
         2001 InkaTerra            5       0      0     0    5      0     0     0
         1997 Interbank-Peru       8       0      0     0     8     0     0     0
2002/03       Interseguro          0   0.59       0     0     0  0.59     0     0
         2000 Laredo            8.57       0      5     0  8.57     0     5     0
         1998 Latino Leasing    6.04   6.46       0     0  6.04  6.46     0     0
         2002 MIBANCO           2.33       0      0     0  2.33     0      0    0
         1999 Milkito            3.5       0     3.5    0   3.5     0    3.5    0
0184/91       Minera Regina        0       0      0     0     0     0     0     0
         2003 Norvial S.A.        18       0      0     0     0     0      0    0
         1998 Paramonga        13.17       0      0 11.12 13.17     0      0 11.12
         2001 PeruOEH              6       0      4     0     2     0     4     0
         1994 PeruPrvtzn Fund      0   9.65        0    0     0  9.65      0    0
         1994 PeruPrvtzn Mgmt      0       0      0     0     0     0      0    0
1993196/00/01 Quellaveco           0   0.75        0     0    0  0.72      0    0
         1999 RANSA             8.13       0       0     0 8.13     0      0    0
         2003 TIM Peru            70       0       0     0 7 0      0      0    0
         2001 Tecnofil S.A.      5.4       2       0     0  5.4     2      0    0
         2001 UPC                  7       0      0     0     7     0      0    0
1993194199    Yanacocha           20       0       0    35   10     0      0   35

         Total Portfolio:      252.1  19.45       34 65.25 195.1 19.42    34 65.25


              ApprovalsPendingCommitment
                              Loan Equity Quasi Partic
         2002 InkaTerra Swap    0.25       0       0     0

   Total PendingCommitment:     0.25       0       0     0




                                        62

                                                                Annex 9
                                        PERU-Justice Services Improvement Project
                                              Peru at a glance                                                                  9/16/03

                                                                   Latin    Lower-                                                     I
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              America    middle-
                                                         P e r u & Carib.  i n c o m e    Development diamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (miiiio ns)                            26.5      527         2,411
GNipercapita (Atlas method, US5)                                                                         Lifeexpectancy
                                                          2,060     3,280        1,390
GNi (Atlas method, US5 billions)                           54.7     1,727       3,352                           T

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population PA)                                               1.7       1.5          1.0
Laborforce rA)                                              2.9        2.2          1.2   GNI                                   Gross

M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996.02)                                  per     b--                          primary
                                                                                          capita                             nroliment
Poverty (% o f populationbelownationalpo vertyiine)          49
Urban population (%of totaipopuiation)                       73        76          49
Life expectancyat birth (years)                              69         71         69                           i
Infant mortality (per 1000live births)                       30        27           30
Child malnutrition (%of childrenunder5)                        8        9            11         Access to improvedwatersource
Access to an improved water source (%ofpopuiation)           77        86           81
Illiteracy (%ofpopulation age 254                              9        11          t3
Gross primary enroIiment (77 of schooI-agepopulation)       P8        0 0           111     am.+-*   Peru
   Male                                                     P8         t31          111              Lo wer-middle-income group
   Female                                                   P 7       P 6          1x)

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM T R E N D S
                                                  1982    1992      2001       2002
GDP (US$ billions)                                                                        E c o n o m i c ratios.
                                                   24.8    36.1      54.2         56.9
Gross domestic investment1GDP                      33.6     7.3       18.5         18.5
Exports of goods and services1GDP                  16.5     P.5       15.7         16.2                       Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                         30.5     14.4      16.7         7.5
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                             ..    P.2       16.5         16.6
Current account balanceIGDP                        -5.4    -5.8       -2.2         -2.1
Interest paymentslGDP                               2.4     0.9        2.1         2 2    Domestic                          Investment
Total debtlGDP                                     43.1    56.4      50.5        49.2     savings
Total debt servicelexports                         48.6    21.4      22.1        26.7
Present value of debtlGDP                                             51.9
Present value of debtlexports                                       283.6
                                                                                                           Indebtedness
                                      1982-92 1992-02    2001      2002 2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       -0.6      4.0     0.6        5.3         4.0       mliiIlIi, p*ru
GDP percapita                             -2.9      2.3     -1.1       3.6         2.4              - Lower-middle-income arouo
Exports of goods and services              -0.1     8.6     6.7        6.3         4.6


STRUCTURE o f the E C O N O M Y
                                                 1982     1992      2001       2002       Growth o f investment and GDP (%)
(%ofGDP)
Agriculture                                         6.6     7.7        7.7         7.6    20 T
Industry                                           35.2    26.8      25.9         27.6
  Manufacturing                                    30.3     16.1      14.3         B.8
Services                                           40.1    57.8      59.5         58.0

Private consumption                                58.4    77.7       72.1         71.7
Generalgovernment consumption                       11.0    7.9        11.2        10.9
Imports of goods and services                      19.5     15.5      17.5         72


                                               1982-92 1992-02      2001       2002
(average annualgro wth)                                                                   Growth o f exports and i m p o r t s (%)

Agriculture                                         1.7     6.2       -0.6         7.0    20
industry                                           -0.1     4.4        0.7         5.2    io
  Manufacturing                                    -0.3     3.2        -1.1        4.3
Services                                           -1.5     3.5        0.1         5.6     0

Private consumption                                -0.5     3.5        1.8         4.4    io
Generalgovernment consumption                      -2.1     4.8        0.3          1.6   20
Gross domestic investment                           -1.1    3.3       -7.4         7.3
Imports of goods and services                       0.o     5.4        2.7         2.5             *AM-    Exports   -Imp0     rts



Note 2002 data are preliminaryestimates
'Thediamonds showfourkey indicators inthecountry(1nbo1d)comparedwithitsincome-groupaverage If dataaremissing,thediamondwlll
   be incomplete




                                                                  63

                                                                 Annex 10
                                        PERU-Justice Services ImprovementProject
                                                        InstitutionalAssessment

I. OverviewofJusticeSectorInstitutions

Peru i s based on a traditional tripartite model of government with three autonomous branches of government
(Executive, Legislative and Judicial). Its justice sector developed like much of the rest of Andean South
America, with the Judiciary as the weakest of the three branches of government. The Constitution assigns the
Judiciary (and, in particular, the Supreme Court) the function of interpreting legislation or determining its
constitutionality, i.e. essentially confining it to conflict resolution and rule enforcement; it could not give
advisory opinions and was restricted to ruling on individual cases brought before it. Inthis system, indigenous
communities had very little role - they were either unaware of the legal systemor ignoredby it.

Peru's institutional settingremains among the region's most traditional. The court structure follows the typical
three-tier hierarchy: (i)       Supreme Court; (ii)         District Courts (Cortes Superiores); and (iii) of First
                                                                                                                Courts
Instance uuzgados de primera instuncia, juzgados especializados). The courts are concentrated in the urban
centers (the departmental capitals), with relatively few first instance judges in the provinces. The Judiciary i s
relatively small, with approximately 1,638 judges in a population of almost 26 million- a ratio of
approximately one judge per 16,000; its limited size has not allowed for a great deal specialization. Less
typical to the region, i s a large number of lay justices of the peace (Jueces de Paz No Letrados), roughly
4,700. However, they are unpaid, hear only minor disputes and are outside the formal judicial career. The
Supreme Court i s divided into six Chambers (Salus) and most lower instancejudges are assigned to criminal,
civil, family, or "mixed" jurisdictions. Where necessary the judiciary may establish are labor, administrative,
family and anticorruption courts. Administrative and support personnel average about 4.6 perjudge, far below
the regional norm.

Independence of Justice Sector Institutions

The 1993 PeruvianConstitution and applicable Organic Law established the Judiciary as a separate branch of
the government, independent of the Executive and the Legislature. The Constitution and applicable laws
provided safeguards for judicial independence, such as the prohibition of interference by other branches in
judicial proceedings, and guarantees of tenure and salary for judges. The Constitution also created three new
justice institutions: the Constitutional Tribunal), in charge of protecting fundamental rights; the CNM,
responsible for the selection and evaluation of judges; and the AM, entrusted with training activities for
judges.

Duringthe 1990s, justice sector agencies' were affected by serious political interference. In 1996 an interim
arrangement was established, purportedly to foster a "reform process," during an emergency period this
arrangement suspendedthe Judiciary's Organic Law and allowed for intervention by the Executive Branch in
the affairs of the Judicial Branch. Other sector institutions were similarly affected: (a) the CNM was prevented
from appointingjudges andwas limitedinthe exercise of its disciplinary powers; (b) AMAG management was
also subjected to Executive Branch intervention; (c) the Constitutional Tribunal ceased to operate after the
impeachment of three judges; and (d) the Attorney General's office was declared under a reform process that
transferred the incumbent's powers to a separate body. Judges and other judicial staff, bar associations, law
schools, or civil society were never consulted and generally opposed these measures.

The "emergency period", originally expected to end in 1996, was extended until end-2000. Some reform
proposals tried to focus on investments in computer technology and improved courtroom organization. Sector
planning concepts were introduced while achievements in the area of human resource management were
mixed. Potentially promising initiatives (the upgrading of courtroom and central administrative staff, efforts to
track courtroom performance and rationalize workloads, new work unit organization and practices) were only


  For a description of the role and responsibilities of sector agencies see Institutional Assessment Annex 10.
                                                                     64

partially implementedand, in some cases, undermined by political opportunism. Increased central control was
not accompanied by an ability to rationalize policy; a promised stage of decentralization never occurred.
Experimental restructurings were adopted without adequate evaluation, and imposed a standardized straight
jacket that made no allowances for jurisdictional or geographic needs.

11.      Institutional Structure

Peru's justice sector i s comprised of the following institutions: the Judiciary, constitutedby the Supreme Court
and lower courts; the MINJUS; the Public Ministry; CNM; AMAG; the Ombudsman's Office; and the
Constitutional Tribunal. A brief summary of the responsibilities of each institution follows.

The Judiciary i s headed by the Supreme Court, Superior Courts or Courts of Appeal, Specialized Courts or
Courts of First Instance, and Justices of the Peace (both professional and lay judges). The court system i s
distributed loosely according to the predetermined political subdivision of the country: there are 24
departments and 24judicial districts and two additional districts (Cono Sur and Chosica). The Supreme Court
serves the entire nation, while there i s a Superior Court in eachjudicial district. Under the Superior Courts
there are first instance courts and a number of Justices of the Peace.

AMAG is an autonomous unit within the Judiciary inchargedwith the training ofjudges and prosecutors at all
levels. Its Charter specifies three major purposes of training: (i) to prepare aspiringjudges and prosecutors for
judicial duties; (ii)upgrade skills and knowledge of existing judges eligible for and seeking promotion; and
(iii) continuinglegaleducationforalljudges.
     provide

CNM i s an autonomous institution established by the 1993 Constitution. Its mandate i s to select, appoint and
remove judges and prosecutors at all levels. With clear autonomy in the naming of judges, the CNM i s a key
element in assuring the independence of the Judiciary. The CNM directly appoints all judges, without any
Presidential or Congressional intervention. It i s also responsible for ratifying judges every seven years and is
endowed with the capacity to remove Supreme Courtjudges.

The Ombudsman's Office is a constitutional level office charged with the defense of the fundamental rights of
citizens and the supervision of compliance of the public sector with its legally defined responsibilities. An
autonomous body, elected for a five-year term by Congress, the Ombudsman i s required to submit an annual
report to Congress.

The Tribunal of Constitutional Guarantees adjudicates constitutional issues. It also has jurisdiction over legal
actions invoking constitutionally guaranteed rights whereby a citizen may allege the violation of such a right
by the authorities or by another private citizen.

MINJUS provides the link between the Executive and other branches of Government on all matters relatedto
the justice sector. As such, it is the Executive's arm for interacting with the Judiciary. The Public Ministry i s
incharge of criminal prosecution.

A.       Major Issues

1.       Unsatisfactory Service Delivery

Insufficient Financial resources. The budget process in Peru has traditionally neglected appropriate financial
support for the Judiciary. Compared with other Andean countries, Peru reflects the lowest per capita budget
allocated to the Judiciary (US$6.62m). Duringthe last five years, the Judiciary's share of the national budget
has fluctuated between 1.04 and1.23%. In 2003, personnel expenditures represented more than 70% of the
total budget while investment expenditures were limited to less than 2%. Currently, the Judiciary has limited
influence in the determination of its annual budget; MEF and the Budget Commission of Congress take major
decisions over expenditures affecting it. Civil society participation inthis process i s non-existent.



                                                        65

                                                                                           Judicial Budget by Source of
                                     Evolution of the
                                   Judiciary Budget                                                         Financing

               S/. Millions     ,___-- -.---.-                                                                             1
                                                 I

                    500                                                                                                       Resources

                    400                                                                                                       from the
                                                                                             14%     5%                       National Budget
                    300                                                                                                       Judiciaty's own

                     200                                                                                                      Resources
                                                                                                             81
                     100                                                                                     %              0Grants and

                           0                                                                                                  Remittances
                                                                                     I                                     ,                   'I
                               1 NationalBudget         I
                                 Judiciary Budget
                                                                                         Source: Judiciarv. Seotember 2003
           Source: Judiciary,September 2003.


 The Judiciary has not progressed with the rest of the Peruvian public sector agencies in such areas as budget
planning and execution, or resource generation capacity. Sector authorities have limited access to mechanisms
by which they can raise additional resources (in particular, from user fees) and show a reluctance to develop
new ones. Moreover, dependence on the national budget has continued to increase in the last few years. This
system may generate inequities in public spending; the Judiciary i s a costly service for.the State and certain
private parties could cover the costs (for instance financial institutions, a major user of the civil court system).
To achieve economic independence, the Judiciary must strengthen its capacity to obtain extra resources to use
those resourcesmore efficiently and to account for such use.




              Judiciary Budget by Expenditure,                                                   Plaintiffs in CommercialCases
                                              2003


                                          13% 1%


                                   37

                                                                                                 9.154

                                                  0 Goods and services                    1       I intermediationinstitutions
                                                                                                    BankdFinancial                                            1
                                                                                                    Enterwises
     A I O t h e r running costs                                            ~                     0 Industries
                                                  mother caoital exoenditured                     0Services rovidercompanies
                                                                                                    lndividuag

                                                                                 Source GONZALES GorA El SistemaJudicial en e1Peru Un Enfcque Politicoa partirde sus
                                                                                 Usosv BUS Usuarios Lima 2002


Major congestion and delays. In the Lima Judicial District, figures indicate substantial progress was made
duringthe 1990sin reducing accumulated backlog. However, they also suggest certain limits to this approach
in the face of increased demand. Data gathered on the Lima Appeals Court reported a 60% increase in the
number of cases resolvedbetween 1995 and 1997 and an increase inthe clearance rate from 66% to 126%.As
with most systemic statistics, they do not distinguish between new and old cases, or take into account the
changes in staffing, the impact on delay reduction, thus any increased productivity i s inconclusive.

                                                                      66

 Old and possibly abandoned cases may be disposed of much more rapidly than new ones and, with more
 judges, more cases can be resolved. Inthe same period, the operational costs for the Lima courts rose by 100
 percent; at least a part of which can be attributed to increasing the number of judges. The number of cases
 resolved in a year or less increased from 19.4 percent in 1995 to 33.2 percent in 1996 indicates a reduction in
 delay, but not necessarily an improvement in productivity. While based on official sources, there is no
 indication of how the figures were derived or whether they reflect system wide changes. Given the state of
 judicial statistic keeping, it seems very unlikely that accurate figures on system-wide caseload were ever
 available.

         Clearance and Congestion                                                              Duration of Resolved
                                                                                                       Cases

            Rates at National Level, 1997and                                                   (according to days,
                                                                                                   jurisdiction)
                                                                                     (day
                                                                               DURASSION
                                                                               Morethan36!


                                                               I               Morethan 181
                                                                               upto 365
         80%
                                                                               Morethan90,
         60%                                                                   upto 180


         40%                                                                   Morethan60,
                                                                               upto 90

         20%                                                                   Morethan 30.
                                                                               upto 60
           0%
                                                                               upto
                                                                               30




                                                                             Source: Gonzalez, Gorki. "ElSistamaJudicialan a/Peru: Un Enfoque Politico a partir d<
                                                                             Usosysus Usuarios':Lima, 2002.



 The "Users and Uses of Justice" study based on actual case files does indicate that in Lima's civil and peace
                                                  *
 courts decisions for debt collection cases were beingreached rapidly in 1998 -providingjudgments for nearly
 all admitted cases in a median time of under 4 months. Times for labor and family cases were longer but still
 less than a year. However, this research also indicates numerous additional problems:                                        enforcement of
judgments was only partial and when enforcement did occur, it took twice the time required for the initial
 ruling. Appeals rates for civiljudgments were high(17%), andthe civil courts reducedtheir workloads by not
 admitting 28% of the debt cases and 22% of other civil filings. Peace courts were used almost exclusively by
 banks and pension funds pursuingsmall claims against individuals, many of whom never appeared in court
 (sometimes because they could not afford legal counsel). Therefore, the impression that these small claims
 courts saw mainly family and labor cases filed by individuals was inerror.

 Congestion and delays may also reflect widespread forms of judicial corruption. Media reports claiming that
 employees are paid for delaying or accelerating certain cases, or even informally "compensated" for
performing normal services, such as delivering a notification or taking a deposition during the evidence-
gathering stage of a judicial inquiry, are common. In such instances, some lawyers may be manipulating the
judicial system to avoid a final decision. These situations may occur because effective case tracking
mechanisms are not available. Creating an incentive framework conducive to improved performance and
honest behavior may be an almost impossible task if performance standards cannot be monitored or even
defined. Quality control techniques are therefore essential not only to provide efficiency-enhancing incentives,
but also to identify possible irregularities. Past efforts to apply effective case management techniques
(including databases to control timeliness) have generally not been effective, except in the limited case of
juzgados corporativos.




  Gonzales, G. et al., "El Sistema Judicial en el Perti: UnEnfoque Analitico a partir de sus Usos y sus Usuarios", Lima, 2002.
                                                                  67

        More anecdotal evidence, cited in several reports, suggests only minimal reduction in the time required to
        handle the average civil case. Public opinion surveys indicate that delay remains a major problem (ranking
        over corruption), and that over 60 percent of businessmenthink judicial processes are too long. Advances in
        delay reduction may thus have been limited to specific districts and, as with the reform's other major
        accomplishments, was partially reversed after 1998. However briefly sustained, the improvements, indicate
        that even the existing system can operate far more efficiently so long as its leadership presses for results and
        convinces judges that it i s monitoring them. Certainly if Lima's civil courts, with annual filings of 1,000 per
       judge, and its justice of the peace courts with at least twice that number of filings, can make judgments
        quickly, than the vast majority ofjudicial districts, with far lower workloads should be able to do as well.

        Yet, such changes take time and require more than the introduction of computers and staff. Personnel must be

        perception - in short, a by fostering a new judicial culture. Increased efficiency will also require changes to
        motivated to work more rapidly through changes in organizational values, incentive systems, and job

        procedural rules. Many delays originate in the endless exchange of written pleadings by parties attempting to
        buy time. As evidenced in the latest figures on court productivity, problems of enforcement, uncontrolled
        appeals and potential litigants unable to access the courts for lack of a lawyer will need to be addressed. ,
        Computers and improved organization may deal with some of these issues but, until the rules are changed,
        such issues will persist.


ResolvedCasesaccordingto Jurisdictionand Specialty
                      (July 2001 March 2002)
                                -
                                                                                          Quantirative Var'iabIG of Jlu'di
                                                                                  x - - -


                                           RESOLVED CASES

         JUDICIAL DISTRICT            YEAR 2001           YEAR 2002
                                Quarter 111   Quarter IV  auarter I

   SPECIALIZEDAND MIXED          43,047     '  39233       33,180
   SUPERDR COURTS
   ClVlI                         14,137         13,548     11,420
   Criminal                      14,768         12,934     11,081      Total Workload

   Labor                          3,135         3,071       2,598      Admitted
   Family                         1,329         1,019       839
   Mxed                           9678          8,661       7,242      Pending Cases                                         122%    24 3%

   SPECIALIED AND MIXED          112,197       97,018      81,554
   FIRST INSTANCECOURTS                                                PendingCases to Dec                                   155%    31Yo
   civil                         30,797        25,774      21,849
   Criminal                      30,963        26,849      22.469      Resolved Cases                                       -0 3%    4 1%

   Reserve                       10,172         9.178       7,540      Number of Judges                                              2 7%
   Labor                          8,617         7,393       6,195
   Family                        16.158         13381      11,444
   Nixed                         15,460         14,443     12.057
   JUDGES OF THE PEACE           86,752        78,421      65,ma

   TOTAL                         241,996       214.672     180,692




        2.         OutdatedHumanResourcesPlanningandManagement

        UnstableTenure.Judicialtenure, akey safeguardofjudicial independence,has been more the exception than
        the rule in Peru, where judges were purged on 4 separate occasions between 1969 and 1992. A process to
        restorejudicial tenure began in 1993; an interim Jurado de Honor (Honor Jury) comprising respectedjurists
        was established, which appointed Supreme Court, appellate and first instance judges in the Judicial District of
        Lima. The re-establishment of the CNM was expected to represent a further step toward a merit-based
        appointment system. InOctober 1995, the CNM issued guidelines on public competition for the selection or
        ratification of appeals court judges, and by March 1996 had completed the selection process for 318 positions
        nationwide.




                                                                              68

                                                 Number of Tenured, Alternate
                                                      and ProvisionalJudges
                                                                (2002 2003)
                                                                          -

                                                                                  oTenured Judges

                                                                                     Alternate Judges,

                                                  DecemberSeptember                0 Provisional
                                                     2002         2003               Judaes



However, CNM members resigned in March 1998 as a result of political interference with the institution's
disciplinary powers. Uncertainty remained about how to proceed in the selection of candidates for judicial
positions until 2001, when the CNM was reconstituted. Faced with the challenge of reinstating the previous
appointments of around 60% of the Peruvian Judiciary, the CNM has made considerable progress but several
hundredpositions still remain to be filled.3

High Turnover. Duringthe 1990s the overall trend was to increase the number of judges from the 902 listed
in 1995, to the 1,638 listed in 2001. Many of the new appointments took place in Lima where the number of
judges in first instance civil courts was doubled. Of the 1,950 officials who left the Judiciary between 1995
and 1997 the majority were administrative staff. Most of the changes also took place in Lima and other
provincial centers. The strategy itself raised several questions: the newcomers lacked on-the-job experience
and at least over the short runmay have addedto delays.

Absent a full career system, including job profiles, entrance examinations, and transparent standards for
retention, promotion and dismissal, the tendency was to replace the massive numbers dismissed with
inexperienced individuals. A 1998 study of the Lima courts indicatedthat a quarter of thejudges surveyed had
been in office less than two years and that only 16 percent had served for over five               `.
Unrealistic Planning. In addition to problems of high turnover, Peru's Judiciary has not benefited from
effective human resource planning. Under the pre-1992 system, national legislation (the Judiciary's Organic
Law and its accompanying regulations) defined the distribution of jurisdictional and administrative positions
within the courts. The result was a standardized structure, determined with no regardfor real needs, national or
local. As part of the 1990s reforms, the Judiciary's central powers expanded more rapidly than its ability to
develop coherent policies. Cuadros Analiticos de Personal                     (CAPS)(personnel allocation charts) were
designed in Lima with minimal allowance for differing needs of individual courts or districts. Any alterations
had to be approved by the central offices and were imposed nationally. Not only judges, but administrative
and auxiliary staff as well, were selectedin Lima either directly or through personnel commissions sent to the



 As of September 2003, 229 judges were "provisional" (Le. tenured officials that temporarily fill a position different from their own)
and 663 were "altemates" (Le. lawyersthat hadbeenappointedto fill ajudicialpositionby theJudiciary's ExecutiveCouncil).
 Not only tenure was elusivebut also during the 1990sjudicial salaries remained extremely low in absoluteand relativeterms, at about
one-thirdto one-halfof the equivalent salaries inthe privatesector. A Supreme Courtjudge receivedapproximatelyUS$4,500 while an
appeals judge earned US$1,800 and a first instance judge earned US$1,300 (all including bonuses and "official expenses").
Administrative and auxiliary personnel in the Judiciary received lower salaries. Judges' salaries were doubled in 2002 in local
currency (the dollar amount increased by about 70 percent) by Executive Decree, but those of administrative or auxiliary staff were
unaffected.
                                                                 69

provinces to review curricula, conduct interviews and appoint employees. Actual determination of Judicial
District CAE3 was usually basedon arbitrary notions of workloads for various types of courts.


                                  Changesinthe Judiciary Staff (Judges)
                                                   - - _(1998-2001)                       _ _ -                  -"            -       -
                                                                    - I                                       ~
                                          Year     Supreme         Superior           First Instance         Judges of the         TOTAL
                                                     court           Court               Judges                  Peace
                                                   Members         Members
                                                                                                                                            I

                                          1998         34             485                  760                    353               1,632



                                           1999        34             468                  801                    383               1,686



                                          2000         41             477                  811                    375               1,704

                                         3


                                          2001         37             449                  791                    361               1,638



                                          Source GONZALES Gorki 'El Sisiema Judicialen a1 Peru Un Enfoque Analiiico a partir de sus Usosy sus
                                          Usuanos: Lima 2002




As the 1990s reform continued, there was an increasing disconnect between formal aspirations and policies
applied in practice. Political interference (most notably the creation of special courts and the transfers of
judges), continual postponement of the judicial career, truncated implementation of measures such as the
creation of a cadre of courtroom administrators, early departure of most of the reform team, and abrupt
termination of the reform in November 2000 added to the increasing chaos. The result was a patchwork
system in which professional and administrative staff served under a variety of contractual regimes, salaries
and benefits were not uniform and courts were forced to operate with only a portion of their official staffing
patterns.
                                          Changes in the JudiciaryStaff (Non-Judge
                                                             Staff) 1998        -2001                    Administrative and Auxiliary Personnel

                                    '     Year                  Total number ot Administrative and
                                                                        Auxiliary Personnel
                                    I
                                    i     1996                                 6,766
                                    I




                                    1
                                    I     2001                                 7,537




                                   Source: GONZALESForki"ElSisfemsludicial an ePeni: UnEnfoque Analicoa partirdesus
                                   Usosysus Usuariol Lima, 2002.




3.      LimitedAccess to Justice

Pervasive Corruption. Peruvian laws provide a number of sanctions for cases of judicial misconduct
including warnings, fines, suspension and removal from office. The CNM has the power to remove judges
while OCMA and ODICMAs may impose other sanctions; both institutions receive and analyze public
complaints about judicial decisions andor processes. However, this disciplinary system has been largely


                                                                  70

ineffective, particularly after the CNM's powers were curtailed in March 1998. Only after the restoration of
democracy was the disciplinary systemreactivated and a number ofjudges dismissed for cause               '.

                                           DiscipIinary Decisions (0CMA)
                                      I                                                               I
                                        8000
                                        7000
                                        6000                                       W Sanctions Imposed

                                        5000
                                        4000                                         No Sanctions

                                        3000                                         Imposed

                                        2000                                       0 VariousProcedural
                                         1000                                        Decisions
                                            0
                                                 1999    2000     2001   2002


                                        Source: Cornish Andna de Joristas,Annual Andean Region Report,
                                        January, 2003.




A widespread perception about pervasive corruption in the Judiciary has been confirmed in recent workshops
withjudges and users, where ethics issues were identified as a major concern. Unethical behavior i s as much a
cause as a result of the Judiciary's inefficiency; a system with no tenure and political interference may have
encouraged undesirable behaviors. In the fight against corruption, the Judiciary has reported recent success
stories in detecting and exposing cases associated with major corruption scandals. However, these
achievements are not supported by a long-termplanto change the environment that permits corruption through
inefficient allocation of resources and limited transparency. Moreover, instead of focusing on the prosecution
of individual cases that attract the attention of the media, the Judiciary should develop a full-fledged system
for monitoring and evaluating judges' performance.

Insufficient legal aid. A serious impediment i s the requirement of an attorney in most civil cases, especially
considering the relative shortage of free or subsidized legal aid, whether provided by the State CSOs.
Criminal defendants who cannot afford their own attorneys are theoretically provided a public defender;
however, they are not only few in number, but are also concentrated in the departmental capitals. Thus,
indigentdefendants may at best meet their lawyer at an initialhearing, and spend months inpre-trial detention
or, inpractical terms, not receive the benefit of counsel at all.




 For example, last April, CNM dismisseda member of the Supreme Court of Justice. This decisionconstitutes the first case in
which ajudge from the highest instance inthe Judiciary is fired after adisciplinaryprocedure.
                                                                  71

Underutilized community-based justice. A particularly interesting institution in Peru is the justice of the
peace court system. Justices of the peace constitute a first instance of conflict resolution for the average
Peruvian citizen, especially inrural areas. There are two types of justices of the peace: Jueces de Puz Letrudos
(legally trainedjustices of the peace) and Jueces de Puz (lay justices of the peace). Legally trained justices of
the peace operate as small claims courts with jurisdiction over civil and minor criminal matters. As of end-
2002, there were approximately 370 suchjustices; most of whom have never had previous judicial experience


                                                       Typology of the Conflicts:
                                                           Justices of the Peace




                                             Source:Genderand Justice,World Bank,2002.


and have little knowledge of conciliation techniques. Lay justices of the peace number approximately 4,700
and account for about 70 percent of all persons exercising judicial functions in Peru, serving approximately 10
million citizens. Until 1999, they were appointed by the Superior Court of their district; they now should be
elected by the communities they serve6. These judges are essentially conciliation officials who administer
justice based on principles of equity. They are generally prominent citizens in a local community that speak
the local languages and have at least a secondary level of education. Several studies (including Voices of the
Poor) have shown that communities have more confidence injustices of the peace than in the formal justice
system (as high as 66 %). However, they are neither entitled to remuneration nor do they receive any State
support for administrative expenses. Training opportunities have been limited to programs sponsored by local
and internationalCSOs.

Weak Family Courts. Farqily-related disputes account for a substantial percentage of cases filed within the
first tier of the Peruvian Judiciary. The most common cases dealt with marital separation (46%), followed by
child support and custody and intra-family violence. Data also suggests that many cases of separation relate to
family violence. Peru's family court system has to provide ad hoc solutions for families in crisis and suffers
from poor inter-institutional coordination inthe provision of related social services.

UnderutilizedADR. Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) methods have only become available in recent
years as a result of the growing demand for prompt and effective means of dispute settlement. While
approximately 10 formal arbitration centers operate in Peru, there i s also significant civil society activity in
such ADR mechanisms as mediation and conciliation. However, availability of ADR mechanisms remains
limited, particularly for poor Peruvians (and i s frequently misused).

Effective ADR mechanisms should be able to contribute to contract enforcement and keep costs low for both
small and large market agents and transactions of any size. However, inPeru, there i s a disconnect between the
State court system and private ADR providers. ADR i s viewed largely as a substitute for an inefficient court
apparatus; becausecontract enforcement through the Judiciary i s not predictable, some companies and citizens
prefer to use ADR even if they incur a higher cost in doing so. Others regard the mandatory mechanism of
conciliation in certain civil cases as simply another obstacle to overcome. Reliable, public information on



  The first election i s very informal, often conducted through a communal assembly. There have been suggestions that elections
should be more formal (and that justices of the peace should be salaried and compensated for their expenses).
                                                                             72

when, where and how to use each mechanism i s essential to achieve the required complementarity to the
formal system and avoid duplication of effort andcost.


C.        Proposed Institutional Reform Strategy:
Recent reports by local think tanks confirm the constraints of a justice sector with unpredictable outcomes,
unreasonable delays, and limited access. The common citizen has little trust in sector institutions. Peruvians'
overall confidence inthe Judiciary i s the lowest in the Andean region according to information provided by the
Andean Commission of Jurists; worse yet, the most recent survey in Lima (January 2003) showed an increase
inthe degree of total non-confidence inthe Judiciary to around 79.6%.

Strategic choices have been made by sector authorities to address the issues identified as most critical for
overall performance in service delivery, quality human resources and access for the poor. Peru's most urgent
justice sector need i s the development of effective institutions capable of designing sector-wide policies,
overseeing their implementation, and recognizing and responding to citizen demands and complaints.
Ironically, while the 1990s reforms strengthened some planning and management tools, they both weakened
internal governance and widened the gaps separating institutional leadership, rank-and-file members, and
systemusers.

The proposed Bank project will explore ways to resolve these problems as a first, necessary step before
broader, and more costly reforms can be productively undertaken. Although this approach will draw on
mechanisms piloted elsewhere, Peru's situation is unique-- nowhere in the region has judicial governance
fallen so far behind the development of its administrative mechanisms. The challenge emphasize governance
without    sacrificing the advances in issues of systemic management and to subordinate administrative
decisions to policies informedby citizen demands.

1.       Justice Services Improvement

The judicial leadership supports strategic planning and performance evaluation but even those judges more
receptive to innovative approaches are not versed in their application. The judicial authorities are finding that
many of the technological innovations and management tools developed have not been as complete or as
reliable as imagined. Information systems were never consolidated, statistics are not well designed and are
poorly kept and many of the organizational innovations have not been finalized, evaluated, adjusted, or
updated.

For instance, that 1990s reform process left a critical mass of information systems to support the
administrative and jurisdictional functions of the Judiciary. To-date, 31 systems remain operational: 3 for
administration purposes, 1for human resources (operational only in Lima), 14 for jurisdictional purposes (5 of
which are in Lima), and 13 are case-tracking systems for various jurisdictions (only 3 operate outside of
Lima). Judges have complained about the simultaneous operation of these information systems because they
are incompatible and not user-friendly.

A major shortcoming of the current technology framework is the lack of standardized codes for the same data
fields, in particular a single case number (Ndmero Unico de Expediente). This lack of standardization allows
each user to label or classify data in a different way at each step of the process making the handling of
information about the same case by different institutions and the exchange of data among various applications
difficult. Up-to-date and consistent statistics cannot be generated either. The Judiciary i s aware of the
shortcomings of the technological structure and seeks to formulate a strategy that goes beyond hardware
requirements; key aspects such as systems maintenance, regular training for operational staff, technical and
user support have to be considered. The 1990's policies focused on the internal development of informatics
applications, an approach that limits the ability of the Judiciary to expand coverage at the national level since



  Surveysconductedby Latinobardmetro indicatethat approval levels have dropped from 24 percent in 1996to 16 percent in2002.
                                                             73

the Informatics Management Office (GerenciaZnform'tica) lacks the resourcesto simultaneously generate and
install applications.

Recent changes in administrative and information systems represent a step forward. In important areas
(judicial archives, single intake desks, case tracking systems) improvements are evident. If steps are taken to
ensure positive practices are continued, there will be a better base from which to plan future changes. The
judicial leadership also recognizes the need for deconcentrating decision-making and creating a more flexible
system inwhich the rules and procedures of the organization provide an approach more tailored to the needs of
the population. New administrative procedures, deconcentrated decision-making processes and more flexible
information systems should improve the capacity of the Judiciary to offer better services to Peru's poor and
disadvantage.

2.       HumanResourcesProfessional Development

Sector institutions recognize that there i s significant room for improvement in human resources development
through the application of modern practices: (a) introducing a broader concept of human resources
management beyond the mere recruitment of, and salaries for, professionals; (b) encouraging a coordinated,
cross-organizational approach so that the major institutions (Judiciary, CNM and AM) analyze their needs and
coordinate their activities; (c) facilitating deconcentratedplanning- all decisions cannot be made in Lima, and
all judicial districts cannot be organized alike; (d) paying attention to the combined activities of all staff -
productivity i s measured by the sum of all parts, not by the individual contribution of each one; and (e)
establishing incentives beyond salaries (opportunities for skills development, career advancement, etc.) and
training, monitoring and evaluation to improve performance.

Judiciary. Personnel are the justice sector's most important resource because their principal outputs are the
intellectual activities produced directly by sector operators (judges and other judicial officials). Information
technology, infrastructure and equipment can facilitate their work, but at every step of the process, human
reasoning and decisions are the main determinant of the quality and quantity of services delivered.

A focus on howjudges and other professionals are selected should be broadened by considering other equally
important factors: (a) organizational incentive systems; (b) monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to detect
abuses and to improve performance; (c) coordination of training and staff development programs with
institutional priorities; (d) assignment and distribution of staff to maximize productivity; and (d) forward
planning to ensure that human resources endowments will continue to meet organizational requirements. A
key issue remains that the three entities with a legally defined role in the selection and career management
process - the Judiciary, CNM and AM- should work in close coordination and, therefore, need an overall
strategic approach to human resources.

Due to their ability to identify local needs, a leading policy option i s to deconcentrate decision-making to
judicial districts at least vis a vis: (a) selection and supervision of auxiliary staff; and (b) overall development
of personnel. Inorder to build- up their institutional capacity, it i s critical to inventory the quantity and quality
of existing staff. Judicial Districts will have to work within budgetary and personnel constraints so as to
maximize the use of current resources despite the standard inclination to appoint more judges and create more
courts.

Solutions to the medium and long-term challenge of coping with demand may involve some of the following
measures: (a) changes in the jurisdiction of various levels ofjudges, especially to give more responsibilities to
lower leveljudges; (b) broadening of the numbers of judges at the base of the pyramid Cjustices of the peace,
and first instancejudges); (c) shift the distribution of work between judges and auxiliary staff; (d) review the
current incentive systems (for instance, the use of court fees to finance salaries which may encouragejudges to
accept dilatory motions for which additional fees can be charged); (e) institute filters to discourage those
appeals and other motions introduced only to cause delays *; and (f) dejudicialize certain conflicts, and

* The fact that 98 percent of the recursos de nulidad de actos jurldicos, the bulk o f the cases submitted to the Supreme Court are
eventually ruledwithout merit suggests the inadequacy o f current filters.
                                                                  74

improvement in the current system of pre-judicial conciliation, or other alternative dispute resolution (ADR)
mechanisms.

Most of these reforms require in-depth analysis and widespread discussion prior to undertakingmajor changes.
In the short term, it is possible to work within the existent legal framework in areas that may provide
immediate benefits such as a deconcentration process to help judicial districts to improve their current
deployment and handling of staff, and to encourage a broader view of the challenge of maximizing
performance. This should not be limited only to improving output of existing staff in their existing jobs, but
should also explore innovative ways to increasethe quality and quantity of what i s beingproducedg.

CNM. In 2002, the CNM conducted a nation-wide examination to choose the lawyers who would fill the
positions without a career appointee. Approximately 8,000 candidates, including many provisional and
alternate judges (who also had to compete for their positions) were convened in Lima to take a written
examinationprepared by the CNM. The 7-member CNM interviewedall those who passedthe test. The CNM
was also careful about publicizing the process of designing judicial profiles and conducting personal
interviews. Interviews with the candidates for the Supreme Court were open to the public and televised. A
chronogram for the mass selections was also published and the names of the candidates that passed the
minimal benchmark were released on the CNM's website and in the Official Gazette (El Peruano), so that
those wishing to register objections might do so.

To maximize objectivity the CNM designedthe written examination as a multiple-choice test to be scored by a
university contracted for this purpose. Scoring systems, including for the review of CVs were also published.
Only the personal interview, the last stage in the process ,relied on subjective scoring but CNM devised a
scoring process intended to minimize possible prejudices."




                    Judges' Eva1uation                                                  ConfirmationProcesses
                                                                                       Resultsof the first three processes


         60
         40                                       El Ratified

         20                                       0 Non Ratified

           0
              Superior Court First Instance
                Members           Judges

      * Source: ComisjonAndina de Juristas,Annual Andean Region
      Report, January 2003                                                     Source: comisidnAndhadeJuristas,Annual Andean RegionReport,
                                                                               January, 2003.



Aimougn me process met nign sranaaras or ogectivity and transparency, the results were disappointing with a
dismal percentage of the candidates passed the test. However, these problems could have been anticipated
since no assessment of actual needs had been carried out. Moreover, the initial exercise faced major technical
challenges: (a) the logistics of testing 8,000 candidates for 1,890 positions was daunting. Furthermore as
candidates had to choose the judgeship for which they were applying, could have been predicted that all
vacancies would not have been filled in the first round. A better system might require judges to apply for a
level (justice of the peace, first instance or appellate judge) and state a geographic preference, rather than


 The proposedproject will center on the Judiciary because the courts set the basic pattem of staffing for the sector, but CNM and
AMAG will be involved in the re-engineeringwork. Although MINJUS and the Public Ministry define the need for their own
defenders and prosecutorsin terms of formulas based on where courts are located, current design only envisages specific work with
MINJUS, since Public Ministry issues will be addressedby other donors (USAID and GTZ) with a substantial comparative advantage
inthe area of criminal law issues.
loEachmember voted independently, and inthe final scores, any individual score which differed by 20 pointsor more (out of atotal of
100)was discarded.
                                                                   75

limitingthem to a specific position; (b) the written examinations were heldonly in Lima. Candidates from the
provinces had to travel to Lima at their own expense; (c) a multiple-choiceexamination, while objective, i s not
necessarily the best test to determine the fitness of the candidates. It also means a hardship for those not used
to taking this kindof examination and may have its own regional biases (as it i s written by professionals who
practice in Lima); and (d) the CNM may have been overoptimistic as to the ability to detect psychological
fitness on the basis of psychometric tests or interviews with the candidates. As the CNM began the periodic
ratifications mandated by the Constitution, that process received still greater criticism, including those
tendered by international observers, because of the inability of the unratifiedjudge to defend himself, or even
to know why he or she has beendismissed.

The C N M has realized that these processes can be improved. It i s considering changes to the written tests and
review of the curricula, and i s not adverse to the idea of deconcentrating future competitions to the regional
level; candidates' interviews could take place in the provinces, rather than in Lima. The CNM has also
reviewedcomparable experiencesin other countries, in order to better fulfill its mandate and design a selection
and ratification system that meets the highest technical standards. The next challenge i s that the Judiciary and
the C N M have to collaborate more closely in the development of a full-fledged judicial career that integrates
proactive, continual processes of selection and evaluation of alljudicial officials (including administrative and
auxiliary staff).

AMAG. In its original design, the AMAG was conceived as a "training department" of the Judiciary, in
charge of organizing courses consistent with the Judiciary's needs; however, international best practice in this
area suggests that institutions like the AMAG should ensure that training "happens" irrespective of the training
provider, while enforcing solid quality controls. Under this new concept, judicial academies are not
universities or research centers, and should be structured accordingly. Moreover, a training strategy should
determine priorities in a manner consistent with a justice services modernization process; the absence of that
strategy i s revealed by the fact that just a few courses have been developed by the AMAG on court and case
management issues.

The dual mandate of training candidatesfor judgeship positions and administeringjudicial education for active
judges has also generated conflicts. The AMAG has insufficient resources to accomplish its mandate. Out of
an approximately 9.7 million annual budget, Y.5 million are allocated to operational expenditures, leaving
only S/.2 million for training activities. Not surprisingly, innovative technology i s not being used; only
recently has the topic appeared in the AMAG's work program, but limited resources and weak institutional
capacity have blocked any progress inthis area. Although, technology i s a mechanism to facilitate training, the
impact of training is dependent on the purpose andcontents of course materials, and it i s precisely here that the
AMAGfaces its biggest challenge.

Efforts to coordinate with other institutions in the sector have been limited. The Judiciary believes the
AMAG's courses are too focused on theory, while judges need more practical training. Judicial districts also
believe the AMAG i s not meeting their needs, and thus have introduced their own training programs. The
AMAG offers no classes for administrative or auxiliary staff, while it continues to conduct courses for
candidates to judgeship positions even though the required pre-selection training program has been
temporarily suspendedby law.

The AMAG i s therefore caught in a vicious circle: it i s not recognized by other sector institutions as a valuable
partner, does not receive support to claim more budget resources and cannot develop quality programs or
retain top-notch personnel to accomplish its mandate and show results. Its institutional image continues to
deteriorate and recognition and support become even more elusive. To break this circle, and generate a
virtuous one, the AMAG needs to develop a consistent strategy and a critical mass of "success stories".

The AMAG also needs to interact closely with other training providers in Peru and abroad, and generate
alternative sources of financing to overcome budget constraints. A financial policy consistent with its
"business process" i s critical at this point. The AMAG also needs to develop different "products" with
different "prices" according to different "clients". Partialco-financing by trainees (in particular candidates to
judicial positions) and targeted training "subsidies" may be considered.
                                                        76

The AMAG requires assistanceinidentifying mechanismsto allocate efficiently its limitedresources -as well
as finding the most cost-effective ways to deliver services outside of Lima. Most critical, the AMAG must
develop programs consistent with the profile of the judges and support staff the country needs to provide top
justice services; otherwise, its curriculum will be supply-driven. To that end, the AMAG will have to
coordinate with the Judiciary and CNM to define training profiles for different types of staff. It will also have
to consider its potential role in training administrative and auxiliary staff, both to improve performance and to
provide additional incentives for improved performance.

A starting point would be to determine the AMAG's contribution to improving judicial performance. The
experience on judicial training in other countries will be helpful to ensure that the AMAG's programs go
beyond "what judges don't know or would like to know," which appears to account for the current academic
focus. The Judiciary and the CNM should be involved in this process, as well as Judicial Districts. Bar
associations,universities, and legally oriented CSOs should also participate.


3.       Enhanced Access to Justice

The State's responsibility to enhance access to justice involves not only increasing the quantity and quality of
services, but also makingthem more equitable. An important part of this process i s the State's consultation and
collaboration with civil society in framing a justice sector that responds to the needs of the Peruvian
population. Among those who have played an active role during project preparation-and              are expected to
continue during implementation-are          CSOs, including non-governmental organizations (NGOs), bar
associations, law schools, and grass-roots indigenous groups. These groups, along with the sector's

process that will sustain the long-termobjectives of the Project. .
institutions, will participate not only in monitoring the Project, but will participate in the consensus-building


Legal Aid Services and ADR. The MINJUS provides legal aid services via two modalities: the public
defenders for criminal cases, and the ConsultoriaJuridica Popular (who rely in only 26 lawyers nationally for
civil cases). Most users of the Consultorias are poor, and women and children in family-related disputes. The
conditions in which legal aid officials must work largely inhibit the delivery of a quality professional service.
Problems include a lack of monitoring and evaluation systems, basic equipment and training for lawyers
unfamiliar with the needs of indigent and uneducated clients. Although the MINJUS has consolidated the
programs in recent years, further improvements in performance and efficiency are required. This model is
articulated around the recruitment of young lawyers who see the experience as a chance to do interesting work
and hone their skills before moving on to anotherjob. It needs technical assistanceto ensure the sustainability
and improvement of current service standards, through the design of appropriate policies on quality standards
and service delivery guidelines, a human resources policy framework, and clear incentives to ensure
satisfactory performance.

Bar associations, law schools, and advocacy organizations within civil society also provide some legal aid
services; however, their capacity to respond to demand i s insufficient. Moreover, there i s a lack of consistent
information about the organizations that provide some type of legal aid, both amongjustice sector stakeholders
and potentialusers of legal aid services, especially the poor.

With respect to ADR services, the Ley de Conciliacio'n makes conciliation mandatory in civil cases. The
results appear to be mixed. For some users, mediation has become just another obstacle (at an extra cost) in
justice service delivery. For some lawyers, it has become a profitable source of business; although conciliation
does not require a lawyer, and conciliators are not required to be lawyers, Peruvian law requires that every
conciliation center should have at least one lawyer to certify that the agreements reached by the parties are
legally sound. That mandatory conciliation may have resulted in less court claims and therefore has helped to
alleviate backlogs. With the assistance of USAID,MINJUS conducted an evaluation in Arequipa and Trujillo,
including a users' and potential users survey, and a statistical analysis to determine impact on court caseload
(not only in terms of quantity, but also in terms of users' satisfaction). However, ADR seems widely


                                                        77

underutilized and the MINJUS as regulatory agency of these services wishes to explore more effective
mechanisms to bringout its potential.


Communications and strategic alliances. Recent opinion polls reveal that there i s very little trust in the
Judiciary as a venue to solve disputes in an efficient and equitable manner. A large majority of the population
believes that the system is corrupt and protects only the rich and powerful. The education system i s not being
usedto convey the significance of the rule of law in a democratic society and a market economy. Justice sector
issues are not adequately covered by the media, either in terms of scope and quality of coverage. The media
fails to fulfill a role of educator of the population; instead, they frequently act as a purveyor of gossip and
pervasive cynicism that only serves to discredit sector institutions. Multiculturalism i s also a major issue in
Peru that i s very seldom addressedin connection with communication onjustice activities.

Public expectations have set high standards of transparency and accountability. Moreover, real reform requires
a cultural and behavioralchange. The rule of law must exist not only in law books, but also inthe minds of the
people; a rule of law culture should be developed to enhance governance and consolidate democracy. Judges
and court employees down to the trial courts have to be informed about, and consulted upon, the reforms that
are being undertaken. It i s essential to bring them on board as early as possible and reassure them of the
benefit that will ensue from having an independent and efficient judiciary. Lawyers are not abreast of the
reforms already implementedor in progress, yet they have to be involved throughout the reform process. Civil
society in Peru demands a greater participation in the design and implementation of justice sector programs,
but lacks the information required to follow-up sector issues and articulate sound proposals. A significant
effort needs to be done to bringthe judicial system closer to the indigenous populations; the communications
units of the Judiciary and other sector institutions have to ensure that they involve indigenous leaders in the
consultation process of reform initiatives and produce relevant public education materials in indigenous
languages.

The Peruvian authorities realize that devising ajustice services improvement strategy i s not sufficient to create
an independent, competent and equitable justice sector. The Peruvian population should have easy access to
sector institutions, value their functions and understand the way they operate in order to make the best use of
them. It is therefore essential to create two-way communication channels between the authorities and the
public to facilitate a regular dialogue on the justice sector and engage the public in supporting the reform
efforts. An outreach strategy has to be designed to build and maintain consensus for reform among various
constituencies through two-way exchanges, propose a culture of rule of law and foster institutional changes to
meet demands for transparency, accountability and client orientation. Not surprisingly, the new Chief Justice
has highlighted the importance of civil society participation in the judicial reorganization process that he i s
leading.




                                                        78

                                                            Annex 11
                                        PERU-Justice Services Improvement Project
                                                        Social Assessment


  A.      Introduction

  The World Development Report (WDR) 2000/2001acknowledged the importance of promoting empowerment to
  fight poverty, by making State institutions more responsive to poor people and removing barriers that exclude
  women, ethnic and racial groups, and the socially disadvantaged. According to the WDR, empowerment requires:
  (a) ensuring that institutions are responsive and accountable to users; (b) building the capacity of the poor and
  excluded to have voice in public policy formulation; and (c) removing obstacles that hinder access to public
  services and institutions. The Justice Services Improvement Project aims at achieving those goals for the
 participatinginstitutions through the Enhanced Access to Justice Component.

I        Box 1. Justice does not existfor thepoor               As a part of project preparation a social assessment (SA)
                                                                was conducted. The objectives of the SA were: (a) to
 Justice is onlyfor those with money. This sentence from a      identify social issues that are likely to affect the success
 young man in the Sierra, summarizes the opinion of many        of the Project; (b) to identify potential social impacts
 poor Peruvians consulted during the preparation of the         (negative or positive) as a result of the Project; and (c) to
  Voicesof the Poor study. Inthe Selva,people thought that      design mechanisms to mitigate potential negative
 justice administration at the district and central levels was  impacts and enhance the benefits of the positive impacts,
 corrupt. Justice does not existfor the poor was a common
 complaint as according to them, whoever has the money          in both cases on the basis of increased stakeholders

 buys thejudge.                                                 participation. The SA i s based on consultations with
                                                                stakeholders during the preparation process, and the
 Geographical isolation and the complexities o f the system     review of various reports prepared on relevant aspects of
 also deter people from using it. In Huamanga, people           the Peruvian justice sector. Consultations with justice
 declared that in general we don't get into trouble, and        sector staff includingjudges, administrative and auxiliary
 when they do, they usually do not use the judicial system      personnel took place in different parts of the country
 because we don't know how that works and we'd need to          during project preparation.
 hire a lawyer and that costs a lot of money. Several
 groups also reported that in cases of serious offences, a      Access to justice for the poor was one of the five
 justice of the peace send the case to the district courts,     thematic areas of the Second Forum on Challenges for
 making it difficult to follow the process closely as           Poverty Reduction in Peru that involved over 540
 transport and living expenses in the provincial capital are
 too high.                                                      representatives from CSOs. A Gender Assessment of
                                                                justice services was conducted to identify options for
 Source: Adapted from DFID/BM, 2003, Peru': Voces de            gender mainstreaming in project components, and
 10s Pobres. Lima, p. 97-98.                                    complemented with an international gender dialogue on
                                                                November 2002 sponsored by the Bank's Gender
                                                                Thematic Group. In the area of indigenous access to and
 perceptions of the justice sector, the SA relied on information from consultations carried out by the Bank Resident
 Mission in Peru for the preparation of the indigenous peoples national strategy to be supported by the Indigenous
 and Afro-Peruvian Development Project.

 The SA describesthe obstacles precluding disadvantaged groups from accessingjustice, the social costs ofjustice
 system failures, the influence of social dynamics on project performance, and the social participation strategy of
 the Project. Following this introduction, the report discusses the mechanisms barring disadvantaged groups
 (namely the indigenous, women, and the rural and urban poor) from accessing justice services. Section C
 describes the social cost of justice system deficiencies with a focus on family courts as they represent an
 important resource for the poor. Section D analyzes how socio-cultural patterns and dynamics linked to the
 Project's stakeholders might affect the modernization efforts proposed by the Project. The last section presentsthe
 ways inwhich the Project plans to address the social issues identified by the SA.




                                                               79

B.        Access to Justice Issues

Access to justice continues severely limitedfor a large portion of the Peruvian society. The geographical coverage
of the Judiciary i s irregular; the ratio of judges per inhabitant varies widely across judicial districts with no
connection to economic or demographic realities. Peru i s a multicultural country, with more than five million of
indigenous population (Quechua, Aymara, and Amazonian) or around 22 percent of the total population; these
people are often not only intimidated by the complexities of the court system, but also by the language and
cultural barriers. As a consequence, a great portion of the Peruvian population lives outside the official justice
system. They have developed their own dispute-solving mechanisms; in urban areas such mechanisms operate in
matters of informal property; in fact, community-based justice i s paramount for peasant and indigenous
populations."

Poverty issues. Peru suffers from widespread poverty and pervasive inequalities that limit people's ability to
access and effectively benefit from justice services. In 1997, 44.3 percent of the Peruvian population was poor.
While fifty years ago poverty was concentrated on rural areas exclusively, rural-to-urban migration in the last four
decades has made poverty a peri-urban as well as rural phenomenon'*. Income inequalities are also significant
with the income of the richest ten percent of the population amounting to forty times that of the poorest ten
percent. Furthermore, geographical barriers in rural areas aggravate inequalities in access to public services. Peru
enjoys high social diversity with more than 5 million of indigenous population (Quechua, Aymara, and
Amazonian) who account for 22 percent of the total population. Indigenous communities concentrate in rural
areas andare among the poorest inthe country'314.

Access to justice services in Peru i s precluded by low supply, high cost, low quality, as well as low demand
problems. Firstly, low amount of services unevenly distributed affects rural populations disproportionately. The
coverage of justice services in Peru i s low with a ratio of about onejudge per 16,000 citizens. Although coverage
varies widely across judicial districts, rural areas are generally neglected with courts concentrated in the urban
centers and relatively few first instancejudges in the rural areas. Secondly, the highcost of services deters people
from using them. The combination of court fees, lawyer fees, living and transportation expenses, and occasional
bribes often makes justice services unaffordable. Thirdly, the low quality of the services received, in the form of
extremely protracted, non-transparent procedures with unpredictable outcomes discourages users as well.
Similarly, judicial decisions that often do not consider the litigants reality, let alone reflect cultural differences,
dissuade users. Furthermore, lack of public awareness and information regarding legal rights and the functioning
of the judicial systemprecludes a stable demand for justice services among the poor.

Inequality issues. Problems of access hit the poor hardest, thus aggravating inequalities in access tojustice. First,
in the poorest regions (in particular the Sierra), access to justice i s more difficult due to acute geographical
isolation of the communities and low coverage of the service. Second, the high cost of the services i s a major
deterrent for low-income groups. Although pro-poor mechanisms like legal aid may be available inthe cities, they
often do not reach the rural poor. The amount of public defenders i s insufficient to cover the poor, with 249 legal
aid and public defenders to serve the whole country            15.Third, in Peru, the poor tend to be less educated and to
have less access to connections and in turn to information, limiting their ability to demand justice services even
further. In addition, cultural and linguistic barriers make indigenous use of formal justice less likely as lawyers
and judges rarely speak indigenous languages, and most important, judges' decisions do not reflect the cultural
reality in which indigenous people live.



l1The 1993 Constitution recognized such special jurisdiction for peasant and native communities; this mandate, however, has not been
implemented.
'*IADBAIDH,     2000, Acceso a la Justiciay Equidad.San JosC: BancoInteramericanode Desarrolloe Instituto Interamericanode Derechos
Humanos,p. 254.
l3 Out of atotal ofjust over six thousandindigenouscommunities, only 26 were above the povertyline andmore than half of the rest were
living under extremepoverty.
l4 Faundez,J, 2003,Non-State Justice SystemsinLatinAmerica Case Studies: Peru andColombia.Consultantreportfor DFID-Peru,p. 15.
   PNUD, Dela Exclusidnala ConfianzaMedianteel Acceso a la Justicia. Informe de la Misidnde FortalecimientoInstitucionalde la
Justicia en el Ped. Junio 2001, p. 4.
                                                                 80

Gender issues. Certain obstacles make women's access to justice services more difficult than men's. Overall,
more men than women use justice services, whether specialized courts (56.1,percent of men vs. 43.9 percent of
women) or justice of the peace (58 percent of men vs. 42 of women)16.Inprinciple, women find themselves at a
disadvantaged position to accessjustice services due to their limited access to cash income as their activity in the
domestic sphere relegates them to economic dependence on men17.Their lower educational level, as compared to
men, leads also to higher illiteracy among women. Furthermore, lack of clearly articulated rights in the legal
codes regarding issues such as domestic violence or sexual harassment, makes the process of accessing justice
even more difficult. Besides, in domestic violence cases, women encounter distinctive barriers related to the
particularities of this type of conflict such as fear of reprisal from offenders, difficulty in testifying, emotional
attachment to the offender, fear to lose access to their children, poor self-esteem and low self-confidence, guilt or
shame feelings, etc.

Overall, women and men have differentjustice needs andusejustice services on the basis of gender societal roles.
While men are active litigants in commercial, contractual and credit related cases, women tend to predominate in
family court litigation. Within family cases, separation demands constitute 42.2 percent of the family court cases,
followed by child support (10.2 percent), juvenile crime (9.4),child custody (7),and family violence (6.25). In
general women are the plaintiffs incases of child support; domestic violence; and separation, while men are the
defendants in criminaljuvenile cases and child custody.'*


         Cases initiated by men and women in                                  Family Courts,caseload by subject matter
                         FamilyCourts


           Family
         violence

   Juvenile crime                                                         Material abandonme



   Childcustody


    Child support


         Divorce


                  0%      20%    40%     60%      80%     100%                                    0%       10%     20%       30%     40%     50%

                              IOMen OWomen        1

  Source: Gonzalez Mantilla, G., Servan, J.C., Lopez, L., and Burgos, H., 2002, El Sistema Judicial en el Peru: un enfoque analitico
  a partir de sus usos v usuarios. Lima: lnforme de Consultoria para el Banco Mundial.
C.        Social Costs of Justice Sector Dysfunctions

Economic inequalities. A dysfunctional justice sector has a large social cost in terms of lost economic
opportunities and reduced well-being of a country's citizens. Efficient and quality justice services are fundamental
to achieve socio-economic prosperity. The Rule of Law, in whose enforcement justice sector institutions are


l6Gonzdez Mantilla, G., ServBn, J.C., Lbpez, L.,and Burgos, H.,2002, El Sistema Judicial en el Peni: unenfoque analitico a partir de sus
usos y usuarios. Lima: Informe de Consultoria para el Banco Mundial, p. 56 and 147.
l7Itmustbenotedthatwomen's useofcourtsandjusticeofthepeacemightbehigherthatwhatthesefigures reflectasthedata
correspond to the sex of the person who initiates the case exclusively and do not reflect other uses of courts. Empirical evidence shows that
while more men than women initiate cases, women tend to be responsible for the continuous follow up o f cases in court. Women's lower
involvement ininitiatingcases may be due to their lower education, and higher language barriers compared to men, and to fears of not
being taken seriously by judges and lawyers.
l8Ibid,p. 108.
                                                                     81

  instrumental, i s associatedwith better economic performance, by creating a predictable environment for trade and
  investment, thereby expanding people's employment and income opportunities. According to a recent UNDP
  report, lack of social trust in justice sector institutions is hindering Peru's ability to integrate into the global
  economy with the subsequent loss of economic opportunities for the c~untry'~.Most important, to the extent that
  the Rule of Law constraints and channels Government action, it protects citizens from abuses of power by the
  State and other actors guaranteeing individuals' constitutional rights. While the role of the Judiciary in enforcing
  the Rule of Law i s of fundamental importance to all citizens, it is even more crucial for poor people, who have
  few private resources to protect their rights2'.

  As a consequence,justice sector dysfunctions hit the poor hardest as they do not count on resourcesto cope with
  the system failures. For example, delays in court procedures have a more detrimental effect on the poor as any
  additional cost has a considerable damaging effect over their already precarious income. The poor have less
  resources to defend themselves from unfair judicial decisions or to merely follow regular appeal procedures.
  Similarly, although detrimental to all citizens, corruption harms the poor more. A recent study has shown that
  low-income users of public services in Peru spendaround 14percent of their income inbribes compared to a mere
  one percent of high income users. Bribes to obtain access to courts are among the most common21.Also, the
 constraints of particular justice sector institutionshervices, specifically targeted to the poor, such as legal aid,
 harm the poor inparticular.

 Regardless of service coverage problems that affect access, the precarious conditions in which legal aid
  organizations operate influence their ability to provide quality justice assistance to the poor22. This i s specially
 important since the poor face conflicts associated with their most basic needs (e.g. food, housing, health care,
 personal safety, family violence and education) yet they are unable to use the justice system to resolve their
 disputes.


                                               Average % of Income Paid in Bribes
                                               (as reportedby all userswho paida bribe)

                                      .-.81 6 % ~
                                      .-
                                       S  12%


                                       Q)
                                      E    6%


                                      .& 0%
                                      0    2%

                                                      Low             Medium              High
                                                                      Income


                                      Source: World Bank Institute, 2001, Voices of the Misgoverned and
                                      Misruled: An Empirical Diagnostic Study of Governance, Rule of
                                      Law and Corruption for Peru. Draft Report. Washington DC: The
                                      World Bank
 Gender inequalities. Institutions weaknesses or rarmly courts increase gender inequalities in the justice sector.
Women are particularly affected by family courts low response to child support and domestic violence cases. In
  1998, 73.3 percent of child support cases presented by women and 66.7 of those presented by men did not reach
judgment in family courts23.A major bottleneck detected inthe process was the production of evidence of income

~~




 l9PNUD, Dela Exclusih ala ConfianzaMedianteel Acceso alaJusticia. Informede la Misi6nde FortalecimientoInstitucionalde la
Justiciaen el Ped. June 2001, p 14.
2o World Bank, 2000, World Development Report2000-2001. WashingtonDC: The World Bank, p. 102-103.
21 World BankInstitute,2001, Voices of the MisgovernedandMisruled: An Empirical Diagnostic Study of Governance, Rule of Law and
Corruptionfor Peru.Draft Report.WashingtonDC: The World Bank,p. 35.
*'PNUD, De la Exclusi6na la ConfianzaMedianteel Acceso alaJusticia. Informe de la Misi6nde FortalecimientoInstitucionalde la
Justiciaen el Pertl. June 2001, p. 42.
23 Findingsof the first phaseof the ProjectGender Assessment for the PeruJustice ServicesImprovementProject.
                                                                  82

or assets, as the users generally work inthe informal sector andjudges are excessively formalistic and only accept
written evidence.

In those cases where a judgment was reached, child support beneficiaries' ability to transform a judgment into
periodic payments was limited by enforcement problems as custodial parents had to pursue additional procedures
to collect child support. Similarly, 67 percent of domestic violence cases in 1998 did not reach a judgment24.
However, many more did not even reach the courts, as it i s quite common for judges to resist qualifying domestic
violence as a serious crime and following the prescribed procedures. As 83.3 percent of child support cases and
most of domestic violence cases are initiated by women, the burden of family courts' shortcomings falls on poor
women.
                   Results of Family Violence
                                           Cases

                                         Female Plaintiffs                            8oo
                                                                                            Do Child Support cases reach judgment?

                                                                             I
                  80%
                  70%
                  60%



                  30%
                  20%
                  10%                                                                      -  ReachJudgment    .__
                                                                                                                 Do not reacwudgment
                                                                                                                            ---
                            Reached Judgment               Have not reached
                                                              judgment

                                                                                      Source Genderand Justice World Bank
                 Source:Gender and Justice.World Bank.2002




A strong equitable justice system will accrue major benefits for the Peruvian society at large. The Bunk's Gender
Strategy acknowledges the high social and economic cost of gender inequalities: reduced productivity, lower
prospects for reducing poverty, and weakened governance hampering the effectiveness of its development
policies. At the same time, a healthy justice system i s essential to fight gender inequalities of any kind. As the
Engendering Development report recognizes, "efforts to strengthen the enforcement capabilities of countries'
judicial and administrative agencies are critical to achieving gender equality in basic rights". A strong justice
sector i s therefore critical to create social andeconomic opportunities for Peruvian men and women26.

D.        Social issues affecting project performance

Quality of judicial decision-making. Some of the justice sector dysfunctions that affect women
disproportionately have their roots inthe reproduction of social biases and stereotypes throughjudicial decisions.
Evidence from recent research suggests that gender-based stereotypes influence judgments. In Peru, examples of
formal as well as non-formal justice services incorporating cultural biases injudicial decisions are common. For
example, the Gender Assessment of the Project revealed that judges in child support cases tend to be lenient with
fathers as they assume that mothers will remarry and will be supported by other men. Similarly, domestic violence
victims consulted reported that, neither the police nor judges listen to them sometimes they do not even let them
speak; and often defend the male offender andjustify their behavior.



24Ibid.
25Gonzfilez Mantilla, G., Serviin, J.C., L6pez,L.,andBurgos, H.,2002, El SistemaJudicial en el Perk unenfoque analiticoapartir de sus
usos y usuarios.Lima: Informede Consultoriaparael BancoMundial, p.62.
26King, E., andMason, A,, 2001, EngenderingDevelopment through Gender Equality inRights,ResourcesandVoice, WashingtonDC:
The World Bank,p. 17.
                                                                              83

Thejustice of the peace, and community basedforms of administration of justice share similar problems as their
procedures are based on community customs, and their decisions tend to not challenge rigidviews of gender roles,
often disparaging for women. Moreover, the principle that guides the administration of justice by these
institutions i s the restoration of community relations that may often come, however, at the expense of the interests
of particular groups within the community. For women in domestic violence cases, excessive emphasis on
conciliation and settlement of disputes precludesjudges from adequately punishing perpetrators and women from
achieving effective protectionagainst future domestic violence offenses.

Sustainability of reform efforts-Internal Stakeholders. Understanding stakeholders' reaction to the justice
services improvement strategy i s essential to ensure the sustainability of these efforts. As the strategy supported
by the Project requires fundamental changes to some of the ways in which institutions currently work, reaction to
the proposed reforms are expectedfrom internal stakeholders.

During project preparation the potentially most controversial reforms were identified. First, the process of
decentralizatioddeconcentration advocated by the Project will redistribute decision-making power and resources
from central offices of the Judiciary in Lima to judicial districts, While the districts will welcome this, certain
opposition should be expected from the central offices. Secondly, judicial and administrative staff may be
considerably affected by the new incentive-based system to reward performance. While in general it i s expected
that staff will greet a more objective system of evaluation and promotion, isolated opposition from some staff
might arise as the reforms affect vested interests. Similarly, certain groups within the Judiciary might also oppose
more transparent selection mechanisms as well as new disciplinary systems on the same grounds. Conversely,
AMAG is expected to accept the modernization proposed as its position within the overalljustice system will be
strengthened but part of A M ' s staff may be unable to adapt to the new training paradigm. Finally, traditionally
isolated justice sector institutions, might not welcome project efforts to increase the participation of users and
CSOs in monitoringand evaluation of service delivery.

In order to offset potential opposition, and build a sustainable reform process, the Project has devised a
communication strategy aimed at persuading reluctant stakeholders of the benefits of the strategy envisaged.
Through various dissemination activities the Project will carefully explain the reform process to the different
groups affected by the change process withinjustice sector institutions.
                   1                    Users' Opinion on the Judiciary in Peru


                   I                                                                                 I
                                  The judiciary is the most corrupt

                      The judiciary is completelydependenton the
                                       government

                          The judiciary does not deserve any trust


                                 The laws do not apply to the rich


                                         The judiciary is very unfair

                          The judiciary is dependent on economic
                                         presures                                         + <




                         Source: World Bank Institute, 2001, Voices of the Misgoverned and Misruled: An
                         Empirical Diagnostic Study of Governance, Rule of Law and Corruption for Peru. Draft
                         Reoort. Washinaton DC: The World Bank


                                                                     84

Sustainability of reform efforts-External Stakeholders. Overcoming Peruvian society's skepticism to judicial
reforms and obtaining its support for modernization efforts will be crucial to ensure that the proposed changes
effectively benefit service' users. Peruvian society suffers from "judicial reform fatigue" after a decade of changes
that have been only marginally successful in improving the way justice works. This fatigue breeds lack of trust
and skepticism among Peruvians, hampering their commitment to yet another set of justice services improvement
efforts such as that proposed by the Project. Therefore, the Project needs to communicate the objectives of the
reform effort, involve Peruvians and CSOs in monitoring the progress of the reforms, and create channels for the
participation of citizens in the design and implementation of the various components. Formalized communication
efforts addressingjustice service users, and consensus-building mechanisms and consultations with CSOs will be
constant throughout project life (see details in section E).

E.         Social participation strategy

The Project requires a strategy in order to manage social issues to the advantage of its beneficiaries, redress
potential negative effects, and make justice accessible to disadvantaged social groups27.Therefore, the social
participation strategy will focus on three cross cutting themes, First, it will address issues of access to justice by
proposing measures to bringjustice closer to the overall population, to focus in turn on measures to enhance the
access of the poor, in general, and indigenous peoples, in particular. Secondly, it will propose mechanisms to
improve the operation of the justice sector, with a focus on those that affect women. Third, it will address the role
of civil society in the justice services improvement process and propose mechanisms to enhance the participation
of CSOs.To that end, six activities have been incorporated inthe accessto justice component.

Improving access to justice for the urbanpoor: legal aid and conciliation

Since the urban poor are close to formal justice sector institutions, increasing the amount and quality of legal aid
and conciliation services i s a high-returnsolution to access to justice issues inurban areas. The low rate of use of
legal aid services and conciliation raises concerns over the effectiveness of the system and its ability to reach the
poor. The Project will fund a comprehensive assessment of legal aid and conciliation services focused on: (a)
identifying obstacles of poor urban potential users to access legal aid and conciliation; (b) determiningurbanpoor
justice service needs, specifically the types of cases most commonly affecting this group of users; and (c)
evaluating the overall quality of legal aid and conciliation services. The assessment will be the basis of a technical
assistanceprogram to overhaul these services.

The Project will integrate the successful experience of CSOs in the area of legal aid and conciliation to
mainstream this justice service. The activity of CSOs in these areas has been extremely successful. CSO's
services enjoy high legitimacy among users because of their ability to deliver in a relative short time and a
reputation of transparency and integrity. The Project will capitalize on the CSOs experience by creating a
database of all the organizations providing legal aid and conciliation services making information available to
users and MINJUSthrough the Judicial InformationWindows.

Improving access to justice for the ruralpoor: justice of the peace

Because its high ability to reach the remote poor, and the legitimacy it enjoys among Peruvians, strengthening the
justice of the peace system i s essential to meet the needs of the ruralpoor. While the ability of this systemto reach
rural populations has been amply demonstrated, concerns about the low qualifications of lay justice of the peace'
in matters of human rights or gender issues remain. Accordingly, a thorough assessment of lay justices of the
peace' judgments will serve to design a targeted technical assistance program. NGOs will be active participants
inthe designandimplementationof suchprogram.


27 Project Component 1(Improved Justice Services Delivery) will also provide more timely and quality justice services in a way that will
enhance users' and potential users' access to services. Examples of these activities wit a clear impact on access include:
decentralizatioddeconcentrationof services and implementation of improved service delivery models; streamlining of administrative
procedures; capacity building activities for judges and administrative staff; new information and communications technology, etc. To the
extent that these activities contribute to a more efficient system, and are better targeted to people's needs and expectations, they will also
enhance access to justice for the overall population. Nevertheless, this section describes indetail the rationale o f those project activities
specifically oriented to increase the poor's access to justice services and enhance the Project's ability to reach disadvantaged groups.
                                                                        85

Higher integration within the formal justice system may increase the impact of peace justice and benefit the rural
poor further. Therefore, the Project will fund studies on the interactions of the various elements of the first tier of
the PeruvianJudiciary (`justices of the peace and first instance courts), to identify bottlenecks that affect access to
justice and propose operational measures that better serve the users' needs.

Improvingthe way justice works for poor women: Family Courts

Strengthening family courts will be essential to respond to poor women's needs. Specific actions to support
family courts include: (a) carrying out of case studies and development of statistical databases to map out typical
family disputes, primarily among low-income groups. Three types of cases have been identified as deserving such
in-depth analysis (e. g. child support, domestic violence, and custody of children). The case studies will identify
how to adapt services delivery to men and women court users' needs; (b) analysis of a network of organizations
(state and non-governmental) that provide assistance to Family Courts on ad-hoc manner (or work on family
related issues); and (c) piloting new mechanisms to support family courts to address domestic violence cases.
Followinginternational best practice inthe area (e.g. Ecuador and Guatemala), a model to provide integrated legal
aid services for women, operated in conjunction with specialized CSOs, will be implemented in selected family
courts.

Gender training to the Judiciary will contribute to redress gender discrimination in the administration of justice.
During project consultations, justices of the peace requested the support of the Project to build their capacity to
address family conflicts (in particular, domestic violence cases). To meet this demand, the Project will provide
training focused on the Belem Do Para Convention on Prevention, Punishment and Eradication of Violence
against Women, signed by Peru in 1996 as suggestedby the International Gender Dialogue. Inaddition, capacity-
buildingand awareness-raising activities addressing overall gender biases in the administration of justice will be
includedas part of the official training curriculum for judges of AM.

Improving accessto justice for indigenous peoples: Community Justice and FirstInstance Courts

Specific mechanisms to ease the obstacles of indigenous peoples to access justice services will be implemented.
Inaddition to measures such as improving the quality of justice of the peace, that will certainly benefit the
indigenous, the Project will address problems that the indigenous peoples face due to language and cultural
differences. As a first step towards lifting language barriers in access to justice, interpreters/translators of
indigenous languages will be made available in the four selected judicial districts where the Project court
operations subcomponent will be implemented. Judicial information campaigns and outreach materials will be
available in indigenous languages and will be disseminated usingmedia that targets the indigenous constituency.
On line resourcesinofficialjustice-related web pages will be translated into indigenous languages.

The Project will continue research in order to better understand indigenous justice needs and how to address them
through the justice system. One of the main concerns voiced during project consultations by indigenous
representatives referred to the need for increasing the profile of customary law within the judicial system. As a
first step towards this, the Project will commission research analyzing differences between formal and customary
justice with a view to clarifying the differences to policy-makers and facilitating the recognition of community
justice as envisaged in the Constitution. Inaddition, another study will be conducted to identify indigenous groups
specific justice needs including typology of cases andjustice sector institutions/services more suitable to address
them.

Enhancing Civil Society Participation in the Improvement of Justice Services: Public Outreach and
Strategic Alliances

Inadditionto the consultations with civil society duringprojectpreparation, the Project plansto involve CSOs in
specific aspects of the execution where they enjoy a comparative advantage. The involvement of CSOs will be
particularly sought in the areas o f monitoring of the modernization process; provision of legal aid and
conciliation services; gender training of the Judiciary; and legal education for the public at large.



                                                          86

CSOs will enjoy a prominent role in the design and monitoring of the judicial modernization efforts. Consensus-
building activities throughout project implementation. Existing formal channels to consult with CSOs during
different stages of the reform will be strengthened and new consultation fora and mechanisms will be created as
needed. Additionally, the conclusions from semi-annual staff workshops, and project periodic evaluations will be
published and made readily available to CSOs to facilitate their accountability functions and increase overall
transparency of the modernization process.

Changingusers' perceptions of the justice sector is a substantial part of the social participation strategy. Restoring
citizen's confidence injustice institutions i s fundamental to bring users closer to services. Accordingly, as part of
its communication strategy, the Project will implement a public information campaign aimed at raising awareness
among the Peruvian population about the value of independent, competent and equitable justice sector
institutions. The campaign will include a series of outreach activities (including open days in courts and visits to
schools) and will develop radio and TV programs to tackle issues of independenceand impartiality.

By stimulating the demand for justice services, increased legal rights awareness will also contribute to improved
access. Public information campaigns and training programs operated through CSOs will serve to increase legal
education, explain the overalljustice sector to users and how to use it; inform and educate the public about their
rightsand how these areprotectedbyjustice sector institutions.

To increase users' access, specific mechanisms aimed at improving coordination of existing justice services will
be implemented. Revamped customer services offices (Judicial Information Windows) inthe courts and MINJUS
will offer updated information on legal rights and procedures, serving as a focal point to coordinate State as well
as CSOs services. Simple, user-friendly information on where to go and what to do to solve judicial matters will
be the basic tools of this strategy. Staff working in these offices will receive training on customer service.

Monitoring and Evaluation

Duringproject implementation, progress in social development will be monitored. The Project will contribute to
improving social well-being and governance in Peru through: increased social trust in the justice system;
improved dialogue between society and justice sector institutions; and high quality justice services accessible to
all citizens. Inorder to measure social development progress, the PCU will monitor development in the areas o f
access to justice services by the poor and indigenous peoples; provision of services adapted to men and women's
needs; and civil society participation. Periodic surveys feeding into interim reports will serve as the main
monitoringinstrument of the social participation aspects of the Project.

Surveys will serve three purposes: (a) to measureaccess to services by disadvantaged groups including qualitative
as well as quantitative aspects of access; (b) to provide gender disaggregated information on men and women
service satisfaction; and (c) to incorporate CSOs views on the progress of the Project. In addition to the baseline
information available through the comprehensive Uses and Users study prepared during project preparation, a
study to complement information on certainaspects of access tojustice services will be carried out. The study will
generate statistical data on: (i)the extent to which low-income groups accessjustice services; (ii) justice sector
                                                                                                       the
institutions more commonly used by the poor as well as a typology of cases; (iii)       the obstacles faced by the poor
when accessingjustice services as well as their relative importance; and (iv) the most common justice needs of
low-income groups.




                                                          87

                                                          Annex 12
                                       PERU-Justice Services ImprovementProject
                                                     Gender Assessment


I. Introduction:AGenderAssessmentasaninstrumentforBankOperations

A.        Objective

As part of the World Bank's Strategy for MainstreamingGender, multisector assessments'' are recommended of
borrowing countries to identify gender-responsive policies and actions in individual sectors. The present Gender
Assessment was undertaken with funding from the Gender and Law Thematic Group in 2001. The overall
objective was to evaluate disparities in the provision o f services and gender equity considerations relevant to
strengthening the effectiveness o f the justice sector. More specifically, the Gender Assessment sought to identify
critical areas where gender-responsive actions are likely to enhance effectiveness, specifically as part o f the
Justice Services Improvement Project (the Project) through its Access to Justice component.

B.        Methodologyz9

The Gender Assessment examined existing studies related to litigants and performance indicators o f the justice
system in Peru and gender-based discrimination in Peruvian Law as well as national plans of action, studies and
recommendations related to gender equity which were identifiedby the government and CS0s3O.It also included a
review o f the country's legal framework31 as well as findings o f Government3* and non-governmental
 institution^^^and international agencies dealing with issues o f gender equality andjustice in Peru.

Inorder to coordinate with key government agencies andCSOs already working on issues of gender-equity inthe
justice system, a multi-sectoral roundtable was held in 1997 for the Prevention o f Family Violence. Participants




28TheCountry Gender Assessment (CGA) is a collaborative process through which the Bank and borrowing countries
identify gender-responsive policies and actions important for poverty reduction, economic growth, and development
effectiveness.CGAs are a componentfor the Bank strategy, "Integrating Gender into the World Bank's Work: A Strategy for
Action," which requires borrowing countries to prepareperiodic multisector assessments that analyze the gender dimensions
of development, identify gender-responsive policies and actions important for poverty reduction economic growth, human
well-being and development effectiveness in the country, and integrate these policies and actions into policy dialogue the
country assistance program.
*'The Gender Assessment comprises: (i) desk review; (ii)
                                           a                  in-depth interviews with key informants (approximately 30 in 2
field missions); (iii)
                     an analysis of service providers' records (e.g. calls received on domestic violence hotlines); and (iv) an
analysis of judicial statistics from an ongoing study on "Uses and Users of the Justice System in Peru" done in collaboration
with PUCP.

30 Andean Jurists Commission: Profile of Litigants and Performance Indicators (1998-99); Analysis of Gender-based
discrimination in Peruvian Law, specifically Civil and Commercial Law, Criminal Law, Family Law and Labor Law
(Ombudsman's Office 2000); 1999 Study on Peace Judges and Community Justice (Instituteof Legal Defense); Policies and
Action Plans for Rural Women (PROMUDEH 2002); Critical Route for Women Affected by Family Violence in Peru
(PAHO, 1999); The Structure of Incentives and Inefficiencies in Child Support Procedures (Apoyo Institute, 2000);
Evaluation of the EmergencyCentersfor Women and Systemof Municipal Defenders(PROMUDEH, 2001).

31International Conventions (1992 Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination againstWomen; and the
Optional Protocol (1999), and the 1994 Inter-American Convention to Prevent, Sanction and Eradicate Violence Against
Women (BelBm do Pari)); the Peruvian Constitution; Domestic Legislation including Criminal and Civil Codes, Special
Legislation: Laws. No. 26260, 2673, 26872 (on Family Violence); Law 26873 (on Conciliation) and Supreme Decree No.
002-98-JUS.
32 Studies of National Police, the Ministry for the Advancement of Women and Human Development (PROMUDEH),
Family Defenders; and the Regional Offices of the Ombudsman's Office.

33Community Justice: Peasant and Indigenous Communities; the Judiciary (the Supreme Court (Casacibn), Superior Courts
(Appeals) Specialized Courts (Family, Labor, Criminal and Civil, First and Second Instance) and the Peace Justice (First
Instance); the Public Ministry and the Ministry of Justice (Legal Aid and Jails)
                                                              88

included PROMUDEH, the Ministries of Education, Health and Justice, the National Police, the Ombudsman's
Office, the Association of Municipalities of Peru, and the Center for Women "Flora Tristan".

11.     MainstreamingGender inthe Project

A.      JudicialStatistics

The Bank-financed study on "Uses and Users of the Justice System in Peru" analyzes a random sample of 1250
judicial cases initiated in 1998 in Lima in Civil, Labor and Family Courts. Based on preliminary findings and
dialogue with counterpart institutions (the Judiciary, MINJUS, CNM and MAG), the Task Team focused its
particular attention on services of the Family Court system. However, data from Civil and Labor Courts was also
analyzed. The baseline for the proposed Project was validated during the preparation with surveys of users and
non-users of these courts.

1.      Caseloadof Family Courts

The analysis of the caseload of Family Courts provided some interesting data (see chart below). For example,
46.03% of cases in Family Courts were for the dissolution of marriage; however, the data did not tell whether the
separation was by mutual consent or not. The Team suspected most cases maybe by mutual consent which
suggests an area for possible de-judicialization.



                                 Subject matter (percentage of cases)




                         Family violence

                       Infraction criminal

                  Dissolution of marriage                                  3%

                                         0%    10%     20%     30%   40% 50%


2.      Family Violence

According to the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), between 1981 and 1992 more than 300,000
reports of family violence were filed with Peru's National Police, representing 45% of the total potential criminal
incidents reported duringthis period. Yet only 6% of the Family Court cases dealt with family violence on appeal
from the peacejudges' jurisdiction, despite having original jurisdiction themselves as courts of first instance for
such matters. Most of the cases were filed by women and, contrary to popular belief, most of the male defendants
had been sober when accused of wrongful conduct. The initial data from the Gender Assessment suggests that
many cases of marital separation and child support are also related to family violence.


3.      Juvenile Cases

Nearly 9 % of the cases were juvenile criminal cases but the judicial data does not provide information on the
minor charged, either by sex or by age. Instead information i s provided about the person or organization who
represents the minor, typically a PROMUDEH official. The Gender Assessment therefore explored the issues of
Child Support and Family Violence, attemptingto determine who initiates the case, how effective i s the system's
responseto users demands and what are thejudicial outcomes.




                                                               89

4.        Child Support Cases

Child support cases refer to a transfer of resources for child care (e.g. housing, clothing, education expenses,
food, healthcare) upon marital divorce or separation.           The Gender Assessment found that one of the major
difficulties facing the courts is the proof of income or assets since most litigants work in Peru's informal
economy. Also, the Assessment found that judges tended to be excessively formalistic, requiring or accepting
only written evidence of income/assets. The Assessment also showed the disparate treatment of men and women
in the disposition of child support cases, for example, while 83% of child support cases are initiated by women,
only 27% of those cases reachjudgment. This i s in contrast to the 17% of cases initiated by men, of which 33%
reach judgment. Some lawyers and mothers report that judges are lenient with fathers, in part because judges
assume that the mothers will get remarried and will be supported by another man. As noted above, child support
awards may also be inadequate because of a lack of accurate information about the costs of childcare andparental
income based on asset declarations. External factors, such as unemployment and societal tolerance of male
behavior (such as multiple families) also contribute to this the disparate treatment between the sexes. Hearings
are frequently adjourned or delayed, causing parties to lose time and requiring additional attorney's fees.
Enforcement of judgments i s a major obstacle and parents with custody frequently cannot pursue the additional
procedures to collect childmaintenance.


5.        Community Justice

The Use and Users Study, which informed the Gender Assessment as a background source, found that most of the
lay justices of the peace are fluent in Spanish and Quechua, are non-lawyers, male, married and have 4 or more
children. The largest number of cases (21.64 percent) being brought to the Peace Justices are related to family
violence and are mostly initiated by women. Cases of verbal aggression among neighbors (male-to-male violence)
are the next largest type of cases representing 16.08% of the caseload, followed by marital separation and child
support cases (again, initiatedmostly by women) with 12.23% and 14.66%, respectively, of the caseload.

The study found that, in general, men and women prefer the peace judges system which enjoys considerable
cultural legitimacy. Yet, in cases of violence and family related issues, women are increasingly more vocal about
there dissatisfaction.


 B.      AdditionalProceduralBarriersto EffectiveJustice

The InitialResponseto the Use and Users study highlighted some of barriers to effectivejustice (see chart below),
including the rates of claims admitted and dismissed.


                                           Claims admitted or dismissed (percentages)
                                                                                        I
                                      ~                                                  ~

                                       80'.




                                              Admitted   Conditionally  Dismissed
                                                           Admined                       j




                                                             90

C.       Gender-based stereotypes

The National Plan on Violence Against Women enumerated some of the barriers women faced in receiving
effective justice, including gender-based stereotypes. Such stereotypes about the family include the notion that
women are subordinate to men, that men are the head of households and that they have the right to control their
wives and children. Stereotypes related to family violence include that such violence only occurs among the poor
and i s caused by external factors that offenders cannot control (alcohol, drugs, poverty, unemployment). It i s
thought that women are to blame and that is why husbands or partners beat them, e.g. they make provoke family
violence, they maybe bad mothers and/or wives; they may tolerate violence and let their husbands or partners
abuse them or they may not do theirjobs (laundry, cook, etc).

1.       Family Violence   -Women's    Reactions & Justice Sector Operators

Research findings suggest that the majority of women who seek judicial intervention only want violence to stop
and protection from the offenders. Yet there are significant obstacles to getting a protection order for victims of
family violence including a lack of access to legal aid, lack of independent financial resources and reliance on
male partners for economic support, and delay in obtaining a protection order which may lead to further violence
at home. The data shows that an inadequate response from the justice sector can lead to more violence at home
and that, in very few cases, did the women seek criminal sanctions even though they maybe aware of the
possibility.

The Assessment also found that because women often lack information about the laws or judicial procedures or
do not have the resources to hire lawyers, they may be mistreated when seeking judicial redress. Police, Judges
and Prosecutors may resist qualifying incidents of family violence as serious crimes (even though the law
explicitly provides otherwise) depending on the seriousness of the injuries and following the prescribed
procedures. Women victims of family violence maintain that neither the police nor judges listen to them and
sometimes they don't even let them speak. Police officers andjudges often do not believe women victims and do
not take their case seriously; often they defend the male offender and justify his behavior. Justice Sector
operators seem to believe that judicial decisions are inappropriate to deal with violence cases because violence
will not stop or the victim i s responsible. Consequently, they may discourage victims from taking their cases to
courts, may believe that victims will drop charges or evidence i s not available so posing major obstacles to
continue cases.

Some prosecutors andjudges make extraordinary efforts to resolve family violence disputes. Unfortunately, there
are no systematic policies or procedures to treat family violence as a serious crime, hold offenders accountable or
provide services to the victims.

Also adding to the difficulty of addressing gender based violence i s the lack of consensus on the use of the terms
domestic violence, family violence and violence against women. Many advocates prefer the term "violence
against women" since violence also takes place outside the household, while some argue that the term "family
violence'' places the rightsof women secondto the needs of the family.


2.      Family Violence- Advocate's View

Victim's advocates and public health researchers state that victims drop charges for a variety of factors including
fear of reprisal from the offender, failure to understand the justice system, difficulty in testifying, emotional
and/or economic attachments to the offender, loss of access to their children, poor self-image and low level of
self-confidence and feelings of fear, guilt and shame.

3.      Main Challenges

One key challenge in addressing the issue of gender-based violence i s a limited understanding of men's violent
behavior and inadequate records to determine the level of domestic/family violence in the community. Research
has suggested that aspects of male violence may be attributed to learned social factors and gender relations.

                                                        91

Societal acceptance (and justification by justice operators) of male violence against women contributes to the
perception that the aggressor is operating within accepted community and societal norms. There is a need to also
work with men to reduce family violence.


I11 .   Project-related Gender Issues

The Gender Assessment suggests that gender-based stereotypes may be present among justice sector operators
and may influence judicial decisions. A strategy to deal with family violence and child support cases must
include actions that help to reduce gender inequalities in matters of access (legal information, legal counsel).
There i s a need to improve understanding of the cycle of family violence and denial of child support, and the role
of justice sector operators. Explicit attention needs to be paid to gender-based stereotypes in judicial decision-
making, and to specifically focus on improving the performance of Family Courts and Peace Judges. Further
analysis of gender issues inruralareas and urban marginal areas i s also needed.

The findings of the Gender Assessment resulted in various changes to the Project design, including increased
support to enhanced access to justice for the poor. Also, the Project includes working with Justices of the Peace
and local community groups on gender-based stereotypes and intra-family violence, along with further support to
the Family Court system to improve coordination with other social sectors services and training for the Judiciary
on gender biases inthe application of family, civil andlabor codes.

Partnerships were established with key government programs working on issues of gender-based violence
including PROMUDEH, municipal defender's offices, emergency centers for women, and specific programs to
address violence against women. Also included were the Ministry of Education's program for the prevention of
violence, the Ministry of the Interior's work with Women Police Stations, the Public Ministry'swork with Public
Family Prosecutors and the Specialized Deputy Ombudsperson for Women's Rights.

Similarly the Project linked up with civil society to develop sustainable networks of active organizations
providing legal representation and legal advice (network of rural and urban organizations), as well as support
groups (urban), community defense services, hotlines (urban), and training.




                                                        92

MAP SECTION


