                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR00001204



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-72190)



                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 12 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                            GOVERNMENT OF PERU

                                      FOR A

                 JUSTICE SERVICES IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                                December 25, 2010




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective December 21, 2010)

              Currency Unit = Peruvian Soles Nuevos
               2.8 Peruvian Soles Nuevos = 1 US$

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 ­ December 31


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADR        Alternative Dispute Resolution
ALEGRA     Asistencia Legal Gratuita
AMAG       Academia de la Magistratura (Judicial Academy)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CERIAJUS   Comisión Especial para la Reforma Integral de la Administración
           de Justicia (Special Commission for the Integral Reform of Justice
           Administration)
COSUDE     Agencia Suiza para el Desarrollo y la Cooperación (Swiss
           Cooperation Agency)
CMU        Country Management Unit
CNM        Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura (National Judicial Council)
CSO        Civil Society Organization
EU         European Union
GoP        Government of Peru
GTZ        German Technical Cooperation Agency
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICT        Information and Communications Technology
ISR        Implementation Status and Results Report
LCR        Latin America and the Caribbean Region
MCC        Millenium Challenge Corporation
MEF        Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas (Ministry of Economy and
           Finance)
MINJUS     Ministerio de Justicia (Ministry of Justice)
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
OCMA              Oficina de Control de la Magistratura
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PCU               Project Coordination Unit
PDO               Project Development Objective
PRONELIS          Programa Nacional de Enseñanza Legal para la Inclusión Social
RVP               Regional Vice-President
SWAP              Sector Wide Approach
TTL               Task Team Leader
USAID             United States Agency for International Development




      Vice President:                 Pamela Cox
      Country Director:               Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
      Sector Manager:                 Veronica E. Zavala Lombardi
      Project Team Leader:            Lisa L. Bhansali
      ICR Team Leader:                Lisa L. Bhansali
 
                                                     PERU
                                     Justice Services Improvement Project


                                                         Contents
Data Sheet ............................................................................................................................ i
  A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ vi
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 29
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 32
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 49

MAP (IBRD 33465R) ....................................................................................................... 50
 
Data Sheet


A. Basic Information
                                                                          Justice Services
Country:                Peru                    Project Name:
                                                                          Improvement
Project ID:             P073438                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72190,TF-54758
ICR Date:               12/22/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF PERU
Original Total
                        USD 12.0M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 11.8M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 11.8M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Judiciary
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/19/2002     Effectiveness:                                04/29/2005
Appraisal:            12/01/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/04/2004     Mid-term Review:           12/10/2007         12/10/2007
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2008        03/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                            Yes                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to law and justice                                                25                  25
Administrative and civil service reform                                  24                  24
Decentralization                                                         13                  13
Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms                         25                  25
Participation and civic engagement                                       13                  13

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:             Pamela Cox                            David de Ferranti
Country Director:           Carlos Felipe Jaramillo               Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:             Veronica E. Zavala Lombardi           Ronald E. Myers
Project Team Leader:        Lisa Bhansali                         David F. Varela
ICR Team Leader:            Lisa Bhansali
ICR Primary Author:         Lisa Bhansali


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall objective of the project is to set the foundation for a long term, participatory
and sustainable reform process for Peru's justice sector. Specific objectives are: (a)
strengthen institutional capacity to lead the reform process and achieve specific
improvements in justice services delivery, in particular in the Judiciary and in selected
project districts; (b)establish human resource management systems that ensure


                                                  ii
independence, transparency and integrity; and (c)enhance access to justice services for
Peruvian society, in particular the poor.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally          Actual Value
                                               Values (from          Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target          Completion or
                                                documents)           Values          Target Years
                To set the basis for a sustainable justice sector institutional reform and
Indicator 1 : modernization process among the 4 principal agencies: Judiciary, Judicial
                Council, Judicial Academy and Ministry of Justice.
                                            Institutionalized
                                            coordination
                                                                                  The institutions
                                            among the 4
                                                                                  have coordinated
                Prior to the Project, no    agencies in the
                                                                                  well in rationalizing
                regular inter-institutional delivery of their
Value                                                                             training, selection,
                coordinating body existed respective services
quantitative or                                                                   promotions, and
                between these principal and an improved
Qualitative)                                                                      jointly promoted
                sector agencies to          administration of
                                                                                  the now approved
                coordinate their tasks.     justice is noted
                                                                                  Judicial Career
                                            through various
                                                                                  Law.
                                            planning and
                                            delivery actions.
Date achieved 03/23/2004                    09/30/2009                            03/31/2010
Comments
                It is noteworthy that the Steering Committee has invited the Attorney General to
(incl. %
                join and sector policy discussions now include 5 key agencies.
achievement)
                Deconcentration of decision-making and empowerment of judicial districts to
Indicator 2 :
                determine operational priorities for improved service delivery.
                                                                                  The Judiciary has
                                            Administrative
                                                                                  now trained
                                            functions,
                Prior to the Project, the                                         administrative staff
                                            including budget
                Judiciary had not                                                 from 10 judicial
                                            preparation and
Value           decentralized decision-                                           districts in public
                                            monitoring, local
quantitative or making and control over                                           management and
                                            recruitment,
Qualitative)    administrative tasks to the                                       results based
                                            should be entirely
                local district                                                    budgeting. The
                                            decentralized in at
                management.                                                       presidents of the 10
                                            least 4 selected
                                                                                  Superior Courts all
                                            judicial districts.
                                                                                  participated.
Date achieved 03/04/2004                    06/30/2008                            03/31/2010
Comments
                The target for this indicator has been met and even exceed to include 6 additional
(incl. %
                districts.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Enhanced access to justice for poor, women and children and indigenous peoples

                                                  iii
                achieved, through responsive justice services provided by the 4 participating
                agencies and civil society.
                                                                             15 free legal aid
                Baseline data shows that
                                                                             centers (ALEGRA)
                the justice institutions
                                              Increase by 20% in             for marginalized
                rank second to lowest in
                                              users' satisfaction            populations, three
Value           public confidence among
                                              with judicial and              of which are
quantitative or public institutions. Little
                                              non-judicial                   mobile, now exist.
Qualitative)    legal aid exists outside
                                              services to                    A public-private
                the capital and few
                                              enhance access.                partnership exists to
                understand the legal
                                                                             promote legal
                system.
                                                                             education.
Date achieved 03/04/2004                      06/30/2008                     03/31/2010
Comments
                The ALEGRAs include public outreach by judges and other judicial personnel in
(incl. %
                specific districts to civil society.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                A better coordinated Justice sector through an institutionalized coordinating body
Indicator 1 : which will provide strategic direction and oversight of service provision and
                management.
                                           A better
                                           institutionally
                                           coordinated and                     Institutions have
                                           planned justice                     jointly prepared
                Poor coordination          sector measured                     judicial profiles and
                between key institutions by coordinated                        ethics indicators,
Value
                of the sector and limited operating plans                      along with
(quantitative
                strategic management       and budgets;                        leadership and
or Qualitative)
                within and between         operational                         promotion criteria.
                institutions.              policies such as                    Disclosure of
                                           agreed                              human resources
                                           requirements for                    statistics begun.
                                           posts and
                                           evaluation criteria.
Date achieved 04/29/2005                   06/30/2008                          03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                The Judicial Council creates a transparent and professional human resources
Indicator 2 :
                management system for the justice sector.
Value           Prior to the Project, the The selection of                     The Judicial
(quantitative   Judicial Council and the judges and key                        Council is now
or Qualitative) Judiciary did not plan and administrative                      using uniform and

                                                iv
               develop a joint human     personnel in the                 evidence based data
               resources strategy.       Judiciary will be                from judicial
                                         based on merit and               decisions and
                                         a transparent                    management for
                                         process.                         promotions and
                                                                          evaluating judicial
                                                                          decisions.
Date achieved 03/04/2004                    06/30/2008                    03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                The Judicial Academy trains judges and key administrative personnel in the
Indicator 3 : Judiciary in courtroom management, gender issues, and other subjects through a
                modernized curricula and methodology.
                Prior to the Project, the The Judicial                     The Judicial
                Judicial Academy was        Academy begins                 Academy is using
                training judges in subjects using non-                     virtual platforms
Value           unrelated to judicial       traditional                    based on diagnostic
(quantitative   performance and             teaching methods               needs assessments
or Qualitative) management and relied to judges including                  for training
                on ineffective sole source outsourcing of                  programs. A
                selection for training      course preparation             curriculum database
                programs.                   and execution.                 now functions.
Date achieved 03/04/2004                    06/30/2008                     03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                        IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     04/21/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/09/2004         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     03/29/2005         Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  4     06/30/2005         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.06
  5     06/15/2006         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.39
  6     04/02/2007         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.77
  7     09/18/2007      Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     3.67
  8     06/20/2008      Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 6.21
  9     12/15/2008      Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 8.74
 10     06/09/2009      Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory               11.29
 11     12/08/2009      Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory               11.89




                                              v
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                            vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

In 2003, when this Project was being prepared, both the Government of Peru (GoP) and the
Bank recognized investment in strengthening the administration of justice to be a
development priority. In the case of Bank support, the institution was "re-entering" the sector
following a project which was approved in the late 1990s but which was not declared
effective.1 Peru's justice sector had been under the control of two authoritarian governments
­ the military regime holding power between 1968 and 1980, and the Fujimori dictatorship of
1992-2000. 2 This Project was thus included in the pipeline during discussions with the
transitional Government of Paniagua, and with the following administration (after elections)
of President Alejandro Toledo, who took office in 2002. Toledo inherited a difficult and
complex governance situation, the result of scandals and corruption and sought alliances
between the State, private sector and civil society under the umbrella of a National Accord.
Yet, the justice sector 3 was seen by many, particularly the Executive branch, as needing
particular attention and at least two external bodies attempted to lead reforms of the Judiciary,
but from the outside: (i) a High Level Working Group called GTAN (Grupo Técnico de Alto
Nivel) and (ii) CERIAJUS, the Special Commission for the Integrated Reform of the
Administration of Justice.4 While these groups included several civil society organizations
such as law schools, bar associations and NGOs and could serve as an important group for
dialogue during the planning phase of the Project, they were seen as `outsiders' to the such
key institutions as the Judiciary given the country's history of political interference in judicial
administration.

At appraisal, Peru's justice sector was still suffering from the effects of imposed reforms
taken between 1992 and 2000, which were often politically motivated and even went so far as
to include the firing of thirteen Supreme Court Justices. Such "reforms" were strongly
opposed not only by judicial authorities, but by the international community as well. These


1
  Project Completion Note, Peru, Judicial Reform Project (Loan 4256-PE), June 30, 2000 (Report No. 20669).
2
  Fujimori was elected to the Presidency in 1990, but an auto-golpe (self coup) staged in April 1992 shut down
key democratic institutions such the Congress and the Judiciary and gave him increasing extra-constitutional
powers.
3
  Each country's justice sector is made up of different agencies interacting in various ways. However, the
`sector' usually includes formal, state-run institutions such as the Judiciary (courts), police, Ministry of Justice,
Attorney General's Office, Congress or Parliament, Judicial Academy, Judicial Council. civil society actors (e.g.
human rights NGOs, private sector businesses, bar associations); and traditional leaders (e.g. justices of the
peace) and/or alternative dispute resolution forums (arbitration, conciliation, mediation). All of these
stakeholders, including users of their services, are interconnected and each has a specific role to play in ensuring
that the rule of law is respected.
4
  CERIAJUS received a legal mandate of 6 months to: (a) develop a common vision for the institutions of the
justice sector; (b) promote inter-institutional coordination; and (c) provide the policy guidelines for the
modernization process of the Peruvian administration of justice system.

                                                          1
reforms also had the effect of encouraging a highly bureaucratic and formalistic mentality,
and excessive centralization of judicial processes.5 Not surprisingly, citizens had rather low
opinions of justice sector institutions, including the Judiciary, which were exacerbated by the
difficulty of accessing services.

As mentioned, the transition to democracy between 2000-2001 generated a renewed impetus
for improved judicial services, and it was clear that justice sector institutions urgently needed
to develop a dynamic, service-oriented mindset aimed at benefiting a variety of potential users
and regaining citizen respect. It was within this context that Peru's Executive and Judicial
branches requested the Bank's assistance under the World Bank Group`s Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for 2003-2006 (Report No. 24205-PE) discussed by the Executive Directors
on August 19, 2002 6 to set the foundation for a new approach to the provision of justice
services. This new approach set the stage for reforms to improve sector performance in terms
of quality and responsiveness as well as to enhance access to justice services for the country's
most economically and socially disadvantaged groups.

Sector issues addressed by the Project
The Project context included numerous and varied sector issues. Specifically, Peru's justice
sector faced the following main challenges at the time the Project was appraised:

One of the main constraints was limited resources and a lack of modernized service delivery.
Unlike much of the rest of the Peru's public sector, justice sector organizations had not been
included in modernization of the State reforms to better address the needs of users. Lax
notifications, and weak budget planning and execution presented other serious impediments to
efficient administration of justice. To provide modern and responsive services, the Judiciary
(the largest of the 4 participating agencies) needed to strengthen its execution capacity to
better use its budget so as to obtain additional resources as well as account for such use to the
population who used the judicial system.

Congestion and delays not only reflected poor management of the inventory of cases, but may
have been attributable to other problems such as judicial corruption. Media reports claiming
that judicial employees were paid for delaying (or accelerating) certain cases, or even
informally "compensated" for performing their duties, such as delivering notifications or
taking a deposition during the evidence-gathering stage of a judicial proceeding, were
common.

Outdated human resources planning and management and unstable tenure was another
significant challenge. Tenure, a key safeguard of judicial independence, had been more the
exception than the rule in Peru in the context of the Project. The re-establishment of the
Judicial Council in the post-Fujimori period, when the Project was being prepared, was
expected to represent a further step toward a merit-based appointment system. However,


5
  For a detailed discussion of the 1990s' judicial reforms in Peru, see Annex 10 of the Project Appraisal
Document. Also on issues of independence, accountability and integrity project design has taken into account the
findings and recommendations of the following reports: Building on Quicksand: The Collapse of the World
Bank's Judicial Reform Project in Peru, Lawyers Committee For Human Rights, New York (2000).
6
  See Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Peru 2003-2006 (Report No. 24205-PE).

                                                       2
uncertainty remained about how to proceed in the selection of candidates for judicial
positions.

At the time of appraisal, training in the justice sector was considered to be insufficient. Most
Peruvian judges had not even received basic judicial training and their decisions generally
reflected a formalistic reasoning in which they applied a narrow and literal interpretation of
the laws with little or no consideration of economic and social factors. Further, judges were
unfamiliar with court and case management techniques as well as legal developments in such
fields affecting economic development as antitrust and competition, banking, insurance and
securities regulation.

Access to justice was a notable problem, including the exclusion of indigenous languages and
other cultural barriers. Peru's poor encountered several barriers in accessing basic justice
services. Legal aid services (provided through MINJUS, one of the Project's participating
agencies) were grossly insufficient to respond to the needs of Peru: at the time of appraisal,
there were 249 legal aid lawyers and 26 public defenders to cover what is the equivalent of
44.7% of the population. Improving access for indigenous peoples facing language and
cultural barriers was also a fundamental challenge for justice sector institutions. Peru is a
multicultural country, with more than five million indigenous peoples (Quechua, Aymara, and
Amazonian), which comprise approximately 22% of the total population. The language and
cultural barriers, as well as the complexities of the court system, deter potential indigenous
users. Many indigenous people pass through the sector's institutions without understanding
Spanish or legal technicalities, and are thus not able to adequately explain their problems or
fully exercise their rights. To respond effectively, there was a need to train interpreters and
translators in indigenous languages to assist users in the Judiciary and Ministry of Justice
(MINJUS), which oversees legal aid. This was considered a long-term process that required
careful attention to cultural diversity, potential gender biases and the use of culturally
appropriate concepts.

Weak alternative dispute resolution (ADR) mechanisms. Alternative Dispute Resolution
methods such as mediation and arbitration had only become available in recent years when
the Project was appraised. While there was a growing number of civil society and private
sector actors in this field, there existed a disconnect between the formal court system and
private ADR providers, which often prevented settlements from being recognized in court.

Public outreach and education about the justice sector was virtually non-existent, and reliable
public information on when, where and how to use justice institutions was lacking when the
Project was being prepared. This also reflected a lack of inter-institutional coordination
among the sector's agencies to address issues of poor perception by the Peruvian population.

This Project's approach included increasing collaboration between key justice sector
institutions which did not have a history of coordinating effectively with each other; thus, the
Project focused on four, main agencies: (i) the Judiciary (Poder Judicial), (ii) Judicial Council
(Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura or CNM), (iii) Judicial Academy (Academia de la
Magistratura or AMAG) and (iv) Ministry of Justice (Ministerio de Justicia or MINJUS).




                                               3
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The PDO was to set the foundation for a long term, participatory and sustainable reform
process for Peru's justice sector. Specific objectives included: (a) strengthening institutional
capacity to lead reform processes and achieve improvements in service delivery in selected
project districts (of the Judiciary); (b) establishing human resource management systems that
ensure independence, transparency and integrity; and (c) enhancing access to justice services
for Peruvian society, in particular the poor.

The following Key Indicators were selected: (a) Improved Justice Services Delivery: four
selected districts of the Judiciary which meet quality and timeliness targets, the design and
implementation of 5 year strategic plans at the district level, administrative functions assumed
and the evaluations obtained, best models for court operations adjusted and expanded,
standard information systems installed, alternative distribution of roles and responsibilities
among administrative and auxiliary staff tested and court performance and user demand
analyzed; (b) Judicial Human Resource Professional Development: human resources policies
and processes, and training to improve judicial services, as agreed to between the Judiciary,
the CNM and the AMAG, including job profiles developed, recruitment and evaluation
systems approved, and single curricula adopted; and (c) Enhanced Access to Justice:
promotion and dissemination of an Ethics Code to sensitize and educate judges,
administrative and auxiliary staff, increased quality of legal aid and conciliation services
based on improved infrastructure, enhanced customer service and other programs
implemented to improve service delivery focused on gender, multiculturalism, and intra-
family violence.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

Not Applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and
as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to
benefit from the project)

The main target institution was the Judiciary, as it was central to the justice sector's
functioning. However, in the area of human resources management for the sector, the Judicial
Council (CNM) and the Judicial Academy (AMAG) were also strategically important
beneficiaries. And, for access to justice, the Ministry of Justice (MINJUS) was included as a
fundamental sector beneficiary organization. Although the primary beneficiaries were the
sector's organizations, indirect beneficiaries included users of the various services offered by
these organizations.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Improved Justice Services Delivery: This component supported the
improvement of strategic planning and management within the Judiciary or court system,
including the `deconcentration' of some decision-making powers to at least 4 of the 29

                                               4
judicial districts. It also included the preparation of a long-term reform agenda which sought
to address such concerns as financial management and better budgeting. Additionally, the
component supported planning of ICT adoption and rationalization of existing IT systems,
and continuing work on alternative models for court and case management to adjust services
to meet user demands. In the latter, the component sought to use Performance Agreements in
at least 4 selected judicial districts and then proposed an expansion to other districts.

Component 2: Human Resources Professional Development: The specific objectives of this
component were: (a) to retain quality human resources for the Judiciary and provide them
with opportunities and planning for appropriate professional development; (b) to introduce
modern concepts of human resources planning and management into key sector institutions
(Judiciary, CNM and AMAG) and develop their capabilities to apply them; (c) to encourage
coordinated strategic planning among these institutions (Judiciary, CNM and AMAG); and
(d) to promote coordinated planning between central and regional administrative offices of the
Judiciary.

Component 3: Enhanced Access to Justice: This component sought to strengthen the capacity
of the sector institutions to promote access to justice and reduce barriers, including addressing
corruption. It supported the implementation of a strategy to enhance access to economically
and socially disadvantaged groups, including the development of legal aid system
administered by the Ministry of Justice (MINJUS), strengthen its oversight of conciliation or
ADR and work with family courts (with a focus on reducing gender disparities) to identify
needs; and use public outreach and strategic alliances to raise citizen's awareness about
justice issues, including their rights and responsibilities and how to access sector institutions.

Component 4: Project Management, Coordination and Monitoring: A Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) was responsible for the administration of procurement, disbursements and
financial management matters of this operation. The PCU Manager served as the Technical
Secretary of the Project Steering Committee (Comité Directivo), which included the heads of
the 4 participating institutions (Judiciary, CNM, AMAG, and MINJUS) and was chaired by
the President of the Supreme Court. The PCU also was in charge of Project monitoring and
evaluation, and liaising with the participating institutions for the purposes of coordinating
activities.

1.6 Revised Components

N/A

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The design, scope and scale of the Project remained the same, with the exception that more
judicial districts were included based on expressed interest/demand from the Borrower than
were originally expected. One specific indicator of the Project was to work in at least 4
judicial districts--this number was increased to 10 by the time the Project closed. The focus
on service delivery and responsiveness to user demand was an effective approach, which


                                                5
permitted the Project to leverage the gains in the 4 districts and show how they could be
applied nationwide, thus creating a multiplier effect.

There were three extensions of the Closing Date: (i) for twelve months until June 30 2009; (ii)
another for three months until September 30, 2009, and (iii) the last was until March 31, 2010.
There were also two reallocations, one in June 2008 and the other in July 2009. The
extensions were due primarily to two reasons: first, there was a 22-month delay between the
signing of the loan and effectiveness, and second was the time necessary to coordinate efforts
between 4 different institutions across two branches of the State. Given this context, the year
and a half of extensions is considered reasonable. All extensions were done at the level of the
Country Director and did not require RVP approval.

There were also two reallocations. The first reallocation was in January 2008 and transferred
$1,725,000 from Consultant Services and $60,000 from the Unallocated category to Goods,
Small Civil Works and Training. The second reallocation was in June 2009 and re-assigned
$60,000 in Unallocated funds to Operational Costs. Neither of the reallocations changed the
objectives of the Project.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

 2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The Bank had approved a judicial reform operation for Peru in the late 1990s which was not
declared effective due to a number of reasons, after which the Borrower formally withdrew its
request for Bank financing7. Lessons learned and identified risks for that operation, which
were taken into account for this Project addressed how the process of reform in the justice
sector should and should not be designed and implemented:

            "Judges' involvement is essential for the success of a reform process". In previous
           reform attempts in Peru, although some of the activities sought to involve judges in
           their implementation, for the most part judicial participation was not invited ­ and
           certainly not at the policy-making level. During preparation of this Project, this lesson
           was taken into account and judges were regularly consulted and the task team worked
           with both the Judiciary's leadership as well as specific technical level staff through
           modernization committees. This preparatory work had the positive result of ensuring
           that the activities under the Project were positively received and designed with the
           participating organizations' personnel themselves.

           "Unless the institutional environment encourages improved performance, even those
           prepared to undertake it are likely to be discouraged and fall into the traditional
           habits". For this Project, this risk was mitigated by including a component on Human


7
    Project Completion Note (Loan 4256-PE), June 30, 2000.



                                                             6
         Resources Management and taking advantage of new institutional leadership, which
         sought to introduce modern practices to recruit and maintain personnel on the basis of
         merit and evaluation.

During Project preparation, the Government initiated a national dialogue to consolidate
democracy and reaffirmed the country's "national identity," the objective of which was to
create a shared vision for the next 20 years. In July 2002, the results of the consultation
process were consolidated into a set of 29 State policies endorsed by political parties, civil
society, academia, labor unions, and the private sector. The chapter on justice in what became
known as the National Accord was an important element of Peru's strategy to strengthen
justice administration and the rule of law, including more efficient, transparent and
decentralized service delivery which reflected the Government's commitment. This created an
important incentive for reforms in the justice sector, including those addressed in the Project's
preparation and design.

Building on the lessons of the 1998 project, this Project's team designed the components
through consultations with the judges and administrative staff of the participating institutions.
Unlike earlier donor funded reforms (in Peru and elsewhere), the Project did not present itself
as a "laboratory for change" but instead sought to offer concrete examples of broad impact
which could be applied at the national level or to other judicial districts. In addition to
participatory processes with institutional counterparts, during Project identification, the team
held several interviews with users of justice services, bar associations, academics, and private
sector representatives. A broad spectrum of civil society organizations (CSOs) was also
consulted as were Justices of the Peace at the community level.

As regards quality at entry, the risk of a lack of reliable statistics for measuring service
delivery improvements was addressed by including monitoring and evaluation activities for
the design of user surveys. These instruments, which were prepared during Project
implementation, served to collect data about the uses and users of justice services, a caseload
data review which had never been undertaken in Peru's justice sector prior to this Project.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

The Project's design, especially the decision to include 4 sector agencies (Judiciary, Judicial
Council, Judicial Academy, and Ministry of Justice), raised some implementation challenges
such as defining which activities to give priority to first. However, enhanced inter-
institutional coordination, while time-consuming, was also a major accomplishment of the
Project. This was particularly important for a sector renowned for a lack of coordination. It is
also notable that the Project design included only a single Project Coordination Unit (PCU),
which was shared among multiple participating institutions--this was an another achievement
not found in other domestic or internationally funded justice projects in Peru.8 In fact, an



8
 Other projects in Peru's justice sector have included multiple agencies, but these have required the use of
multiple executing units as well. In contrast, this Project was not only able to develop the consensus and unity

                                                        7
initial delay in effectiveness which had triggered the Project (for less than 6 months) as a
problem project was overcome quickly thanks to the efficiency of the PCU. Implementation
proceeded more rapidly post 2006 due to a change and appointment of a new PCU Manager,
who was better able to deal directly with the 4 organizations' heads and with a strong focus on
internal management capacity. The PCU team was also strengthened through the appointment
of liaisons in each participating institution and increased Bank team supervision through the
Country Office in Peru.

During implementation, and the mid-term review in particular, the Project team developed
quantifiable indicators in addition to the PAD indicators. From 2007, the Project was rated HS
for both PDO and IP based on such key factors as PCU performance and a complementary set
of measurable actions to the PAD indicators to include both output and outcome indicators.

Also during implementation, some of the critical risks identified in the PAD did materialize
but these were resolved through adequately designed mitigation measures to ensure PDO
achievement was not compromised and the HS rating was maintained. In particular, as
mentioned above, defining priorities in the sector and the sensitivities of reform did play a
role in specific institutions (mainly the Judiciary and the Ministry of Justice) wanting to
"lead" the rest. In this sense, the risk mitigation measure of the Steering Committee offering
a regular forum for coordination and informal discussions among the heads helped to resolve
differences and build consensus.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The PAD indicators lacked baseline data and were quite broad. The PAD indicators were
designed to be qualitative and milestones to address the risk of a lack of reliable statistics and
to be more realistic about the Project's implementation. In addition, these indicators were
output-focused so that they could be delivered within the original Project timeframe. Since
reliable data did not become available by mid-term, the Project sought to improve its M&E
and supplemented the original indicators.

As a consequence of the above, for the most part, monitoring had to focus on a list of outputs
with few means of tracking their impacts. To its credit, the PCU dealt well with these
shortcomings, working with the PAD and IP indicators. A user survey was financed in 2006
and 2007 to obtain as much baseline data as possible on user satisfaction--as a result, any
improvements would have had to occur within a very short period to be evaluated. The survey
also offered a stronger focus on user satisfaction with more detailed aspects of service
delivery (not only overall "confidence" in the courts which is harder to measure) (see Annexs
5 and 7 for details).




among the 4 agencies, but cut across different branches of State (Executive and Judicial), to use only one
executing unit.



                                                        8
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

One of the Project's effectiveness conditions included compliance with the financial
management standards necessary for implementation. To that end, the task team and Project
counterparts in the Judiciary, where the single PCU was based, worked together to meet
compliance evaluations and the effectiveness condition, as approved by the Bank's Sr.
Financial Management Specialist. Since effectiveness, fiduciary reviews of the Project's
implementation have been exemplary.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

A follow-on operation, the Justice Services Improvement Project II, was prepared at the
request of the Borrower (represented not only by the Ministry of Economy and Finance but by
the original 4 justice sector agencies under the first Project and one additional agency, to
make for a total of 5). The new project was approved by the Bank's Board of Executive
Directors on November 18, 2010 and the legal agreement was signed on December 14, 2010.
This follow-on project and evident commitment among agencies will ensure the sustainability
of reforms.

Another important aspect for the sustainability of reforms and institutional capacity was
achieved through the inclusion of more districts than anticipated. In fact, the request for a 2nd
stage project to scale up activities and expand them to more judicial districts indicates that the
design in the first Project was appropriate.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objectives and design did target the correct problems at the country level and reflected
global priorities such as strengthening accountability institutions such as the Judiciary. The
country priority was to support the justice sector in improving its administration and the
decision to focus on a few districts initially was appropriate since their success did indeed
lead to wider adoption and an increase in the number of participating districts (from the
original 4 to 10--see chart below). In fact, the priority of improving judicial services was so
relevant that, had the Project included additional funding for the Service Delivery component,
more districts might have participated. The same applies to the focus on deconcentration and
greater regional and district-level decision making as well as the design of activities to
address corruption and lack of access. Below is a list of the 10 districts that were finally
included in the Project and percentage of Peru's population indirectly affected.




                                                9
           Judicial Districts of                Population             % of Peru's Population
              Intervention
     Lima, Huaura and Cono Norte                8.9 million                     30.9%
     Ayacucho                                  0.64 million                      2.2%
     La Libertad                                1.7 million                      5.9%
     Arequipa                                  1.15 million                      4.1%
     Loreto                                    0.97 million                      3.3%
     Tumbes                                    0.20 million                      0.8%
     Apurimac                                  0.44 million                      1.5%
     Cajamarca                                 1.38 million                      5.1%
     Piura                                     1.67 million                      6.0%
     Total                                    17.05 million                     59.8%

       Source: INEI- National Institute of Statistics and Information (2010).

From the above, it seems clear that the 2002 CAS reflected a responsive strategy to Peru's
sector specific and broader development needs. There is a high overall relevance of the
objectives and a focus on the justice sector continues to reflect Peru's current priorities (as
evidenced by the next phase project as well).


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

PDO ­ Set the Basis for Sustainable Justice Sector Institutional Reform Process

While this may appear an overly ambitious objective, the Project facilitated the reform
process among key sector agencies to establish a sustainable process, and results can be seen
in several areas (if not generally attributable to Project inputs). The three PDO indicator
targets were met as well--an inter-institutional body continues to exist (and continues to
function to date, even though the Project is closed, even when a 2nd stage project was not
planned) and meets regularly, including engaging in joint policy and operational planning
relating to the sector. Greater deconcentration has also occurred within the Judiciary, and as
discussed in the section on access below, greater access to judicial services has been achieved
through improvements in management in legal aid centers working in communities with
municipal actors--these centers now define their support based on the needs of users and
potential users.

PDO 1: Set the basis for a sustainable reform and modernization process among the 4
principal participating agencies. Highly Satisfactory. The inter-institutional planning
body operates regularly, and while it provides the overall direction for the Project, its creation
has helped to move the sector's key agencies toward a more engaged discussion of reforms.
The planning body successfully pushed for the drafting and passage of a new Judicial Career
Law. Since the adoption of the law, its implementation in practice has required that the
agencies work together, even when they do not always share a common vision of
implementation (largely because of their differing mandates). A regular forum such as the


                                                     10
Steering Committee has made the reform process more sustainable and improved practical
coordination among the three agencies most affected by the Judicial Career Law ­ Judiciary,
CNM and AMAG. Through the Steering Committee, negotiations have been held and an
agenda to define implementation has resulted in the judicial selection process and evaluation
so that, for example, the Judiciary now provides information to the Council as needed for the
ratifications of judicial appointments (which it periodically conducts). This coordination
problem to implement the Judicial Career Law may have gone unanswered (with no real
impact of the new law) without the forum originally established by the Project.

PDO 2: Deconcentration of decision-making and empowerment of judicial districts to
determine operational priorities for improved service delivery. Satisfactory. The Project
has made strides here in two major areas ­ (i) training Superior Court judges and their
Administrators in management and project development techniques, and (ii) providing
technical assistance to a select number of judicial districts (initially 4 and finally 10) to allow
them to design and implement programs aimed at improving services to users. The legal basis
for the deconcentration of decision making ­ the districts' ability to formulate their own
budgets and more recently to make smaller procurements without prior approval by central
management was assisted by the Project. In addition to technical assistance to support this
effort, the Project worked on the "empowerment" side, helping the participating districts to
improve their Annual Operating Plans and budgeting capabilities and to focus them on
meeting users' needs to achieve increased satisfaction. For those 10 (of the 29 in the country)
judicial districts with which the Project worked more extensively, additional funding for
certain activities intended to benefit users and technical assistance in their design are reflected
in their budgetary priorities. To this end, the Project also used "performance agreements,"
signed by the districts and the district's General Manager's Office (Gerencia General) which
has worked to help the districts incorporate results targets in their ordinary budgets.


    Box 1: "Sistemas de Colas": This was an invention of the Project and has been introduced
    with Project funding in 4 of the pilot districts, with high levels of approval both by judges and
    court users. In its simplest form, the system simply provides a number for those waiting to
    receive information on their cases in the central intake and information office (mesa de
    recepción). This alone constitutes a vast improvement over the former chaotic situation
    (which according to reports even led to users being victimized by pickpockets while waiting),
    eliminates users' tendency to seek information directly from the courtrooms thereby
    interfering with normal work, and, when there is substantial congestion, lets them attend to
    other business and then return when their number is likely to be called. Building on Project
    support, additional improvements have been added ­ a waiting room with chairs for users who
    no longer had to stand ( possibly for hours); an Intranet kiosk allowing those who know their
    case number to consult the database directly without having to wait to be attended, a special
    attendant for those coming from outlying areas, and so on. The President of the Arequipa
    judicial district was so enthusiastic about the new system that he has introduced a weekly tour
    for members of other government agencies and public organizations to explain its workings
    and demonstrate other innovations intended to make his court more user friendly.




Deconcentration activities supported by the Project have also developed a selection of service
improvements, including reconfigured intake and information centers, backlog reduction and

                                                  11
archive improvements, the reorganization and refurbishing of Labor and Family courts,
biometric registration for parolees, and a more efficient notification systems.

    Box 2: Example: case inventories and court remodeling: Two critical problems confronting
    Peru's judicial districts include (i) large, usually uninventoried backlogs, and (ii) courtroom
    designs that do not promote procedural efficiency. In the participating districts, the Project
    worked to remedy both, in conjunction. Inventories of backlogged cases (# of cases awaiting
    review) financed by the Project allowed courts for the first time to understand which cases
    they had lined up for decisions and to develop a complete registry of their caseload. This was
    combined with a case purging activity which allowed the participating courts to send inactive
    cases to the Judiciary's Central Archives, appropriately registered so that anyone interested
    may consult (or reactivate) them later. The process takes time, and the Lima District Courts
    estimated that they were only about 40% through the exercise, but that they have been able to
    retire a significant proportion of the cases currently sitting in their courtrooms. At the same
    time, some of the trial courts included (specifically Labor and Family courts, those most likely
    to be used by the poor) have been physically reorganized to make better use of space, allow
    the judge to have enhanced oversight of the staff, and discourage entrance of non-judicial staff
    into the work area (because this is one way for case files to disappear or bribes to be offered).
    Since in most of Peru's history, no one has ever looked at courtroom organization from the
    standpoint of its impact on performance, this is an important innovation and novelty for most
    of the courts included in the Project. Judges and administrative staff as well as users in site
    visits unanimously registered their gratitude for the effort.




PDO 3: Enhanced access to justice for poor women and children and indigenous peoples
achieved through responsive justice service as provided by the Judiciary, MINJUS and
CSOs. Highly Satisfactory.             Peru's scores reflecting citizens' perception of justice
institutions, particularly the Judiciary, have risen during implementation of the Project. A
series of surveys conducted by the Public Opinion Institute of the Catholic University of Peru
did show some positive results, such as an increased willingness (from 18% in 2006 to 25% in
2009) by respondents to take a dispute to the courts if they could not resolve it first by other
means and a decrease, from 47 to 34% over the same years in those characterizing system
performance as "bad" or "very bad." Noteworthy is the fact that most surveys showed a dip
in all positive indicators in 2008, but this essentially reinforces the principal challenge with all
indicators which employ public satisfaction as a measure--while important for public services
such as the administration of justice, they tend to be too highly influenced by events that may
have little to do with the real experience of using justice services.

The Project made significant advances to enhance access to justice through: (1) assistance to
MINJUS in advancing its service delivery program based on the multi-service legal assistance
offices called "ALEGRAS" (free legal aid centers including conciliation services and public
defenders working with social workers and CSOs to address gender-based discrimination,
specific needs of indigenous users) and in providing training to ALEGRA staff; (2) support--
as part of Component 1 as well--to the district courts in access enhancement programs
including refurbishing, equipping and redesign of courtrooms (Family and Labor), principally
used by poor clients and in improving their intake centers via the Sistemas de Colas (Box 1
above); (3) support to the Anticorruption Office of the Judiciary (called the OCMA--Oficina
Interna de Control de la Magistratura) for the development and implementation of the Ethics

                                                  12
Code and enhancing its ability to investigate complaints; and (4) work with NGOs and
grassroots organizations in training citizens in their rights through a MINJUS program called
PRONELIS. This may well be the area in which the Project has had the most impact for the
funds invested.

Both the Judiciary and the Ministry of Justice, as regards the ALEGRAS and public defender
services have developed a management system in conjunction with CSOs. As a result, case
tracking systems are very close to including "real-time" data on caseflow for such services to
the poor. Case output figures, while still collected manually, are published in various forms
(not only annual reports, but also on the Internet, and for some judicial districts on CDs) and
made available to the public in general and to local research groups (including civil society
groups) that are making use of them to try to analyze service delivery problems. This access
to information on the functioning of ALEGRAs, (including conciliation services), the Judiciary
and the Ministry of Justice's services has helped the institutions to develop policy manuals
and design directives for joint actions at the municipal level, thus expanding beyond a
centralized institutional coordination.


3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least
cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The investments under the Project have generated reasonable returns as regards the direct
improvements they provided and the less direct, but potentially more important--the changes
in attitude they encouraged among the participating agencies. The Project has advanced a
planning and results culture as demonstrated by the efforts of various district courts to track
their progress (see Annex 3 for more details). The annual reports prepared by the Huaura
district court on its implementation of a new procedural code are a case in point, as are Lima
Norte efforts to measure real judicial output or productivity, and the Lima district's concern
with tracking the results of the backlog reduction program. Producing these new outlooks has
been a constant challenge to all judicial reform programs in the region, and the Project's
efforts to do this by working directly with the judicial districts (and not only at the central
level) demonstrate an interesting example of how this might be done elsewhere. The
experience is being taken into account in the next phase as a result.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating is Satisfactory because, while the Project did achieve the
objectives encompassed in the PDOs and key associated outcome targets, there were minor
shortcomings insofar as efficiency such as the delay in effectiveness. In this regard, the HS
ratings in the ISRs since 2007 reflect a realistic assessment of the Project's relevance. In fact,
the Project played a fundamental role at the right time in Peru as it sought to consolidate the
transition process through a stronger, more developed justice sector. The outcomes resulted in
moving forward to setting a basis for a long-term sustainable reform in justice administration,

                                               13
while at the same time producing immediate improvements in service delivery, human
resource management and deconcentrated planning, and access.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

One overarching theme or impact from this Project has been the inter-institutional
coordination and collaboration that it has fostered across the sector. When the Project began,
these participating agencies barely dealt directly with each other to resolve sector issues,
choosing instead to "fight it out" in the press. Today, with the support of the Project, these
agencies (through technical staff as well as the agency heads) have reached out to each other,
and even joined forces to show unity in their request to the Ministry of Economy and Finance
for a next phase. It is a noteworthy impact that the Project has contributed to the maturity of
the sector and its development in this regard.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Family courts in Peru have generally been regarded as ineffective and accounted for a
substantial percentage of cases filed within the first tier of the Peruvian Judiciary. The most
common cases dealt with marital separation, followed by child support and custody and intra-
family violence. In fact, studies revealed that gender stereotyping and discrimination posed
obstacles to justice for female users, particularly in cases involving intra-family violence.9 Of
the 18 courts where the Project intervened, case backlog was reduced from 6,425 to 3,655
files; thus, the Project was able to affect 60% of cases. However, not all of these resulted in a
complete or final resolution of the case because in Peru's Family courts, a social worker
and/or psychologist is generally called in by the judge to evaluate the needs of a child and this
usually involves an additional number of procedures within the Family jurisdiction. For
example, one main reason for female users not receiving adequate services to their needs was
procedural delay, a problem which affects all users but particularly exacerbates victims such
as poor women in gender-based violence cases who may be in need of judicial protection.
Hence, even though the backlog was reduced, it was not always reflected in the ongoing
caseload numbers due to these independent, but related processes.

One of the Project's important achievements can be found under Component 3 which
financed a National Program on Legal Education for Social Inclusion (PRONELIS--
Programa Nacional de Enseñanza Legal para la Inclusión Social) through support to the
Ministry of Justice (MINJUS). The PRONELIS activity supported a "training of the trainers"
program with 96 participants who then replicated the training (on such topics as human rights,
due process, and social, economic and cultural rights) in public high schools to students in the
following departments of Peru: Arequipa, Ayacucho, Huacho, Lima, Trujillo, Apurimac,
Ancash, Cajamarca, Huánuco, Huancavelica, Junín, Ica, and Puno--approx. 25,0000 students


9
  See PREM Note 98 entitled Engendering justice: a gender assessment's impact on project design (May 2005)
which describes the results of a gender assessment carried out for the design of activities with the Family courts
in this Project.



                                                        14
and community leaders were trained in rural areas with poor populations. Even in Lima, the
Project focused on poor neighborhoods as opposed to more elite schools.

One of the areas reflected in the reallocation of funds was support for the Justice of the Peace
system. The Justices of the Peace represent a credible dispute resolution institution in Peru,
particularly in rural areas. There are two types of justices of the peace: Jueces de Paz
Letrados (legally trained justices of the peace) and Jueces de Paz No Letrados (lay justices of
the peace). Legally trained justices of the peace operate as small claims courts with a
jurisdiction overseeing minor criminal and civil matters. As of end-2002, there were
approximately 370 of them; most had no previous judicial experience and little knowledge of
conciliation techniques. Lay justices of the peace numbered approximately 4,700 and
accounted for about 70% of all persons exercising "judicial functions" in Peru, serving around
10 million citizens. They are selected by the communities they serve and essentially function
as mediators, who administer justice based on principles of equity.

While the Project did assist with the establishment of a Justice of the Peace office within the
Judiciary and did finance some equipment and training in human rights, including training on
gender equality and greater exposure to the formal system, these funds were reallocated as
part of donor coordination efforts during implementation. The European Union supported the
JUSPER ("Justice Peru") project, which assisted the Judiciary with approximately 2 million
Euros, of which 60% was directed to working with the Justice of the Peace system letrado and
no letrado; as a result, the Project reallocated resources toward the training of magistrates in
such areas as public management, an identified need during preparation and a complement to
the JUSPER project. Other donors such as COSUDE (Swiss Aid Agency) are continuing the
work with Justices of the Peace; as a result, the next phase of the Project will focus on other
areas of access in local communities other than justices of the peace.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)

This Project is essentially one of institutional change and strengthening and its impact is the
enhanced capacity of the 4 participating agencies (Judiciary, Ministry of Justice, Judicial
Council and Judicial Academy) to better provide their services to users, whether it be other
sector institutions, other branches of the State or private firms and individual users. An
example of the sustained institutional change supported by the Project may be found in the
introduction of electronic notification systems (as described in Box 3 below).




                                              15
   Box 3: Electronic notification: One significant source of delay in processing cases
   throughout Latin America is organization of the notification process. Traditionally, courts use
   pools of staff who travel throughout the relevant districts delivering the required documents to
   complete "service of process". It commonly can take weeks to notify an individual that a
   complaint has been filed against him/her or to provide notice of specific actions completed or
   required; there are also complaints about the use of bribes to speed up or delay the process.
   Starting with Lima's commercial courts, the Project provided funding, equipment and
   technical assistance to allow notifications by Internet. For those lawyers and parties
   participating in the program, average times were reduced from 2 weeks to a matter of minutes.
   Now that the system has been successfully introduced, it will be expanded to other districts
   and types of courts in the second phase. The system reduces costs, time, and for those anxious
   to know the status of their cases, the frequent need to go to court to check (although if they do,
   the Sistema de Colas, another Project innovation, can assist in reducing time as well).



(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Due to the Project's support for the OCMA (Anticorruption Office within the Judiciary) and
strengthening its capacity to conduct investigations in response to allegations of corruption,
Peru was able to qualify for the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) funding from the
US Government. Among the qualifying indicators was the performance of the Judiciary to
combat corruption--the focus on enhanced management in the OCMA financed under the
Project supported the Judiciary's ability to show change and helped the country qualify for
this additional donor assistance which cut across many sectors and issues.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

The risk to development outcome appears low because much has already been achieved and
these have been targeted interventions in specific geographic and subject matter jurisdictions
with the aim of scaling up for national application, which is proposed under the second phase.
Many of the interventions have succeeded in changing the way the agencies do business and
this has resulted in a reduced risk to the development outcome. The Project has, as was
intended, improved the capacity of the participating agencies to be able to plan and coordinate
more successfully, and adopt a user oriented outlook in their provision of services. To ensure
that this achievement is not reversed, the Project emphasized a narrower, results-based focus
and a broader adoption of the more successful innovations (i.e. such as those under
Component 3). To that end, the next phase includes specific recognition of achievements
from this Project which are being scaled up and expanded nation-wide or to other judicial
districts, depending on the activity.




                                                  16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank performance to ensure quality at entry was Moderately Satisfactory. Some of the
effectiveness conditions could have been advanced at the preparation stage. As a result, joint
actions and decision-making during implementation required additional efforts by the Bank
team at the implementation stage, rather than in preparation for entry into effectiveness. This
meant that the Bank team could have worked closer with the 4 participating institutions,
which had not in a coordinated manner before this Project, from level of the heads of the
institutions to the technical and administration staff, to ensure that some of these conditions
were already met (e.g. financial management system, operational manual). Hence, an
effectiveness delay and a lack of reliable data by which to measure indicators, supports the
quality at entry to be evaluated as moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

In order to supplement the output-focused indicators in the PAD, more outcome level
indicators were included during implementation, particularly after the mid-term. The task
team was proactive in seeking to oversee the fulfillment of both types of indicators.

The quality of procurement and financial management supervision has been closely
coordinated directly between fiduciary staff and the TTL so that any issues could be identified
and acted on as soon as possible. This close supervision team work, together with investments
in the PCU's capacity through direct training from fiduciary colleagues, has made the
difference through the life of the Project.

The overall quality of supervision has also included solid coordination with other projects in
the same sector (e.g. public sector governance) as well as with the portfolio management and
oversight capacity provided by CMU colleagues. Additional support from a national
consultant working in the Bank's Country Office to coordinate with the heads of the agencies,
PCU and Bank task team has also been notable. One example of how this coordination in
supervision made a difference was when changes at the level of agency heads occurred, most
often in the Ministry of Justice (which changed ministers more than 10 times during Project
implementation).

Finally, despite a delay in implementation, the Project managed to reach its targets and
disburse a high percentage of funds in the period from 2006 to early 2010 due to proactive
supervision and greater Bank-PCU coordination. The Bank team's relationship with each of

                                              17
the counterpart agencies has been excellent, including a focus on developing not only a solid
Steering Committee dynamic, but also providing individual attention to the needs of each
institution.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance has been Satisfactory, reflecting the supervision actions mentioned
above as well as working to coordinate closely with the Ministry of Economy and Finance in
addition to the sector agencies involved in the Project.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Justice sector reform was a high priority at entry, and the Project seemed to find high levels of
cooperation within individual judicial districts as well as at the national level. "Government
performance" covers the 4 agencies (not the implementing agency) and was stronger when
activities did not require an advanced institutional capacity. For example, support to the
Ministry of Justice's service model called ALEGRAS and the Judiciary's client friendly intake
systems called "Sistemas de Colas" showed a stronger performance than management
changes which required change in institutional behavior through appropriate incentives.
Despite a number of other donors active in the justice sector during implementation of the
Project, all of the agencies remained committed and joined forces to request MEF support for
a second phase.

In this sense, concrete examples include the commitment of the Judicial to support
deconcentration efforts with the superior courts participating in the Project, as well as the joint
leadership shown through the sector policy decisions of the Steering Committee. Finally, the
appointment of liaisons who dedicated a significant percentage of their time to the Project's
implementation through the joint preparation of terms of references with PCU staff,
participating on evaluation panels, and regular coordination meetings reflect a strong
Government performance.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Following the replacement of the first PCU Manager, the implementing agency's performance
(the Judiciary) through the single PCU has been exemplary. Staff were well versed in project
development and implementation and still maintain excellent relations with the counterpart
agencies. Some examples of the positive management practices implemented by the PCU
together with the 4 implementing agencies include: (i) unifying the counterpart funding so

                                                18
that contracts could be paid out 100% by the PCU, rather than the 80-20 original envisioned
when the Project was approved; (ii) applying a 360 degree evaluation of staff, including the
PCU manager and coaching and feedback on performance; (iii) workflow processes including
moving toward a "paperless" office; (iv) internships for staff of the 4 agencies in the PCU so
they could learn about project management and more about the day-to-day working of the
PCU itself (as well as other agencies' components where overlap with their own did not
exist); and (v) use of performance agreements and results based budgeting for the PCU itself.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, Borrower Performance Is rated Satisfactory, reflecting the Government's
commitment throughout commitment and the PCU's satisfactory execution of the Project,
despite the initial delays.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

While a follow-on project reflects a strong commitment of the key agencies, an important
lesson learned is the need to have better communicated the Project's outputs. The
achievements of this Project have largely been seen or felt by agency staff themselves or at
the local level of users in communities. Information campaigns and greater outreach to the
public at the national level to reach potential users of justice services could have further
strengthened reform efforts in the sector. The use of greater public outreach to share the
outcomes of the Project with Peruvian society is a related lesson in this sense. Some
examples of this did occur through a youth program called Voces de los Jóvenes (Voices of
Youth), which included students from various departments of the country participating in
observing the Project's implementation and commenting on ways to enhance impact.
Agencies' staff and even local communities where also informed of the Project, but national
level communications programs during implementation would have allowed the Bank to
better gage its performance (and make adjustments) more regularly.

General application Lessons

Project goals and indicators should have a stronger nexus between outputs and outcomes:
The impact indicators (PDO and outcome levels) were for the most part focused on outputs
and often harder to track. These output-focused indicators in the PAD were thus
complemented with more outcome level indicators during implementation, particular
following the mid-term. Thus, a related lesson learned is the need for supervision teams to be
proactive in addressing implementation issues.

More strategies are needed for supporting multi-institutional projects which also seek to
foment inter-institutional cooperation: Projects like this one offer important insight into the
institutional arrangements required for inter-institutional projects in a complex sector such as
the justice system (e.g. a single implementing agency). Also, a mutisectoral approach works


                                              19
well when multiple agencies with varying mandates are involved--in this Project, PCU and
Bank teams included a diverse grouping of technical staff disciplines (e.g. Anthropology,
Economics, Business, Law, Institutional Management, etc.).

Project-specific Lessons

A PCU manager with an independent and positive track record with public agencies is an
advantage in fostering cooperation among project and other actors. Part of the delays in the
first year and a half of implementation (and before that in meeting effectiveness conditions)
were attributable to the then-PCU manger's inability to interact effectively with the heads of
the participating agencies. When a new manager was selected with a high level of expertise in
management (not justice sector reforms per se), the Project was able to move forward more
quickly based in large part on this reputation and work style and was immediately appreciated
not only by participating agencies but by MEF staff as well.

As opposed to top-down or bottom-up projects, there is a mid-level approach that merits
exploration: High level representatives often have entrenched mindsets that are difficult to
change through even the best of reforms, while those at the bottom level of institutional
hierarchy (whether first instance judges, ordinary citizens, or the marginalized communities)
need to be involved in reform efforts early on, but usually lack the power to push them ahead.
Thus, the lesson is a proposal to work with mid-level staff (in this case, heads of judicial
districts and their staff) because they are often more open to change and may soon rise to
positions where they can have more influence within institutions.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower was formally invited to comment on a draft version of this ICR. Each of the 4
participating agencies provided comments, including further inputs on the results achieved
under the Project in their respective areas of responsibility. This additional information was
taken into account and incorporated in the final version of the ICR as appropriate. No further
issues were raised by the 4 agencies in their comments. The PCU also prepared a Completion
Report on behalf of the Borrower ­ this document is included as Annex 7 of the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not Applicable.




                                             20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a)     Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                           Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
           Components                                      Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                              millions)
IMPROVED JUSTICE SERVICES
                                                6.60                  6.72          101.8
         DELIVERY
JUDICIAL HUMAN RESOURCES
       PROFESSIONAL                             2.20                  1.04           47.3
       DEVELOPMENT
   ENHANCED ACCESS TO
                                                2.00                   2.21         110.5
          JUSTICE
  PROJECT MANAGEMENT,
    COORDINATION AND                            1.20                  1.80           150
        MONITORING


       Total Baseline Cost                     12.00                  11.77          98.1
      Physical Contingencies                    0.00                   0.00          0.00
       Price Contingencies                      0.00                   0.00          0.00
                                               12.00                  11.77          98.1
       Total Project Costs


(b)     Financing


                                                         Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                                                                    Percentage
                                           Type of        Estimate       Estimate
           Source of Funds                                                              of
                                         Cofinancing        (USD           (USD
                                                                                     Appraisal
                                                          millions)      millions)
 Borrower                                              3.20           0.00          .00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       12.00          0.00         .00
and Development




                                               21
(c)     Project Costs by Categories (in USD)

 Category      Category Description             Disbursed Historical
      1        Civil Works                               642,331.96
      2        Goods                                   3,423,574.00
      3        Consultancy Services and Audit          5,664,593.90
      4        Training                                1,533,484.90
      5        Operating Costs                           448,199.34
      8        Unallocated                                     0.00
     FEF       Front end Fee                              60,000.00
    Totals                                           11,772,184.10




                                          22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Improved Justice Service Delivery: Satisfactory. This is where most of
the Project funds were used and where many changes were made, albeit some of them with
results that are also counted in the other components (especially Component 3 on access). A
good deal of the work involved helping design and supporting service delivery improvement
efforts within the 10 specific participating judicial districts. Each of these districts signed
performance agreements with the Judiciary's General Management Office (Gerencia
General) and apart from the commitment to follow various expenditure and procurement rules,
these also featured some commitment to tracking results, such as the number of users
accessing the new intake or notification systems. Some of the resulting reports (for example
from the Lima district on the backlog reduction program for the administrative courts; or from
Lima's Northern "Cone" on overall productivity) indicate an unprecedented commitment to
reporting real caseflow. As the President of the Cono Norte (or now referred to as Lima
Norte) district court noted, his findings demonstrated fewer cases processed than his district's
judges had reported in their own accounts. Decentralized budgeting made limited progress,
largely because the judicial districts have few discretionary funds, but they are making an
attempt to link their use to improved user services.

Component 2: Judicial Human Resources Professional Development: Satisfactory. The
initial indicators here referred to the "adoption by participating institutions of common human
resource planning and management policies aimed at retaining quality human resources and
providing them with appropriate professional development." As mentioned in sections 2.2 and
2.3, the revised indicators and targets are: " "the selection of judges and key administrative
personnel in the Judiciary will be based on merit and a transparent process" and "the Judicial
Academy begins using non-traditional training methods, ...including outsourcing of course
preparation and execution." Both can be counted as met. While the revised indicator made its
achievement more realistic and reasonable, the Project actually continued to support the initial
goal envisioned. Examples of progress in these areas include:

       Further reductions in the proportion of provisionally (i.e. now secure in their
       positions) appointed judges. Project support to the Judicial Council helped push the
       process ahead so that at present, estimates suggest that only 25% of Peru's judges still
       hold temporary status.

       Development of profiles to assist in the design of selection criteria, a process in which
       both the Judiciary and the Council or CNM participated (and which also represents
       another output of the inter-institutional coordination of the Steering Committee).

       Development of databases of questions for the entry level examination for judges and
       of a methodology for evaluating opinions (to be used in the periodic ratifications) was
       another achievement.




                                              23
       Financing of the development of curricula and materials for the Judicial Academy's
       entry-level and continuing education programs. The Academy currently has 3 main
       programs, one for entry level, one for judges seeking promotions and one in more
       specialized areas.

       Financing of the development of distance learning programs for the Judicial
       Academy's courses and of equipment for their implementation. This represents an
       important cost cutting measure which has tested well.

Component 3: Enhanced Access to Justice: Highly Satisfactory. The PAD reflects a
number of indicators for this component, including increased user satisfaction at the PDO
level. The indicator appears to have been designed to reflect overall user confidence measured
by opinion polls, and not focused on specific interventions at the local level. The users who
experienced some of the most successful innovations ­ the new intake centers, the biometric
registries, and the refurbished ALEGRAS (centers for free legal assistance, known by their
Spanish acronym) ­ might indeed have improved their appreciation to the envisioned 20
percent.

In the case of ALEGRAs, the baseline data was zero given that this model of service delivery
did not exist prior to the Project. Through the PCU's M&E specialist, a polling/survey firm
was contracted to gather information on the 10 ALEGRAS (out of 15 and which included
conciliation services as well as public defense). The 2009 evaluation considered 2 principal
aspects of this delivery model: (i) the services provided by the Conciliator him/herself (e.g.
responsiveness to client demand; knowledge of conciliation techniques; ability to listen well;
professional capacity; quality of legal services offered; speed with review of the case; speed
in sending out the invitation for a conciliation sessions; follow-up on cases; knowledge of
local indigenous language in applicable areas; ethical conduct; and impartiality when drafting
the resolution); and (ii) physical environment and access, including infrastructure related to
the Project's financing of equipment and training. The factors here include accommodation
for waiting; existence of bathroom facilities; internal signs and direction of where to go:
availability of private spaces for conciliation sessions; lighting and air circulation; geographic
location and access to the location. For the first aspect, 78.1% positively evaluated the
ALEGRA model and 76.6% respondents favorably evaluated it on the 2nd aspect. As
mentioned, no previous baseline existed and the 15 office and 3 mobile ALEGRA units attend
to approx. 200,000 users annually (see more detail below).

From the 10 ALEGRAS that were evaluated, this is an area where notable progress has been
made both through the MINJUS programs and in the Judiciary (2 of the 4 agencies in the
Project). The initial goal was simply to make the provision of more services available through
appropriate mechanisms, but under the direction of MINJUS (in coordination with the
Judiciary through the Steering Committee), the goal of 15 ALEGRAS was not only achieved,
but the real accomplishments include:

       The number of users attended (50,000 new consultations annually).
       Coverage of services to reach disadvantaged populations (increase coverage area to
       include 1,800,000 more citizens).
       Number of complaints resolved through conciliation or other means (15,000/annually).


                                               24
In fact, the ALEGRA's public defense, legal assistance in civil matters, and conciliation
services are of such high quality that many users who are not poor have tried to use them.
The ALEGRAS are now having to introduce an "income means" test to qualify for their
services. The ALEGRAS are the MINJUS's creation/reform in service delivery, and the
Project has clearly helped advance their expansion throughout the country to the most
economically and socially disadvantaged.10 The Project also financed training for their staff
as well as programs to familiarize potential users with the services they offer.

Under this component, the Project also provided significant support to the OCMA, the
Judiciary's ethics and anti-corruption office. This included office and investigative equipment,
training, and specialized software to encourage, track and respond to complaints. The OCMA
has been very active in tracking internal corruption, and its Director believes that the Project's
assistance was critical here. From 2207-09, the OCMA carried out 34 sting operations
(2007--12; 2008--8; 2009: 14). Out of these operations, all resulted in the accused judicial
officials (or in some cases, private lawyers litigating in the courts) being separated from
his/her position. Project financing and technical assistance, including the design of case
management software, resulted in an increase of the number of investigations and follow-up
on complaints. Training included approximately 16,000 OCMA staff (including the regional
and mobile offices) in such areas as the value of goods, outreach programs, anti-money
laundering, and stronger controls related to disciplinary procedures. This support to the
OCMA also enabled Peru to qualify for MCC support for the Judiciary and other Peruvian
public institutions (see section 3.5 (c) for details).

Finally, this component also included a number of activities aimed at informing citizens of
their rights and educating them in the use of the justice system (see PRONELIS described in
section 3.2, under PDO 3).

Component 4: Project Management, Coordination and Monitoring: Highly Satisfactory.
Management and coordination were conducted at exceptional levels, and merit this grade.
The PCU remained small (staffing at its highest include 10 individuals for 4 institutions to
oversee implementation of 3 complex components with an extremely diverse array of
activities) and did not fall into the common trap of taking over activities better performed by
the counterpart agencies. Instead, the PCU stuck to its main role, doing an exemplary job of
assisting the agencies with service improvement activities. It also helped to develop an
interest in the Project district courts, in performance monitoring and a user-focus. Several of
the most popular and potentially most successful activities adopted by the districts ­ improved
intake centers, improved notification systems, and biometric systems for user registration --
originated with and have been promoted by the PCU (it was largely the result of the PCU's
performance in coordinating Project activities that the number of participating judicial
districts increased from 4 to 10).




10
  The ALEGRAS that were evaluated were in: Cerro de Pasco, Huaura, Puno, Tumbes, Lircay, Otuzco,
Andahuaylas, Huánuco, Callao and Cañete.



                                                   25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


As described in the core ICR, the investments under the Project have generated reasonable
returns as regards the direct improvements they provided, as well as the changes in attitude
they encouraged among the participating agencies. In particular, the Project has advanced a
planning and results culture as demonstrated by the efforts of various district courts to track
their progress.

Enhanced Efficiency and Improved Budgeting Capability: Weak budget planning and
execution was one of the most serious impediments to an efficient administration of justice in
Peru. The Project helped the 10 participating judicial districts to improve their budgeting
capabilities and to focus on meeting users' needs to achieve increased satisfaction. To this
end, the Project used "performance agreements," signed by the districts and the district's
General Manager's Office (Gerencia General) which has worked to help the districts
incorporate results targets in their ordinary budgets.

Improved Provision of Justice Services: Deconcentration activities supported by the Project,
mostly under Component 1, have also led to service improvements, including reconfigured
intake and information centers, backlog reduction and archive improvements, the
reorganization and refurbishing of Labor and Family courts, biometric registration for
parolees, and a more efficient notification systems. In particular, the introduction of electronic
notification in the courts means that average waiting times have been reduced from 2-4 weeks
to only a few minutes as a result of Project interventions. All of these improvements have a
direct economic impact on the users of justice services, especially the poor, as well as on the
personnel of the agencies involved in the Project. The users directly benefit from shorter
waiting times, which in turn allows them to get back to work for instance, and the
introduction of automated systems has also greatly reduced opportunities for corruption and
enhanced transparency.

Access to Justice: Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) methods such as mediation and
arbitration have only become available in recent years when the Project was appraised. While
there was a growing number of civil society and private sector actors in this field, there
existed a disconnect between the formal court system and private ADR providers, which often
prevented settlements from being recognized in court. Improvements in the ADR system
provided through the Ministry of Justice in Peru and the increased availability of such
services through the ALEGRAS have has a positive economic impact on the poorest users of
justice services, who now have more means at their disposal to resolve their disputes at no
cost to them (instead of going to court, the cost of which might be too high for some citizens
to afford).




                                               26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members


                                                                      Responsibility/
        Names                            Title                 Unit
                                                                        Specialty

                                     Lending
      David Varela            Sr. Public Sector Specialist    LCSPS    Team Leader
                                                                       Public Sector
    Lisa L. Bhansali                   Adviser                LCSOS
                                                                       Management
                               Former Sr. Public Sector                Public Sector
   Linn Hammergren                                            LCSPS
                                Management Specialist                  Management
   Teresa Genta-Fons                Lead Counsel              LEGLA        Legal
    Keisgner Alfaro           Sr. Procurement Specialist      LCSPT     Procurement
                                                                        Financial
   Patricia McKenzie       Manager, Financial Management MNAFM
                                                                       Management
                              Sr. Financial Management
     Xiomara Morel                                            LCSFM    Disbursements
                                      Specialist
                                                                       Public Sector
Milena Sanchez de Boado               Consultant              LCSPS
                                                                       Management
     Sharon Spriggs               Program Assistant           LCSPS   Team Assistant


                                Supervision/ICR
    Lisa L. Bhansali                  Adviser                LCSOS     Team Leader
  Carmen Brinckhaus                 Consultant               CTRDM    Disbursements
                                                                      Governance and
Rosmary Marcela Cornejo
                                    Consultant               LCSPS     Justice Sector
       Valdivia
                                                                         Specialist
                                                                           Social
 Maria Elizabeth Dasso    Sr. Social Development & Civil     LCSSO
                                                                       Development
   Teresa Genta-Fons               Lead Counsel              LEGLA        Legal
                                                                        Financial
      Nelly Ikeda          Financial Management Analyst      LCSFM
                                                                       Management
     Tomas Socias          Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT     Procurement
  Francisco Rodriguez         Procurement Specialist         LCSPT     Procurement
    Keisgner Alfaro          Sr. Procurement Specialist      LCSPT     Procurement

                                          27
                                                                         Financial
   Patricia McKenzie      Manager, Financial Management MNAFM
                                                                        Management

    Xiomara Morel            Sr. Financial Management                  Disbursements
                                                            LCSFM
                                     Specialist
    Milagro Mayuri           Extended Term Temporary        LCC6C      Team Assistant
                                                                        Public Sector
Milena Sanchez de Boado               Consultant            LCSPS
                                                                        Management
 Nancy Chaarani Meza               Operations Analyst         ENV        Operations
    Sharon Spriggs                 Program Assistant        LCSPS      Team Assistant


(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                         8                       100.58
  FY03                                        17                       211.03
  FY04                                        27                       283.62
  FY05                                         1                         1.85
  FY06                                         1                         6.13
                          Total:              54                       603.21
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                        10                       103.16
  FY06                                        20                       143.67
  FY07                                         9                        95.03
  FY08                                        16                       144.17
  FY09                                        22                        77.26
 FY10                                         15                        84.1
 FY11                                          3                        21.9
                          Total:              95                       669.29




                                            28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)


The firm IMASEN was contracted in 2007 to conduct a survey to gather baseline data during
implementation. As mentioned above, this was a specific concern where the indicator
referred to increases in user satisfaction yet no baseline existed and "satisfaction" was largely
understood to be perception-based, rather than on actual experiences with service delivery in
such institutions as the Judiciary. In the 10 judicial districts where the Project intervened (not
the same as where the ALEGRAs were located), the IMASEN survey produced a diagnostic of
the needs of various small, medium and large judicial districts, including an operational plan
that reflected the survey. "Users" were defined separately as either parties (usuarios) in a
case or lawyers/litigating attorneys (usuarios expertos), recognizing that both are "users" of
the Judiciary's services, but in different ways. Table 1 below shows the various jurisdictions
and districts involved in the survey as well as number of users interviewed.


                                                   Jurisdictions
                                                             Justice of
Judicial                                                     the Peace        Mixed        Administrati
District       Civil    Criminal      Labour     Family       (formal)     Jurisdictions       ve         TOTAL
Lima              302         385         161        279            299              210            413     2,049

La Libertad       259         176          84        161            130               49              0      859

Loreto             60          69          20          73             30               0              0      252

Arequipa          211         180          40        180            106              133              0      850

Ayacucho          100         143         115           0             42               0              0      400

Huaura            140         139          74           0             27              20              0      400

Tumbes             79          73          27           0             71               0              0      250

Total           1,151      1,165          521        693            705              412            413     5,060
                                    Table 1: Sample of non-expert users surveyed


Source: IMASEN Survey, 2007


In the case of ALEGRAs, the baselines data was zero given that the model of service delivery
did not exist prior to the project. A 2009 evaluation considered 2 principal aspects of this
delivery model: (i) the services provided by the Conciliator him/herself (e.g. responsiveness
to client demand; knowledge of conciliation techniques; ability to listen well; professional
capacity; quality of legal services offered; speed with review of the case; speed in sending out
the invitation for a conciliation sessions; follow-up on cases; knowledge of local indigenous
language in applicable areas; ethical conduct; and impartiality when drafting the resolution);
and (ii) physical environment and access, including infrastructure given the project's
financing of equipment and training. The factors here include accommodation for waiting;
existence of bathroom facilities; internal signs and direction of where to go; availability of
private spaces for conciliation sessions; lighting and air circulation; geographic location and
access to the location. For the first aspect, 78.1% positively evaluated the ALEGRA model


                                                            29
and 76.6% respondents favorably evaluated it on the 2nd aspect. As mentioned, no previous
baseline existed and the 15 offices and 3 mobile ALEGRA units attend to approximately
200,000 users annually.




                                           30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not Applicable.




                                     31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                 Informe Final de Evaluación del
                    Proyecto de Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Justicia ­ Perú
                                              2010

     Nombre del Pliego                     PODER JUDICIAL (PROYECTO MULTISECTORIAL)

                                           UNIDAD DE COORDINACION DEL PROYECTO DE
     Nombre de la Unidad Ejecutora
                                           MEJORAMIENTO DE LOS SERVICIOS JUSTICIA

                                           BANCO INTERNACIONAL PARA
     Nombre de la Fuente Multilateral
                                           LA RECONSTRUCCION Y FOMENTO (BIRF)

                                           PROYECTO DE MEJORAMIENTO
     Nombre del Proyecto o Programa
                                           DE LOS SERVICIOS DE JUSTICIA

     Contrato de Préstamo                   BIRF-7219-PE

     Fecha de Firma del Contrato            30 DE NOVIEMBRE DE 2004

     Fecha de Entrada en Efectividad       29 DE ABRIL DE 2005

     Fecha del Primer Desembolso           15 DE NOVIEMBRE DE 2005

     Fecha Original de Desembolsos          29 DE ABRIL DE 2005

     Fecha Final de Desembolsos            31 DE MARZO DE 2010

     Jefe de la Unidad Ejecutora:          NELSON SHACK YALTA

     Teléfono: 427-0292                     Fax: 427-0292                nelson.shack@gmail.com




1.   INTRODUCCIÓN:

     1.1. Antecedentes.

     El 2 de diciembre de 2003 el Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas declaró viable el Proyecto de
     "Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Justicia" luego de pasar por todas las etapas del Sistema
     Nacional de Inversión Pública, desde el 30 de abril de 2002. Con fecha 21 de mayo de 2004, se
     constituyó el Comité Directivo del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Justicia (CDP),
     integrado por los titulares del Poder Judicial, Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura, Ministerio de
     Justicia y Academia de la Magistratura. Luego de ello, de conformidad con los procedimientos de


                                                  32
la Ley de Endeudamiento, el 30 de noviembre de 2004, en la ciudad de Washington DC, se firmó
el Contrato de Préstamo N° 7219-PE "Proyecto de Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Justicia"
entre la República del Perú (representado por el Embajador en EEUU) y el Banco Mundial
(representado por el Vicepresidente Regional para América Latina y el Caribe). Mediante
Resolución N° 087-2005-CE-PJ de fecha 14 de abril de 2005, expedida por el Consejo Ejecutivo
del Poder Judicial se crea la Unidad de Coordinación del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de los
Servicios de Justicia, de conformidad con el Anexo 5, numeral 2 del Contrato de Préstamo
suscrito, entrando en efectividad el 29 de abril de 2005. Con fecha 31 de octubre del 2005, el del
Banco Mundial otorgó la No Objeción al primer Plan Operativo Anual del Proyecto, el 15 de
noviembre de 2005, se efectuó el primer desembolso por parte del Banco Mundial y el 15 de
diciembre de 2005, se cubrieron los recursos de contrapartida nacional. Una vez efectuado los
pasos previos, el proyecto inició su ejecución financiera el 16 de diciembre del 2005.

El presupuesto total destinado al Proyecto fue US$ 15 millones, de los cuales US$ 12 millones
corresponden a la fuente de Operaciones Oficiales de Crédito Externo y US$ 3 millones de
Recursos Ordinarios como contrapartida nacional, los cuales fueron distribuidos por Componente
según el siguiente detalle:

                   Recursos financieros del Proyecto por Componente - Reprogramado
                                    (Expresado en Dólares Americanos)
                                                  Financiado     Financiado                % del
                                                                                Total
                  Componente                          por        por Banco                 Costo
                                                                                (US$)
                                                 Contrapartida    Mundial                  Total
1.   Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Justicia     1,692,949     6,771,795    8,464,744    56%
2.   Administración de los Recursos Humanos         282,414      1,129,654    1,412,068     9%
3.   Acceso a la Justicia                           564,638      2,258,550    2,823,188    19%
4.   Administración del Proyecto                    460,000      1,840,000    2,300,000    15%
            Costo Total del Proyecto               3,000,000     12,000,000   15,000,000   100%

1.2. Objetivos del Proyecto.

     Objetivo General: Sentar las bases para un proceso de reforma sostenible, participativo y a
     largo plazo en el sector justicia del Perú.

     Objetivos Específicos:
        a. Fortalecer la capacidad institucional para dirigir el proceso de reforma y lograr
            mejoras especificas en el suministro de los servicios de justicia, en particular, en el
            Poder Judicial y en los distritos seleccionados;
        b. instaurar sistemas de gestión de recursos humanos que garanticen independencia,
            transparencia e integridad; y
        c. ampliar el acceso de la sociedad peruana, en particular, de los grupos menos
            favorecidos a los servicios de justicia.

1.3. Estructura del Proyecto.

La Unidad de Coordinación del Proyecto (UCP) es el órgano de gestión del proyecto, realiza
labores técnicas administrativas de monitoreo y evaluación; está conformado por el Coordinador
General del Proyecto, responsable de la ejecución del mismo, así como del Área de
Administración (Administrador, Contador, Tesorero, Especialista en Adquisiciones, Analista de
Adquisiciones, Analista Patrimonial, Analista en Presupuesto); los especialistas temáticos de
apoyo (Legal, Comunicaciones y en Monitoreo y Evaluación) los especialistas responsables de

                                                   33
     los Componentes del proyecto (Planificación, Gestión y Tecnologías de la Información, Recursos
     Humanos y Acceso a la Justicia) y los analistas asignados a las instituciones participantes
     (Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura, Ministerio de Justicia y Academia de la Magistratura.

     Si bien es cierto que la gestión del proyecto se efectúo a través de la Unidad de Coordinación del
     Proyecto, cabe destacar que el requerimiento, el desarrollo y aprobación de las actividades
     estuvieron a cargo de los órganos designados de cada institución participante.

     Es preciso indicar que el Comité Directivo del Proyecto, es el órgano máximo de decisión del
     proyecto y se encuentra integrado por el Presidente del Poder Judicial (quien lo preside), el
     Presidente del Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura, el Ministro de Justicia, el Presidente del
     Consejo Directivo de la Academia de la Magistratura, la Gerente del Proyecto del Departamento
     de Reducción de la Pobreza y Gestión Económica de la Oficina Regional de Latino América y el
     Caribe del Banco Mundial y el Coordinador General del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de los
     Servicios de Justicia (los 2 últimos con voz pero sin voto) y en las últimas reuniones del Comité
     Directivo también participó como invitada la Fiscal de la Nación quién conjuntamente con los
     otros titulares han manifestado un alto interés de continuar el proyecto en una segunda etapa pero
     con la inclusión del Ministerio Público como participante de derecho pleno.

     1.4. Entidades Beneficiarias / Participantes.
          a. Poder Judicial (Componentes 1, 2 y 3)
          Es un poder del Estado, el mismo que en su ejercicio funcional es autónomo, en lo político,
          administrativo, económico, disciplinario, e independiente en lo jurisdiccional, con sujeción a
          la Constitución. El Proyecto focalizó parcialmente sus esfuerzos en 10 Distritos Judiciales11: 2
          del Tipo A12 (La Libertad y Arequipa), 2 del Tipo B (Ayacucho y Huaura), 2 del Tipo C
          (Tumbes y Loreto), además de la Corte Superior de Justicia de Lima, orientándose
          fundamentalmente a las especialidades de Contencioso Administrativo y Familia. Asimismo,
          se efectuó un menor número de intervenciones en otros 3 Distritos Judiciales (Piura,
          Cajamarca y Apurímac).
          Intervención del Proyecto: en Infraestructura 13 , capacitación, equipamiento y servicios de
          consultoría.
          b. Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura (Componente 2)
          Organismo autónomo e independiente de los demás órganos constitucionales, sometida a la
          constitución y a su ley orgánica. En cargada de nombrar, ratificar o sancionar a los Jueces y
          Fiscales del Perú.
          Intervención del Proyecto: en Infraestructura, capacitación, equipamiento y servicios de
          consultoría.
          c. Academia de la Magistratura (Componente 2)
          Organismo público descentralizado y autónomo, forma parte del Poder Judicial y goza de
          personería jurídica de derecho público interno. Tiene por finalidad desarrollar un sistema
          integral y continuo de capacitación, actualización, perfeccionamiento, certificación y
          acreditación de los magistrados del Poder Judicial y del Ministerio Público en todas sus
          instancias.
          Intervención del Proyecto: en capacitación, equipamiento y servicios de consultoría.
          d. Ministerio de Justicia (Componente 3)




11
   Debe entenderse a los órganos jurisdiccionales del Distrito Jurisdiccional.
12
   Tipo A: Cortes que tienen seis a más Salas y de acuerdo a la Ley Orgánica del Poder Judicial le corresponde contar con
Consejo Ejecutivo Distrital. Tipo B: Cortes que tienen entre 3 y 5 Salas y Tipo C: Cortes que tienen una o 2 Salas.
13
   Por infraestructura el Proyecto sólo contemplaba obras menores que consistía en remodelaciones.


                                                          34
         Organismo del Poder Ejecutivo y ente central y rector del Sector Justicia, que tiene por
         finalidad velar por la vigilancia del imperio de la Ley, el derecho y la Justicia.
         Intervención del Proyecto: en Infraestructura, capacitación, equipamiento y servicios de
         consultoría.

2.   EJECUCIÓN DEL PROYECTO

     2.1. Componentes y Subcomponentes

     Componente 1: Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Justicia
     Objetivo: Mejorar los servicios de justicia, a través de una entrega eficiente y oportuna de los
     servicios que brinda el Poder Judicial, para esto se apoya en fortalecer la capacidad institucional y
     lograr mejoras específicas en el suministro de servicios de justicia en las Cortes Superiores y
     Especialidades Seleccionadas, en el marco de una operación piloto.
     Subcomponente 1.1. Planeamiento Estratégico y Gestión: Busca la desconcentración de
     procesos claves y el mejoramiento de la planificación.
     Subcomponente 1.2. Administración de las Cortes y la Gerencia General: Busca mejorar la
     articulación administrativo/jurisdiccional, la tecnología de la información y el fortalecimiento de
     la Administración Central.
     Subcomponente 1.3. Operación de las Cortes: Busca mejorar de la recepción y distribución de
     documentos procesales, mejorar el servicio de consulta del expediente y del estado del proceso, el
     ordenamiento de los archivos centrales, las audiencias y diligencias, el seguimiento y control del
     trámite procesal, la depuración de expedientes inactivos y descarga procesal, mejorar el sistema de
     notificaciones, los servicios judiciales, la tecnología de Información y el acondicionamiento de
     espacios físicos.

     Componente 2: Administración de los Recursos Humanos
     Objetivo: Optimizar el desempeño de los recursos humanos del sector justicia a través de la
     internalización de una filosofía de trabajo inspirada en nuevos valores institucionales que
     coadyuve a mejorar las relaciones interpersonales, el clima laboral las competencias del personal,
     y fundamentalmente la vocación de servicio a la comunidad, lo que implicará un proceso de
     articulación de esfuerzos entre el Poder Judicial, el Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura, la
     Academia de la Magistratura, para tener una visión unívoca en los nuevos perfiles y desarrollo de
     competencias necesarias de los cargos claves del personal jurisdiccional.
     Subcomponente 2.1. Capacitación de los recursos humanos: Busca el fortalecimiento del
     sistema universitario que forma los recursos humanos, a través de: la sistematización de
     mecanismos de detección de necesidades de capacitación, el desarrollo de planes curriculares y
     planificación de la docencia, metodologías innovadoras en capacitación de adultos, materiales de
     estudio ajustados a las necesidades de los magistrados, un sistema de evaluación de la capacitación
     impartida y mecanismos de coordinación con otras instituciones de capacitación del sector justicia
     y de la sociedad civil.
     Subcomponente 2.2. Fortalecimiento del CNM y mejoramiento de la selección y evaluación
     de los jueces: Busca el fortalecimiento institucional del CNM, el desarrollo de perfiles para los
     jueces y personal jurisdiccional, el mejoramiento de los procesos de selección y evaluación de
     magistrados y de la carrera judicial en general.
     Subcomponente 2.3. Gerencia integrada de recursos humanos de la justicia: Busca el
     desarrollo de un sistema integral de recursos humanos.

     Componente 3: Acceso a la Justicia
     Objetivo: Desarrollar una estrategia en la lucha contra la corrupción, capacitando a los
     magistrados y funcionarios de la OCMA, mejorando la reglamentación vigente, difundiendo su
     labor y modernizando su equipamiento. Asimismo, este Componente busca mejorar el acceso de

                                                    35
     los ciudadanos de menores recursos a la justicia, fortaleciendo los servicios de ayuda legal y
     conciliación en materia de familia, promoviendo campañas participativas y alianzas estratégicas
     con la sociedad civil y fortaleciendo la justicia de paz y los juzgados de familia.
     Subcomponente 3.1. Anticorrupción.- Busca convertir a la Unidad Operativa Móvil de la
     OCMA en una unidad anticorrupción y dotar de equipamiento y software a la Unidad de Sistemas
     de la OCMA, para contribuir a la integración de actividades de las unidades a cargo de combatir la
     corrupción administrativa en el sector justicia, así como difundir la labor de la OCMA para
     incentivar la supervisión de los organismos judiciales y promover de un sistema de valores éticos.
     Subcomponente 3.2. Servicios de justicia a favor de los pobres: Busca el fortalecimiento
     institucional de los juzgados de paz, de los servicios de ayuda legal y conciliación; y de los
     juzgados de primera instancia y juzgados de paz letrados.
     Subcomponente 3.3. Campañas Participativas y Alianzas Estratégicas.- Busca el desarrollo e
     implementación de un Plan Estratégico Comunicacional que permita trasmitir adecuadamente los
     objetivos del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Justicia, desarrollando una campaña
     para promover un cambio cultural. Busca desarrollar una campaña de educación legal y brindar
     asistencia técnica, capacitación y equipamiento al Ministerio de Justicia para avanzar de manera
     coordinada con las instituciones participantes en el proceso de la reforma del Sector Justicia.

     Componente 4: Administración del Proyecto
     Objetivo: Este componente tiene por objeto financiar la administración, la supervisión y el control
     del Proyecto, a través del personal de la Unidad Coordinadora y sus costos de instalación y
     operación, así como las auditorías administrativo financieras y de adquisiciones previstas en los
     acuerdos con el BIRF.

     2.2. Desempeño por componentes

     La UCP elaboró un rápido diagnóstico de las áreas jurisdiccionales y administrativas de cada
     Distrito Judicial piloto corroborada por la información proporcionada en el levantamiento de la
     línea de base a cargo de la firma IMASEN en abril del 2007 en las 7 Cortes beneficiarias del
     Proyecto14, donde se evaluaba la situación desde la perspectiva de la demanda, es decir de los
     justiciables, diferenciados en usuarios expertos (abogados) y usuarios no expertos (litigantes) en
     los seis puntos de contacto o momentos de la verdad identificados en la prestación de los servicios
     de justicia: juez, secretario, mesa de partes, notificaciones, lectura de expedientes e infraestructura.
     El modelo de evaluación utilizado es el SERVQUAL 15, que mide la satisfacción de los usuarios
     después de indagar sobre la percepción actual de los servicios y las expectativas de los mismos,
     tomando en cuenta los tiempos, los costos, el trato, etc.

     Con este diagnóstico y de manera conjunta con los directivos y representantes de las Cortes se
     diseñó e implementó un plan de operación de corto plazo alineado los objetivos del proyecto con
     el fin de realizar actividades que mejoren la calidad del servicio en las áreas más débiles y con el
     involucramiento de las autoridades y trabajadores de las cortes.



14
   Inicialmente el Proyecto consideró la intervención en 4 Cortes Superiores de Justicia (Lima, Huaura,
Ayacucho y La Libertad), cada año se fueron incluyendo más cortes de acuerdo a una estrategia progresiva y
acumulativa de intervención, así a inicios del año 2007 el Consejo Ejecutivo del Poder Judicial solicitó la
inclusión de 3 Cortes Superiores más (Arequipa, Loreto y Tumbes) y hacia el final del año 2007 solicitó la
inclusión de 3 Cortes Superiores adicionales (Apurímac, Cajamarca y Piura).
15
   El modelo SERVQUAL define la calidad del servicio como la diferencia entre las percepciones reales por
parte de los usuarios del servicio y las expectativas que sobre éste se habían formado previamente. De esta forma,
un usuario valorará negativa o positivamente la calidad de un servicio en el que las percepciones que ha obtenido
sean inferiores (superiores) a las expectativas que tenía.

                                                       36
     Se incluyeron propuestas de mejoras en los procesos de trabajo, realización de eventos de
     capacitación a Presidentes de las Cortes en gestión de alta dirección, capacitación a magistrados en
     atención al público, despacho judicial, y temas jurisdiccionales principalmente vinculados a las
     especialidades de familia y contenciosos administrativo durante el año 2007 y 2008, adecuación de
     los ambientes de trabajo en los órganos jurisdiccionales y áreas de atención al público, incluyendo
     equipamiento y mobiliario. Desarrollo e implementación de sistemas de información e
     informática; así como acciones para garantizar la sostenibilidad de las intervenciones efectuadas
     por el proyecto en el mediano y largo plazo, a través de la réplica del modelo por parte de las
     instancias del PJ.

     A continuación, se describe los logros alcanzados16:

       I. Implantación y validación de intervenciones.

     Por su magnitud (US$ 15.0 millones) el Proyecto ha debido efectuar varias intervenciones que han
     tenido una dimensión de Piloto, sin que pudiera extenderse a todos los Distritos Judiciales (DJ)
     inicialmente propuestos. No obstante, sí ha sido posible validar su pertinencia y resultados, lo cual
     ameritaría su réplica y extensión a otros DJ. Entre ellos, cabe mencionar:

                 Implementación de sistema de notificaciones electrónicas en los Juzgados
                 Comerciales de la Corte Superior de Justicia de Lima.
                 Implementación de sistema de colas (atención en mesa de partes). Se ha implantado en
                 3 Corte Superior de Justicia a nivel piloto (Lima, Huaura y Arequipa).
                 Implementación de sistema de registro y control biométrico de procesados y
                 sentenciados libres (control de permanencia, permite evitar suplantaciones y demoras).
                 Piloto implementado en la CSJ de Lima Norte, iniciativa ampliada por el PMSJ a 27
                 instalaciones del Poder Judicial y pendiente de ampliación a todas las sedes del Poder
                 Judicial según normas aprobadas por el Consejo Ejecutivo del Poder Judicial17.
                 Programas de capacitación en alta dirección, administración judicial, gestión pública,
                 deontología, atención al usuario y temas jurisdiccionales de las especialidades, familia,
                 contencioso administrativo, laboral, comercial, medio ambiental, nuevo Código
                 Procesal Penal, etc., los mismos que han sido dirigidos a los magistrados y/o
                 funcionarios del Poder Judicial y en otros casos a las 4 instituciones participantes.
                 Sistema de gestión de los recursos humanos en el CNM.
                 Implementación de 18 oficinas (15 fijas y 3 móviles) de Asistencia Legal Gratuita
                 (ALEGRA) del MINJUS a nivel nacional, que acerca el Estado a las poblaciones más
                 vulnerables mediante la prestación de tres servicios: asistencia legal, defensa de oficio
                 y conciliación extrajudicial, las mismas que efectúan aproximadamente 50,000
                 atenciones anuales.
                 Elaboración del perfil de competencias del defensor de oficio, evaluación del 100% de
                 defensores de oficio a nivel nacional y fortalecimiento sus competencias a través del
                 programa de capacitación.
                 Fortalecimiento de los servicios de ayuda legal y conciliación del MINJUS.
                 Desarrollo de sistemas de información en el PJ, particularmente.




16
   Un detalle mayor de algunas intervenciones se ofrece en los anexos (Sistema de biometría, sistema de
notificaciones, sistemas de colas, etc.)
17
   Resoluciones Administrativas N° 213 y 270-2008 y del 30 de julio y del 14 de octubre de 2008.

                                                      37
                 Consolidación de la Unidad Operativa Móvil de la OCMA como una unidad
                 anticorrupción.
                 Consolidación de la carrera judicial. Lo que ha sido logrado mediante el apoyo para la
                 Gerencia de recursos humanos de la justicia, desarrollo de los perfiles de
                 competencias de los magistrados.
                 Capacitación de cuadros técnicos del CNM, diseño de herramientas para la mejora de
                 los procesos de selección y evaluación de magistrados.
                 Mejora de la plataforma tecnológica del CNM.
                 Desarrollo de planes curriculares, planificación de la docencia y regímenes de estudios
                 en la AMAG.
                 Implementación del Diplomado en Derecho Procesal Penal y Derecho Procesal
                 Constitucional con la Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú, desarrollo de
                 metodologías de educación de adultos.
                 Equipamiento de la AMAG para implementación sistema educativo a distancia,
                 equipamiento del Centro de Investigaciones de la AMAG, entre otros.
                 A nivel de diseño, se ha formulado una propuesta para el mejoramiento de la selección
                 y evaluación de los jueces y fiscales y el mejoramiento de los procesos de selección,
                 propósito al cual ha contribuido una visita al exterior18 para apreciar experiencias en la
                 gestión de la carrera judicial.
                 Se ha identificado los requerimientos de la Corte Suprema de Justicia para el mejor
                 desenvolvimiento de sus funciones institucionales. Se ha sistematizado 13,582
                 Ejecutorias Supremas y se ha producido CDs con las ejecutorias sistematizadas al
                 2009. Asimismo, el desarrollo de dos publicaciones (Anales y Revista del Poder
                 Judicial).
                 Se ha efectuado la entrega de mobiliario y equipo informático para la implementación
                 del Centro de Difusión de la Academia de la Magistratura.

      II. Fortalecimiento institucional de las entidades del Sistema de Administración de Justicia.

        A este efecto se han ejecutado las siguientes intervenciones:

                 Poder Judicial. Apoyo para la formulación del Plan Estratégico del PJ. Este importante
                 instrumento de gestión orientará el trabajo de los distintos actores que participan en el
                 PJ hacia objetivos comunes dentro del período 2008-2017.
                 40 magistrados han realizado estudios en Derecho Fundamentales y Derecho Procesal
                 Penal como parte del fortalecimiento de capacidades que está brindando a los
                 integrantes del Sistema de Administración de Justicia.
                 AMAG. Apoyo para formular un Plan de necesidades de capacitación y Régimen de
                 estudios de la AMAG. Diseño de 13 módulos que permitirá la capacitación a jueces y
                 fiscales. Diseño el Área de Investigaciones Judiciales en la AMAG. Se han provisto de
                 equipamiento a la Sede Central de la AMAG y las Sedes Desconcentradas.
                 CNM. Apoyo para elaboración del Plan Estratégico 2007-2011 del CNM. Talleres
                 para fomentar el cambio de cultura organizacional.
                 Gestión interinstitucional de recursos del Sistema de Administración de Justicia. En
                 los últimos dos años, se han creado y puesto en operación mecanismos efectivos de
                 coordinación interinstitucional como el Comité Directivo del Proyecto de
                 Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Justicia, integrado por el PJ, MINJUS, CNM y


18
  Los titulares de las instituciones participantes viajaron para conocer la experiencia en Colombia con la Escuela
Judicial Rodrigo Lara Bonilla.

                                                       38
           AMAG. En el proceso de ejecución, ha desarrollado pasantías para el personal de las
           entidades involucradas que viene permitiendo la generación de capacidades de
           gestión proyectos con financiamiento externo.
           Cabe agregar que en el marco de la Comisión de Implementación del Nuevo Código
           Procesal Penal, en particular, de su Secretaría Técnica, se han trabajado propuestas de
           planificación y programación integrada de recursos para la implementación del
           proceso, lo cual ha contado con el apoyo del PMSJ.
           En materia de mejora Organizacional, se ha permitido descentralizar a las cortes, y en
           realizar trabajos en base a Presupuesto por resultados.


2.3. Principales logros Alcanzados por el Proyecto de Mejoramiento de los Servicios de
     Justicia.

 Logros en materia de Celeridad:
       Implementación de las Notificaciones Electrónicas. Se redujo el tiempo de la
       notificación judicial de 20 días a 1 minuto.
       Implementación de Sistemas Biométricos. Se redujo el tiempo de atención a los reos
       libres en la Corte, de 33 minutos a 5.5 minutos.

 Logros en materia de Acceso a la Justicia:
  Creación e Implementación de ALEGRAS ­ Asesoría Legal Gratuita. Se amplió la
    cobertura de cero a 50,000 atenciones anuales en los lugares donde se implementaron las
    Alegras.
  Defensa de Oficio. El mes de diciembre de 2008 se evaluó al 100% de los defensores de
    oficio (casos penales) y consultores jurídicos (casos de familia), 664 profesionales a nivel
    nacional.

 Logros en materia de Lucha Contra la Corrupción:
 · Sistemas de Información trabajados en las instituciones beneficiarias permiten mejorar la
    transparencia de los procesos institucionales.
 · Comunicación OCMA, combate a la corrupción administrativa en el sector justicia, así
    como difusión de la labor de la OCMA para incentivar la supervisión de los organismos
    judiciales y promover de un sistema de valores éticos.

 Logros en materia de Capacidades:
  Perfiles de Magistrados. El CNM cuenta con perfiles por competencias como instrumento
    de apoyo para la selección y evaluación de los magistrados.
  Capacitación en temas Jurisdiccionales al personal de las Cortes Superiores de Justicia.
    Promoción de capacitaciones en temas jurisdiccionales en función a la demanda del
    personal del PJ.
  Capacitación en temas de Gestión Pública a Presidentes y Administradores de las Cortes
    Superiores de Justicia. Más de 170 jueces superiores (25% del total) de los 29 distritos
    judiciales capacitados en alta dirección y gerencia, Así mismo 251 trabajadores de las 4
    instituciones participantes han sido preparados en Gestión Pública, de las cuales la
    mayoría de ellos son del PJ son potenciales candidatos a para ser Administradores de
    corte, porque han adquirido las capacidades.

 Logros en materia de Coordinación Intersectorial:
  Toma de decisiones conjuntas del Poder Judicial, del Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura,
    del Ministerio de Justicia y de la Academia de la Magistratura. Realización de 14 de


                                            39
                Comités Directivos del PMSJ con la participación de los 4 titulares del PJ, CNM,
                MINJUS y AMAG, las últimas 6 sesiones se desarrollaron con la participación de la Fiscal
                de Nación.
                Implementación del bus de integración, sistema interinstitucional que interconecta al PJ
                con el Banco de la Nación y la RENIEC 19 , y donde más adelante se podrán seguir
                integrando otras instituciones como la Superintendencia Nacional de los Registros
                Públicos, etc.

        En materia de mejora Organizacional:
         Se ha permitido descentralizar los procesos administrativos menores a las cortes. El
           Presidente de la Corte Superior y el Administrador forman parte de los Comités Especiales
           para los procesos logísticos y de contrataciones relacionados con su Corte, este hecho
           acelera los procesos y puedan atender directamente sus necesidades.
         Trabajo en base a Presupuesto por resultados, las 29 Cortes Superiores de Justicia vienen
           trabajando sus respectivos planes operativos y la evaluación anual con el enfoque de
           presupuesto por resultados.

       2.4. Principales logros por institución participante durante la ejecución del proyecto:

           Poder Judicial
       ·   Apoyo al proceso de informatización del Poder Judicial a través de equipamiento,
           interconexión, capacitación y desarrollo de sistemas.
       ·   Implementación del registro y control biométrico en la CSJ de Lima Norte.
       ·   Descarga procesal a través del apoyo a los Juzgados de Familia con psicólogos y asistentes
           sociales.
       ·   Especialización en Alta Dirección y Gerencia a los 29 Presidentes de las Cortes Superiores.
       ·   Especialización en Gestión Pública para el Sector Justicia.
       ·   Implementación de una Maestría en Gestión y Política Judicial.
       ·   Curso para mejorar las destrezas y habilidades del personal jurisdiccional.
       ·   Integración de la Información Interinstitucional del Sector Justicia.
       ·   Inventario, ordenamiento y digitación de expedientes en los archivos centrales.
       ·   Desarrollo de la Casilla electrónica, notificación, certificación digital.
       ·   Infraestructura mejorada en las CSJ de Lima, Arequipa, Apurímac, Loreto, Tumbes y Piura.
       ·   Desarrollo del Portal Web para transacciones internas y externas del Poder Judicial.
       ·   Plataforma para automatización y gestión de procesos - BPM.
       ·   Equipamiento para la notificación, certificación digital.
       ·   Equipamiento para el registro y grabación de audiencias de las salas del Nuevo Código
           Procesal Penal (NCPP) en las CSJ de Piura, Tumbes y Lima.
       ·   Equipamiento para la expansión del registro y control biométrico.

           Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura
       ·   Mejora en el nivel de conocimientos, habilidades y destrezas de los Consejeros y cuadros
           técnicos, lo cual ha impacta favorablemente en la ejecución de los procesos.
       ·   Plan estratégico institucional revisado y consensuado.
       ·   Mejores procedimientos de selección de miembros y la composición del Pleno del CNM.
       ·   Plataforma tecnológica mejor implementada con equipamiento informático de última
           generación (servidores, Pc's y otros).
       ·   Sistema de información basado en tecnologías de punta y alineado a los objetivos estratégicos
           institucionales.


19
     Registro Nacional de Identificación y Estado Civil.

                                                           40
·   Fortalecimiento Institucional del CNM.
·   Desarrollo de perfiles para los jueces y personal jurisdiccional.
·   Implementación de la red de datos y el sistema eléctrico estabilizado para la protección de
    equipos informáticos

    Ministerio de Justicia
·   Adecuación de espacios físicos y equipamiento de 12 oficinas de Asesoría Legal Gratuita
    (ALEGRA) Cerro de Pasco, Huaura, Puno, Tumbes, Lircay, Otuzco, Andahuaylas, Huánuco,
    Callao, Cañete, Bambamarca y La Oroya.
·   Implementación de 3 oficinas ALEGRAS ­ Móviles.
·   Implementación de 3 Casas de la Justicia orientados a brindar hasta 10 servicios sobre
    defensoría de oficio, conciliación extrajudicial, consultorio jurídico popular, defensoría del
    pensionista, arbitraje popular y otros servicios en las zonas más vulnerables del país: Chincha
    Alta (Ica), Paucará (Huancavelica) y Quilmana (Cañete).
·   Capacitación sobre derechos fundamentales para ciudadanos (se incluye colegios pilotos) con
    la participación del Ministerio de Justicia en 7 Distritos Judiciales seleccionados.
·   Desarrollo de campañas de educación legal.
·   Capacitación en el tema de conciliación extrajudicial laboral dirigido a capacitadores del
    Ministerio de Justicia y Ministerio de Trabajo y Promoción del Empleo.
·   Desarrollo del perfil por competencias de los defensores de oficio, Evaluación de los 700
    defensores a nivel nacional y Programa de actualización profesional para 80 defensores de
    oficio.
·   Promoción de derechos fundamentales a 25,000 estudiantes y líderes de organizaciones de
    base a nivel nacional.
·   Programa de capacitación en el Nuevo Código Procesal Penal a 440 operadores de justicia.
·   Campaña de difusión del servicio ALEGRA a través de dos spots radiales (en castellano y
    quechua) a nivel nacional.

    Academia de la Magistratura
·   Implementación del sistema de educación a distancia en la AMAG. (sistema y equipamiento)
·   Desarrollo de metodologías innovadoras en capacitación de adultos, a través de un sistema de
    educación a distancia en la AMAG. Código Procesal Penal y Código Procesal Constitucional.
·   Recomendaciones para la mejora sustantiva de los contenidos de la formación en las
    facultades de derecho.
·   Desarrollo de un banco de casos en las especialidades de: Derecho Comercial, Constitucional,
    Civil, Familia, Penal, Laboral, Contencioso Administrativo y Procesal Penal.
·   Desarrollo del diplomado internacional sobre "El Sistema Acusatorio Penal" que benefició a
    92 magistrados procedentes de Arequipa, Huaura, La Libertad, Lambayeque, Moquegua, Piura,
    Tacna y Tumbes.
·   Desarrollo e Implementación de un sistema de trámite documentario.
·   Implementación de una línea de Producción de Microformas para la gestión documental.
·   Programa de capacitación para trabajadores de la AMAG en Liderazgo e Inteligencia
    Emocional, Dirección por Valores y Cultura Organizacional, Técnicas para la Administración
    Eficaz del Tiempo, y Trabajo en Equipo.
·   Implementación de las salas de Audiencia simuladas
·   Desarrollo de materiales educativos: Manual de Gestión del Despacho Judicial, Gestión del
    Despacho Fiscal, Manual Tributario, Manual Comercial, Manual Laboral y Manual de
    Criminalística.
·   Apoyo para la implementación del Centro de Investigaciones Jurídicas
·   Apoyo para la realización de un concurso de investigaciones jurídicas.




                                              41
      3.      FACTORES QUE AFECTARON LA EJECUCIÓN DEL PROYECTO.

             3.1. A nivel financiero: la rigidez de la formulación presupuestal anual asociada con los marcos
                  disponibles del endeudamiento redujo en varias ocasiones la eficiencia de la gestión de los
                  recursos.

             3.2. A nivel de Administración y/o gestión: en algunos casos importantes hubo retraso en la
                  presentación de los términos de referencia o especificaciones técnicas debido al cambio de los
                  responsables en las instituciones beneficiarias, desinterés de las empresas consultoras
                  nacionales e internacionales en participar de los procesos públicos convocados tanto para las
                  expresiones de interés como para la presentación de oferta en los casos que se contaba con
                  lista corta de 6 empresas calificadas, también se presentaron demoras en la aprobación de
                  productos por parte de los responsables de las instituciones beneficiarias.

             3.3. En los años de ejecución del Proyecto, éste sólo ha contado con 02 Coordinadores Generales,
                  por un lado el Sr. César Sánchez Modena (2005-Junio 2006) período en el que se ejecutó el
                  6% del préstamo y el Eco. Nelson Shack Yalta (Julio 2006 ­ a la actualidad), período en el que
                  se ejecutó el 92% del monto total del préstamo. En la actualidad sólo han quedado los
                  funcionarios clave20 para el funcionamiento básico de la Unidad Ejecutora hasta el cierre del
                  proyecto, tal como lo estipula el contrato de préstamo y el manual de operaciones del proyecto.

      4.      MONITOREO Y EVALUACIÓN SEGÚN LOS INDICADORES

      Cabe notar que a un año de iniciado el proceso de ejecución (2006), el Proyecto estableció una línea de
      base en las 7 Cortes atendidas por el Proyecto (abril 2007), en términos de los atributos de calidad del
      servicio, requeridos y percibidos por los usuarios y otros agentes involucrados en la operación de los
      servicios de administración de justicia. El 2009 se efectuó una segunda evaluación, está vez en las 29
      Cortes Superiores de Justicia, para la medición de percepciones, que permitan medir y validar los
      resultados e impactos obtenidos por el Proyecto, luego de dos años de ejecución.

      El Proyecto ha obtenido logros importantes en los siguientes aspectos:

                                      Situación inicial                                  Situación final
     Intervención
                                        Indicadores                                        Indicadores
                            ·   Notificación escrita            · Notificación electrónica en Juzg. Comerciales de la CSJ de
Sistema de
                            ·   Demora 20 días en                 Lima.
notificaciones
                                notificación                    · Demora de 1 minuto en notificación
                            ·   Sistema de atención manual
                                de acuerdo a orden de llegada
                                                                ·    Implantación en CSJ de Lima, Huaura, Ayacucho y Arequipa.
                            ·   Tiempo de espera promedio:
                                                                ·    Tiempo de espera promedio: 15' (según CSJ)
Sistema de colas en             25' (según CSJ)
                                                                ·    Tiempo promedio de atención: 4'
CSJ Lima                    ·   Tiempo promedio de
                                                                ·    Menor inseguridad (espera su turno sentado en sillas).
                                atención: 7'
                                                                ·    Eliminación de actos indebidos. (Orden en la elección)
                           ·    Inseguridad (robos en cola)
                           ·    Actos indebidos.
                           ·    Sistema manual de registro de   ·    Sistema de biometría implantado en CSJ Lima Norte (piloto)
Sistemas de registro de
                                firmas e identificación por     ·    Tiempo de espera del usuario: 5'
sentenciados reos
                                DNI.                            ·    Tiempo de atención del usuario: 0.5'
libres en CSJ Lima
                           ·    Tiempo de espera del usuario:   ·    Reducción drástica de la corrupción.
Norte
                                30'                             ·    Identificación certera a través de la verificación automática de



      20
           4 posiciones.

                                                                42
                                    Situación inicial                                       Situación final
     Intervención
                                      Indicadores                                             Indicadores
                          ·   Tiempo de atención del               las huellas digitales del procesado/sentenciado.
                              usuario: 3'                     ·    Historial de "firmas" del procesado almacenado en una base de
                          ·   Corrupción.                          datos (Sistema AFIS), reduciendo tiempos en búsqueda de
                          ·   Casos de Suplantación y falta        información y salvaguardar la misma.
                              de un adecuado control.         ·    Sistema integrado con el Sistema Integrado Judicial Nacional
                          ·   Historial de "firmas" del            SIJ Nacional.
                              procesado registrado            ·    Los magistrados tienen acceso a los reportes para verificar el
                              manualmente en libros y              cumplimiento de las reglas de conducta.
                              fichas y almacenado en          ·    Se permite efectuar consultas en Líneas del Procesado a la base
                              anaqueles.                           de datos de la Reniec, generando mejor control del procesado.
                          ·   Sistema manual no integrado
                              al SIJ.
                          ·   Limitado acceso de los
                              magistrados a los reportes.
                                                              29 Presidentes de Cortes gestionan mejor sus Cortes
Capacitación en alta                                          29 Presidentes de Cortes y 21 Gerentes del PJ capacitados en
dirección y gerencia,     Magistrados y administradores       dirección y gerencia (2007)
así como gestión          con escasos conocimientos de        200 Magistrados Supremos y Superiores, Consejeros y altos
pública a magistrados     gestión.                            funcionarios de las 4 instituciones beneficiarias capacitados en
supremos y superiores                                         dirección y gerencia (2008-2009)
y administradores                                             251 trabajadores administrativos de las 4 instituciones
                                                              beneficiarias manejan herramientas de gestión pública
                                                              Integración de sistemas del PJ con la RENIEC y el Banco de la
                          Deficiente equipamiento de
Plataforma tecnológica                                        Nación. Portal Web transaccional.
                          unidades de servicio y gestión.
de entidades del                                              Oficinas de gestión administrativa implementadas (1200 equipos:
                          Arquitectura básica de sistemas
Sistema de                                                    fotocopiadoras, scanners, servidores, impresoras y computadores
                          escasamente desarrolladas en
Administración de                                             -500- ).
                          entidades del Sistema de
Justicia                                                      Aplicativos desarrollados en el PJ (equipamiento NCPP).
                          Administración de Justicia
                                                              Prestación de servicio con mejor calidad.
                          Débil desarrollo de una visión
Fortalecimiento
                          sistémica del Sistema de
institucional de                                              Planeamiento estratégico mejorado
                          Administración de Justicia a
entidades del Sistema                                         Planes actualizados (PJ, CNM, MINJUS, AMAG)
                          nivel intra e interinstitucional
de Administración de                                          13 módulos de capacitación desarrollados para magistrados
                          Planes estratégicos no
Justicia
                          actualizados
                                                              Ejecución óptima de recursos del proyecto con buenas prácticas
                          Escasa capacidad de gestión de      implementadas.
Desarrollo de
                          recursos de cooperación             Mecanismos de gestión conjunta de recursos en el Sistema de
capacidades
                          externa.                            Administración de Justicia (Comité Directivo del PMSJ con la
institucionales e
                          Inexistencia de mecanismos          participación de los titulares de las 5 instituciones más
interinstitucionales de
                          interinstitucionales de gestión     importantes del sector: PJ, CNM, MP, MINJUS y AMAG),
gestión de recursos
                          de recursos                         Consolidación de la Oficina de Cooperación Técnica
                                                              Internacional del PJ.
                                                              Asistencia técnica al PJ para propuestas de Ley.
                                                              Propuesta técnica al CNM sobre perfiles por competencias de
                                                              Jueces y Fiscales.
                                                              Elaboración de perfiles formativos de Jueces, fiscales y aspirantes
                                                              a la AMAG.
                          Carencia de propuestas técnicas
Consolidación de la                                           1 consejero y 26 funcionarios del CNM capacitados en Gestión
                          para institucionalización de
carrera judicial                                              de Recursos Humanos por Competencias, para mejorar su
                          carreras judicial.
                                                              desempeño en los procesos de selección realizados por el CNM.
                                                              Diseño de metodología y elaboración de Reglamento de
                                                              evaluación de Jueces (Ley de la carrera judicial).
                                                              Elaboración de manuales especializados en Gestión del Despacho
                                                              Judicial, gestión del Despacho Fiscal, manuales tributarios,


                                                              43
                                Situación inicial                                     Situación final
     Intervención
                                  Indicadores                                           Indicadores
                                                            comerciales, laborales y de criminalística, para la AMAG, que
                                                            servirán para las actividades de formación y capacitación de los
                                                            jueces y fiscales.
                         Sentencias judiciales
                                                            Realización de plenos jurisdiccionales en materia contencioso
Desarrollo de la         escasamente sistematizadas para
                                                            administrativo
jurisprudencia           el desarrollo de la
                                                            13,582 ejecutorias supremas sistematizadas.
                         jurisprudencia.
                                                            Reforzamiento de la Unidad Operativa Móvil (Lima)
                                                            Incremento sustantivo de operaciones de investigación e
Unidad Operativa         Oficina de Control de la
                                                            intervención (07 operativos anuales) con equipamiento que
Móvil de la OCMA         Magistratura (OCMA)
                                                            mejora la efectividad.
implementada             escasamente implementada
                                                            Implementación en equipamiento y capacitación al personal de la
                                                            OCMA.
                                                            15 Módulos Alegra implementados en infraestructura y en
                                                            equipamiento (nuevos)
                                                            Incremento de cobertura a 1´800,000 personas (población de
                         Escasa cobertura de servicios de
Módulos Alegra de                                           distritos del área de influencia)
                         la Defensoría de Oficio y
servicios del MINJUS                                        50,000 nuevas atenciones anuales (defensoría de oficio, asistencia
                         servicios jurídicos del MINJUS
                                                            legal)
                                                            Campañas de difusión de los servicios prestados en las
                                                            ALEGRAS.
Ayuda legal y            Débil presencia de los medios      Asistencia técnica para el desarrollo de los mecanismos de
conciliación             alternativos de resolución de      resolución de conflictos.
fortalecidos             conflictos                         15,000 atenciones anuales nuevas (conciliación extrajudicial).
                                                            Diseño del Perfil de Competencias del Defensor de Oficio.
                                                            Realización de evaluaciones de competencias de 664 Defensores
Fortalecimiento de las                                      de Oficio, a fin de conocer el nivel de competencias y desempeño
                         Limitadas capacidades del
competencias del                                            de sus funciones.
                         Defensor de Oficio.
defensor de oficio.                                         Desarrollo de curso de actualización profesional para 82
                                                            Defensores de Oficio, en temas sustantivos, procesales del
                                                            Derecho Penal y de Familia, y en temas de aspectos actitudinales.
                                                            Descripción de puestos y perfiles de puestos, bajo el enfoque de
                                                            competencias.
                                                            Definición de competencias generales y específicas de los
                                                            profesionales psicólogos y asistentes sociales. Definición de
                                                            procesos y procedimientos.
Servicio especializado
                         Procesos y procedimientos          Elaboración de Diccionario por competencias.
de evaluación
                         débiles en el equipo de            Desarrollo de aplicativo informático dirigido al control y
psicológica y
                         profesionales psicólogos y         monitoreo de la gestión de peritajes.
asistencia social en
                         asistentes sociales.               Desarrollo del servicio de evaluación psicológica y atención de
casos de familia
                                                            casos sociales a través de diversos talleres de capacitación.
                                                            Mejora de las destrezas y habilidades del personal que interviene
                                                            en los procesos de familia en diversos juzgados de las Cortes
                                                            Superiores de Lima, Huaura, La Libertad, Ayacucho, Arequipa,
                                                            Loreto y Tumbes.
                                                            25,000 escolares y líderes de organizaciones sociales a nivel
                                                            nacional, conocen sus derechos fundamentales 46 Promotores
Programa Nacional de                                        legales capacitados (estudiantes universitarios de tercer año de
                         Limitada información legal de
Enseñanza Legal para                                        derecho), para replicar la capacitación.
                         derechos ciudadanos en sectores
la Inclusión Social ­                                       Material didáctico elaborado, en materias de derechos
                         con menos recursos
PRONELIS                                                    fundamentales, conciliación extrajudicial, derecho de familia, y
                                                            participación ciudadana.

Mejoramiento en la       Archivos desordenados, sin         Inventario, ordenamiento y digitación de 1, 893,436 expedientes
organización de los      control, en condiciones            judiciales en los Archivos Centrales de la Corte Superior de


                                                            44
                                Situación inicial                                  Situación final
     Intervención
                                  Indicadores                                       Indicadores
Archivos Centrales -     inadecuadas y sin digitar.      Justicia de Lima: Barrios Altos (462,199), Alzamora Valdez
Inventario,                                              (354,422) y Palacio de Justicia (285,537); y de la Corte Superior
ordenamiento y                                           de Justicia de Huaura (72,860), Corte Superior de Justicia de
digitación de                                            Ayacucho (123,990), Corte Superior de Justicia de Lima Norte
expedientes                                              (512,424) y Corte Superior de Justicia de Callao (82,004).
                                                         440 operadores capacitados del PJ, MP, Defensoría de Oficio,
                                                         PNP y Colegio de Abogados de los distritos judiciales de
Apoyo en la
                                                         Arequipa, Cusco, Madre de Dios, Puno, Lambayeque, Piura,
implementación del
                         Limitados conocimientos sobre   Tumbes, Lima Norte, Lima y Callao, en temas diversos referentes
nuevo Código Procesal
                         nuevo código procesal penal.    a la implementación del NCPP.
Penal para
                                                         Propuesta de modelo de localización y dimensionamiento del
Operadores de Justicia
                                                         sistema de justicia penal para la Comisión de Implementación del
                                                         Código Procesal Penal.


     5.    EVALUACIÓN DEL DESEMPEÑO DEL PRESTATARIO

     Durante los primeros años del Proyecto, las coordinaciones con las instituciones participantes se
     encontraban en una etapa de consolidación a fin de lograr un proceso interactivo entre los actores
     involucrados, y conllevar junto con los órganos de línea en base a mayores niveles de asertividad y
     compromiso, hacia una planificación coordinada de las contrataciones que permitan lograr mayores
     niveles de eficiencia y economía. Este fue el principal motivo por el cual la ejecución financiera del
     proyecto estuvo retrasada al inicio, respecto del programa original de desembolsos previsto. Por otro
     lado, como un elemento adicional que evite mayores retrasos en la implementación y cumplimiento de
     las condiciones de efectividad y puesta en marcha del proyecto, se seleccionó y contrató personal
     clave dentro de las diversas áreas de la UCP con amplia experiencia en el tema, a fin de reforzar todas
     las acciones a desempeñar y lograr mayores niveles de ejecución.

     Es a partir del año 2007 hasta el cierre de las actividades del Proyecto, que se dio un aumento en el
     ritmo de ejecución de las contrataciones en el Proyecto incrementándose significativamente los
     desembolsos como resultado de aplicar medidas tales como:

          a. Mayor participación y compromiso de las instituciones beneficiarias en la elaboración y
             remisión de los términos de referencia y/o especificaciones técnicas dentro de los plazos
             esperados de acuerdo al Plan de Adquisiciones. Para ello, se realizaron reuniones con los
             coordinadores de enlace de las instituciones participantes a efectos de contar desde el primer
             mes del año con la información fuente (Términos de referencia o Especificaciones técnicas),
             lo cual permitió convocar los principales procesos del proyecto en el primer trimestre del año,
             considerando su impacto en la ejecución del Proyecto;
          b. Mayor capacitación a las instituciones participantes en materia de contrataciones, a efectos de
             disminuir los plazos de los procesos a tiempos mínimos, Se realizaron talleres de capacitación
             a las instituciones beneficiarias donde se les brindó mayores alcances sobre las condiciones
             que deben incluirse en las especificaciones técnicas y/o términos de referencia, plazos en los
             que se realizan los procesos de selección, participación de las áreas usuarias en las diversas
             etapas del proceso, entre otros;
          c. Realización de reuniones previas con firmas del mercado interesadas en participar en procesos
             de contratación, a efectos de que la interacción permita mayores elementos para los Términos
             de Referencia, la elaboración de propuestas, así como para la determinación de listas cortas de
             firmas calificadas para ejecutar los contratos;
          d. Solicitud de documentos de la oferta sencillos y poco engorrosos de cumplir, a efectos de
             facilitar la presentación de propuestas y la evaluación.


                                                         45
Por otro lado, se consideraron todas aquellas limitantes de tipo organizativo y de tiempos, a efectos de
lograr las adjudicaciones rápidamente y/o reprogramar recursos y así lograr que los objetivos del
proyecto se alcancen en los tiempos acordados.

Por ello, la calificación de riesgo otorgada a la ejecución de las Contrataciones dentro del proyecto fue
altamente satisfactoria (HS) en base al nivel de calidad mostrado en los procesos de selección y
contratación que redundó en un incremento de la ejecución, tal como se puede constatar en la última
revisión realizada por especialistas de Adquisiciones del Banco Mundial.


6.    EVALUACIÓN DEL DESEMPEÑO DEL BANCO

En relación al desempeño de los funcionarios del Banco, es importante señalar la preocupación
permanente y oportuna intervención de la Task Manager del Proyecto, Dra. Lisa Bhansali, desde
Washington DC, coordinando directamente y a través de la Dra. Rosmary Cornejo, consultora del
Banco Mundial especialista en justicia, residente en el Perú, tal como se puede apreciar en todas las
visitas y misiones que se han realizado en las instalaciones del Proyecto, el Banco Mundial y en el
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas. Sin embargo, en algunos momentos de mayor actividad del
Proyecto hubo ligeros retrasos en la emisión de las no objeciones, debido a la cantidad, naturaleza y
complejidad de las consultorías que se estaban proponiendo desde el Proyecto y las instituciones
participantes.

La relación con los especialistas en adquisiciones y aspectos financieros del banco Mundial también se
desarrolló en el marco de bastante coordinación y colaboración, aclarando dudas y facilitando los
medios para lograr efectivizar los cambios necesarios.

También es importante señalar que desde el proyecto se han dado todas las facilidades al banco para
las evaluaciones correspondientes en aspectos técnicos, administrativos, y en temas de auditoría, las
cuales se han realizado adecuadamente y cuyos informes indican los resultados.


7.    LECCIONES APRENDIDAS Y/O RECOMENDACIONES:

      7.1. Aspectos Positivos:
     · Se ha permitido unificar las contrapartidas de las 4 instituciones participantes, logrando una
        optimización financiera y procedimental de las mismas.
     · Se ha logrado construir un padrón de beneficiarios, lo que ha permitido efectuar un (seguimiento
        de los mismos).
     · Se ha podido efectuar una evaluación de desempeño por competencias 360° al personal de la
        UCP, a través del empleo del coaching y feedback.
     · Se ha Implantado el Workflow, como un instrumento que permita reducir papeles, manteniendo
        el registro de todas las actividades del proyecto, bajo una lógica de "hacia una oficina sin
        papeles".
     · Se han efectuado transferencias patrimoniales de bienes a las instituciones beneficiarias, con la
        correspondiente documentación sustentatoria.
     · Como parte de la experiencia institucional se llevaron a cabo en el año 2008 dos Pasantías
        (semestrales) de funcionarios de las 4 instituciones beneficiarias en la UCP (institucionalización
        y sostenibilidad).
     · Transparencia plena en los procesos de selección de consultores (página Web, publicaciones en
        diario de circulación nacional).



                                                    46
     · Acuerdos de Desempeño y Presupuestos Participativos, Descentralizados y Orientado a
       Resultados (método de planificación, programación y presupuestación).
     · En octubre del 2009, el PMSJ participó activamente en el VII Seminario de Gestión Judicial,
       donde se trató el tema de "Inversión en Justicia" presentando sus experiencias en Bariloche,
       Argentina.
     · 6 iniciativas del proyecto21 en las instituciones participantes ha posibilitado su inscripción en el
       Concurso de Buenas Prácticas Gubernamentales promovida por Ciudadanos al Día (CAD),
       habiendo pasando todas ellas a finalistas, en sus respectivas categorías, en la premiación del año
       2009.

      7.2. Aspectos a Perfeccionar:
     · Hace falta una coordinación más constante entre los representantes de las instituciones, lo cual
        permita mejorar los tiempos en la aprobación de los productos a ejecutarse.
     · Del mismo modo, hubiese sido deseable hacer un mayor seguimiento a la ejecución contractual
        y promover una mayor coordinación entre las unidades orgánicas y de línea de la institución,
        con el respectivo coordinador de enlace y su titular para mejorar los tiempos de aprobación de
        los entregables.




21
   - Registro biométrico de procesados con mandato de comparecencia implantado en la CSJ Lima Norte.
- Programa de Asistencia Legal Gratuita (ALEGRA).- implementación de la campaña "Sin Temor y con
Derechos: Alimentos y Reconocimientos".
- Mejora de los servicios de peritaje psicológico y social en los Juzgados de Familia.
- Programa Nacional de Enseñanza Legal para la Inclusión Social ­ PRONELIS.
- Sistema Administrador de Colas Tv - Media en Centro de Distribución General (CDG) de la CSJ de Lima.




                                                    47
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                        48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Project Appraisal Document for the Republic of Peru for a Justice Services Improvement
Project dated February 9, 2004; (Report No: 27861-PE)

"Informe Final de Evaluación del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Justicia",
Lima, Peru, 2010

Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports

Implementation Status and Results Report (ISRs), 2005-2009

Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project

Judiciary of Peru, "Control, Ética, y Anticorrupción", financed by the Justice Services
Improvement Project, World Bank, 2006

Judiciary of Peru, "Género", financed by the Justice Services Improvement Project, World
Bank, 2007

Judiciary of Peru, "Servicio y Atencion al Cliente", financed by the Justice Services
Improvement Project, World Bank, 2007

Judiciary of Peru, "Violencia Intrafamiliar", financed by the Justice Services Improvement
Project, World Bank, 2007

Judiciary of Peru, "La conciliación en familia", financed by the Justice Services Improvement
Project, World Bank, 2007

Nelson Shack Yalta, Cristian Hernández Gálvez (Eds.), "Herramientas Modernas para el
mejoramiento de la gestión judicial", V Seminario Internacional de Gestión Judicial, Lima
Perú, 10-11 Octubre 2007




                                             49
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33465R
                      80°W                                                                                          75°W
                                                                                                                    75                                                                                            70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70°W
0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0°




                                        EC U AD OR
                                        ECUADOR                                                                     Arcadia                                    COLOMBIA
                                                                                                                                                               CO LO MBIA
                                                                                                                              ap




                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                                                                                   Putumayo
                                                                                                                Puerto Curaray




                                                                                               Co
                                                                                                 rr i


                                                                                                            Tig
                                                                                                     en


                                                                                                                r
                                                                                                      tes


                                                                                                                e
                            To
                          Machala
           Tumbes                                                                                                                                                                      ma




                                                                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                                                                             zona
                                                        Santiago
                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
       TUMBES                                                                                                                                   Iquitos




                                                                                    taza
                                                                                                                                                                                        Caballococha
                                                  AMAZON
                                                  A


                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AZI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B R AZI L
                                                                                 Pas
                                Loja
       Talara                                                           Ayar Manco
                                                                                                          LORETO                                                        Ya
                                                                                                                                                                           var
                                                                                                                                                                               i

          Sullana
                                                     ZON




5°S             PIURA                      San                                  Maraño                                                                                                                                                                           5°S




                                                                                                                                                 li
                                                                                      n




                                                                                                                                               ya
                                           Ignacio                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                                              Uc
                Piura
                                       CAJ
                                       C J
                          A
                          A




                                                      AS




                                                                                                     Yurimaguas                        Tamánco
                             n
                             n
                                        AM




                                               Chachapoyas
                                                                              Moyobamba
                                         M
                                  d




                                                                              Tarapoto
                                           AR
                                           AR




            LAMBA-
                                                                      SAN                                                                                                                                             PERU
                                       e




             YEQUE                                A
                                             C
                                             C




                            Chiclayo
                                                                     MARTIN
                                                  A
                                           s
                                           s




                                                  Cajamarca
                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                      Cruzeiro
                                                                                                                                                       do Sul

                                Trujillo                                                    Santa
                                                                                            Lucia
                               LIBERTA
                               LIBERTAD
                            LA LIBERTAD                                                                                           Pucallpa
                                                                                       Hu




                                                       Nevada Sihuas
                                                                                           alla




                                                     Hueascarán
                                                                                                ga




                                       Chimbote       (6768 m)
                                                      ANCASH                                          Tingo María
                                                                                                                                  Uc
                                                                                                                                    ay




                                                                                       HUANUCO
                                                                                                                                        ali




                                                       Huaraz
                                                                    Nevada                            Huánuco
10°S                                                               Yerupaja                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10°S
                                                                   (6634 m)                                                                 UCAYALÍ
                                                                      Goyllarisquizga                  PASCO                                                                         Purús
                                                                                                Cerro de
                                                                                                  Pasco
                PA C IF I C
                                                                                 M
                                                                                 M




                                Huacho  Sayán                                                                                                                    Atalaya
                                                                                                                    Satipo
                                       LIMA                                                            La
                OC E AN C A L L A O
                                                                                                                                       Ap




                                                                                                                                                                                               MADRE
                                                                                           t
                                                                                           t




                                                                                                       Oroya
                                                                                                                JUNIN
                                                                                                                                        uri




                                                                                                                                                           Uru
                                                                                                                                           m




                                                                                                                                                                                               DE DIOS
                                                                                               n
                                                                                               n




                                                                                                                                          ac




                                                                                                                                                               ba




                                                                                                                    Huancayo                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                        ad
                                                                                                                                                                 mba




                                                                    Callao                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                 LIMA                                                                                                          ed
                                                                                                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                 eD
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ios             Puerto
                                                                                                                                   Ayna                 CUSCO                        Sintuya                      Maldonado
                                                                                                          .




                                                                                                Huancavelica                                         Quillabamba
       0            100         200            300 Kilometers                                                                                                             Nevada
                                                                                                          HUANCA-                        Ayacucho                        Salcantay
                                                                                                                                                                         (6271 m)                Lanlacuni                     Astillero
       0                  100                     200 Miles
                                                                                                           VELICA                               A                                  Cusco
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bajo
                                                                                                                                                     PU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      In a




                                                                                     Pisco                                                                                                                              mb
                                                                                                                                                                  Abancay                        Nudo                        a ri
                                                                                                                                                          RI
                                                                                                                             AY




                                                                                                                                                                                               Ausandate
                                                                                                          Ica                                                  M                                                PUNO
                                                                                                                                                                   AC                          (6384 m)
                                                                                                                              AC




                                                                                                      ICA                                                                                                                                        To San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Buenaventura
                                                                                                                                       UC




                                                                                                                             Puquio

                      PER U                                                                     Caballas               Nazca                     O                                                                                                              15°S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                            H
                                                                                                                                            H




                                                                                                                                                                 Alca               Cailloma
                                                                                                                                                                         Nevada                                                               To
                                                                                                       San Juan                                                                                             Juliaca                        Carabuco
                                                                                                                                                                                   An




                                                                                                                                                                        Coropuna
                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                               (6271 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                      de




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lago
                                                                                                                                                                                       e  s




                                                                                                                      Antiquipa                                                                                Puno                 Titicaca
                REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                        AREQUIPA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                M




                                                                                                                                            Atico                        Arequipa                                                                   La Paz
                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                 tn




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Desaguadero
                                                                                                                                                                                                      s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       .




                RIVERS

                MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                          Mollendo
                                                                                                                                                                                    Moquega
                RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                   TACNA
                                                                                                                                                          MOQUEGUA
                REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Visviri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B OL I V I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tacna
                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                To Belén
                                                                                                                    75°W                                                                          To Iquique           CHILE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOVEMBER 2006
