 IEG
                                                                                                 Report Number: ICRR14898

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 04/19/2016

               Country: Brazil
             Project ID: P104752                                                     Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Paraíba Second Rural         Project Costs (US$M):                       28.33               28.83
                         Poverty Reduction
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                        20.90               20.90
      Sector Board:        Agriculture and Rural      Cofinancing (US$M):                            -                   -
                           Development
           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                               11/25/2008
                                                                Closing Date:            02/28/2013         02/28/2014
          Sector(s):       General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (70%); Sub-national government
                           administration (10%); Water supply (10%); Transmission and Distribution of Electricity (10%)
          Theme(s):        Participation and civic engagement (29%); Rural services and infrastructure (29%); Rural
                           non-farm income generation (28%); Rural policies and institutions (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Keith Robert A. Oblitas    John R. Eriksson        Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

To support the borrower to reduce the incidence of rural poverty in the Borrower’s territory by improving access to
small-scale socio-economic infrastructure and services, raising incomes and capital assets through investments in
productive activities while facilitating linkages between small producers in national/international markets, and
strengthening the capacity of Municipal Councils and Community Associations to raise funding and harmonize policies
and institutional arrangements for delivery of public investments intended to benefit the rural poor.
Source: Loan Agreement, April 28, 2010

(The PAD has identical wording)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

1. Community Subprojects
(Project costs estimated at Appraisal $23.96 million; Actual costs $23.22 million)

Providing matching grants to Community Associations (CAs) for about 800 sub-projects (SPs) for: (i) small-scale
socio-economic infrastructure and services (such as water supply, sanitation, electricity, education, health, and
cultural and environmental activities); and (ii) productive and market-oriented activities (such as bee keeping,
agricultural mechanization, fish farming, irrigated agriculture, small-scale clothing manufacture).
(These two funding channels would support both the non-income and income dimensions of rural poverty to improve
the livelihoods and well-being of about 175,000 people (35,000 families) in 800 rural communities.
2 Institutional Development
(Project costs estimated at Appraisal $1.70 million; Actual costs $2.15 million)

Provision of technical assistance, training and other capacity building in Paraiba State for: (i) mobilization and
strengthening of the CAs to identify, prepare, operate and maintain SPs; (ii) helping the Municipal Councils to manage
their responsibilities for assessment and supervision of CAs; (iii) participatory planning and allocation of resources
and environmental oversight of SPs; and (iv) supporting Cooperar (Paraiba State’s Regional Management Unit) for
handling project implementation activities); and (v) workshops and seminars for exchanging project experience, and
the alignment and leverage of the activities of other programs and agencies.

3. Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
(Project costs estimated at Appraisal $1.95 million; Actual costs $3.46 million)1/

1/ Operational costs (excluding salaries) of project administration, supervision, monitoring, and impact evaluation.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Costs and Financing. Total project costs estimated at Appraisal (base costs without contingencies) were
$27.61 million, and at project completion actual project costs were $28.83 million, about four percent higher than
originally estimated. Financing was from the Bank, Government and local communities. The Bank provided a $20.90
million IBRD loan, which was fully disbursed. Government’s contribution was $5.66 million, about 18 percent higher
than the appraisal estimate of $4.80 million. Local communities provided $2.32 million, about 6 percent below the
appraisal estimate. There were no co-financers, but the ICR comments on Cooperar-II’s “leverage” of funds from other
sources to Paraiba’s rural development.

Key Dates. The project was appraised in September 2007, and approved on November 23, 2008. Effectiveness was
on May 25, 2010, 18 months after Approval. The closing date, originally targeted for February 28, 2013, was on
February 28, 2014. Mid-Term-Review was in March, 2012.

Adjustments at Mid-Term-Review. The project’s objectives were not changed, although at Mid-Term-Review, six
Intermediate outcome indicators were revised to align better with the results framework. A footnote in the MTR’s Aide
Memoire also refers to a reduction in the project’s main physical target – the number of completed sub-projects – which
was to be reduced from 800 to 500 sub-projects, in recognition of the higher than anticipated inflation, and exchange
rate movements, affecting sub-project costs. However, the Bank did not formalize this reduction in the Restructuring
of September 24, 2012, which was limited only to reallocation of Loan funds. Thus, both the Bank team and
Government planned and implemented on the target of 500 sub-projects, while the original target was not officially
changed.

Restructuring. There were four restructurings: on November 12, 2010 when the Loan Agreement was amended to
include non-consultant services and goods; and on September 24, 2012, February 28, 2010,and August 1, 2013, all
concerning reallocations of Loan proceeds, the principal effects being to increase available funds for sub-projects and
training of community associations. Principal funding sources were from the unallocated category, and, in 2013, some
return of the amount allocated to sub-projects, which were not needed in view of the reduced number of sub-projects.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

The Paraiba State’s Second Rural Poverty Reduction Project (“Cooperar II”) overarching objective – to reduce poverty
in Paraiba State - responded to the evident and longstanding need in Northeast Brazil, to raise incomes and living
standards of the poor. Over half of Brazil’s poor live in the Northeast region, and the state of Paraiba is exceptionally
destitute, even by the standards of the Northeast. At project appraisal about 40 percent of Paraiba’s population was
living at less than one half of the minimum wage ($202/month), and people in rural areas are even poorer. Limited
access to social infrastructure compounded the impact on welfare of the extremely low incomes. Only 32 percent of
rural households had access to piped water; and for sanitation and electricity, access was 57 percent and 64 percent
respectively.

Both Government and the Bank have emphasized, for some time, the need to take the Northeast out of its poverty
trap. The FY04-07 Country Assistance Strategy, relevant to the project’s predecessor project, Cooperar I, called for
meeting basic needs in the rural Northeast through provision of socio-economic infrastructure and services, with
follow-on projects focusing increasingly on income generating activities. Community Driven Development (CDD) was
seen as a main vehicle for empowering the rural poor, and helping integrate community activities with other
government programs. The FY08-11 Country Partnership Strategy, which encompassed Cooperar II’s preparation
and approval, continued this strategy, also adding the goal of linking small farmers to markets. The Country
Partnership Strategy for FY2012-2015, the Strategy document over most of the project period including the end of the
project, emphasized “boosting growth capacity with job and income generation, especially in Brazil’s poorer regions
with special emphasis on the Northeast.” Part of the strategy put emphasis on rural infrastructure as a means to lift
rural welfare by improving the quality of public services for low income households.” The project contributes to this
strategy; first because the project’s overarching objective is poverty reduction; and second, because the project’s
three operational objectives – (i) creating social infrastructure; (ii) raising incomes through productive investments; and
(iii) strengthening institutions and interlinkages to improve delivery of services – are consistent with the general
approaches laid out in the Bank’s partnership strategy with the Government of Brazil. Cooperar II’s Relevance of
Objectives was Substantial.

b. Relevance of Design:

Cooperar II’s design closely matched the project's objectives. A CDD approach was used as this had proven under
Cooperar I (with experience even going back to over 10 years before that project), to be a generally effective way to
empower and convey benefits to poor rural communities. Each of the three main components of Cooperar II
supported one of the three operational objectives above: community investment for (i) social infrastructure; and (ii)
productive investments; and (iii) institutional strengthening of the Municipal Councils. Strategic changes in emphasis
were also included. Productive investments were to receive a special boost, whereas before, social infrastructure had
predominated. Also, there would be an effort to link Cooperar II activities with other Government programs to lever
greater impact; and markets for the productive sub-projects would be promoted.

Some design intentions were optimistic, amongst these: marketing channels for productive sub-projects were not
always available, and their promotion could be difficult for the remote locations of many of the sub-projects. Also, a
decision to focus a minimum 80 percent of the sub-projects on the 150 poorest municipalities made implementation,
especially of the productive sub-projects, more difficult, as local implementation capacity tended to be lower in these
municipalities.

The most important design issue was that the project’s dimensions, costs and capacity development needs were not
adjusted to compensate for an unanticipated three year hiatus between Cooperar I and Cooperar II, which then
became four years as, even after effectiveness, implementation of Cooperar II had to await installation of a new State
Government. The time gap between the two projects was so large that, in effect, a revised design was appropriate -
the delay had resulted in changing personnel and a decline in implementation experience; a reduced implementation
period; and inflation of project costs. Before or shortly after Effectiveness, some adjustments in design, especially for
institution building and training, and a reduction in the more difficult implementation areas such as the ambitious
targets for productive investments, would have been appropriate. Cooperar II’s Relevance of Design was Modest.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

Efficacy is assessed separately for each of the project's four objectives: (i) improving access to socio-economic
infrastructure; (ii) raising incomes through investments in productive activities; (iii) Strengthening the capacity of
Municipal Councils and Community Associations to raise funding and harmonize policies and institutional
arrangements for delivery of public investments; and (iv) the overarching objective to support the efforts of the
Government of Paraiba to reduce the incidence of rural poverty. (The full text of each objective is given in the
headings below):

Objective 1. Improving access to small-scale socio-economic infrastructure and services.

The targeted number of socio-economic and productive sub-projects combined was 800 sub-projects, of which 75
percent would be socio-economic and 25 percent productive investments. The actual number of sub-projects (both
socio-economic and productive) was 487, with socio-economic sub-projects comprising 67 percent and the balance
being for productive sub-projects. The bulk of the socio-economic sub-projects were for water and sanitation (314
sub-projects). There is no data in the ICR on the performance of these sub-projects, although several inferences imply
that they were appreciated by the communities. Designs for the water sub-projects used existing models, which
should have provided a satisfactory base for the investments. However, achievement for this Objective ran short of
the targeted number of sub-projects, and a larger number of sub-projects would have had greater impact on the
project’s overall goal of reducing rural poverty. The Efficacy of Objective 1 is rated Modest.


Objective 2. “Raising incomes and capital assets through investments in productive activities while facilitating
linkages between small producers in national/international markets.”
Performance was better than anticipated. First, the proportion of productive sub-projects to all sub-projects was
greater than expected – 32 percent rather than the expected 25 percent. Productive sub-projects had been thought to
be more difficult to establish than infrastructure. Second, there are some indications of viable performance:
beneficiary families on average enjoyed a 40 percent increase in assets by the end of the project (the target was 20
percent); 98 percent of the productive assets generated incremental employment by the end of the project (as
compared with a target of 75 percent). And third, for market linkages, while short of the targeted 40 percent, about 32
percent of all productive sub-projects had established commercial arrangements by the end of the project – a vigorous
start even though somewhat below the targeted 40 percent. The Efficacy of Objective 2 was Substantial.


Objective 3. “Strengthening the capacity of Municipal Councils and Community Associations to raise funding and
harmonize policies and institutional arrangements for delivery of public investments intended to benefit the rural poor.”

Achievement of this Objective, and to some extent for Objectives 1 and 2, is complicated by the absence of controls in
reported data. Thus, while, for instance, 20 percent of project Community Associations are reported in the ICR to have
independently accessed other funds, a percentage of non-project Associations may also have accessed funds,
meaning that the reported achievements may have overstated the actual impact of the project. On the other hand, the
degree of change shown in the data below is large, and the destitute situation of most CAs, may make significant
institutional adjustments and investment, slow or unlikely without a targeted intervention, such as Cooperar II.

An extensive training program was undertaken for the CAs and MCs, complemented by unification of activities of 178
out of the 222 project MCs, This mainstreamed and standardized the MCs’ activities, and broadened the range of
programs under their purview. Together with the investment program in the sub-projects, the strengthening of the rural
development capacity of the MCs, and the implementation capacity of the CAs, this appears to have had an impact,
although attribution of causes and effects is difficult. Nevertheless, the investments and financial leverage of project
CAs and MCs was large. Thus, as targeted, about 20 percent of CAs with productive sub-projects accessed other
sources of funds by the end of the project. And the ICR reports, without figures, that investment in a water supply
socio-economic sub-project was more likely to get funding from other programs such as a school or health clinic, or
credit from rural banks.

The 156 participating MCs leveraged $107 million of complementary/parallel investments, of which about 60 percent
is estimated to have been directly from side-benefits of unification and sub-project investments. This is nearly four
times the cost of the project, and when funds levered by the CAs and by Cooperar are added to this total, it is likely
that the ratio of total levered funds would reach to or exceed the appraisal target of five dollars of levered funds to
every dollar of total project cost.

Information on social inclusion is limited in the ICR, but at least in terms of the choice of CAs to participate, there was
a degree of social targeting through selection of the poorest MCs (Section 3b). it was decided during project
preparation that 80 percent of sub-projects should be for designated poor MCs. Concerning women and minorities, a
substantial proportion (40 percent) of the CAs had women (39 percent) or indigenous persons (1 percent) in
leadership positions (the target of 50 percent women was unrealistic). The participatory processes used in CA
establishment and operations, may also have encouraged social inclusion.

Overall, Cooperar II has strengthened institutional capacities, harmonized support processes from the MCs, and
levered significant additional investments; and the limited indications available suggest that it was socially inclusive. In
harmonizing development activities and levering additional investment funds. Efficacy for Objective 3 was
Substantial.


Overarching Objective: “Support the efforts of the Government of Paraiba to reduce the incidence of rural poverty”

There are various indications from the assessments above that achievements against the three operational objectives
above (objectives 1, 2 and 3) would have contributed to the overall goal of reducing rural poverty. Several more
outcome oriented indicators are also available: (i) for families with productive sub-projects, assets held by families
increased by 40 percent over the project period, twice as much as targeted at appraisal; (ii) nearly all (98 percent) of
the productive sub-projects generated employment by the end of the project (the target was 75 percent); and (iii) for
socio-economic sub-projects, the water sub-projects (the most common investment chosen), benefitted 8,200 families
through the improved water resources (the target was 7,250 families). Another indication, of the project’s impact on
family incomes, is from the economic analysis (Section 5). Financial rates of return of 17 percent for productive
projects, and economic rates of return for socio-economic projects of over 30 percent, suggest a good impact on
beneficiary incomes and socio-economic welfare. The Efficacy of the Overarching Objective to reduce rural poverty -
was Substantial.
5. Efficiency:

The ICR contains a detailed economic analysis based on random sampling, but as commented on in the report’s
Annex 3, the analysis contends with two uncertainties. First, most of the sub-projects have barely been completed,
and results may vary over time as the communities develop their roles in O&M and marketing. Second, while sampling
followed recognized procedures, sample size was small (34 socio-economic infrastructure sub-projects and 17
productive sub-projects; in combination comprising 7 percent of the total number of sub-projects).

Bearing these uncertainties in mind, the economic rate of return for water supply projects was found to average 30
percent, and the financial rate of return for productive sub-projects was estimated at 17 percent (an economic rate of
return was not estimated for productive sub-projects). At project completion the average rate of return for both
sub-project types is estimated to be about 26 percent (IEG estimate) At project completion the average rate of return
for both sub-project types is estimated to be about 26 percent (IEG estimate). But returns are sensitive to changes in
performance or in costs and benefits. Four of the 17 productive sub-projects in the sample were not financially viable,
suggesting that failure may not be uncommon. Also, rates of return are quite sensitive to changes in costs and
benefits – for productive sub-projects, a combined 20 percent increase in costs and 20 percent fall in benefits would
leave only two sub-projects with rates of return above 10 percent and 12 sub-projects with negative returns.

Other aspects of efficiency also need consideration. In particular, the project was behind schedule throughout
implementation – some 65 percent of the sub-projects were only completed in Cooperar II’s last two years. Overall,
though, the project’s economic rates of return are satisfactory (though with an element of risk, as discussed in Section
7). Also, the shortfall in the number of sub-projects implemented has its origin more in the project’s design, given that
the original target became unrealistic, but was not changed ,when Effectiveness was delayed (Section 3b). Cooperar
II’s Efficiency was Substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      25%                                     87%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      26%                                     80%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The relevance of Cooperar II’s objectives was substantial as it addressed the critical problem of rural poverty in
Paraiba State. However, the relevance of the project’s design was modest, primarily because the design became
partly outdated during the very long period between Appraisal and Effectiveness. Implementation had to contend in
particular with an over-ambitious number of sub-projects. In the event, there was a gap in the number of sub-projects
implemented, but the origin of the gap was in large part the project design rather than unduly slow implementation. As
concerns Efficacy; achievements under the first objective were modest, as, although project targets for
socio-economic infrastructure should have been reduced at design stage, targets were unchanged and the number of
sub-projects fell short of the original goal. In other respects Cooperar II’s achievements were significant. The Efficacy
of the second objective - primarily intended to raise incomes through productive sub-projects - was Substantial as the
number of sub-projects exceeded expectations and there are indications of increased incomes. Institutional
development under Objective 3 was Substantial as Community Associations and local governments increased
capacity and Municipal Councils are reported to have levered over $100 million of complementary investments. For
the Overarching Objective to reduce the incidence of rural poverty, a number of indicators point to increased incomes
and well-being (Section 4) and this objective is also assessed to have had Substantial Efficacy. The project’s
Efficiency was Substantial; although not without risk as the rates of return are sensitive to changes in costs and
benefits. Overall, Cooperar II’s Outcome was Moderately Satisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
The project’s main risks stem from the inexperience of the sub-project institutions due to the late completion of many
of the investments (25 percent of the sub-projects were completed in the last year of the project). For water supply
investments, which comprise two-thirds of the project’s total sub-projects, water user associations need to consolidate
their institutional processes and activities, including a long-term commitment to charging their own tariffs and handling
O&M. For productive sub-projects, long term commercial viability will need access to dynamic markets, and access to
finance for further investments as needed. Under the follow-on project to Cooperar II, the intention is to continue to
provide technical assistance to the sub-project institutions, but until any such assistance is confirmed and operational,
Cooperar II’s Risk to Development Outcome is Significant.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

Cooperar II fitted well with the development strategy for Brazil’s impoverished Northeast, and by choosing to
follow-on from the previous project, Cooperar I, the Bank exploited a tried approach which, with adaptations, could
be expected to increase rural welfare. The emphasis that Cooperar II placed on community driven development
recognized the past improvements in rural welfare that had been made using community driven approaches, with
which both the Bank staff and Government had gained practical experience. Project design was fairly
straightforward, in essence comprising two broad areas - the promotion of community sub-projects, and the
training and institutional development that this required. The appraisal report provided detailed guidance on the
project’s technical, institutional and operational features.

A shortfall, however, was in the handling of the nearly three year delay that the project experienced between
appraisal and loan effectiveness. While the delays were largely due to delayed approvals at State and Federal
levels outside the Bank’s control, the time lapsed did affect what was achievable under the project. First, the
additional price inflation meant that the size of the program might have been reduced or/and the Loan increased,
yet neither was adjusted. Second, the large gap between Cooperar I and Cooperar II resulted in progressive loss
of staff moving on to new assignments, and diminished skills and experience in project implementation. Adjusting
the project size, and intensifying the training program before or shortly after Effectiveness could have been
considered. Nevertheless, given the Bank’s otherwise sound performance, and that the impact of the delays only
became fully evident during early project implementation, Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

Standard supervision was good in most areas. Missions were regular, supervision and technical assistance in
fiduciary management and procurement was thorough. Supervision of the project’s core implementation areas -
including the sub-projects’ investment program, community driven development approaches, institutional support
and training, promotion of the productive sub-projects program, and the relatively new drive to establish market
linkages for productive sub-projects – was sound and responsive to needs. The M&E program fell short of
expectations. It received little attention until the last year of the project, contributing to a very limited M&E program
despite the extensive activities planned at appraisal. Also, while there is no indication that the technical quality of
supervision for the project’s water schemes (two-thirds of the total number of sub-projects) was less than in other
technical areas, there were no missions which included a water engineer.

The main shortfall was in the handling of the consequences of the delayed commencement of the project. The
issues, as noted under Quality at Entry above, would have been more apparent still during implementation. After
project Effectiveness, there was an additional delay of about one year as the project did not get significantly
underway until a new State Government was appointed in 2011, thus an overall delay since appraisal of nearly
four years. In this situation, a restructuring would have been appropriate, with extension of the project closing
date, reduction in the number of sub-projects, intensified training and technical assistance, and increased funding,
amongst the options. Mid-Term-Review entailed some practical adjustments to the project, including a decision to
focus on infrastructure projects to help accelerate the sub-project program as they already had standardized
designs. Other changes included more engineers, some institutional adjustments, and a decision to reduce the
target for sub-projects from 800 to 500. However, the reduced program was not formalized in a restructuring. An
extension of the closing date was not undertaken until a year later, one year before the original closing date. The
pace of implementation was accelerating, but even with an extension, the still formally targeted 800 sub-projects,
and even 500 projects, was overly ambitious. (The ICR considers that an extension longer than 12 months would
have been appropriate). Because the project’s implementation issues could have been more proactively tackled,
Supervision Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

With a project outcome in the satisfactory range, following the guidelines under the Harmonized Criteria, the
Overall Performance of the Bank is rated Moderately Satisfactory.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

Provision of counterpart funds by the State Government was satisfactory. The State Government also provided
the political support for restructuring of the Municipal Councils, and has also strongly supported the follow-on
operation to Cooperar II. Several changes in Project Director in the early part of the project slowed project
implementation. The main problem, however, was the cumulative clearance delays of three years prior to
Effectiveness, and a further year of delays afterwards. While some time for due political processes might be
understandable depending on the procedures of a particular country or state, in the case of Cooperar II, the delays
appear excessive. Government’s Performance was Unsatisfactory.


   Government Performance Rating                              Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

Cooperar had, in effect, little more than three years to implement the project (from 2011 when the new State
Government was installed, to early 2014, the extended closing date). In this time it did well to motivate and train
the local communities and the Municipal Councils, and provide technical assistance during implementation of the
sub-projects. Cooperar also assisted the Municipal Councils in restructuring their development activities. It also
helped establish the framework for the follow-on project. Cooperar was under severe time pressure, and this likely
contributed to its main operational weakness – implementation of M&E which was largely neglected until the last
year of the project. An otherwise fully satisfactory Performance of the Implementing Agency is thus rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

With a project outcome in the satisfactory range, following the guidelines under the Harmonized Criteria, the
Overall Performance of the Borrower is rated Moderately Satisfactory.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The Management Information System developed under Cooperar I was updated and provided an adequate design for
tracking Coopera II’s physical progress. On the more evaluative side, a quite comprehensive set of M&E surveys was
intended, including annual performance reviews of sub-projects, and two impact evaluations, one during project
implementation and one at completion. Cooperar’s Department of Monitoring and Management Information was made
responsible for the M&E program, the same arrangement as under Cooperar I.
b. M&E Implementation:

The MIS functioned well, but the evaluative agenda was weak. The studies intended during project implementation did
not materialize, and only a borrower completion report and several small studies were delivered. Several factors
accounted for this. One was the pressure for implementation of the project as a whole, leaving little time for what
might have been seen as a lower priority than the main components. But Cooperar itself had limited experience with
M&E, and, until the end of the project, the Bank does not appear to have sought a remedy for this - Aide Memoire’s of
supervision missions did not mention M&E until mid-2013 (three years after Project Effectiveness). In the last
semester of the project an effort was made to do sample-based focus group discussions, leading to an
indicator-based analysis.

c. M&E Utilization:

MIS-type data was used to track project progress, but for evaluation there was limited material on which to base
discussion and decisions. The primary utilization came at the end of the project when some M&E data was used as
background in a stakeholder workshop and in the Beneficiary Survey.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The project was classified as Category B, and triggered Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Natural Habitats
(OP/BP 4.04), Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09), Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11), and Indigenous Peoples
(OP/BP 4.10). An Environmental Management Plan and an Indigenous Peoples’ Participation Plan were prepared.
Compliance was rated as satisfactory throughout project implementation for environment, social and other
safeguards, but a post-project safeguards review found shortcomings in sub-project management, and downgraded
environmental performance to unsatisfactory. A key issue was that all water sub-projects and some other sub-projects
(in total amounting to over 60 percent of the total 487 sub-projects implemented, required an environmental license.
Due to a severe drought, the state government decreed a state of emergency and exempted this requirement.
Cooperar’s opinion on a sub-project’s environmental situation was considered sufficient to go ahead with an
investment, but under pressure to complete the project, Cooperar's assessments were not systematic. Still, a
subsequent effort by Cooperar was able to reduce the number of sub-projects without environmental assessments to
less than 100 by project completion and to zero by finalization of the ICR. There were no significant issues related to
the other safeguards.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management. There were seven formal financial management missions and Financial Management was
rated Satisfactory or Moderately Satisfactory throughout the project’s implementation. Any deficiencies noted by the
missions were adequately addressed. One continuing issue was the slow submission of accounts by community
associations. To complete these, the grace period was extended by two months, which enabled all outstanding cases
to be resolved. Other than one year with late reporting, audit reports were delivered regularly and were unqualified.

Procurement. There were two ex-post procurement reviews, the first review rating procurement satisfactory, and the
second, conducted in preparation for the follow-on project - moderately satisfactory. Difficulties for procurement by
community associations, particularly in more remote areas, were finding the required three price quotations, or cases
of local monopolies and conflicts of interest. Cooperar was tardy in implementing some of the recommendations of
previous supervision missions, including issues related to selection procedures, and risk reduction. The Bank Ex-Post
Review declared these issues as pending, and their resolution continues to be under supervision by the Bank.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following lessons arise from the project's experience (all are derived from or are adaptations from the ICR):

1. A prolonged delay between Appraisal and Effectiveness may need restructuring of project implementation
targets, modalities and financing.
The time between appraisal and Effectiveness was nearly three years, and implementation was in effect delayed
another year as a new State Government was installed. Resultantly, cost estimates became outdated due to
inflation, the intended investment program was no longer possible, experienced staff left Cooperarar, and field staff
needed re-training. It would have been better to have re-appraised and restructured the project early in
implementation, focusing on realistic physical objectives and time frame, any additional Bank/Government funds
required, and an intensified training program.

2. M&E should be institutionalized as part of a project’s organizational structure, implementation framework and
work program.
Although M&E activities were articulated at appraisal, Cooperar, under pressure to deliver a large work program
with minimal time, neglected what was implicitly considered a non-operational activity that could be largely ignored
without affecting the project’s main thrusts. The M&E program was susceptible to such neglect as it was designed
more as an “add-on” to the project rather than as an integral part of the project, with internalized management, and
implementation targets, and progress and work program included in the regular management meetings for the
overall project (but with independent reporting), and in Bank supervision.

3 Income generation under community driven projects is more effective if attention is paid to the whole marketing
or agribusiness chain.
The Bank was quite effective in promoting the productive sub-projects beyond “farm gate” or local market. This
needed training and facilitation in identification of market opportunities, contacting buyers and agri-businesses, and
access to information.

4. For community investment in rural water infrastructure, institutional development is a particularly important
partner to the physical investment.
The need to develop a community association’s capacity in O&M, tariff setting, and community organization was
found to be particularly important for rural water supply sub-projects.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR’s strength is its issues orientation and objective critique of the project’s and Bank’s choices and performance.
Sections 2.1 (Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry) and 2.2 (Implementation) exemplify this in sections
that are more often informational rather than also reflective. The section on the next phase provides a helpful
understanding of future developments. Several annexes provide informative background: Annex 2 (Outputs by
Component) is clear, with figures and tables to back-up the text; Annex 3 on the Beneficiary Survey is made more
robust by its inclusion of data sources, sampling processes and field work; and Annex 6, the Stakeholder Workshop
Report, is a comprehensive account.

The ICR could have been improved in two principal areas. First, the very brief paragraph on the Relevance of Design
does not encapsulate the key issues (although most issues are distributed in other parts of the report). And second,
the assessment of the Efficacy of the overarching objective – to reduce the incidence of rural poverty – is based
primarily on output type data rather than on outcome findings. Taken overall, however, the ICR is a probing and
thorough review and its quality is Satisfactory.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
